IC-4 TO AFMCMAN 23-1, Requirements for Secondary Items (D200A, D200N)

28 FEBRUARY 2011

*SUMMARY OF CHANGES:

This interim change implements several audit recommendations, provides clarification on
numerous issues, implements new guidelines for signatures and review, and adds a new chapter
outlining special inventory procedures. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.

*1.4.3.1.8.6. For terms that have file maintained additives, the IMS/MM immediate supervisor
will coordinate on all computations/INS/NSO Item Status Listings after validating that additive
requirements are accurate and adequately supported.

*1.4.3.2.8.8. For excess and optimum based on the item activity code and for buy and repair
requirements, the IMS/MM immediate supervisor will coordinate on all computations/INS/NSO
Item Status Listings that have file maintained additives after validating that additive
requirements are accurate and adequately supported.

*1.10.4.2. NHA assets stratifying to Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM) or Long Supply
(Economic Retention, Contingency or Potential DoD Excess). When it is cost effective, NHA
OWRM or long supply assets will be used to support lower assembly requirements when there
are not or will not be sufficient assets of the lower assembly to fill the requirement. One of the
methods in the following subparagraphs will be used to determine if the NHA has OWRM or
long supply assets available. Work with the NHA IMS to determine this. If NHA OWRM or
long supply assets are available, conduct a cost-benefit analysis comparing the acquisition cost of
the component item to the cost of removing the component item from the NHA, conducting a
condition check and, if necessary, repairing the component item to determine whether it is
economically feasible to obtain component items using this method. To conduct the cost-benefit
analysis, use the following data: the D200A repair cost of the component; the D200A forecasted
unit price to determine the acquisition cost of the component; and obtain cost estimates from
maintenance to determine the cost of removing the component and condition checking it. An
attempt will be made to obtain lower assembly assets from NHA unserviceable assets prior to
attempting to obtain them from NHA serviceable assets. The lower assembly items requested
will not exceed the number installed within the NHA NSN quantity reported as OWRM or long
supply.

*1.10.4.2.2. For computing NHA items, use the Buy Operating Breakout section of the Stock
Group Master (SGM) Comp Worksheet. Using the data in the EY PD column take the Total Buy
Operating Level and subtract the OWRM Requirement. That will give you the POS and RSP
requirement. Then add the Serviceable Assets, Serviceable Due In Assets and Net Depot
Unserviceable Assets together from the same EY PD column to give you the total assets.
Subtract the POS and RSP requirement from the total assets. If the result is positive, it equals the
OWRM and long supply assets potentially available (if the result is negative, no assets are
available). (But remember that serviceable due in assets can be the result of a negative asset
variance and may not actually be available.)
*1.10.4.2.3. For INS/NSO NHA items, use the Buy/Retention Detail section of the INS/NSO
Item Status Listing. Using data in the EY column add the serviceable assets and assets available
from depot repair together. Then subtract the Buy/Retention Level quantity in the EY from the
assets. If the result is positive, it equals the long supply assets potentially available (if the result
is negative, no assets are available). (But remember that serviceable due in assets can be the
result of a negative asset variance and may not actually be available.)

*1.10.4.2. If it is determined that OWRM and long supply assets are available and the cost
benefit analysis says that it is feasible, reclamation of the NHA will be conducted removing all
required components. (The ES can request a Full Range List for the NHA. This will provide a
list of the components that could possibly be reclaimed from the breakdown of the NHA item.)
Sufficient components may be reclaimed to cover deficits and economic retention requirements
for the component NSNs. The remainder of the NHA item will be disposed after
demilitarization.

*1.10.4.8. Deleted.

*7.1.2.2. Review a random selection of items twice a year at each site to include buy,
termination (including termination requests), excess (including the retention and disposal
decisions on excess assets), repair, deferred disposal codes, modification, demand forecast
accuracy, one-way interchangeable items and other items of interest such as items with
estimated/median factors. Items may be selected from the Index of Action listings, Central
Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) or Automated Budget Compilation System (ABCS).

*Table 7.1. IMS Quality Review Checklist – For Items with ERRC = C or T.
 32.         Signatures and                   A. Signatures are not
             Documentation                    IAW policy.
             (applies after                   B. Previous signature is
             summary comp                     not still valid. (Good
             is run)                          for 1 year on buys,
                                              repair and excess if $
                                              threshold is not
                                              breached.)
                                              C. For Terms:
                                                1) Term code and a
                                              narrative explanation are
                                              not annotated on the
                                              computation.
                                                2) No Term Model.
                                                3) Decision not to
                                              terminate on order
                                              assets is not adequately
                                              justified.
                                              D. For Unfunded
                                              PR/Military
                                             Interdepartmental
                                             Purchase Requests
                                             (MIPRs) - Justification
                                             for not
                                             reducing/canceling or
                                             note indicating date of
                                             amendment to
                                             reduce/cancel is not on
                                             the computation.
                                             E. For Excess Assets -
                                             Retention/disposal
                                             quantity with
                                             appropriate coding is
                                             not annotated on
                                             computation. Disposal
                                             document number is not
                                             on the computation and
                                             Asset Reconciliation
                                             Report. Have not been
                                             coded in Reutilization
                                             and Disposition System
                                             (RDS).
                                             For Repair – CY, AY,
                                             BY, and/or EY repair $
                                             not annotated on
                                             computation.

*Table 7.2. IMS Quality Review Checklist – For Items with ERRC = N or P.
 24.         Signatures and                   A. Signatures are not
             Documentation                    IAW policy.
             (applies after                   B. Previous signature
             summary comp                     is not still valid.
             is run)                          (Good for 1 year on
                                              buys, repair and
                                              excess if $ threshold is
                                              not breached.)
                                              C. For Terms -
                                                1) Term code and a
                                              narrative explanation
                                              are not annotated on
                                              the computation.
                                                2) No Term Model.
                                                3) Decision not to
                                              terminate on order
                                              assets is not
                                              adequately justified.
                                                    D. For Unfunded
                                                    PR/MIPRS -
                                                    Justification for not
                                                    reducing/canceling or
                                                    note indicating date of
                                                    amendment to
                                                    reduce/cancel is not on
                                                    the computation.
                                                    E. For excess assets-
                                                    retention/disposal
                                                    quantity with
                                                    appropriate coding is
                                                    not annotated on the
                                                    computation.
                                                    Disposal document
                                                    number is not on
                                                    computation. Have
                                                    not been coded in
                                                    RDS.


*Table 7.7. Termination Review Checklist.
 8 Termination Requests            A. Not initiated.
 .                                 B. Follow-ups not
                                   being done weekly.
                                   (See Table 33.1.)

*14.3.1.2. Application Level Deferred Disposal Codes (DDC). Requests for a system wide
retention (deferred disposal code) must be initiated/submitted by the system program manager or
program group manager after coordination with AFGLSC and signed by the
appropriate AFGLSC SCMG commander or deputy. Approval memos from AF/A4L are valid
for one year from the date on the memo. The group commander signed request must be
forwarded to 401SCMS/GUMD, and 401 SCMS/GUMD must submit the request through HQ
AFMC/A4R to AF/A4LM for approval/disapproval by AF/A4L. Sometimes requests are
generated at AF level. When AF/A4LM notifies 401 SCMS/GUMD of approval, a DDC of “C”
or “P” must be input into D200F Applications, Program and Indentures (API), to retain the assets
(this code is displayed on the BMD screen). It is file maintained in D200F API, and cannot be
file maintained in SIRS. For AF policy on retention of assets and assigning an application level
DDC, see AFMAN 23-110, Volume 3, Part 1, Chapter 9, Air Force Materiel Utilization and
Disposition Program, Sections 9C and 9D (at http://www.epublishing.
af.mil/shared/media/epubs/PUBS/AF/23/23011003/030109/030109.pdf). A system
level DDC is either a "C" or "P." A DDC "C" on an application indicates that the deferred
disposal applies to depot level assets of all items (common or peculiar) that are used on that
application, even if the item is also used on other applications. DDC "P" on an application
indicates that the deferred disposal applies only to depot level assets of "peculiar" items or items
that have that application as the only application. When a “C” or “P” DDC is input into D200F
API on the Standard Program Designator screen, API will assign this code on all components in
the indenture structure within API. RIID D200E passes the data to SIRS on the RIID snapshot
that occurs prior to the initial computation cycle. If any application has a DDC of “C,” a DDC of
“C” will be assigned to the component. If any application has a DDC of “P” and other
applications have blank codes, no code will be assigned to the component. If all of a
component’s applications have the same DDC, that DDC will be assigned to the component.
The assignment of a "C" or "P" DDC does not affect the computation of the items requirements
in SIRS, but any excess assets are not passed to D035G. Assets exceeding the Approved
Acquisition Objective and Economic Retention lines in the CSIS fall into Contingency
Retention.

*22.3.10. Inventory Management Specialists (IMS) will use the effective date of the contract
modification, vice the original contract award date, to determine the Production Lead Time
(PLT) for each modification to the contract.

*25.4.15. WCDO (War Consumable Distribution Objective). This additive is used for the
peacetime requirements for aircraft guns, gun barrels, and external fuel Tanks, Racks, Adapters,
and Pylon (TRAP) items which are BP 17 items (Aircraft War Consumables). For BP 17 items,
the fiscal year WCDO requirements will be provided by the Air Armament Center
(AAC)/ENQL, not later than 15 April each year, for input into D200A during the March
computation cycle and will be used as the source and justification for file maintenance of the
WCDO additive. The D200A OPR within the 401 SCMS/GUMD will provide annual WCDO
file maintenance instructions to the IMS/MM community specifying the years in which the
quantities are to be file maintained based on the information received from AAC/ENQL. File
maintain by selecting WCDO.

*28.1.1. Reconciliation of delivered and on hand assets is done by a thorough research of site
records, reports, transaction histories, and when warranted, a worldwide inventory according to
Chapter 43 of this publication and AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, Volume 1, Part 1,
Chapter 6, paragraph 6.2.30. (at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/PUBS/AF/23/23011001/010106/010106.pdf). The IMS
must follow procedures in Chapter 1, paragraph 1.10.7. and subparagraphs for items in a buy
position and with an asset reconciliation variance after research and file maintenance corrections.
A worldwide inventory reconciliation is justified for items computing a buy, repair, or
termination with a variance of plus or minus 5 percent or more with a dollar value difference of
$500,000 or more and for items not computing buy, repair, or termination with a variance of plus
or minus 10 percent or more with a dollar value difference of $1,000,000 or more. For Nuclear
Weapon Related Materiel (NWRM) and/or controlled items (controlled inventory item code in
D043 is not blank or U), if the asset variance is other than 0 or the dollar difference is greater
than 0, a worldwide inventory reconciliation must be accomplished if the variance remains after
the research and corrections by the IMS/MM.

*28.4.8. Variance Qty. This field is computed within D200A by subtracting the net balance
accountable from net reported assets. This field reflects the variance between the accountable
balance, which should have been reported, and what was reported. Differences indicate a
problem, which requires research. (Note: If the net balance accountable is larger than the net
reported assets, SIRS will display the variance quantity with a negative sign.) After four
consecutive cycles with a consistent variance (all “+” or all “-”), the IMS/MM must make an
adjustment to the starting position for items that are not controlled items and/or NWRM items
equal to the smallest of the four variance quantities on the fourth quarter reconciliation cycle.
The IMS will not make any adjustments using this method for controlled items and/or NWRM
items. The IMS must also document the research that was done in an attempt to discover the
reason for the variance when making the fourth quarter reconciliation adjustment. Examples
include: (1) If variance quantity for the past three consecutive cycles has been - 6, - 3, and - 4
and the current quarter is - 5, the IMS may reduce the starting position on the fourth
reconciliation cycle by - 3 (the smallest variance quantity). Then the IMS could not take another
variance until the sixth quarter (if sixth quarter variance is negative), and the maximum quantity
that could be taken then is - 1 because 3 of the - 4 in the third quarter had already used in the
fourth quarter adjustment. (2) If variance quantity for the past three consecutive cycles has been
- 3, - 6, and - 4 and the current quarter is - 5, the IMS may reduce the starting position on the
fourth reconciliation cycle by - 3 (the smallest variance quantity). Then the IMS could not take
another variance until the fifth quarter (if the fifth quarter variance is negative), and the
maximum quantity that could be taken then is - 1 because 3 of the - 4 in the third quarter had
already used in the fourth quarter adjustment. (3) If the variance quantity for the past three
consecutive cycles has been - 6, - 3, and - 4 and the current quarter is - 2, the IMS may reduce
the starting position on the fourth reconciliation cycle by only - 2. (4) If the variance quantities
had been - 6, - 3, and +4, no adjustment can be made. (Note: Consistent adjustments for
variances indicate that there is something wrong with the reported assets, DOTM, H-coded
backorder, losses, gains, due-ins, or starting position in current or prior quarters.) The existence
of a means to adjust the net difference does not justify ignoring the costly problems. Some
common causes include modifications the IMS may not be aware of, unreported condemnations,
poor contractor reporting, and theft. The IMS must make every effort to identify and correct the
underlying problems.

*28.4.8.1.5. If the IMS cannot determine from their research why there is a variance in the
D200A asset reconciliation, the IMS must consider requesting a worldwide inventory. If normal
research does not resolve variances in the D200A asset reconciliation for controlled items and
NWRM items, the IMS must request a worldwide inventory. No losses or gains for controlled
items or NWRM items will be performed in D200A without documented asset reconciliation
actions. Inventory adjustments to actual physical inventory for controlled items and NWRM
items require flag officer or SES signature (see AFI 20-110, Chapter 8, paragraph 8.1.2.3). For
controlled items and NWRM items, the IMS/MM will not use plus or minus inventory
adjustments in the D200A asset reconciliation until they have verified that those adjustments
were approved by a flag officer or SES. The IMS/MM will prepare a letter for general officer or
SES approval with the causative research provided by the base or depot per AFMAN 23-110,
Vol 1, Part 1, Chapter 6, paragraph 6.8.3.2.1. and 6.8.3.2.2 (located at: http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/PUBS/AF/23/23011001/010106/010106.pdf). The
causative research package must contain the information required in AFI 21-201, Conventional
Munitions Maintenance Management, Chapter 7, para 7.11.14.2.1. through 7.11.14.2.4 (located
at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI21-201.pdf). The D200A asset
reconciliation will be documented with the name, rank of the approving flag officer or SES and
date of their approval of the inventory adjustment to the physical inventory.
*28.4.8.1.6. After the worldwide inventory is conducted, the IMS/MM will re-baseline the Total
Acquired Assets and Starting Position in D200A based on the spare parts identified in the
worldwide inventory. (Spare parts for D200A purpose are parts in base and depot supply, parts
intransit between base and depot, parts at the repair contractor facility or depot maintenance or
intransit between them and base or depot, on loan assets, assets stored at a contractor facility.
Spare parts for D200A purposes do not include assets issued to base maintenance, assets serving
as SPRAM, bench stock issued to depot maintenance, the installed assets in NHA or end items.)
In the quarter that Total Acquired spares and Starting Position spares in D200A are re-baselined
based on the worldwide inventory information, both the current quarter and accumulate losses
and current gains will be zero unless there have been losses or gains since the worldwide
inventory was taken. The on hand assets in D200A will reflect the spares (what D200A
considers spares) from the worldwide inventory unless losses or gains occurred since the
worldwide inventory was conducted. The documentation in the notepad in the asset
reconciliation in D200A will state something like “Thorough research of DSS, D035A, D035K,
J018R, shipment log to repair contractor, etc. has been conducted. I was unable to determine all
procurement, losses, and gains. Therefore a worldwide inventory was conducted. Both the
current quarter and accumulated losses and current gains are now zero. NSN has not been
previously re-baselined. In the Mar 2010 cycle, Total Acquired Assets, Starting Position, losses,
gains, and on hand assets have been re-baselined based on the spares identified in the worldwide
inventory.”

*33.5.6. Electronic Termination (RIR) Log. Each site will maintain an electronic termination
log and will assign a termination monitor in the SCMG and ESC/HNC to oversee RIR log
number assignment and review the status weekly of each termination. The supervisor of the
termination monitor will periodically check to ensure the items were worked and/or proper
follow-up action was taken by looking at a sample of the items.

*Table 33.1. Required Electronic Termination (RIR) Log Fields.
      RIR Log Fields
 1    RIR log number.
 2    National Stock Number (NSN).
 3    Contract number.
 4    Contract line number.
 5    Comp cycle (on which termination is based, i.e., Sep 09).
 6     The print date of the requirements computation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing.
 7     Termination quantity.
 8     Termination value.
 9     Date the RIR number is issued.
 10    Manager designator code or other manager identification.
 11    The date the termination request is submitted to contracting.
 12    Date contracting received the termination request.
 13    Date of each weekly follow-up conversation with contracting by the termination
       monitor (until closed).
 14    Synopsis of each weekly follow-up conversation with contracting by the
       termination monitor including point of contact (until closed).
 15    Date of review of the RIR log by the supervisor of the termination monitor.
 16    The date termination action is completed by the contracting activity.
 17    The date the contracting activity determined termination to be uneconomical, if
       applicable. This information is annotated on the returned termination authority
       template.

* Chapter 43 – PHYSICAL INVENTORY PROCEDURES

*43.1. General.

*43.1.1. This chapter outlines the process used to conduct unscheduled physical inventory for
specific or multiple storage sites on a single National Stock Number (NSN). The Secondary
Item Requirements System (SIRS) (D200A) calculates variance percentages during the Asset
Reconciliation process. When certain variance parameters are breached (see Chapter 28), in-
depth research is required to resolve the variance. When the variance cannot be resolved, request
a physical inventory as warranted by policy to resolve the discrepancy.

*43.1.2. There are two process procedures in this chapter to request a physical inventory.

*43.1.2.1. Assets stored at co-located Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) storage activities
physically located at the same Air Logistics Center (ALC) site as the originator of the inventory
request outlined in paragraph 43.5.

*43.1.2.2. Assets stored at all other storage locations i.e. contractor facilities, non-co-located
DLA storage facilities, and Air Force accounts using the Integrated Logistics Systems – Supply
(ILS-S) procedures are outlined in paragraph 43.7.

*43.2. References.

*43.2.1. DoD 4140.1- R, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, Chapter 5,
paragraph C5.7.5, Physical Inventory Control (located at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/414001r.pdf).

*43.2.2. DoD 4000.25-2-M, Military Standard Transaction Reporting and Accounting
Procedures (MILSTRAP), Chapter 7, Physical Inventory Control and Appendix 2.6; AP 2.6.4,
Physical Inventory Related Transactions (located at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/40002502m.pdf).

*43.2.3. DoD 4000.25-6-M, Department of Defense Address Directory (DODAAD)(Activity
Address Code Sequence), Chapter 2, Activity Address Code Sequence, Part I (located at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/40002506m.pdf).

*43.2.4. AFI 20-110, Nuclear Weapons Related Materiel Management (located at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI20-110.pdf).
* 43.2.5. AFI 21-201, Conventional Munitions Maintenance Management, Attachment 4,
Inventory Procedures (located at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI21-
201.pdf).

*43.2.6. AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, Volume 1, Part 1, Chapter 6, Physical
Inventory and Inventory Adjustments (located at: http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/afman23-110.pdf); Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 10, Physical
Asset Management, Attachment 10C14, Special Inventory Count Procedures; Volume 3, Part 2,
Chapter 7, Inventory; Volume 3, Part 3, Chapter 27, Wholesale Asset Balance Management; and
Volume 3, Part 3, Chapter 28, Reportable Asset Management Process (RAMP).

* 43.2.7. Chapter 28, Asset Reconciliation.

*43.3. Purpose of Inventory.

*43.3.1. Requesting a special inventory is the process to conduct worldwide inventory. The
process ensures the accuracy of inventory records for mission support, requirements
determination, acquisition processing, financial accounting, and other logistics management
functions that rely upon accurate inventory records for asset balance data. Special inventories
are flexible enough for an inventory of a single account or multiple accounts worldwide. Special
inventory requests are unscheduled. Allowing sufficient time to plan and complete the physical
inventory is paramount to the accuracy of the on-hand balances reported by the storage activity.
Therefore, request for unscheduled inventory should have a physical inventory cutoff 45
calendar days from initiation of the inventory request transaction. This inventory process freezes
inventory records at each location (with the exception of DLA locations) to ensure that an
accurate count is provided. Chapter 28 outlines procedures followed and specifies when to
request a special inventory.

*43.3.2. Initiation of request for a special inventory is a last resort and after extensive research
to detect the storage location that may have a discrepancy. Discrepancies should be adjusted in
the source systems where the error is detected using the appropriate adjustment transactions
normally D8/D9, and then passed to the D035A in sufficient time to overlay to D200A for use in
the next quarterly asset reconciliation.

*43.4. Roles and Responsibilities.

*43.4.1. DoD policy detailed in DoD 4140.1-R requires each Military Service to “maintain
materiel control and visibility of the secondary inventory down to and including retail
inventory.” DoD 4140.1-R also states “The storage activity is responsible for the accuracy of the
inventory held under its control.”

*43.4.2. Wholesale IMS/MM personnel will ensure the accuracy of inventory data of AF
inventory held in storage. The primary process used to determine out of balance conditions is
the D200A quarterly asset reconciliation process. IM/MM and PMS must work together to
ensure that all AF inventory stored at or repaired at contractor facilities are as accurate as
possible. IM/MM must ensure that all AF inventory stored at field locations, other services and
the DLA are as accurate as possible.

*43.4.2.1. Reconciliation of delivered and on hand assets is accomplished by extensive research
of ALC records, reports, transaction histories within D035A, Distribution Standard System
(DSS), ILS-S (Standard Base Supply System and/or Enterprise Solution – Supply (ES-S)
components) and lastly when warranted, a special inventory.

*43.4.2.2. For controlled and Nuclear Weapons-Related Materiel (NWRM) items, if the asset
variance is greater than 0, a special inventory will be accomplished.

*43.4.3. Contractors.

*43.4.3.1. Repair contractors with a Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DODAAC)
beginning with “EZ” with AF property in their possession are accountable for that inventory.
The inventory balances for a repair contractor is reported to the Contractor Asset Visibility – Air
Force (CAV-AF). These balances overlay daily to the Stock Control and Distribution System
(D035A). The appropriate production management specialist should coordinate the request for
special inventory with the appropriate contractor point of contact.

*43.4.3.2. Production contractor asset information with a DODAAC beginning with “EY” is not
included in CAV-AF. Manual processes developed use email to request a special inventory.
The appropriate logistics management specialist should coordinate the effort with the IM/MM
prior to sending any request for special inventory to the contractor storage activity. On loan and
asset modification are only a few examples of items that could require special inventory.

*43.4.4. Special inventory requested from co-located DLA storage locations use the “DJA”
transaction outlined in paragraph 43.5.

*43.4.5. Request for special inventory from other service storage locations requires manual
procedures as outlined in paragraph 43.7.

*43.5. Requests for Special Inventory(s) From Co-Located DLA Storage Activities.

*43.5.1. A request for special inventory from co-located DLA storage accounts uses a "DJA"
transaction. Open the D035A “Item Manager Menu” screen shown below and select RECG.
*43.5.2. The Inventory Request Transaction Data screen will open the “DJA” format as shown
below.




*43.5.3. Routing Identifier (To) field requires the Routing Identifier Code (RIC) of the storage
activity(s).
*43.5.4. Type of Inventory is a single position and listed in Table 29-1 below. IMS/MMs
should use Type of Inventory Code "C" when requesting a special inventory. When using type
of inventory code "C," the condition code field is blank (see paragraph 43.5.7.)

*Table 43.1. Type of Inventory Codes.

     Code                                               Explanation
 A thru B      Reserved for future DoD assignment.
 C             Special Inventory, all supply condition codes. Initiated by the IMS/MM, accountable officers, or
               storage activity.
 D             Special Inventory, all supply condition codes. Initiated by owner as a result of end of day
               processing imbalances.
 E             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Spot Inventory due to
               denial (all supply condition codes.) Initiated by owner or storage activities as a result of denials.
 F             Reserved for future DoD assignment
 G             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Scheduled Inventory.
               Inventory to be conducted within a specified period of time according to an established plan on
               controlled items and all other items or categories designated by the DoD component.
 I             Scheduled Inventory. Initiated by owner based on owner's inventory prioritization methodology.
 J             Special inventory, all supply condition codes. Initiated by owner as a result of location
               reconciliation errors.
 K             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Special inventory, all
               supply condition codes. Initiated by storage activity as a result of location survey errors.
 L             Scheduled inventory, specified supply condition codes. Initiated by owner for a random
               statistical sample inventory.
 M             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Special inventory, all
               supply condition codes. Initiated by storage activity as a result of on hand balance mismatches
               between the locator and property accountability records.
 N             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Scheduled inventory,
               specified supply condition codes. Initiated by storage activity for the annual statistical sample
               inventory.
 O             Reserved for future DoD assignment.
 P             Scheduled inventory, specified supply condition codes. Initiated by storage activity for a random
               statistical sample inventory.
 Q             Reserved for future DoD assignment.
 R             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Special inventory,
               specified supply condition code. Initiated by storage activity in an effort to resolve a customer
               report of discrepancy.
 S             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Special inventory,
               specified supply condition code. Initiated by storage activity as part of receipt follow-up (in-
               transit) resolution process.
 T             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Special Inventory,
               specified supply condition code. Initiated by storage activity as a result of a disposal release
               order directing ownership transfer to the Recycling Control Point.
 U             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Special inventory,
               specified supply condition code. A location-level inventory initiated by storage activity for low
               asset visibility counts.
 V             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS. Special inventory,
               specified supply condition code. Initiated by storage activity as a result of a location-level
               inventory adjustment or exceeding predetermined thresholds.
 W             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS and it can only be used for
               DZK transactions.
 X             This code cannot be used by Air Force when submitting DJA's to DSS and it can only be used for
                DZK transactions.
 Y              Reserved for future DoD assignment.
 Z              Reserved for future DoD assignment.
 0 through 9    Reserved for future DoD assignment.

*43.5.5. Routing Identifier (From) is the requestor source of supply (i.e., FG5, FGZ, FHZ, FLZ,
etc.).

*43.5.6. When requesting a special inventory from a co-located DSS the ownership purpose
code is normally “9.”

*43.5.7. Condition code field is blank when Type of Inventory code is "C" (see paragraph
43.5.4.). If any other Type of Inventory code is used, follow the appropriate explanation column
in Table 43.1. above to determine if the supply condition code is used. If a specific supply
condition code is not required, and the Type of Inventory code applies to all supply condition
codes, then leave this field blank.

*43.5.8. IMS/MM use Inventory Management codes to request recounts, cancellation of special
inventory request, and follow-up to submitted DJAs when no receipt of adjustment or completion
transactions. Storage activities use these codes to respond to the originator of the DJA when a
reject occurs, notification that a special inventory is in process, or convey exception information.
See Table 43.2. for codes and appropriate explanations.

*Table 43.2. Inventory Management Codes.

     Code                                             Explanation
A through L     Reserved for assignment by Component managing the item; not assigned by DoD.
M               Recount requested.
N               Inventory cancelled.
O through Q     Reserved for future DoD assignment.
R               Rejected. No record of stock number or no record of ownership.
S               Physical inventory in workload bank or in process.
T through W     Reserved for future DoD assignment.
X               Follow-up on unscheduled inventory request when no adjustment or completion transaction
                received within 40 days.
Y               Response to follow-up when inventory already complete.
Z               Exception data entered in remarks or followed by separate correspondence.
0 through 9     Reserved for future DoD assignment.

*43.5.9. Change the Physical Inventory Cutoff Date from the current date on the screen to a date
45 calendar days out. This will give the appropriate storage activity time to schedule, prepare,
and complete the inventory count process. Example: 5/27/2010 to 7/11/2010.

*43.5.10. The Physical Inventory In-float Control Date stays as is (0/0/0).

*43.5.11. Distribution Code is blank.

*43.5.12. Project code field is blank until such time a project code is assigned to indentify
requests for a special inventory.
*43.6. Response to Special Inventory Requests (DJAs)

*43.6.1. Within DOD, responses to DJAs are by NSN and condition code. It is possible that
multiple D8/D9 transactional responses for a single DJA request are provided for a Special
Inventory. Storage activities will complete a physical inventory and transmit appropriate
D8AD/D9AD Inventory Adjustments by condition code to the IMS/MM by the Physical
Inventory Cutoff Date. (See paragraph 43.5.9).

*43.6.2. When no adjustment is required for the requested National Stock Number (NSN) based
on the physical count matching the inventory record at the storage site, the storage activity will
update their date of last inventory and transmit a D8A with zero quantities to D035A.

*43.7. Requests for Special Inventory from AF ILS-S Account(s), Contractors, and Non-
Co-located DLA accounts

*43.7.1. Request for a special inventory for AF ILS-S Accounts, contractor, and non co-located
DLA storage sites is not an automated process using the DJA processes outlined above; therefore
requests must be submitted via email in the recommended formats below. Use of the Read and
Delivery Receipt Requested options ensures proof of read and delivery receipts for annotation on
the D200A note pad.

*43.7.2. Request for a special inventory for AF ILS-S accounts are submitted to the
MAJCOM/A4R organizations i.e. ACC/A4R, AMC/A4R, etc. Figure 29-3 is a sample of a
standard format when requesting a special inventory. A reasonable suspense date for completion
of the inventory is 45 calendar days.

*43.7.2.1. Changes in asset information are overlaid to D035A via RAMP on a daily basis. The
information overlays on a quarterly cutoff date (31 Mar, 30 Jun, 30 Sep, and 31 Dec) to D200A
for use in the asset reconciliation process. See AFMAN 23-110, Volume 3, Part 3, Chapter 28
(located at: http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/PUBS/AF/23/23011001/010128/010128.pdf).

*43.7.2.2. The inventory process used by AF ILS-S accounts is contained in AFMAN 23-110,
Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 10 (located at: http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/PUBS/AF/23/23011002/020210/020210.pdf). Frequency
of physical inventory is also included in this chapter.

Figure 43.3. Email Format for Special Inventory Request to AF ILS-S Accounts.
To:                            Appropriate MAJCOM A4R
Subject:                       Request for Special Inventory

Due to variance resulting from inventory reconciliation efforts, a special inventory is required to rectify an out of
balance condition from an enterprise view. Request a MAJCOM-wide Special Inventory (1GP) be conducted, for
all materiel condition codes, as outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Volume 2, Part 2, Chapter 10, Physical Asset
Management, Attachment 10C14, Special Inventory Count Procedures, for the following National Stock
Number(s)/Stock Record Account Number(s) (SRANs): (List NSNs along with appropriate SRANs that have
inventory in their possession requiring a physical inventory) EXAMPLE:

1650012222222                                               FBXXXX
                                                            FBXXXX
                                                            FBXXXX

If the date of last inventory (DOLI) is within 90 calendar days of this request, a special inventory is not required for
that location (SRAN). In addition, if ILS-S transaction history shows no accountable transactions processed in the
past 180 days, a special inventory is not required. Please notify if this condition exists via a return email
identifying the SRAN.

Please complete the physical inventory count and submittal of appropriate adjustment transactions within 45
calendar days from the date of this email. If for some reason this date is impossible to meet, please provide a
revised completion date.

Please notify originator via email when all locations have completed the physical inventory by SRAN.

Name
DSN Number

*43.7.2.3. When MAJCOM A4R receives a request for a special inventory, they should first
validate the SRANs. Any changes, deletions, or additions to the list require notification to the
IMS/MM via return email.

*43.7.2.4. All SRANs under the purview of the MAJCOM should receive a special inventory
request by NSN for completion of a physical inventory count no later than the stated date. If
circumstances prevent the completion of the inventory by the established date, provide a revised
date by NSN and SRAN to the IMS/MM.

*43.7.2.5. Once all SRANs have completed the requested special inventory and appropriate
adjustment transactions submitted, an email is sent to the IMS/MM listing the NSN and SRANs
with completion dates. Correct any rejects (7MS/DZG) and resubmit appropriate transactions.
The IMS/MM will verify receipt of applicable transactional information by interrogating the
RAMP system or the Stock Control System (D035A). This information will be retained in the
item folder with the asset reconciliation for documentation and available for audit. D035 will
overlay the most recent asset balances by condition code into D200A at the next quarterly asset
cutoff date.

*43.7.3. Requests for a special inventory for contractor storage sites follow similar guidance as
AF ILS-S storage activities. Figure 43.4. is a standard format used to request a special
inventory. If the contractor storage facility is that of the repair contractor, the PMS/MM will
initiate the email. If not, the IMS/MM will initiate the email. A courtesy copy of the email
requesting the special inventory to the appropriate contracting officer, along with the appropriate
PMS/MM or IMS/MM, is required. The PMS provides the appropriate contractor email address
for repair contractors to ensure the email request reaches the proper organization or person
conducting the physical inventory.


Figure 43.4. Email Format for Special Inventory Request to Contractor Storage Activities.
To:                            Appropriate Contractor Storage Site Point of Contact
Subject:                       Request for Special Inventory

Due to variance resulting from inventory reconciliation efforts, a special inventory is required to rectify an out of
balance condition from an enterprise view. Request a Special Inventory be conducted, for all materiel condition
codes, as outlined in reference AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, Part 1, Chapter 6 for the following national stock
number(s): NSN(s)

Please complete the physical inventory count and submittal of appropriate adjustment transactions within 45
calendar days from the date of this email. If for some reason this date is impossible to meet, please provide a
revised completion date.

Please notify originator via email the completion date of the physical inventory along with screen shot(s) of the
appropriate adjustments.

Name
Commercial Phone Number




*43.7.4. Requests for a special inventory for Non-Co-located DLA storage sites will require an
email in a format outlined in Figure 43.5. Use the DLA resource at www.dla.mil , click on the
Customer Resources button at the top; scroll down to Customer/Military Service Support (.MIL
Only) ; click on the “Customer Support Representatives” located within the paragraph text. A
listing of points of contact will appear.

Figure 43.5. Email Format for Special Inventory Request to Non Co-Located DLA Storage
Site(s).
To:                           Appropriate DLA Storage Customer Service Office
Subject:                      Request for Unscheduled (Special) Inventory

The Air Force currently does not have the ability to request Unscheduled Inventory via the DJA process for non co-
located DLA storage activities. However, due to a variance resulting from inventory reconciliation efforts, an
unscheduled inventory is required to rectify an out of balance condition from an enterprise view. Request an
Unscheduled Inventory be conducted, for all materiel condition codes, as outlined in DoD 4000.25-2-M, Chapter 7,
paragraph C7.3.6 for the following national stock number(s): NSN(s):

Please complete the physical inventory count and submittal of appropriate adjustment transactions within 45 days
from the date of this email. If for some reason this date is impossible to meet, please provide a revised completion
date.

Please notify via email when completed.

Name
DSN
Commercial Phone Number
IC-3 TO AFMCMAN 23-1, Requirements for Secondary Items (D200A, D200N)
5 MARCH 2010
Certified By: HQ AFMC/A4R (Col Berry)

*SUMMARY OF CHANGES:

This interim change provides more directive language, corrects office symbols, implements
several audit recommendations, provides clarification on numerous issues, and implements new
guidelines for signatures and review. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.

*1.2. Purpose. This manual provides basic guidelines for computing replenishment
requirements for secondary items, both recoverable and consumable items. Requirements
computed with these procedures reflect the average materiel support requirements for Air Force
(AF) operations.

*1.2.5. When the weighted unit repair cost exceeds 75% of the replacement price –Forecasted
Unit Price (FUP) for a reparable item (ERRC “C” or “T”), the Source, Maintenance and
Recoverability (SMR) code and ERRC of the item must be reviewed. See AFMAN 23-110,
USAF Supply Manual, Volume 1, Part 4, Chapter 1, Attachment 1A-27 (at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/PUBS/AF/23/23011001/010401/010401.pdf) for complete
procedures. The following paragraph will help in the analysis mentioned in para 1A27.9.3 of the
aforementioned attachment. Review the SMR assignment of consumable items when they have
a high annual demand value and experience significant field repair. For further information on
cost to repair, see AFMCI 23-112, Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR), at
http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFMCI23-112.pdf. For ERRC/SMR codes,
refer to TO 00-25-195-WA-1, AF Technical Order System Source, Maintenance and
Recoverability Coding of Air Force Weapons, Systems, and Equipments.

*1.2.5.3. Items still in use that are no longer procurable but that are reparable will not be
converted from recoverable items to consumable items. If the weighted repair cost exceeds 75%
of the FUP for these items, document the fact that they are no longer procurable as rationale for
keeping them as recoverable items and retain the information as an audit trail.

*1.3.6. Items Excluded From SIRS. The Requirement Item Identification Data system (RIID)
or D200E assigns a value to the System Comp Code for the National Stock Number (NSN) that
determines which other segments of D200 get sent information on that NSN. A code of “A”
designates that SIRS will get data for that NSN. The current exclusions from transmission in the
RIID snapshot to D200A can be viewed on the SCCA SYS COMP CD “A” EXCLUSIONS
screen in RIID.

*1.3.6.1. DELETED.

*1.3.6.1.1. DELETED.

*1.3.6.1.2. DELETED.

*1.3.6.1.3. DELETED.
*1.3.6.1.4. DELETED.

*1.3.6.1.5. DELETED.

*1.3.6.1.6. DELETED.

*1.3.6.1.7. DELETED.

*1.3.6.1.8. DELETED.

*1.3.6.2. DELETED.

*1.3.6.2.1. DELETED.

*1.3.6.2.2. DELETED.

*1.3.6.2.3. DELETED.

*1.3.6.2.4. DELETED.

*1.3.6.2.5. DELETED.

*1.3.7. Quick Engine Change (QEC) Kits. A QEC kit is a group of stock listed Materiel
Support Division (MSD) and General Support Division (GSD) accessory items required to attach
an engine to an aircraft. Some QEC kits were assigned NSNs rather than kit numbers. The QEC
kit is stock fund exempt and must have a Budget Program code of 1E if it is in SIRS (see para
14.2.1.). Requirements for QEC kits are not computed in SIRS and the IMS must delete all
reported assets and any offsetting requirements. It is the stock listed components of the QEC kits
on which requirements are based.

*1.3.8. Afterburners are authorized for each spare engine (see AFI 21-104, Selective
Management of Selected Gasturbine Engines at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI21-104.pdf) and although base assets are reported by
AFRAMS the requirements are not computed in the SIRS system. The IMS must delete all
reported assets and any offsetting requirements if the NSN for the afterburner appears in SIRS.
It is the stock listed components of the afterburners on which requirements are based.

*1.3.9. An item with a shelf life code will be bought on an Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite
Quantity contract unless contracting is unable to negotiate this type of contract with the
contractor. This will allow the IM to exercise options to put the parts on contract as they are
needed (reference AFMCI 23-102, Purchase Request/Military Interdepartmental Purchase
Request (PR/MIPR) Operations, at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFMCI23-102.pdf.

*1.4.1. The IMS/MM reviews all data for assigned items, with the exception of the data the ES
reviews and file maintains (see para 1.4.2). This includes surveillance of data provided by
interfacing systems, on line file maintenance, and review of SIRS output products. When
changing any data element, document the reason for the change using the Notepad. The paper
copy of the SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements must be used by the IMS/MM as the
signature, review, and approval document for computing items. The paper copy of the INS/NSO
Item Status Listing must be used by the IMS/MM as the signature, review, and approval
document for INS/NSO items. (Some organizations have developed a signature page that is
attached on top of the computation, recomputation or INS/INS Item Status Listing. This product
may be used in lieu of the computation, recomputation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing as long
as the current date appearing on the D200A product appears on the signature page.) The
IMS/MM must sign (literally or with signature stamp) and date within one month of receipt of
the products anytime that the item shows a buy, repair, termination or excess. If the signature
cannot be easily read, the IMS/MM’s printed name must be included on the documents. If any
changes are made to the buy requirement in the computation, the buy code must be annotated on
the computation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing. The buy code must be the same as the code
used in ABCS and a short explanation for the change must be made on the product as well. If
any changes are made to the repair requirement in the computation, the repair code must be
annotated on the computation, recomputation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing. The repair code
must be the same as the code used on the B-21 and in ABCS and a short explanation of the
change must be made on the product as well. The term code must be recorded on the summary
computation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing and any recomputations attached. The term code
must be from Chapter 33 and must match the code used in ABCS, and a brief explanation or the
reason for using the code and any actions taken must be written on the product. The IMS/MM
must document what they intend to do with the excess on the computation or INS/NSO Item
Status Listing. The IMS/MM must file maintain the disposal or retention codes in
Reutilization/Disposition system D035G. The IMSMM must also sign (literally or with
signature stamp) within 60 days of receipt these documents if they show an optimum position on
the quarter(s) indicated by the activity code as being the review quarter(s). A signature signifies
that the IMS/MM has reviewed the information contained in the SGM Computation Worksheet
Requirements, recomputation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing, that the IMS/MM worked the
item (as needed) and that to the best of the knowledge of the IMS/MM the information is correct.
The IMS/MM also initiates management actions indicated by SIRS outputs. The MM or PMS
schedules repair of unserviceable recoverable assets through organic or contractor facilities. The
IMS/MM initiates acquisitions in timely manner to ensure that assets are available when they are
required. Contract repair must be considered prior to procurement of new parts when no organic
repair capability is available. The IMS/MM processes termination actions promptly, when the
on order quantities are no longer required for support, in order to recover funds. The IMS/MM
disposes of assets excess to all requirements. See para 1.13. and subparagraphs for
documentation and product retention requirements.

*1.4.1.5. DELETED.

*1.4.2. The ES reviews each item’s usage, factors, programs, application program
designators/standard program designators, application program begin dates, quantity per
application, application percent, application mission item essentiality codes, application program
select codes and Factor Indicator Codes for accuracy and completeness and must file maintain
any needed corrections.. This includes surveillance of usage data and noting any trends,
determination if historical data are indicative of future activity, and computation of estimated
factors. The ES must perform at least an annual review of application Program Element Codes
(PECs) assigned to the items the ES manages and associated program data to evaluate: the
continued need for the application PEC and associated program data; the adequacy of
documentation explaining the rationale for the use of the application PEC; and the accuracy of
the application PEC program data for those PECs for which the ES is responsible. The ES
performs on line file maintenance of this data in the Applications, Programs and Indentures
(API) system D200F and in SIRS. When changing any data element in SIRS, the ES must
document the reason for the change using the Notepad. The ES must give the IMS/MM copies
of those initial Factors/Usage Printouts on which changes have been made by the end of the
second week in the file maintenance period. The ES must document the Factors/Usage Printout
with any changes made to data file maintained on the Program Select screen in API including the
rationale for the changes. The ES must ensure for the items belonging to the ES that the
indentures are file maintained in API and are correct (API is open for file maintenance
throughout most of the year unlike SIRS). The ES also provides technical advice to IMS and site
management concerning items applicable to assigned systems. This advice includes, but is not
limited to, issues concerning interchangeability and substitutability of NSNs, repair concepts,
ERRC coding, and reliability. The ES must sign (literally or with signature stamp) and date the
ES file copy of all summary Factors/Usage Printouts within one month of receipt of the product.
The ES retains the original of the ES file copy of all Factors/Usage Printouts. When the
IMS/MM brings the products to the ES for coordination, the ES must also sign (literally or with
signature stamp) and date all computations, recomputation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing for
terms, buys, repair and excess. If the signature cannot be easily read, the ES’s printed name
must be included on the documents. A signature signifies the ES has reviewed the information
contained in the Factors/Usage Printout, the ES worked the item (as needed) and that to the best
of the knowledge of the ES the information is correct. See para 1.13. and subparagraphs for
documentation and product retention requirements.

*1.4.2.5. DELETED.

*1.4.3. Each site may establish signature level policy for the entire site for computations,
INS/NSO Item Status Listings and Factors/Usage Printouts. These signature levels must ensure
that high dollar actions (i.e. buy, repair, excess, and termination) receive review by other
person(s) in addition to the IMS/MM, PMS and ES. In cases where AFMC has established a
minimum signature level in this manual, the site policy may require higher signature level not a
lower signature level. Each site will provide a copy of its signature level policy to the AFMC
SIRS OPR (401 SCMS/GUMD).

*1.4.3.1. The following signature levels for items that computed in termination on the summary
must apply:

*1.4.3.1.1. $1 - $999,999.99 Element (if the organization has one)

*1.4.3.1.2. $1,000,000 - $2,000,000 Section (if the organization has one)

*1.4.3.1.3. $2,000,000.01 - $5,000,000 Flight
*1.4.3.1.4. $5,000,000.01 - $50,000,000 Squadron

*1.4.3.1.5. $50,000,000.01 - $150,000,000 Group

*1.4.3.1.6. $150,000,000.01 - $500,000,000 Wing

*1.4.3.1.7. $500,000,000.01 – up Center

*1.4.3.1.8. All must be signed by IMS/MM, PMS, ES, RCO, TCO and PMO with the following
exceptions:

*1.4.3.1.8.1. PMS and PMO are not required to sign for consumable items (ERRC N or P).

*1.4.3.1.8.2. The IMS/MM’s immediate supervisor is required on all term codes except term
code 02, 03 and 13.

*1.4.3.1.8.3. If only term code 13 applies, only IM/MM signature is required.

*1.4.3.1.8.4. For term code 12, minimum level is group signature, and terms over $1M – up
require center signature.

*1.4.3.1.8.5. For term code 14, minimum level is squadron signature.

*1.4.3.2. The following signatures levels for items that computed a POS and/or RSP buy (CY,
AY, BY or EY), a POS and/or RSP repair (CY, AY, BY or EY) or in excess on the summary or
recomputation after the summary must apply:

*1.4.3.2.1. $1,000,000 - $3,000,000 RCO, TCO, PMO, Lead, Element

*1.4.3.2.2. $3,000,000.01 - $5,000,000 Section

*1.4.3.2.3. $5,000,000.01 - $20,000,000 Flight

*1.4.3.2.4. $20,000,000.01 - $50,000,000 Squadron

*1.4.3.2.5. $50,000,000.01 - $150,000,000 Group

*1.4.3.2.6. $150,000,000.01 - $500,000,000 Wing

*1.4.3.2.7. $500,000,000.01 – up Center

*1.4.3.2.8. All must be signed by IMS/MM, PMS and ES. Note: For buys, determine signature
level by determining which has the highest total POS plus RSP dollar value the CY plus AY or
BY or EY. The following exceptions apply:
*1.4.3.2.8.1. For buy, repair or excess higher signatures are only required once a year as long as
the item does not breach the next signature level.

*1.4.3.2.8.2. The system/subsystem program manager must coordinate on any items with file
maintained additives that have buy and/or repair requirements.

*1.4.3.2.8.3. PMS and PMO are not required to sign for consumable items (ERRC N or P).

*1.4.3.2.8.4. For items computing a POS and/or RSP buy and that have a positive asset
reconciliation variance, see para 1.10.7. and subparagraphs for other signature requirements.

*1.4.3.2.8.5. For items for which a Life of Type Buy is being made, see para 1.11. and all the
subparagraphs for other signature requirements.

*1.4.3.2.8.6. For economic procurement buys, see para 1.10.5. for other signature requirements.

*1.4.3.2.8.7. If buying more than the computed POS/RSP requirement, see para 1.10.7. for other
signature requirements.

*1.4.4. In general, site management is responsible for the overall integrity of computed
requirements within its area of responsibility. To ensure management oversight over decisions on
excess, the IMS/MM’s supervisor must review and coordinate on the retention and disposal
decisions made in the Reutilization and Disposition System (RDS). Site managers and
supervisors can delegate to selected analysts the authority to review and validate item
computations and to provide advice to senior site managers. Such delegation authority, however,
does not release site management from the above responsibility.

*1.8. Initial and Follow On Spares. SIRS is a replenishment spares computation system. SIRS
normally does not compute the initial spares requirements. Its purpose is to compute follow on
spares requirements for established items that apply to active systems. Follow-on spares support
normally involves replenishment of assets that have been lost due to condemnations. During the
weapon system provisioning process, the D200H Initial Requirements Determination (IRD)
system computes minimum spares requirements to support a weapon system through a program
forecast period, which is the procurement lead time plus three months past a weapon system's
preliminary operating capability. These minimum requirements include condemnations through
the procurement lead-time, pipeline requirements, and other levels that must be in place to
support newly fielded systems. The system program director places spares quantities computed
in the IRD under a Provisioning Item Order (PIO) against the provisioning contract. The
contracting function reports these quantities in the J018R Acquisition and Due-in System, which
in turn pass them to SIRS as on-order assets. The IMS ensures these quantities are included in
the asset reconciliation. Even though the IRD computes spares to support pipeline and other
initial requirements, SIRS also computes these requirements once the NC numbers or NSNs are
fed to it, which the on-order assets will offset.

*1.9.1.2. Recoverability & Reparability is the second position. "B" identifies items that are not
subject to repair and items that are consumed in use. "F" identifies items that are authorized to
be repaired at organizational and intermediate levels. "D" identifies items that are subject to
repair and must be repaired by depot level maintenance.

*1.9.3. SIRS computes requirements at subgroup master level including Insurance and NSO
items. After these SGM requirements have been computed, SIRS performs an additional series
of computations for items that are in an I&S family with more than one SGM. It begins with the
least preferred SGM and if it has a buy deficit (3rd Short) in any quarter of the computation time
span it passes that deficit up to the next preferred SGM. This is done in the form of a non-
recurring “additive” requirement divided into Peacetime, RSP, and OWRM values. SIRS then
recomputes the requirements including repair of the next preferred SGM. This process continues
until each SGM in the I&S family has been recomputed. This ensures that repair is
accomplished at the lowest level possible while at the same time ensuring that only the latest
configuration (I&S Master) is bought. The buy deficits on all the lesser-preferred items are
passed to the D200N CSIS as a “Buy Not Required.” SIRS must be allowed to automatically
compute the I&S requirement unless: the item is in an approved forced attrition or forced
generation and replacement program (see para 17.2.3.); all the replacement parts have already
been delivered; sufficient assets have been bought to cover the spare requirements; and repair
procedures have been established for the replacement item. Note: If any of the aforementioned
take place and the scheduled replacements have begun successfully and all the applications for
the item are part of the approved forced attrition or forced generation and replacement program,
the IMS/MM must zero out any minimum depot stock level, additives and special levels for the
lesser preferred item(s) in D200A and zero the repair requirements from the lesser preferred
items on the B-21. The ES must zero the application percentage associated with the lesser
preferred item(s). These actions will keep the lesser preferred item(s) from computing
requirements. The ES also must initiate cataloging action on the lesser preferred item(s) to
remove the item(s) from the I&S group and change the acquisition advice code to “T” until all
the lesser preferred assets can be disposed. Once the assets have been disposed, the ES must
initiate action to change the acquisition advice code to “Y” for the lesser preferred item(s).

*1.9.4. The RIID file is the sole source for establishing, changing and deleting SNs in SIRS.
Stock numbers cannot be established or deleted in SIRS through file maintenance. A record is
established in the SIRS file when the catalog management data file from RIID contains a master
or current SN that has not been previously established in SIRS. Each new master SN in the RIID
file results in a skeleton record in SIRS that contains data from RIID (see para 3.8.) pertinent to
the master SN. Each new current SN in the RIID file results in a skeleton record in SIRS that
contains data from RIID pertinent to that current SN. Stock number or catalog changes in the
RIID file result in changes to the current or master SNs in SIRS. RIID gets the cataloging
information from the files sent by D043.

*1.9.7. When SIRS computes requirements it will consider failure data for all items in the
subgroup. All computed requirements, however, will be aggregated to the subgroup master NSN
and rolled by SIRS to the I&S SGM NSN. This allows acquisition of the most preferred I&S
SGM NSN to replenish all NSNs in the subgroup. Customer refusal to use standard
interchangeable items instead of the preferred item is not sufficient grounds for acquiring the
preferred item if assets of interchangeable items are available. Maintenance engineering must
resolve the problems of unacceptable substitution to establish that available assets are unsuitable
and will not be used before any acquisition actions are initiated or adjusted. If an item is
determined to be an unsuitable substitute for all applications, the ES must initiate cataloging
action to change the Acquisition Advice Code to “T” until all assets can be disposed. Once the
assets have been disposed, the ES must initiate action to change the Acquisition Advise Code to
“Y.”

*1.10.1.1. When SIRS computes an acquisition action for an item for the first time, the safety
level and projected condemnations can be budgeted for. These requirements are not acquired
until actual failures are reported. However, if condemnations can be completely justified
(engineering analysis, like items with significant condemnation rates, etc), and staffed through
appropriate SCMG budget offices at the site (include FM at the site for non-MSD items), prudent
management dictates that acquisition may occur. If actual failures or condemnations are
reported, the base and depot level requirements are based on the percentage of actual data used in
computing the total demand rate.

*1.10.1.3. When buy quantities are deferred due to the above policy, the subsequent year
(budget year) quantities on the budget CSIS Item Deficit Listing must be increased by the same
quantity to ensure that funds are projected in the proper fiscal period.

*1.10.1.4. Repeated deferral of buys for the same items is not allowed. If an item does not
exhibit a demand pattern indicated by the provisioning factors, a reevaluation of the item factors
by the engineering function must be initiated. If after this reevaluation, it is determined that the
factors are accurate, then the item deficit must be deferred outside the budget window (beyond
the Extended Year)

*1.10.4. Screening Assets. Since SIRS computes worldwide requirements, all available assets
in the Department of Defense (DOD) must be considered to fill those requirements to preclude
unnecessary acquisitions and repairs. Before an acquisition or a repair action is initiated the
IMS/MM, must determine that assets cannot be obtained from any of the following sources or
use of the following sources would not be in the best interest of the Government due to shelf life,
safety, cost/benefit analysis, etc. One example of cost/benefit analysis is which is less expensive
repair of the item or using a temporary work request to pull the item from a NHA that is excess
and having the item condition checked. Documentation explaining the decision reached must be
retained in the IMS/MM folder for two years after the delivery of assets.

*1.10.4.8. Next Higher Assembly (NHA) assets stratifying to OWRM in the CSIS may be used
to support lower assembly requirements when there are not or will not be sufficient assets to fill
the requirement, either through shortage or budgetary constraint. If the NHA item is an ERRC
“C” or “T” item, the IMS will look at the S01 Opening Position, Line 4, Column 3 for the NHA
item to see if there are assets stratifying to OWRM. If there are assets stratifying to OWRM, the
IMS/MM may initiate a Temporary Work Request to remove the required lower assembly assets
from the NHA. If the lower assembly IMS does not manage the NHA NSN, the IMS/MM will
notify the NHA IMS/MM and request that they initiate the Temporary Work Request to remove
the lower assembly items to fill the lower assembly requirements. The lower assembly items
requested will not exceed the number installed within the NHA NSN quantity reported as
OWRM.
*1.10.5. Economic Procurement Quantities. Consideration must be given to a vendor's
minimum quantity or value requirements, which, if ignored, can result in excessive unit costs.
Requirements computations, while reflecting specific quantities to be acquired, cannot determine
the most economical buy in terms of minimum quantities or the most cost effective method of
acquisition. The IMS decides this, based on documentation that contracting personnel furnish.
In addition, public law requires that each spare parts acquisition action be considered for
Multiple Year Procurement (MYP), which allows acquisition of more than one year's
requirement with a single acquisition action. Paragraph 1.12. provides MYP policy as it pertains
to recoverable spares. Public Law (10 U.S.C. 2210 and 2213) also prohibits the IMS/MM from
initiating procurement of MSD items (item with cataloging budget code of 8) that when added to
the inventory would cause the inventory to exceed two years of operating stocks (excluding war
reserves). The head of the procuring activity may approve the procurement of inventory that
would not exceed three years of operating stocks (excluding war reserves) if certain exceptions
delineated in the public law are met. Until AFMC/JA provides a different interpretation,
consider the head of the procuring activity to be AFMC/CC or as designated by that office. For
MSD items, the IMS/MM must not move out year requirements forward.

*1.10.7.3.1. If the positive variance percent is less than or equal to 5% and the dollar value of
the variance is less than or equal to $10,000 and the Inventory Management Specialist (IMS) has
determined that deferral of the buy would significantly affect their ability to support the customer
they can document the Stock Group Master (SGM) Comp Worksheet with their rationale and
proceed with the buy action after obtaining flight leader approval.

*1.10.7.3.2. If the positive variance percent is greater than 5% and/or the dollar value of the
variance is greater than $10,000 and the IMS has determined that deferral of the buy would
significantly affect their ability to support the customer they must document the SGM Comp
Worksheet with their rationale and obtain squadron level signature concurring with that decision
prior to proceeding with the buy action.

*1.11.1. Definition. A Life-of-Type Buy (LOTB) is a one-time procurement, when all cost
effective and prudent alternatives have been exhausted, for the total future requirement of an
item that is no longer expected to be produced. The procurement quantity must be based upon
demand or engineering estimates of mortality sufficient to support the applicable equipment until
phased out (DOD 4140.1-R, AP1.1.69). Other manufacturing source alternatives addressed in
DOD 4140.1-R, para C3.6.2.4 must be considered prior to making a LOTB. When a LOTB is
necessary, procurement must occur as close as possible to one procurement lead time away. This
section describes the process and procedures to be used by the Inventory Management Specialist
(IMS), the Equipment Specialist (ES) and the site Director of Financial Management for LOTB.
AFMCI 23-103, Diminishing Manufacturing Sources and Materiel Shortages (DMSMS)
Program, para 2.3. (at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFMCI23-103.pdf)
and AFMCI 23-106, Initial Requirements Determination, para 1.10.7. (at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFMCI23-106.pdf) authorizes acquisition of spare parts to
cover the anticipated operational life of a weapon system under certain conditions. A LOTB is
authorized in cases where such actions can be economically justified. A LOTB is normally
initiated at the end of a production run for initial spares when reestablishment of production
capability for follow on spares would not be economically feasible or when an item has been
identified as having diminishing manufacturing sources.

*1.11.3.3. Required coordination for the LOTB is according to site policy, but must include the
coordination from the site SIRS OPR and from the appropriate site financial manager. The 448
SCMW commander, or equivalent for non-AFGLSC items, must have final approval of all
LOTB except as noted in the last sentence of this paragraph. If approved, the 448 SCMW
commander or equivalent must sign and return the LOTB letter. The signed LOTB letter notifies
the IMS that the IMS can file maintain the Weapons System Life field on the BMD screen (see
para 14.13.). If the item is a MSD item (item with cataloging budget code of 8), see additional
higher signature level requirements in para 1.10.5.

*1.11.4. LOTBs in the Requirements Computation. To preclude approved LOTB quantities
that have not been delivered from computing into termination, the Weapon System Life needs to
be file maintained on the BMD screen (see para 14.13.). If a quantity that has been acquired as
part of an approved LOTB computes into termination, it must be assigned termination code 07
due to the failure to file maintain the Weapon System Life. Do not terminate.

*1.12.1. Introduction. All components within DOD involved with the acquisition process are
directed by federal statute to investigate buying in economic quantities for each spare parts
acquisition. Multiple year contracting methods are intended to fulfill the intent of this direction.
When appropriate, the Inventory Management Specialist's (IMS) first choice must be the use of a
MYC. The Multiple Year Procurement program (MYP) is one way to satisfy several years'
requirements for spare parts with a single contract. Although the primary purposes of the MYP
are to reduce unit cost and lead-times, other potential benefits include reduced administrative
workload for the IMS, procurement personnel, and the Purchase Request (PR)/Military
Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) control function; reduced paperwork, better prices
and discounts due to larger quantities, insured production continuity; and contractor incentive for
investment in capital equipment and facilities. AFMCI 23-102, Chapters 7, paras 7.9, 7.10 and
7.11, establishes policy for and provides a description of the MYP. This chapter applies to all
replenishment spares requirements that meet the selection criteria for the MYP, as described in
para 1.12.2. The squadrons managing spare parts must conduct periodic (at least annual) reviews
of multiple year candidate items. The reviews must have a goal of determining how well
multiple year policy is being implemented and of identifying potential problems with existing
policy. Multiple year contracting must be a budget requirements review area of interest.

*1.12.2. Item Selection. To be considered for the MYP, an item must meet all of the following
conditions: The item program must be forecastable. A forecastable program is one, which can be
determined with a reasonable degree of certainty. Most SIRS items have forecastable programs.
The item must compute into a deficit buy position in the Apportionment Year (AY) and the
Budget Year (BY), as indicated on the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) Deficit
Listing. Items may also compute deficits beyond the BY and still be eligible for the MYC.
However, they must compute into a deficit in the AY and the BY. For an item to be considered
for a 3-year multiyear contract, the item must be in a buy position in the apportionment, budget,
and extended years on the CSIS listing. RSP and OWRM (if OWRM funds are available)
deficits may be included as part of the first year's buy. For fourth or fifth year buys, consider
items that compute condemnations (base, depot overhaul, and job routed) greater than ten
percent of the computed Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance (OIM) operating
requirement plus the total Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) program. The quantities to be
procured in the fourth and fifth years must never exceed the forecasted condemnations
(condemnation percent times forecasted reparable generations). In addition, the item must be of
stable design and configuration. It will not be scheduled for replacement or for a modification
that would affect the failure rate.

*1.13.1. Item folder is destroyed 2 years after item is out of FMS and AF inventory. This life of
NSN retention of folder contents policy applies to all AFMC Forms 318, Item Contracting
History Record, and all Asset Reconciliation reports. For D200A Asset Reconciliations, retain
March summary only – final if summary not printed. Copies of the D200A Asset
Reconciliations for Jun, Sep, and Dec may be thrown away upon receipt of the products for the
next quarter. If the Jun, Sep or Dec products have documentation for actions taken that are not
on the Mar Asset Reconciliation, that documentation must also be retained. For A-D041.-YW1-
F9-XXX Asset Reconciliations, retain the March final only (Jun, Sep, and Dec copies do not
need to be retained as long as documentation has been moved from them to the March final
Asset Reconciliation). Retain historical AFMC Form 247 and AFMC Form 47. If the summary
computation is not run, keep the products from the final computation. (If the IMS chooses not to
retain/use the AFMC Form 318, Item Contracting History Record the IMS must retain the
historical AFMC Forms 339, Due-In Assets Status Record, showing the initiation of the PR, the
award of the contract, and the delivery of the assets as a permanent record for the life of the
item.) The file copy asset reconciliations must be retained in the item folder. AFMC Forms 318
and 339 must be retained in either the item folder or in a centrally located and clearly labeled file
on the desk of the IMS/MM.

*1.13.2. For items on which purchases were initiated, all the products in this paragraph may be
destroyed 2 years after contract is closed and all assets have been delivered or two years after the
contract is terminated:

*1.13.2.1. Copy of contract (or electronic file copy of the contract -- must be readily accessible
and easily readable and printable by anyone needing the information)

*1.13.2.2. PR/MIPRs (attach to the PR/MIPR a copy of the computation, recomputation, or
INS/NSO Item Status Listing on which the PR/MIPR is based)

*1.13.2.3. D220 Provisioning Documents

*1.13.2.4. Provisioned Item Order (PIO)

*1.13.2.5. All supporting documentation such as:

*1.13.2.5.1. Initial Requirements Determination (IRD) Item Worksheet AD200.H40108ZP

*1.13.2.5.2. IRD Programming Checklist AD200.H60108ZP
*1.13.2.6. D200A Products:

*1.13.2.6.1. Initial MISTR Repair and Repair Data (IMS) AD200.AFCA#8IH

*1.13.2.6.2. Factors/Usage Printout (see para 1.13.12.) A-D200.AFDA#85U

(Keep the summary products listed below, or final products if summary products are not
available, containing approval signatures)

*1.13.2.6.3. SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements AD200.AIDAX88I

*1.13.2.6.4. Consolidated Assets and Additive Requirements AD200.AHBA#87B

*1.13.2.6.5. Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet AD200.ACKA#8BO

*1.13.2.6.6. MISTR Repair and Repair Data (IMS) AD200.AFCA#8IH

*1.13.2.6.7. MISTR Repair and Repair Data (ES) AD200.AFCA#8EH

*1.13.2.6.8. Factors/Usage Printout A-D200.AFDA#85U

*1.13.2.6.9. SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet AD200.AIPA#88K

*1.13.2.6.10. Insurance/NSO Item Status Listing AD200.ANBAX82B

*1.13.2.6.11. Entire signed “What If” Item Recomputation (if applicable)

*1.14.2. The AFGLSC and ALC management must ensure the PBL contract arrangement fulfills
DOD 4140.1-R, DOD Supply Chain Materiel Management Regulation, Chapter 9 (at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/414001r.pdf) mandates for a Central Secondary
Item Stratification (CSIS) on every item and the Secondary Supply Inventory Report (SSIR)
covering all items regardless of funding. This provides for the general accounting requirement in
50 U.S.C. 412. For the SSIR, variances on NSNs for which a PBL contractor is responsible the
ALC SSIR OPR must use the explanation: “Item is managed by a Performance Based Logistics
contractor.”

*1.14.3. The AFGLSC and ALC must also incorporate in the PBL contract stipulations a
requirement for the PBL contractor to comply with 10 U.S.C. 2213 when stock funds are used to
procure assets (see para 1.10.5.).

*1.14.4. The AFGLSC and ALC must incorporate in the PBL contract stipulations a
requirement for the PBL contractor to accept and respond to Air Force Audit Agency and U.S.
General Accounting Office audits on the items they are managing under the PBL contract.

*1.15. “Dead Items” in D200A.
*1.15.1. A dead item meets all of the following criteria:

*1.15.1.1. It has had no usage in the past three years.

*1.15.1.2. It has had no assets reported during the last eight quarters.

*1.15.1.3. It does not have the new item code of “N.”

*1.15.1.4. It has no non-recurring additives.

*1.15.1.5. It has no RDE recurring additives.

*1.15.1.6. It has no special levels.

*1.15.1.7. It has no minimum depot safety level.

*1.15.1.8. It has no estimated rates and percents.

*1.15.1.9. It does not have a program begin date within the last seven years.

*1.15.1.10. The item program select code is all zeroes.

*1.15.1.11. The application percent is zero.

*1.15.1.12. The quantity per assembly is zero.

*1.15.1.13. The item is not in a federal stock class beginning with 814.

*1.15.2. The IMS/MM must review the “dead items.” The “dead item” NSN must be assigned a
“not stocked” acquisition advice code (AAC) or be assigned AAC “Y.” If the “dead item” NSN
has other service users, it must be requested that they assume management for the item. If it is
decided to retain the “dead item” without taking one of these actions, such action must be
approved by the center commander or his/her delegated representative.

*2.2. Schedule. SIRS has four quarterly cycles a year that are keyed to asset cutoff dates of 31
December, 31 March, 30 June, and 30 September. Data from interfacing systems are input to
SIRS after the asset cutoff date and at the start of the Initial computation. There are three
computations run each quarter for SIRS, an initial, a final, and a summary. The IMS, MM, PMS,
and ES will attempt to do the file maintenance cycle (four weeks), which starts after the initial
computation is completed and ends with the start of the final computation. There may be a week
for file maintenance after the final computation is completed and before the start of the summary
computation, but since Sep 05, the summary comp is run as soon as the final computation is run.
(Only the initial and summary computed requirements are currently sent to the sites for printing.)
The SIRS on line data base is file maintained real time and reflects the latest data from
interfacing systems or file maintained data, whichever was input last. After the summary
computation, neither the SIRS database nor the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) can
be updated for that quarter. The SIRS file maintenance screens are closed from the start of the
summary computation until after the next cycle’s initial computation is completed. Hard copy
products can be produced at each site and at HQ AFMC from the results of any computation, and
they are available for the current and previous three consecutive quarters and for the Mar and
Sep cycles for the two years prior to that. Output files to D200N (CSIS), are produced from the
final and summary computation run. Output files to other interfacing systems are produced from
the summary computation.

*2.10.3.9. Selecting the Product Format Information (PFI, Fig 13.1.) displays the Item Review
List (IRL) menu. The IRL menu provides the capability to select SNs that need to be reviewed
by ALC, division, IMS code, and ES code. The user must select no computes, terminations,
buys, excesses, or repairs. Select the options and press ENTER. The screen will re-appear with
the selected data and any informational messages to identify possible discrepancies in the data
elements.

*3.8.5. PMS codes will now be fed into RIID D200E by the G072D and G019C systems and
will in turn be fed into the D200A Comp quarterly via the RIID Snapshot. If the PMS codes do
not make the RIID Snapshot, the codes will not appear in the D200A comp until the following
quarter. The PMS code can be file maintained on the PMSC screen in RIID, but the feed from
G072D or G019C will override file maintained PMS codes if G072D or G019C have a PMS
code for the NSN.

*3.16. Interservice Material Control and Accounting System (IMACS). This system provides
DMISA contract number, CLIN, depot overhaul repair quantity, depot overhaul condemned
quantity, shop flow and unit repair price.

*7.1.1. These procedures apply to personnel responsible for developing, adjusting and reviewing
SIRS requirements data. The management located at the sites must ensure adherence to these
procedures and take action as deemed necessary in response to quality review team’s reports and
recommendations.

*7.1.2. The site SIRS quality review teams must, as an on-going process:

*7.1.2.1. After the summary, review the items comprising 10% of the total buy requirement
(POS plus RSP requirements) in CY, AY, BY or EY and the items comprising 10% of the total
repair requirement (POS plus RSP requirements) in CY, BY or EY at each site starting with the
largest dollar requirements and working down the list before any budget submission. The
million dollar terms must be reviewed within 10 days of the printing of the final/summary
computation by the review team. The million dollar buys must be reviewed within 30 days of
the printing of the final/summary computation by the review team. The million dollar repair
items must be reviewed within 60 working days of the printing of the final/summary
computation by the review team. The million dollar Potential DOD Excess (from the CSIS
AFAO and Retention Position line 21, sum of columns 3, 4 and 5) must be reviewed within 90
days of the printing of the final/summary by the review team. This review may be conducted as
part of the signature cycle.
*7.1.2.2. Review a random selection of items twice a year at each site to include buy,
termination, excess including the retention and disposal decisions on excess assets, repair,
deferred disposal codes, modification, demand forecast accuracy, one-way interchangeable items
and other items of interest such as items with estimated/median factors. Items may be selected
from the Index of Action listings, CSIS or ABCS.

*7.1.2.5. Report review findings in writing to first line supervisors. Retain review checklist and
management briefing for at least one year. Take corrective action as appropriate. Summarize
review results and present to wing management. Indicate error trends, recurring errors, type
(data element) errors, or any other error category that can be used as a baseline for improving the
effectiveness of the SIRS system. Refer deficiencies of the SIRS system and/or SIRS users’
manual to the AFMC SIRS OPR.

*7.1.3. The inventory management specialists or materiel managers, equipment specialists, and
production management specialists must make available to the SIRS quality review team, on an
item basis, all data necessary for review, analysis and evaluation. The documentation must
contain a detailed audit trail of all actions affecting an item’s position. Upon request, participate
in reviews. Correct reported errors as soon as possible. Comply with this manual regarding
retention and retirement of documentation.

*Table 7.1. IMS Quality Review Checklist – For Items with ERRC = C or T.

NSN           IMS                 Comp               Impacting                      Non-Impacting
                                  Cycle              Errors                         Errors
Reason for ERRC                   Item               $Value                         Recomputation
Review                            Category           Impact                         Required?
Buy
Repair
Term
Other
           Element                OK       Error     Nature of Error                Comments/
                                                                                    Recommended
                                                                                    Corrective
                                                                                    Action
1.            Budget Code                            A. Budget Program (BP)
                                                     does not reflect the item
                                                     ERRC and applications.
                                                     B. System Management
                                                     Code (SMC) does not
                                                     reflect applicable weapon
                                                     system(s) shown as
                                                     applications.
2.            Unit Price                             A. Latest price not used
                                                     B. Price is not
                                                     documented by AFMC
                                                     Form 318 or 339.
                     C. Estimated price is not
                     documented.
3.   DOLP            A. AFMC Form 318 or
                     339 does not verify DOLP.
                     B. DOLP does not match
                     unit price contract award
                     date.
                     C. No documentation for
                     not using latest AF
                     contract award date
4.   ALT             A. ALT does not come
                     from AFMC Form 318,
                     339 or PR & contract and
                     equal time from initiation
                     of latest PR to contract
                     award plus seven days.
                     B. No documentation for
                     using default or file
                     maintained data
                     C. Did not use actual or
                     estimated.
                     D. Code 65 awaiting funds
                     delay not deducted.
                     E. In error
5.   PLT             A. Actual PLT did not
                     come from AFMC Form
                     318, 339 or contract and
                     equal time from contract
                     line item award to 10%
                     delivery. RIID adds 15
                     days for items that have
                     not obtained 10% delivery.
                     B. No documentation for
                     using default or file
                     maintained data
                     C. In error
6.   OWRM EXCL       No documentation for use
                     of this code.
7.   SFTY LVL        No documentation for use
     EXCL IND        of this code.
                     *****N/A to
                     INS/NSO*****
8.   Item Category   A. Item has too many
     Code            demands to remain NSO.
                     B. NSO code not correctly
                     used for low demand item
                        C. Life of Type “L” code
                        incorrect
                        D. Demand pattern
                        indicates “I” incorrect.
                        Cataloging action not
                        submitted to change AAC.
9..   Activity Code     Not representative of
                        item’s demands.
10.   ICS/RIW           A. Not coded / correct in
                        D200A
                        B. Not coded / correct in
                        ABCS
11.   ICS/RIW           A. Not present with
      EXPIR DATE        ICS/RIW Indicator.
                        B. Not correct
12.   Deferred          Documentation to support
      Disposal          IMS assigned deferred
      Code/Level        disposal codes of F, G, M
                        or R inadequate or
                        missing.
13.   Order &           No explanation for file
      Shipping Time     maintained data.
      Days              *****N/A to
                        INS/NSO*****
14.   Overhaul Stock    A. Blank.
      Level JR/NJR      B. No documentation for
                        using other than defaults.
                        *****N/A to
                        INS/NSO*****
15.   Base Repair       Using other than actual or
      Cycle Days        default without
                        documentation. No
                        explanation for file
                        maintained data.
                        *****N/A to
                        INS/NSO*****
16.   Base Processing   No explanation for file
      days              maintained data.
                        *****N/A to
                        INS/NSO*****
17.   Reparable In      No explanation for file
      transit days      maintained data.
                        *****N/A to
                        INS/NSO*****
18.   Supply to         A. Supply to Maintenance
      Maintenance       – other than default value
      days             without documentation.
      Shop Flow days   B. Shop Flow Days -
      Serviceable         1) Weighted average
      Turn-in Days     incorrect due to errors
                       contained in the
                       Report – MISTR Repair
                       and Repair Data
                               a) Actual shop flow
                       days incorrect on
                       production number or
                       CLIN level
                               b) Production
                       incorrect
                           2) Incorrectly used
                       default when actual data
                       available.
                           3) Did not use default
                       when no actual data was
                       available.
                       C. Serviceable Turn-in -
                       other than one day used
                       without documentation.
                       *****N/A to
                       INS/NSO*****
19.   Time phased      When changing from
      Days             organic to contract or vice
      DRC Effective    versa time phased depot
      Date             repair cycle times/date
                       were not used.
                       *****N/A to
                       INS/NSO*****
20.   Unit Repair      A. Not correct for
      Cost/LRC         CSIS/Customer
                       Pricing/MCR development
                         1) Weighted average
                       incorrect due to errors
                       contained in the REPORT
                       – MISTR Repair and
                       Repair Data
                            a) Actual unit repair
                       cost in error on production
                       number or CLIN level
                            b) Production incorrect
                         2) Incorrectly used
                       default when actual data
                       available.
                          3) No justification for
                        using other than actual or
                        default
                        B. Does not match ABCS
                        weighted price due to file
                        maintenance difference
                        between D200A and
                        ABCS.
21.   On order Assets   A. On Order quantities do
                        not concur with AF Forms
                        339.
                        B. PR Funded not correct
                        C. PR Unfunded is not
                        correct.
                        D. Inadequate
                        documentation of on order
                        assets
22.   Due-In Assets     A. In error IAW
                        supporting documentation.
                        B. Not documented
                        properly
23.   On Hand           A. No documentation for
      Assets/Asset      why reported assets were
      Reconciliation    adjusted.
                        B. Inadequate
                        documentation for
                        adjustments to starting
                        position
                        C. Incorrect adjustment to
                        starting position
                        D. Inadequate
                        documentation for
                        losses/gains
                        E. Losses/gains incorrect
                        F. Condemnations on
                        Asset Reconciliation
                        Report do not match Factor
                        Printout.
                        H. Variance greater than
                        allowed without research
                        or correction
                        I. 3rd Consecutive
                        Variance not taken or
                        taken without adequate
                        justification/research.
24.   OIM/DLM           A. First digit of Program
      Program          Select code not zero, but
                       OIM program missing
                       B. Digits 2, 3 or 4 of
                       Program Select code not
                       zero, but DLM program
                       missing
25.   Special Levels   A. No
                       documentation/justification
                       for IMS file maintained
                       information.
                       B. Adjusted Level
                       Verification Worksheet for
                       the special level is missing
                       and/or supporting
                       documents are missing.
                       (i.e., Adjusted Stock Level
                       Master Summary, AF
                       Form 1996, Adjusted
                       Stock Level, ISSL)
26.   War Reserve      A. No
      Materiel         documentation/justification
                       for IMS file maintained
                       information.
                       B. D087 Prime Item Print
                       to support WRSK-BLSS
                       (RSP) requirement is
                       missing.
27.   Additives        A. No
                       documentation/justification
                       for IMS file maintained
                       information.
                       B. Additive is missing,
                       incorrect, or not following
                       policy.
                       C. Copy of annual
                       validation or supporting
                       documentation missing.
                       D. FMS “H” additive in
                       error. Backorders not
                       documented or attached.
                       E. No documentation
                       when RDE requirements
                       do not match RDE Gens
                       F. I&S Additive
                       requirement passed from
                       sub NSN
                          1) Computation not
                        provided for review.
                          2) Errors in the sub
                        computation result in
                        additive error.
                        G. DOTM in error
28.   Number of         A. Number of users do not
      Users/Time        match ISA screen.
      phased Users      B. There is no
                        documentation for any
                        variance.
                        C. Time-phased users are
                        missing or incorrect.
                        No Adjusted Level
                        Verification Worksheet for
                        users greater than ISA
                        screen.
                        ****N/A to INS/NSO****
29.   One-way           Item meets criteria in para
      Interchangeable   1.9.3. and additives,
                        special levels, minimum
                        depot stock level and/or B-
                        21 has not been zeroed.
30.   Lot Size          Lot size not 1. No
                        documentation for change.
31.   Computation       A. “What If”
      Other (applies    Recomputation required,
      after summary     but it is missing.
      comp is run)      B. All corrections not
                        made during file
                        maintenance.
                        C. Manual corrections
                        incomplete/incorrect.
                        D. Change to factors on
                        recomputation not made to
                        OWRM computation
32.   Signatures &      A. Signatures are not IAW
      Documentation     policy.
      (applies after    B. Previous signature is
      summary comp      not still valid. (Good one
      is run)           year if $ threshold is not
                        breached.)
                        C. For Terms – (1) Term
                        code and a narrative
                        explanation are not
                        annotated on the
                                                computation. (2) No Term
                                                Model.
                                                D For Unfunded
                                                PR/MIPRS - Justification
                                                for not reducing/canceling
                                                or note indicating date of
                                                amendment to
                                                reduce/cancel is not on the
                                                computation.
                                                E. For Excess Assets-
                                                Retention/Disposal
                                                quantity with appropriate
                                                coding is not annotated on
                                                the computation. Disposal
                                                document number is not on
                                                computation and Asset
                                                Reconciliation Report.
                                                Have not been coded in
                                                RDS.
                                                For Repair-AY and/or BY
                                                repair $ not annotated on
                                                computation.
33.           Standard Buy                      A. Is not filled out
              Format (applies                   completely.
              after summary                     B. Deferrals are not
              comp is run)                      scrubbed and /or not
                                                documented.
                                                C. With adequate F/M, not
                                                in buy
                                                D. Mathematical error in
                                                buy.
34.           ABCS (applies                     A. ABCS does not match
              after summary                     D200.A Summary or
              comp is run and                   “What If” Recomputation.
              ABCS worked)                      B. ABCS changed without
                                                documentation.
                                                C. ABCS FUP is in error.
Additional Comments




Reviewer                        Office Symbol                                 Date
*Table 7.2. IMS Quality Review Checklist – For Items with ERRC = N or P.

NSN          IMS              Comp           Impacting                      Non-Impacting
                              Cycle          Errors                         Errors
Reason for   ERRC             Item           $Value                         Recomputation
Review                        Category       Impact                         Required?
Buy
Repair
Term
Other
             Element          OK    Error    Nature of Error                Comments/
                                                                            Recommended
                                                                            Corrective
                                                                            Action
1.           Budget Code                     A. Budget Program (BP)
                                             does not reflect the item
                                             ERRC and applications.
                                             B. System Management
                                             Code (SMC) does not
                                             reflect applicable weapon
                                             system(s) shown as
                                             applications.
2.           Unit Price                      A. Latest price not used
                                             B. Price is not
                                             documented by AFMC
                                             Form 318 or 339.
                                             C. Estimated price is not
                                             documented.
3.           DOLP                            A. AFMC Form 318 or
                                             339 does not verify DOLP.
                                             B. DOLP does not match
                                             unit price contract award
                                             date.
                                             C. No documentation for
                                             not using latest AF
                                             contract award date.
4.           ALT                             A. ALT not from AFMC
                                             Form 318, 339 or PR
                                             &contract and equal time
                                             from initiation of latest PR
                                             to contract award plus
                                             seven days.
                                             B. No documentation for
                       using default or file
                       maintained data
                       C. Did not use actual or
                       estimated
                       D. Code 65 awaiting funds
                       delay not deducted.
                       E. In error
5.    PLT              A. Actual PLT did not
                       come from AFMC Form
                       318, 339 or contract and
                       equal time from contract
                       line item award to 10%
                       delivery. RIID adds 15
                       days for items that have
                       not obtained 10% delivery.
                       B. No documentation for
                       using default or file
                       maintained data
                       C. In error
6.    OWRM EXCL        No Documentation for use
                       of this code.
7.    SFTY LVL         No Documentation for use
      EXCL IND         of this code.
                       ***N/A to INS/NSO***
8.    Item Category    A. Item has too many
      Code             demands to remain NSO.
                       B. NSO code not correctly
                       used for low demand item.
                       C. Life of Type “L” code
                       incorrect
                       D. Demand pattern
                       indicates “I” incorrect.
                       Cataloging action not
                       initiated to change AAC.
9.    Activity Code    Not representative of
                       item’s demands
10.   ICS/RIW          A. Not coded/correct in
                       D200A
                       B. Not coded/correct in
                       ABCS
11.   Deferred         Documentation to support
      Disposal Code/   IMS-assigned deferred
      Level            disposal codes of F, G, M
                       or R inadequate or
                       missing.
12.   Order &          A. No explanation for file
      Shipping Time     maintained data.
      Days              ***N/A to INS/NSO***
13.   Overhaul Stock    A. Blank
      Level JR/NJR      B. No documentation for
                        using other than defaults.
                        ***N/A to INS/NSO***
14.   Base Repair       A. Only applicable to
      Cycle Days        ERRC P NSNs
                        B. Using other than actual
                        or default without
                        documentation. No
                        explanation for file
                        maintained data.
                        ***N/A to INS/NSO***
15.   On order Assets   A. On Order quantities do
                        not concur with AF Forms
                        339.
                        B. PR Funded not correct
                        C. PR Unfunded is not
                        correct.
                        D. Inadequate
                        documentation of on order
                        assets.
16.   Due-In Assets     A. In error IAW
                        supporting documentation
                        B. Not documented
                        properly
17.   On Hand           A. No documentation for
      Assets/ Asset     why reported assets were
      Reconciliation    adjusted.
                        B. Reps not sent to
                        disposal or no
                        documentation for
                        retaining unserviceable
                        assets.
18.   OIM/DLM           A. First digit of Program
      Program           Select code not zero, but
                        OIM program missing.
                        B. Digits 2, 3 or 4 of
                        Program Select code not
                        zero, but DLM program
                        missing.
19.   Special Levels    A. No documentation/
                        justification for IMS file
                        maintained information.
                        B. Adjusted Level
                      Verification Worksheet for
                      the special level is missing
                      and/or supporting
                      documents are missing.
                      (i.e. Adjusted Stock Level
                      Master Summary, AF
                      Form 1996, ISSL)
20.   Prepositioned   A. No documentation/
      Requirement     justification for IMS file
      (RSP            maintained information.
      Kits)           B. D087 Prime Item Print
                      to support WRSK-BLSS
                      (RSP) requirement is
                      missing.
21.   Additives       A. No documentation/
                      justification for IMS file
                      maintained information.
                      B. Additive is missing,
                      incorrect, or not following
                      policy.
                      C. Copy of annual
                      validation or supporting
                      documentation missing.
                      D. FMS “H” additive in
                      error. Backorders not
                      documented or attached.
                      E. W001 not provided for
                      backup
                      F. I&S Additive
                      requirement passed
                      from sub NSN
                         1) Computation not
                      provided for review.
                         2) Errors in the sub
                      computation result in
                      additive error.
                      G. Unauthorized
                      backorders used.
                      H. Backorders not
                      documented or attached.
22.   Number of       A. Number of users do not
      Users/Time      match ISA screen, or ISA
      phased Users    data not provided to verify.
                      B. There is no
                      documentation for any
                      variance.
                        C. Time-phased users are
                        missing or incorrect.
                        D. No Adjusted Level
                        Verification Worksheet for
                        users greater than ISA
                        screen.
                        ****N/A to INS/NSO****
23.   One-way           Item meets criteria in para
      Interchangeable   1.9.3. and additives,
                        special levels and/or
                        minimum depot stock level
                        not zeroed.
24.   Signatures &      A. Signatures are not IAW
      Documentation     policy.
      (applies after    B. Previous signature is
      summary comp      not still valid. (Good one
      is run)           year if $ threshold is not
                        breached.)
                        C. For Terms –
                          1) Term code and a
                        narrative explanation are
                        not annotated on the
                        computation.
                          2) No Term Model.
                        D. For Unfunded
                        PR/MIPRS - Justification
                        for not reducing/canceling
                        or note indicating date of
                        amendment to
                        reduce/cancel is not on the
                        computation.
                        E. For Excess Assets-
                        Retention/Disposal
                        quantity with appropriate
                        coding is not annotated on
                        the computation. Disposal
                        document number is not on
                        computation. Have not
                        been coded in RDS.
25.   Standard Buy      A. Is not filled out
      Format (applies   completely.
      after summary     B. Deferrals are not
      comp is run)      scrubbed and /or not
                        documented.
                        C. With adequate F/M, not
                        in buy
                                            D. Mathematical error in
                                            buy
26.          ABCS (applies                  A. ABCS does not match
             after summary                  D200.A Summary or
             comp is run and                “What If” Recomputation.
             ABCS worked)                   B. ABCS changed without
                                            documentation.
                                            C. ABCS FUP is in error.
27.          Other (applies                 A. Computes an erroneous
             after summary                  MISTR requirement for
             comp is run)                   consumable item.
                                            B. What If recomputation
                                            is required, but is missing.
                                            C. Manual corrections
                                            incomplete/incorrect.
Additional Comments




Reviewer                                    Office Symbol                  Date



*Table 7.3. AF SICA NIMSC 5 Checklist

NSN             IMS            Comp             Impacting                  Non-Impacting
                               Cycle            Errors                     Errors
Reason for      ERRC           Item             $Value                     Recomputation
Review                         Category         Impact                     Required?
Buy Repair
Term Other
                Element        OK       Error   Nature of Error            Comments/
                                                                           Recommended
                                                                           Corrective Action
1.              Budget Code                     A. Does not have
                                                budget code NIM5.
                                                B. AF SICA, but
                                                NIMSC is not 5. Item
                                                must not have NIM5
                                                in the budget code.
2.              Unit Price                      D043 price not used
                                                and backup
                      documentation
                      missing.
3.   DOLP             Julian date is not
                      00000.
4.   SFTY LVL         No documentation for
     EXCL IND         use of this code.
                      ***N/A to
                      INS/NSO***
5.   Number of        A. Number of users
     Users/ Time      does not match on
     Phased Users     ISA screen and there
                      is no documentation
                      for the variance.
                      B. Time-phased;
                      users are missing or
                      incorrect.
                      C. No Adjusted Level
                      Verification
                      Worksheet for users
                      greater than ISA
                      screen.
                      ****N/A to
                      INS/NSO****
6.   Activity Code    A. Code does not
                      meet usage/dollar
                      criteria.
                      B. Code does not
                      ensure that item will
                      be reviewed as a
                      minimum in the
                      September cycle.
7.   Deferred         Documentation to
     Disposal         support IMS assigned
     code/Level       deferred disposal
                      codes of F, G, M or R
                      inadequate or missing.
8.   Order &          A. Actual exceeds
     Shipping Time    default by more than
     Days             10 days without
                      documentation.
                      B. No explanation for
                      file maintained data.
9.   Overhaul Stock   JR values are not zero
     Level JR/NJR     or NJR missing. (AF
     Days             depot repair is NOT
                      authorized for AF
                       SICA NIMSC 5
                       items.)
10.   Base Repair      A. Actual exceeds
      Cycle Days       default by more than
                       10 days without
                       documentation.
                       B. Using other than
                       actual or default
                       without
                       documentation. No
                       explanation for file
                       maintained data.
                       C. Days are not zero
                       for 100% NRTS items
11.   Assets           A. Asset
                       Reconciliation NOT
                       required
                       B. Disposition
                       instructions needed
                       for assets in
                       computation.
12.   OIM/DLM          A. First digit of
      Program          Program Select code
                       not zero, but OIM
                       program missing.
                       B. Digits 2, 3 or 4 of
                       Program Select code
                       not zero, but DLM
                       program missing
13.   Special Levels   A. No
                       documentation/
                       justification for IMS
                       file maintained
                       information.
                       B. Adjusted Level
                       Verification
                       Worksheet for the
                       special levels is
                       missing and/or
                       supporting documents
                       are missing (i.e.
                       Special Level Master
                       Summary, AF Form
                       1996, ISSL).
14.   War Reserve      A. No
      Materiel         documentation/
                        justification for IMS
                        file maintained
                        information.
                        B. D087 product to
                        support computation
                        WRSK-BLSS (RSP)
                        requirement is
                        missing.
15.   Additive          A. No
      Requirements      documentation/
                        justification for IMS
                        file maintained
                        information.
                        A. Additive is
                        missing or incorrect.
                        B. Copy of annual
                        validation missing.
16.   One-way           Item meets criteria in
      interchangeable   para 1.9.3. and
                        additives, special
                        levels and/or
                        minimum depot stock
                        level not zeroed.
17.   Signatures &      A. Signatures are not
      Documentation     IAW policy.
      (applies after    B. Previous signature
      summary comp      is not still valid.
      is run)           (Good one year if $
                        threshold of next
                        signature level not
                        breached.)
                        C. For Terms –
                           1) Term code and a
                        narrative explanation
                        are not annotated on
                        the computation.
                           2) No Term Model
                        D. For Unfunded
                        PR/MIPRS -
                        Justification for not
                        reducing/canceling or
                        note indicating date of
                        amendment to
                        reduce/cancel is not
                        on computation.
                        E. For Excess -
                                 Retention/Disposal
                                 quantity with
                                 appropriate coding is
                                 not annotated on
                                 computation. (Has
                                 request for disposition
                                 instructions been sent
                                 to the PICA for the
                                 excess assets? Will
                                 NOT dispose of items
                                 on which AF is SICA
                                 without written
                                 direction or
                                 concurrence from the
                                 PICA. ) Disposal
                                 document number is
                                 not annotated on the
                                 computation.
18.            Standard Buy      A. Is not filled out
               Format (applies   completely.
               after summary     B. Deferrals are not
               comp is run)      scrubbed and/or
                                 documented.
19.            ABCS (applies     A. ABCS in error
               after summary     B. ABCS does not
               comp is run and   match computation.
               ABCS is
               worked)
20.            Computation       A. A re-computation
               (applies after    is needed, but there is
               summary comp      not one.
               is run)           B. A “What If” re-
                                 computation was used
                                 on Sep cycle after the
                                 summary
                                 computation, but no
                                 documentation that
                                 PICA notified to
                                 amend Requirements
                                 Data Exchange List
Additional Comments
Reviewer                        Office Symbol                               Date



*Table 7.4. Factors & Usage Quality Review Checklist- For Items with ERRC = C or T.

NSN        ES              Comp        Non-Impacting Errors           Impacting Errors
                           Cycle
Factor    ERRC             RTS         ECS/RIW                        Item Category
Indicator                  Exclusion
Code
          Element          O Error     Nature of Error                Comments/
                           K                                          Recommended
                                                                      Corrective Action
1.         Item Program                Not compatible with
           Select Code                 usage

2.         Application                 1) Application is missing
           Data                        2) Erroneous
            A.                         applications present
           Application

            B. PGM SEL                 1) Active program
                                       missing from PSC.
                                       2) Erroneous PSC used
                                       3) No OIM program
                                       when OIM usage reported
                                       4) No DLM program
                                       requested, yet DLM usage
                                       reported

           C. PGM DEV                  Field is other than blank
                                       not documented.

           D. Program                  1) Application is time-
           Begin Date                  phased and skips quarters
                                       where application data is
                                       changing.
                                       2) Program begin date is
                                       too old; NSN or subs not
                                       cataloged at that time.
                                       3) Is less than two years
                                       back and usage has
                                       reported in quarter prior to
                      the begin date.
     E. QPA           QPA records not
                      compatible with rest of
                      application data
     F. Application   1) Application % is
     %                incorrect.
                      2) Application % is not
                      zero and item meets
                      criteria in para 1.9.3.
      G.              Inadequate
     Documentation    documentation/
                      justification.
3.   Usage            1) File maintained usage
      A. Base RTS     is inaccurate or not
                      adequately documented.
                      2) File maintenance
                      actions inconsistent from
                      quarter to quarter
                      3) Other
     B. Base NRTS     1) File maintained usage
                      inaccurate or not
                      adequately documented.
                      2) File maintenance
                      actions inconsistent from
                      quarter to quarter
                      3) Other
      C. Base         1) Condemnations(s) are
     Condemnations    sporadic and have not
                      been moved to Base
                      NRTS, MISTR
                      Condemnations & Total
                      Depot Condemnations.
                      2) Condemnation(s) are
                      of non-recurring nature
                      and have not been
                      removed.
                      3) File maintenance
                      changes not adequately
                      documented.
                      4) Other
     D. Depot         1) No DLM program
     Reparable        identified in PSC
     Generations      2) PDM replacements for
                      cause have not been
                      moved to Base NRTS.
                      3) File maintained usage
                     inaccurate or not
                     adequately documented.
                     4) File maintenance
                     actions inconsistent from
                     quarter to quarter
                     5) Other
     E. MISTR        1) File maintained usage
     Repair          inaccurate or not
                     adequately documented at
                     production number or
                     Contract Line Item Level
                     (CLIN) on Report.
                     2) File maintenance
                     actions inconsistent from
                     quarter to quarter
                     3) Other
     F. MISTR        1) File maintained usage
     Condemnations   inaccurate or not
                     adequately documented.
                     2) File maintenance
                     actions inconsistent from
                     quarter to quarter
                     3) Other
     G. Depot        1) Less than MISTR
     Condemnation    Condemnations
     Total           2) Item is NJR DLM only
                     and Total CNDM not
                     equal to MISTR CNDM.
                     3) File maintained usage
                     inaccurate or not
                     adequately documented.
                     4) File maintenance
                     actions inconsistent from
                     quarter to quarter
                     5) Other
4.   OIM Factors     1) Trend in demand rate
      A. Total OIM   is more than normal, but
     Demand Rate     was considered/used.
                     2) Current rate not
                     reflective of current usage
                     3) Estimated rates are
                     considerably higher or
                     lower than computed
                     rates, are not based on any
                     segment of recent past
                     history, and are straight-
                    lined rather than time
                    phased.
                    4) File maintained usage
                    was not considered in
                    estimated rates.
                    5) Estimates not
                    adequately
                    Documented.
                    6) Other
     B. NRTS%       1) Does not match time
                    frame used for Total OIM
                    Demand Rate.
                    2) Equal to zero, change
                    of ERRC not considered/
                    documented
                    3) File maintained usage
                    was not considered in
                    estimated rates.
                    4) Estimates not
                    adequately documented.
     C. Base        1) Not reflective of actual
     Condemnation   usage; not file maintained
     %              IAW para 17.26. and
                    Table 17.4.
                    2) File maintained usage
                    was not considered in
                    estimated rates.
                    3) Estimates not
                    adequately documented.
     D. Base RTS    1) Used but not
     Exclusion      documented
                    2) Used erroneously in
                    lieu of research into
                    erroneous reporting
5.   MISTR          A. 100% condemnation
     Condemnation   with no forecasted lower
     %              rate on recoverable item
                    without change of ERRC
                    documentation provided
                    B. Estimates not
                    adequately documented.
                    C. Estimate considerably
                    higher than past history,
                    indicating possible item
                    replacement without
                    approved IIRP, DRI or
                     modification
                     D. Other
6.   DLM Factors     a) Invalid split of JR and
     A. PDM          NJR for a single source of
      1) JR          repair
     Condemnation    b) Trend in depot usage is
     %               more than nominal, but
      2) NJR         was not considered/used.
     Replacement %   c) Estimated rates are
      3) NJR         considerably higher or
     Program %       lower than computed
                     rates, are not based on any
                     segment of recent past
                     history, and are straight-
                     lined rather than time
                     phased.
                     d) File maintained usage
                     was not considered in
                     estimated rates.
                     e) Estimated rates are not
                     adequately documented.
                     f) Rate over 100% not
                     documented
     B. EOH          a) Invalid split of JR and
      1) JR          NJR
     Condemnation    b) Trend in depot usage is
     %               more than nominal, but
      2) NJR         was not considered/used.
     Replacement %   c) Estimated rates are
      3) NJR         considerably higher or
     Program %       lower than computed
                     rates, are not based on any
                     segment of recent past
                     history, and are straight-
                     lined rather than time
                     phased.
                     d) File maintained usage
                     was not considered in
                     estimated rates.
                     e) Estimated rates are not
                     adequately documented.
                     f) Rate over 100% not
                     documented
     C. NHA          a) Invalid split of JR and
     MISTR           NJR for single source of
      1) JR          repair
       Condemnation        b) Trend in depot usage
       %                   was not considered.
       2) NJR              c) Estimated rates are
       Replacement         considerably higher or
       %                   lower than computed
       3) NJR              rates, are not based on any
       Program %           segment of recent past
                           history, and are straight-
                           lined rather than time
                           phased.
                           d) File maintained usage
                           was not considered in
                           estimated rates.
                           e) Estimated rates are not
                           adequately documented.
                           f) Rate over 100% not
                           documented.
7.     Factor Indicator    A. Does the FIC indicate
       Code                the consideration of usage
                           trends, e.g. 4 qtr vs. 8 qtr?
                           (N)
                           B. Documentation is
                           incorrect/incomplete.
8.     Signature           A. Printout has not been
                           signed/dated by the ES.
                           B. ES has not
                           signed/dated the comp,
                           recomp, INS/NSO Item
                           Status Listing for an item
                           computing buy or repair in
                           CY, AY, BY or EY or
                           term or excess.
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS




REVIEWER                  DATE
*Table 7.5. Factors & Usage Quality Review Checklist- For Items with ERRC = N or P.

NSN        ES               Comp        Non-Impacting Errors           Impacting Errors
                            Cycle
Factor    ERRC              RTS         ECS/RIW                        Item Category
Indicator                   Exclusion
Code
          Element           O Error     Nature of Error                Comments/
                            K                                          Recommended
                                                                       Corrective Action
1.         Item Program                 Not compatible with
           Select Code                  usage
2.         Application                  1) Application is missing
           Data                         2) Erroneous
             A.                         applications present
           Application
             B. PGM SEL                 1) Active program
                                        missing from PSC.
                                        2) Erroneous PSC used
                                        3) No OIM program
                                        when OIM usage reported
                                        4) No DLM program
                                        requested, yet DLM usage
                                        reported.
            C. PGM DEV                  Field is other than blank
                                        not documented.
            D. Program                  1) Application is time
           Begin Date                   phased and skips quarters
                                        where application data is
                                        changing.
                                        2) Program begin date is
                                        too old, NSN or subs not
                                        cataloged at that time
                                        3) Is less than two years
                                        back and usage has
                                        reported in quarter prior to
                                        the begin date
           E. QPA                       QPA records not
                                        compatible with rest of
                                        application data
           F. Application               1) Application % is
           %                            incorrect.
                                        2) Application % is not
                                        zero and item meets
                                        criteria in para 1.9.3.
      G.              Inadequate
     Documentation    documentation/
                      justification
3.   Usage            1) RTS on ERRC “N”
      A. Base RTS     not removed
                      2) File maintenance
                      actions inconsistent from
                      quarter to quarter.
     B. Base NRTS     NRTS left in consumable
                      item usage history. No
                      NRTS for authorized for
                      ERRC “N” or “P.”
     C. Base          File maintenance changes
     Condemnations    not adequately
                      documented
     D. Depot         1) Do not match JR
     Reparable        Condemnations
     Generations      2) Erroneous NJR
                      Replacements not
                      removed
     E. Depot         1) Not Equal to Dep Rep
     Condemnation     Gens
     (Note: by        2) File maintained usage
     NSN)             inaccurate or not
                      adequately documented.
                      3) File maintenance
                      actions inconsistent from
                      quarter to quarter.
     F. MISTR         Erroneous reporting not
     Repair           researched or corrected.
                      No MISTR repairs
                      allowed for ERRC “N” or
                      “P.”
     G. MISTR         Erroneous reporting not
     Condemnations    researched or corrected.
     H. Depot         Not equal to Dep Rep
     Condemnation     Gens.
     Total
      I. Factor       1) Does the Factor
     Indicator Code   Indicator Code show the
                      consideration of usage
                      data trends (e.g., 4 qtr vs.
                      8 qtr)?
                      2) Documentation is
                      incorrect/incomplete.
4.   OIM Factors      1) Trend in demand rate
      A. Total OIM   is more than normal, but
     Demand Rate     was considered/
                     used/documented.
                     2) Current rate not
                     reflective current usage.
                     3) Estimated rates are
                     considerably higher or
                     lower than computed
                     rates, are not based on any
                     segment of recent past
                     history, and are straight-
                     lined rather than time
                     phased.
                     4) File maintained usage
                     was not considered in
                     estimated rates.
                     5) Estimates not
                     adequately documented .
     B. NRTS%        Other than 0, not
                     corrected by ES (correct
                     usage or change ERRC)
     C. Base         1) Not reflective of actual
     Condemnation    2) File maintained usage
     %               was not considered in
                     estimated rates.
                     3) Estimates not
                     adequately documented.
                     4) Other than 100%
                     condemnations for ERRC
                     “N”
                     5) Higher than 100%
                     without justification
                     6) File maintenance
                     actions inconsistent from
                     quarter to quarter
     D. Base RTS     Used for ERRCS ‘N’ &
     Exclusion       “P”
5.   MISTR           1) “Other than 100%
     Condemnation    (ERRC “N”
     %               2) Other than 100%
                     without justification
                     (ERRC “P”)
6.   DLM Factors     (a) NJR Program or
     A. PDM          replacement % other than
      1) JR          0
     Condemnation    b) Trend in depot usage is
%               more than nominal, but
 2) NJR         was not considered/used.
Replacement %   c) Estimated rates are
 3) NJR         considerably higher or
Program %       lower than computed
                rates, are not based on any
                segment of recent past
                history, and are straight-
                lined rather than time
                phased.
                d) File maintained usage
                was not considered in
                estimated rates.
                e) Estimated rates are not
                adequately documented.
                f) Rate over 100% not
                documented
                g) Inadequate
                documentation (N)
                h) Other
B. EOH          a) NJR Program or
 1) JR          replacement % other than
Condemnation    0.
%               b) Trend in depot usage is
 2) NJR         more than nominal, but
Replacement %   was not considered/used.
 3) NJR         c) Estimated rates are
Program %       considerably higher or
                lower than computed
                rates, are not based on any
                segment of recent past
                history, and are straight-
                lined rather than time-
                phased.
                d) File maintained usage
                was not considered in
                estimated rates.
                e) Estimated rates are not
                adequately documented.
                f) Rate over 100% not
                documented without
                justification
                g) Inadequate
                documentation (N)
                h) Other
C. NHA          a) NJR Program or
       MISTR JR           Replacement % other than
                          0.
                          b) Trend in depot usage is
                          more than nominal, but
                          was not considered/used.
                          c) Estimated rates are
                          considerably higher or
                          lower than computed
                          rates, are not based on any
                          segment of recent past
                          history, and are straight-
                          lined rather than time
                          phased.
                          d) File maintained usage
                          was not considered in
                          estimated rates.
                          e) Estimated rates are not
                          adequately documented.
                          f) Rate over 100% not
                          documented
                          g) Inadequate
                          documentation (N)
                          h) Other
7.     Factor Indicator   A. Does the FIC indicate
       Code               the consideration of usage
                          trends, e.g,. 4 qtr vs. 8 qtr?
                          (N)
                          B. Documentation is
                          incorrect/incomplete.
8.     Signature          A. Printout has not been
                          signed/dated by the ES.
                          B. ES has not
                          signed/dated the comp,
                          recomp, INS/NSO Item
                          Status Listing for an item
                          computing buy in CY,
                          AY, BY or EY or term or
                          excess.
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS
REVIEWER                                    DATE


*9.2.1. The paper copy of the SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (Figs 9.22. and 9.23.) must
be used by the IMS as the signature, review, and approval document for computing items (see
para 1.4.1.). The hard copy product is automatically generated after each SIRS computation for
items computing a buy, term, repair, excess, or based on the item activity code. For items
computing excess, this product is produced only if this is the first time the item is in excess, or if
the current computed excess quantity is larger than last cycle’s excess quantity.

*14.2.1. Budget Program (BP). The two-position BP identifies the specific funds group within
the budget.

*14.2.1.1. The BPs for stock funded recoverable items are:

*14.2.1.1.1. 15 = aircraft replenishment spares

*14.2.1.1.2. 25 = missile replenishment spares

*14.2.1.1.3. 82 = vehicle replenishment spares

*14.2.1.1.4. 84 = other base maintenance and support equipment replenishment spares

*14.2.1.1.5. 8M = electronic and telecommunication equipment

*14.2.1.1.6. P1 = aircraft replenishment spares under Performance Based Logistics (PBL)
contract*

*14.2.1.1.7. P2 = missile replenishment spares under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.1.8. P3 = vehicle replenishment spares under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.1.9. P4 = other base maintenance and support equipment replenishment spares under
PBL contract*

*14.2.1.1.10. P5 = electronic and telecommunication equipment under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.2. The BPs for stock funded consumable items are:

*14.2.1.2.1. AS = aircraft spares

*14.2.1.2.2. AM = missile spares
*14.2.1.2.3. AO (alpha O) = other base maintenance and support equipment spares

*14.2.1.2.4. P7 = aircraft spares under Performance Based Logistics (PBL) contract*

*14.2.1.2.5. P8 = missile spares under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.2.6. P9 = other base maintenance and support equipment spares under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.3. The BPs for non-stock funded recoverable items are:

*14.2.1.3.1. 16 = aircraft spares managed under Contractor Supported Weapon System (CSWS),
formerly Reformed Supply Support Program (RSSP), by contractor Inventory Control Point
(ICP)

*14.2.1.3.2. 17 = aircraft war consumables

*14.2.1.3.3. 26 = missile spares managed under CSWS by contractor ICP

*14.2.1.3.4. 35 = munitions

*14.2.1.3.5. 66 = nuclear ordnance

*14.2.1.3.6. 81 = munitions

*14.2.1.3.7. 83 = communications security spares (use instead of budget program 86)

*14.2.1.3.8. 86 = non-aircraft, non-missile spares managed under SCWS by contractor ICP

*14.2.1.3.9. 89 = D023 munitions items

*14.2.1.3.10. 1E = aircraft spares

*14.2.1.3.11. 2E = missile spares

*14.2.1.3.12. 8E= electronic and telecommunication equipment

*14.2.1.3.13. FY = SIGNIT (AFIC uses their own funds)

*14.2.1.3.14. PQ = aircraft war consumables under Performance Based Logistics (PBL)
contract*

*14.2.1.3.15. PR = munitions under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.3.16. PS = nuclear ordnance under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.3.17. PT = communications security spares under PBL contract*
*14.2.1.3.18. PU = D023 munitions items under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.3.19. PV = aircraft spares under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.3.20. PW = missile spares under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.3.21. PX = electronic and telecommunication equipment under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.3.22. PY = SIGNIT (AFIC uses their own funds) under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.4. The BPs for non-stock funded consumable items are:

*14.2.1.4.1. A6 = aircraft spares managed under CSWS by contractor ICP

*14.2.1.4.2. M6 = missile spares managed under CSWS by contractor ICP

*14.2.1.4.3. NA = aircraft spares

*14.2.1.4.4. NM = missile spares

*14.2.1.4.5. NO (alpha O) = other spares

*14.2.1.4.6. O6 (alpha O) = non-aircraft, non-missile managed under CSWS by contractor ICP

*14.2.1.4.7. PF = aircraft spares under Performance Based Logistics (PBL) contract*

*14.2.1.4.8. PG = missile spares under PBL contract*

*14.2.1.4.9. PH = other spares under PBL contract*

*14.2.6. Assignment of new BP-SMC combinations. A request for the establishment or deletion
of any BP-SMC combination is sent to the site level D200A budget and requirements analysts.
Approved requests are sent to the AFMC SIRS and API OPR at Wright-Patterson AFB
(currently 401 SCMS/GUMD). A request for a new SMC must include the consumable and
recoverable BP codes to be used with the new SMC. The budget program code establishes
whether the items used within the system are MSD or non-MSD. The request must also list the
name of the system for which the SMC is being established and the reason for needing a new
SMC. The request may include a recommendation for the SMC, but the actual SMC is assigned
by the AFMC API OPR. A request to delete an SMC must contain the reason for deleting the
SMC. The AFMC SIRS OPR must coordinate the request to delete an SMC with other offices.
The 401 SCMS/GUMD must file maintain the SMCs in API, publish a list of SMCs by budget
program on the D200A web page, and inform the 401 SCMS/GUMD budget OPRs of additions
and deletions.
*14.3.1.2. Application Level Deferred Disposal Codes (DDC). Requests for a system wide
retention (deferred disposal code) must be initiated/submitted by the system program manager or
program group manager after coordination with AFGLSC and DLA personnel and signed by the
591 SCMG commander or equivalent. Approval memos from AF/A4L are valid for one year
from the date on the memo. The group commander signed request must be forwarded to 401
SCMS/GUMD, and 401 SCMS/GUMD must submit the request through HQ AFMC/A4R to
AF/A4LM for approval/disapproval by AF/A4L. Sometimes requests are generated at AF level.
When AF/A4LM notifies 401 SCMS/GUMD of approval, a DDC of “C” or “P” must be input
into D200F Applications, Program and Indentures (API), to retain the assets (this code is
displayed on the BMD screen). It is file maintained in D200F API, and cannot be file
maintained in SIRS. For AF policy on retention of assets and assigning an application level
DDC, see AFMAN 23-110, Volume 3, Part 1, Chapter 9, Air Force Materiel Utilization and
Disposition Program, Sections 9C and 9D (at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/PUBS/AF/23/23011003/030109/030109.pdf). A system
level DDC is either a "C" or "P." A DDC "C" on an application indicates that the deferred
disposal applies to depot level assets of all items (common or peculiar) that are used on that
application, even if the item is also used on other applications. DDC "P" on an application
indicates that the deferred disposal applies only to depot level assets of "peculiar" items or items
that have that application as the only application. When a “C” or “P” DDC is input into D200F
API on the Standard Program Designator screen, API will assign this code on all components in
the indenture structure within API. RIID D200E passes the data to SIRS on the RIID snapshot
that occurs prior to the initial computation cycle. If any application has a DDC of “C,” a DDC of
“C” will be assigned to the component. If any application has a DDC of “P” and other
applications have blank codes, no code will be assigned to the component. If all of a
component’s applications have the same DDC, that DDC will be assigned to the component.
The assignment of a "C" or "P" DDC does not affect the computation of the items requirements
in SIRS, but any excess assets are not passed to D035G. Assets exceeding the Approved
Acquisition Objective and Economic Retention lines in the CSIS fall into Contingency
Retention.

*14.3.1.3.1. Deferred Disposal Code “M.” Use of DDC “M” requires an approval letter signed
by the 591 SCMG commander or equivalent, unless HQ AFMC, HQ Air Force (HAF), DOD,
Congress or the President has downward directed the retention in written correspondence. Use
of this code requires the same procedure/documentation as a DDC of “R” requires, if retention
was not downward directed by HQ AFMC, HAF, DOD, Congress or the President. A new letter
must be obtained annually from the group commander to continue use of the code if the retention
was not downward directed.

*14.3.1.3.2. “R” - IMS Decision. This code permits all or part of the total assets to fall into the
contingency retention segment of the CSIS. If there are exceptional situations such as the need
to retain parts on an older weapon system, an “R” code may be used. (If there is no known
procurement source, use deferred disposal code “G.”). Requests for use of the “R” retention
(DDC) must be submitted by the system program manager or program group manager and signed
by the 591 SCMG commander or equivalent. The required written justification to “R” code an
item or a block of items must be filed and readily available. This justification must specify: the
individual NSN(s) to be kept; why the items need to be retained; how many assets for each NSN
need to be retained and methodology and calculation used to determine that; unit price of the
item; extended value of the items; how many cubic feet an item occupies; extended cubic footage
for retained assets of a NSN; projected yearly cost for storage of the items in the warehouses;
how many items are condemned or are projected to be condemned per year; years of supply
(requested deferred disposal level divided by condemnations per year); and for how long the
items need to be retained. If the retention of more than 30 years of supply on a NSN is being
requested, the request must be submitted to the center commander for approval. The list sent
forward for approval must be sorted so that those items having the most years of supply must
appear at the top of the list. Signed commander approval must be retained for historical and
audit purposes. After the letter has been signed by the group commander, the IMS must file
maintain the “R” code and the deferred level that is on the letter into D200A. The code and
deferred level on the letter must remain in D200A for that cycle and the next three consecutive
cycles or until the letter signed by the group commander expires, the letter is superseded by
another letter signed by the group commander or until the justification for “R” code is no longer
valid whichever is sooner (see para 14.3.2.1. for exceptions). A new letter must be obtained
annually from the group commander to continue use of the code. Use of this code requires input
of a DDC level (see below). Because AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, Part 1, Chapter 10, Supply
Management Procedures/Special Equipment and Supplies, para 10.303.6.6, requires containers
in stock classes 8140 and 8145 to have a DDC, group commander signature is not required for
them, but an annual review of containers by the item management team must be required to
ensure the AF is only keeping enough containers to cover the spares and installs of the items
shipped in the containers.

*14.3.1.3.3. “F” - Weapon system being phased out of AF inventory and being offered to FMS.
This code can be used if the IMS has written documentation from a higher headquarters
organization. Use of the “F” requires a letter signed by the 591 SCMG commander or equivalent
unless HQ AFMC, HAF, DOD, Congress or the President has downward directed the retention
in written correspondence. A new letter must be obtained annually from the group commander
to continue use of the code if the retention was not downward directed. Use of this code requires
the same documentation as a DDC “R” requires, if retention was not downward directed by HQ
AFMC, HAF, DOD, Congress or the President. Use of this code requires input of a DDC level
(see below). Base the DDC level on the document from the higher headquarters organization.
Do not file maintain the “F” DDC or deferred level based on the FMS Retention Level on the
W001 product as the W001 FMS Retention Level automatically overlays in D200A to the
retention segment of the FMS additive.

*14.3.1.3.4. “G” - General contingency requirement. Use of DDC “G” requires a letter signed
by the 591 SCMG commander or equivalent. A new letter must be obtained annually from the
591 SCMG commander or equivalent to continue use of the code. This code can be used when a
one-time buy has been made for an explicit reason. This code must also be used to designate
items for which no known procurement source exists. This justification must specify: the
individual NSN(s) to be kept; why the items need to be retained; how many assets for each NSN
need to be retained and methodology and calculation used to determine that; unit price of the
item; extended value of the items; how many cubic feet an item occupies; extended cubic footage
for retained assets of a NSN; projected yearly cost for storage of the items in the warehouses;
how many items are condemned or are projected to be condemned per year; years of supply
(requested DDC level divided by condemnations per year); and for how long the items need to be
retained. If the retention of more than 30 years of supply on a NSN is being requested, the
request must be submitted to the center commander for approval. The list sent forward for
approval must be sorted so that those items having the most years of supply must appear at the
top of the list. Use of this code requires input of a DDC Level (see para 14.3.2). This code must
also be applied to all items under Performance Based Logistic (PBL) contracts on which the
contractor is doing all the demand and supply planning including calculation of requirements for
the items. Under these contracts, the PBL contractor will determine and recommend to the site
assigned cataloging management of the items which items are excess and the site must manually
initiate the disposal action in D035G Reutilization and Disposition System if the site agrees with
the contractor recommendation. Group commander signature is not required for PBL items.

*14.3.2.1. On initial establishment of an item, SIRS inputs zeroes to this field. The IMS file
maintains the required level for “M,” “F,” “G,” or “R” coded items. Base the deferred level for
“G” and “R” coded items on the expected condemnation of the items over the expected life of
the system(s) on which they are used plus a safety factor. If the condemnation rate of the items
is not expected to change over the life of the system(s), running a what-if recomputation using
the weapon system life code provides an easy method for determining a deferred level. If using
this method, use the select retention quantity on the recomputation with the weapon system life
code and subtract the select retention quantity from the computation without the weapon system
life code to determine the deferred level. If the condemnation rate is not expected to remain the
same, documentation must be obtained from the engineer with the projection of condemnations.
The deferred level from the signed approval letter must be input into SIRS and remain in SIRS
for that cycle and the next three consecutive cycles until the letter signed by the 591 SCMG
commander or equivalent expires, the letter is superseded by another letter signed by the SCMG
commander or equivalent in organizations outside the AFGLSC or until the justification for the
code is no longer valid whichever is sooner. The deferred level may be reduced prior to
expiration of the signed approval letter if the year the life of the weapon system expires has
decreased, the item is being replaced or if the reliability of the item is dramatically increased
creating a drastic decrease in condemnations or replacement percents. Changes must be
thoroughly documented and justified. The deferred level will not be increased without a new
signed approval letter. An entry must be numeric or ZZZZZ. A value of ZZZZZ is used to delete
a previously established level. The deletion of a deferred level result in SIRS input of zeroes and
a blank source reference code. When the IMS wants to remove the deferred disposal code, the
IMS must first remove the deferred level by file maintaining Zs in the deferred level, and then
file maintain a “B” in the deferred disposal code. A value cannot be entered when the item DDC
is "C" or "P."

*14.12. Date of Last Procurement (DOLP). The DOLP is passed from RIID to SIRS each
initial cycle for all stock fund items except AF SICA NIMSC 5 items. There is no mechanized
posting of DOLP for non-stock fund items, so it must be file maintained by the IMS. DOLP is
not required on obsolete or AF SICA NIMSC 5 items. The DOLP will NOT be file maintained
for any AF SICA NIMSC 5 item. Except as mentioned previously, the DOLP will normally be
the Julian date of the contract award (date the contract was signed) that corresponds to the unit
price (this can be found on the contract or amendment to the contract or on the AFMC Form 339
card). The contract award (award signature date) is normally the date the contract is signed;
however, if the effective date on the contract and signature differ, the effective date on the
contract will take precedence (e.g., Block 13 on the SF 30, Block 3 on the SF 1449 and SF
1447). The date the contract or amendment to the contract was signed takes precedence if there
is a discrepancy between the dates on the contractual document and the AFMC Form 339. For
Provisioned Item Orders (PIOs), the date of the contract award of the Delivery Order (the date
the delivery order was signed) or the Julian date established on the AFMC Form 339 card must
be input for the DOLP as that is the date the NSN was added as a line item to the contract. The
date the Delivery Order was signed takes precedence if there is a difference between it and the
date established on the AFMC Form 339. The DOLP is input as a five position Julian date
(YYDDD) and must not be greater than the asset cutoff date plus 90 days. SIRS will not accept
ZZZZZs or spaces, but it will accept all zeroes. To revert to the actual DOLP from RIID for
stock fund items, enter “Y”s. A Source Reference Code of "A" for items received from RIID or
"E" for file maintained is displayed. All adjustments to DOLP must be properly documented on
the D200A notepad and AFMC Form 318, Item Contracting History Record, or another paper (or
a compact disc) and maintained in a location readily available for audits/inspections. If the IMS
chooses not to record the DOLP on an AFMC Form 318, the IMS must retain the AFMC Forms
339 showing the award of the contract as a permanent record for the life of the item.

*14.13. Weapon System Life Code. A 3-position numeric field is used for life of type buys.
The IMS must submit the request for a life of type buy item according to para 1.11. After the
448 SCMW commander approves the request (see para 1.11.3.3.), the IMS can file maintain this
field in D200A. Calculate the value to file maintain by multiplying the expected remaining years
the weapon system will remain in the AF inventory by four and then subtract 38 in the Mar
cycle, 37 in the Jun cycle, 36 in the Sep cycle or 35 in the Dec cycle. The result is the expected
number of quarters beyond the requirement computation time span the weapon system is
expected to remain in operation. The IMS/MM must file maintain this value on the BMD screen
in the Weapon system Life field. Once the field is file maintained SIRS will automatically
decrement the value in the field by one in each subsequent quarterly computation cycle. When
the weapon system life code is not equal to the default value of zero, SIRS changes the item
category code to "L" for computing items, "Y" for insurance items and "Z" for NSO items.
Based on the average quarterly condemnations within the normal span of the requirements
computation, SIRS will compute the additional amount of spares necessary to replace
condemnations projected through the weapon system life and adjust the computed buy
requirement accordingly.

*15.2.5. The IMS and ES or PMS will consider contract repair when no organic repair is
available.

*15.2.7. Insufficient Repair Requirements. SIRS permits input of all requirements that must be
replaced, plus additives for those requirements that cannot be computed based on the application
of factors to programs. Additives to cover normal backorders are not authorized. When normal
backorders exist on items with unserviceable assets which are not being driven to repair, this is
an indication of data/usage problems within SIRS. The ES must check if usage data is being
correctly reported or if demands are increasing and/or demand rates are too low. The ES must
also check that the item has all the correct applications and that all these applications have
programs. The PMS/ES must ensure the number of repairs and condemnations are correctly
recorded. The IMS and PMS must check all repair pipeline times and repair prices. There may
be occasions when SIRS is forecasting repair too late, such as future quarters in the same fiscal
year. This situation may also be indicative of seasonal requirements or requirements trends.
These situations can be corrected as required through negotiation/ re-negotiation action or by
moving the repair to the current quarter if reparable assets are available. When the IMS/MM is
moving repair to the current quarter, the IMS/MM must ensure that an equal decrease is taken
and that the decrease is in the same fiscal year as the current quarter. Moving repair
requirements between fiscal years causes budgetary inconsistencies.

*15.5.4. The MRPR screen (Fig 15.1.) is used to change the SOR percent, so that the pipeline
times and prices can be adjusted correctly when the past data is not indicative of the future. The
SOR percents are used to weight the repair costs and three of the pipeline days (see para 15.9.).
The PMS must inform the IMS of the changes. The IMS/ES/PMS (responsibility assigned by
site policy) does the file maintenance of the future SOR percents. To change the SOR percent:
type "C" in the left most field by the first current SN and associated production/contractor
number to be changed; tab to the SOR PCT and change the value; tab to the next the current SN
and associated production/contractor number to be changed; and last tab to the SOR PCT and
change the value. ALL SOR PCT fields must be changed and must add up to 100 before the user
presses ENTER. If the changed SOR PCT fields do not add up to 100, SIRS will display the
error message "SOR percent total is not 100," and will not accept the file maintenance.

*15.7.1. This report (Fig 15.5.) is "pushed" to the IMSs and the ES/PMS after each SIRS
computation (initial, final and summary) for SNs that require action or review. The report is not
generated for items that have a deferred disposal code of “M” (military contingency retention
items). The PMS must sign (literally or with signature stamp) and date these documents. If the
signature cannot be easily read, the PMS’s printed name must be included on the documents. The
PMS must also sign (literally or with signature stamp) and date all computations, recomputations
and INS/NSO Item Status Listings with a repair requirement.

*15.7.13. WEIGHTED REPAIR COST. This is the cost that is displayed on the Factor/Usage
Printout, on the first page of the SGM Computation Worksheet and on the Basic Management
Data (BMD) screen (sees Fig 14.1.). The source reference code for this data element will always
be “C” on this product. SIRS calculates the weighted repair cost as explained in para 15.9. The
weighted repair cost is based on the historical repair (data received from G019C, G004L, CAV
AF, G072D or by IMS file maintenance) or the default value, if historical data is not available.
SIRS does not use the data from "T-jobs" in the development of weighted pipeline days, but does
use the repair costs from T-jobs in the development of the weighted repair cost. When there are
no production records for the SN, SIRS will assign a "dummy" production record of 999999 and
an SOR of “UN.” If no production records are received from interfacing systems, SIRS
computes a default repair cost using the applicable factor on the Repair Cost Factors screen in
D200A multiplied by the item’s Forecasted Unit Price (FUP).

*15.7.21.2. On the lines where the production number or contract number appear, the Shop Flow
Days are as received for a current SN, and production number from G019C and Q302 (for
MISTR repair), contract number and CLIN from CAV AF or G072D/I (for contract repair),
Interservice Material Control and Accounting System (IMACS) (for DMISA) and/or as file
maintained by the IMS/ES/PMS. G072D/I passes the contractual shop flow time as those
systems do not have the capability of passing actual shop flow times. When there have been
more than 10 transactions on a NIIN production number combination from Q302, D200A will
drop outliers exceeding three standard deviations. (No outliers will be dropped when there have
been ten or less transactions). The shop flow figures for the remaining Q302 NIIN production
number combination will then be averaged. Where there is a match of the Q302 and G019C
production number, source of repair and actual NIIN, the averaged Q302 shop flow figures
calculated in D200A will be used by D200A unless no data has been received from Q302 in the
last two years in which case the G019C shop flow days will be used. Where this occurs there
will be a difference between the G019C printed product and what appears in D200A. The
averaged shop flow days at NIIN production number in D200A will not be changed by the
IMS/MM or PMS unless the reason for the change is thoroughly documented. Any changes to
organic shop flow days in D200A must be based on actual shop flow data not projected changes
to shop flow days and must be approved by the squadron commander of the IMS/MM or PMS. If
the IMS/MM or PMS is aware of a successful lean event that has successfully reduced the shop
flow days, they may file maintain the new value after obtaining the signature of the squadron
commander. If no shop flow days are received from interfacing systems and actual shop flow
time is not available, the default value will be assigned. The source reference code for the shop
flow days may be “A” for actual, “E” for file maintained, or “S” for the default value (see para
23.12.).

*17.2.3. File maintained factors are called estimated factors. Prior to file maintaining any
estimated factors, the methodology used in calculating them and the reasons for using them must
be thoroughly documented and retained as a permanent record. The ES must obtain adequate
support and documentation from contractors, engineering, program managers and/or
management for estimated factors, rates, and percent being used and ensure they are based on
verifiable and current data. The ES must review at least annually the estimated factors, rates and
percents file maintained to ensure actual usage is indicative of what had been projected. The ES
must make necessary adjustment based on this periodic review. For forced attrition or forced
generation and replacement of items, the ES and the system/subsystem program manager must
follow procedures in AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, when they would result
in a change in the form, fit, function or interface of the item or AFMCI 23-121, AFMC Improved
Item Replacement Program (IIRP) and Demand Reduction Initiative (DRI) Guidance and
Procedures, when they would not result in a change in the form, fit, function or interface of the
item. The system/subsystem program manager must provide the IMS/MM and ES with the
documentation showing that the modification, IIRP or DRI has been approved; percent of the
active fleet that must be involved in the modification, IIRP or DRI program; quantity of items
being replaced and how many spares were approved. The Item Management team
(system/subsystem program manager, ES, engineer and IMS/MM) must track: forced
attrition/generation and replacement programs and retain documentation showing how many
total assets needed replacement; how many assets have been replaced; and how long it will take
to complete the replacement process. During initial establishment of an item record, SIRS puts
zeroes in all fields of each factor and puts blanks in the corresponding SRCs. Estimated factors
must be determined by the ES/engineer and file maintained by the ES for newly provisioned
items. Estimated factors can be file maintained only if an appropriate FIC code has been input.
The ES cannot file maintain OIM depot demand rate, OIM base repair rate, base processed
percent and mean time between demands, which are always computed by SIRS.

*17.26.5. The SIRS assigns FICs when a FIC is required for new items. The SIRS defaults for
the FICs are:

*17.26.5.1. MMM: 1-3 quarters of usage history

*17.26.5.2. AAA: Four or more quarters of usage history and Insurance or Numerical Stockage
Objective items

*22.2. ALT. ALT is developed by determining the number of days between date of PR/MIPR
initiation and date of contract or purchase order award on the contract (the date the contract,
amendment to the contract or delivery order was signed). The contract award (award signature
date) is normally the date the contract is signed; however, if the effective date on the contract and
the signature differ, the effective date on the contract will take precedence (e.g., Block 13 on the
SF 30, Block 3 on the SF 1449 and SF 1447). The initiation date is recorded by input of the “A”
transaction in J041 and passed to J018R. This date will be displayed on the AFMC Form 339,
Due-In Assets Status Record, J018R.5FA generated by the J018R system and should be entered
by the IMS on the optional AFMC Form 318, Item Contracting History Record, under the “date
initiated” column. If the IMS chooses not to record the ALT on an AFMC Form 318, the IMS
must retain the AFMC Forms 339 showing the initiation of the PR and the award of the contract
as a permanent record for the life of the item. For manual PR/MIPRs, use the date the IMS
actually signed/submitted the PR/MIPR. For initial provisioning buys, use the date the IMS
signed the D220 product as the beginning of the ALT and use the date the order was established
as the end of the ALT period not the date the provisioning contract was awarded. D200E
automatically adds 7 days to the ALT received from J018R. When manually calculating the
ALT the IMS/MM must add seven days for approval of the buy computation and preparation of
the acquisition document; this is part of the ALT and includes such actions as review,
documentation, and approval of the buy requirement. (This is not established as a limit on PR
preparation time, but as a standard to allow for time expended.) Subtract any unusual delays such
as funding freezes (see para 22.2.1.7.). File maintain the ALT days. The IMS must ensure ALT
changes are documented on the D200A notepad and AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a
compact disc and maintain it in a location readily available for audits/inspections.

*22.2.1.4. Use of the system default ALT must only be used for the items for which the methods
used in the previous paragraphs cannot be used and no other supply estimate is available and for
those items mentioned in para 22.2.1.5. It is preferable to use an ALT with the source reference
code of “J” or “C” (as they come from J018R the procurement system) when the IMS can obtain
no backup documentation for an ALT than to use the default. When the IMS does not expect to
buy the item in the future, 30 days must be file maintained unless the item is part of an I&S
family. If something such as unexpected condemnations should happen in the future that
requires the item to be bought, remove the 30 days ALT and revert to the methods described in
the previous paragraphs to arrive at a representative ALT.
*22.2.1.5. AF SICA NIM5 items will use the values in the RIID D200E System. The IMS does
not need to file maintain this field on AF SICA NIM5 items as it is not used in the comp.

*22.3. Production Lead Time Computation. PLT is the time between the date of award of the
contract or purchase order (the date the contract, amendment to the contract or delivery order
was signed) and the date of the first significant delivery quantity. A significant delivery quantity
is defined as at least 10 percent of the total contract or purchase order quantity. When manually
computing the PLT, the IMS must add 15 days transportation time to the PLT from a contractor
quote. The IMS must ensure PLT changes are documented on the D200A notepad and AFMC
Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintain it in a location readily available for
audits/inspections. If the IMS chooses not to record the PLT on an AFMC Form 318, the IMS
must retain the AFMC Forms 339 showing the award of the contract and the delivery of the
assets as a permanent record for the life of the item. AF SICA NIM5 items will use the values in
the RIID D200E System. The IMS does not need to file maintain this field on AF SICA NIM5
items as it is not used in the NIMSC 5 comp.

*23.2.3. The IMS verifies pipeline times with assistance from the ES. When an actual pipeline
appears to be abnormally large compared to previous cycle, the IMS will discuss it with the ES
to determine if there are any known contributing factors. If no causes can be determined, contact
the system OPR to notify them that there may be an error in the system. If abnormally large
actual pipeline cannot be substantiated, use the default value instead. The PMS must inform the
IMS, as soon as possible, when an item is transitioning from Reliability Improvement Warranty
(RIW) or Interim Contractor Support (ICS) to AF repair, and from/to contractor repair to/from
organic repair. Documents supporting why pipeline times were file maintained must be kept for
as long as those days are in SIRS and for two years after that.

*23.3.3. There are three types of Warning Messages that SIRS can display on the PLD screen
that might indicate that a pipeline is abnormally large.

*23.12.1. The shop flow days covers the time from the date the reparable is input for repair to
the date of the serviceable output. SIRS receives by current SN, organic production records from
G019C and Q302 and contract production records by contract/CLIN from G072D/I, DMISA and
CAVAF, containing shop flow days. G072D/I only have the capability to provide contractual
shop flow days. It is preferable to use actual days when available. SIRS computes a “weighted”
value at SGM level for use in the requirements computation (see para 15.7.). The SRC will be
"C." If no production records are received, SIRS will assign the default value. Shop flow days
can be file maintained using the MISTR Repair and Repair Data (MRPR) screen (see para 15.5.).

*23.12.2. For Contract Repair Enhancement Program (CREP) items, if the contract has been
negotiated and awarded, use the times specified in the contract. For ICS items, see para 23.15.
For items acquired under Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW), the guaranteed shop flow
days specified as one of the provisions of the RIW contract are used. An exception to this policy
may be used when actual shop flow time generated from the contractors experience is available
for CREP or RIW items. If these days are more than the guaranteed days in the RIW, explore
contractual remedies before buying additional spares to support the item for additional shop flow
days.
*25.1.2. Additive requirements will not be applied to requirements that can be computed by
SIRS with rates and factors that are developed for Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance
(OIM) and Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) programs. In some cases, development of DLM or
OIM factors is not feasible to achieve optimal support. When an additive is used to support an
OIM or DLM program, the documentation must include an explanation of why the requirement
could not be expressed with factors. Document the reason(s) online using the notepad capability.
Additive requirement will not be input for the purpose of retaining excess on hand or on order
assets that otherwise would be considered for disposal or termination. All requests coming to the
IMS/MM asking the IMS/MM to use an additive must be fully explained and justified by the
requestor in writing. The IMS/MM and ES and if necessary the RCO, TCO or site D200A
analyst must determine whether or not the requirement is already being computed in D200A and
whether or not it is outside the scope of rates and factors. The IMS/MM, ES and their
system/subsystem program manager(s) must review and coordinate on the computation for all
items with file maintained additives that compute a buy or repair requirement to validate there is
not a duplication of requirements.

*25.4.19. RETAIL EOQ (Retail Economic Order Quantity). The IMS/MM is not authorized to
file maintain this field. It will be automatically calculated. IMS/MM must review the retail
EOQ additives quarterly. They must ensure the EOQ additives meet established guidance and
the program change is working appropriately. There will be no retail EOQ Additive for ERRC
“C” or “T” items. ERRC “P” items that have a value of $750 or more will not compute an EOQ
additive. Delete the retail EOQ additive if the item is an ERRC “C” or “T” item or if the item is
an ERRC “P” item with a unit price of $750 or more. They can annotate that the review was
accomplished on the IRIS tool.

*26.5.1. These are the assets that are on hand as of the asset cutoff date in either a serviceable,
unserviceable, or Technical Order Compliance (TOC) condition. The on-hand assets are
reported by D035A and D002A at Current Stock Number (CSN) level. SIRS will store the
reported on hand assets with purpose code “FM” and then sum to SGM level, by type. The IMS
must file maintain at CSN level the assets “FM” only when there is a known reporting error.
SIRS will then develop the purpose code "0A" assets used in comp by making the necessary
adjustment(s), if any, for unaccountable variances (see para 28.4.11.). The SGM level data will
be stored on two separate records on the database. One record will remain static so that the
original reported values can be displayed as an audit trail. The other record will be updated
based on the IMS file maintenance. Both the originally reported (Input) and IMS updated
(Update) values are displayed on the Asset Reconciliation screens (Chapter 28). As condition
codes “H,” “P,” “S” and “2” assets are not used in SIRS due to the fact that by definition they
cannot be repaired or are uneconomical to repair and therefore cannot be used to fill the
requirements, the IMS will not include them in reported assets.

*28.1.1. Reconciliation of delivered and on hand assets is done by a thorough research of site
records, reports, transaction histories, and when warranted, a worldwide inventory according to
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, part 1, Chapter 6, para 6.2.30 (at http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/PUBS/AF/23/23011001/010106/010106.pdf). The IMS
must follow procedures in para 1.10.7. and subparagraphs for items in a buy position and having
an asset reconciliation variance after research and file maintenance corrections. A worldwide
inventory reconciliation is justified, for items computing a buy, repair, or termination with a
variance of plus or minus five percent or more and dollar value of the difference is $500,000 or
more and for items not computing buy, repair, or termination with a variance of plus or minus
ten percent or more and dollar value of the difference is $1,000,000 or more. For Nuclear
Weapon Related Materiel (NWRM) and/or classified items, if the asset variance is other than 0
or the dollar difference is greater than 0, a worldwide inventory reconciliation must be
accomplished if the variance remains after the research and corrections by the IMS/MM.

*28.1.4. Asset gains must be recorded on the AFMC Form 318 or another paper/compact disc
and the record maintained in a location readily available for audits/inspections as well as
recorded on the Asset Reconciliation Losses and Gains (ARLG) screen. See AFMCI 23-102,
Chapter 22 for how to fill out the AFMC Form 318. Asset losses must be recorded on the Asset
Reconciliation Losses and Gains (ARLG) screen (see para 28.5.) and not on the AFMC Form
318.

*28.3.2. The data is displayed in columns, each column representing a quarterly computation
cycle. Each column is headed by an AS OF DATE (asset cutoff date) of the computation cycle
for which the reconciliation is being performed. Up to four quarters of data at the SGM level can
be displayed at a time. Both the initially reported (INPUT) and IMS file maintained (UPDATE)
values are displayed on the ARD, AROO, ARDI, and AROH screens. J041, J018R, AFMC Form
318 or another paper or a compact disc containing the same information as an AFMC Form 318,
H103, and the IMS records are used as sources of information to reconcile asset quantities. The
on order/due in quantities must be added to the Total Acquired and Starting Position fields on the
ARD screen by the IMS when the on order/due in record is first established. The quantities must
reflect what was on order/due-in as of the asset cutoff date for the cycle being worked with the
exception of items showing in termination (see para 33.4.6.2.) deliveries subsequent to the Asset
Cutoff Date are not included regardless of when the delivery occurred. Any difference between
the IMS records and those overlaid to SIRS from J018R must be researched.

*28.4.1. Tot Acq Assets. The Total Acquired Asset field is an information entry and is not to
be used to reconcile assets delivered, on-hand, etc. in the inventory. This field is to be used as an
audit trail of all assets ever acquired as spares for the SGM. It is the total of all spare assets
acquired for this NSN and all NSNs within the subgroup. It includes due-in assets from on order
contract; on order Purchase Request (PR) funded assets, contract termination and those procured
for Foreign Military Sales (FMS) stock levels. Reclamation assets are only included after
meeting certain criteria (see para 28.5.13.). As of August 2004, it does not include PR Unfunded
Assets. It will not include non-programmed FMS procurement or other "direct shipment"
procurement, which will not enter the AF spares inventory. The IMS must add by file
maintenance any new acquisitions to the TOT ACQ Assets in SIRS as SIRS does not
automatically add new acquisitions to the TOT ACQ Assets. The TOT ACQ ASSETS must be
reduced by the IMS when PR reductions/cancellations are initiated or when contract reduction/
termination is initiated (see para 33.4.6.3.1.). Whenever additional assets are acquired, the IMS
must update this field on the ARD screen, FM SIRS SND ARD (Fig 28.1.). Potential sources for
this data are AFMC Form 318, item, and IMS records. Do not include asset gains from the Asset
Gains section (see Fig 28.3.) for the cycle being reconciled. Asset gains from the Asset Gains
section will be added to this field by SIRS on the next computation cycle being reconciled.

*28.4.2. Starting Pos. The starting position is file maintained by the IMS on the ARD screen
(Fig 28.1.). It equals the Total Acquired quantity adjusted by all the fourth quarter reconciliation
adjustments (if any). SIRS will automatically update this field at the beginning of each quarter
with the total assets gains from the Asset Gains section from the previous quarter. Once
established, the IMS must only update this field when additional assets are acquired (see para
28.6.1.), when taking a fourth quarter variance adjustment or when a new baseline has to be
input. Whenever the quantity in this field is different than it was the previous quarter SIRS will
establish a new starting position date. The IMS must manually add/file maintain new
acquisitions and adjustments due to three consecutive quarters of variance to the Starting POS in
SIRS as SIRS does not automatically add new acquisitions and adjustments due to three
consecutive quarters of variance to the Starting Position. The Starting POS must be reduced
through file maintenance when PR reductions/cancellations are initiated or when contract
reduction/termination is initiated (see para 33.4.6.3.1.).

*28.4.3. Total Asset Losses. The summary of the asset losses that have been reported and/or file
maintained are on the ARLG screen (see Fig 28.3.). It displays two values: “QUARTER”
represents the losses for the quarter being reconciled and “TOTAL” represents an accumulated
total for the life of the item. This section must contain all asset losses for the quarter, which can
be validated. Some asset losses are mechanically reported each quarter from the D035A file.
These include condemnations, installations losses, shipments to FMS, shipments to non-
reporting activities, and transfers to DRMO. Other asset losses have to be manually input by the
IMS. Research must be accomplished to assure the loss is real. If validation cannot be
accomplished, the loss must not be included. Assets have a one-for-one impact on the bottom
line result (e.g., buy, repair, termination, and excess). Recording an invalid loss directly
increases the computed requirement. Therefore, conservative management dictates that a
reported loss be disregarded unless it can be validated. Potential sources of this data are D035A
and the IMS records. The IMS can file maintain the current quarter value for each type of loss
on the ARLG screen (Fig 28.3.). The accumulated “total” field will automatically be updated by
SIRS during the computation cycle. A negative value can be entered in these fields (e.g., “-2”).
The negative value will cause the accumulated value to be reduced. This allows for the
correction of an error in a previous quarter. The sum of the accumulative totals will be displayed
on the line "Total Asset Losses" on the ARD screen (Fig 28.1.). The specific types of losses are
discussed in the following subparagraphs. (The AFMC Form 247 used prior to June 1997
contained two asset loss types that do not appear in this automated process, mock-ups and test
equipment. They must now be included under “Other.”) Note: all adjustments made to the
current quarter losses will be added to or if a negative sign is placed first subtracted from the
previous quarter total by SIRS.

*28.4.8. Variance Qty. This field is computed within D200A by subtracting the Net Balance
Accountable from Net Reported Assets. This field reflects the variance between the accountable
balance, which should have been reported, and what was reported. Differences indicate a
problem, which requires research. Note: If the net balance accountable is larger than the Net
Reported Assets the variance quantity will be displayed with a negative sign by SIRS.
Examples: (shown in asset reconciliation sequence):

-7 Net Balance Accountable                  23 Net Balance Accountable
-3 Net Reported Assets                      10 Net Reported Assets
4 Variance                                  -13 Variance

-3 Net Balance Accountable                  10 Net Balance Accountable
-7 Net Reported Assets                      23 Net Reported Assets
-4 Variance                                 13 Variance

3 Net Balance Accountable                   -10 Net Balance Accountable
-7 Net Reported Assets                      23 Net Reported Assets
-10 Variance                                33 Variance

After three consecutive cycles with a consistent variance (all “+” or all “-“), the IMS must
make an adjustment for unclassified items and non-NWRM items to the Starting Position equal
to the smallest of the three-variance quantities on the fourth reconciliation cycle. The IMS
must also document the research that was done in an attempt to discover the reason for the
variance when making the adjustment. Examples include: (1) If variance quantity for the past
three consecutive cycles has been -6, -3, and - 4 and the current quarter is -5, the IMS may
reduce the Starting Position on the fourth reconciliation cycle by -3 (the smallest variance
quantity). Then the IMS could not take another variance until the sixth quarter (if sixth quarter
variance is negative), and the maximum quantity that could be taken then is – 1 because 3 of
the – 4 in the third quarter had already used in the fourth quarter adjustment. (2) If variance
quantity for the past three consecutive cycles has been -3, -6, and - 4 and the current quarter is
-5, the IMS may reduce the Starting Position on the fourth reconciliation cycle by -3 (the
smallest variance quantity). Then the IMS could not take another variance until the fifth
quarter (if the fifth quarter variance is negative), and the maximum quantity that could be taken
then is – 1 because 3 of the – 4 in the third quarter had already used in the fourth quarter
adjustment. (3)If the variance quantity for the past three consecutive cycles has been – 6, - 3, -
4 and the current quarter is –2, the IMS may reduce the Starting Position on the fourth
reconciliation cycle by only – 2. (4) If the variance quantities had been -6, -3, and +4, no
adjustment can be made. Note: Consistent adjustments for variances indicate that there is
something wrong with the reported assets, DOTM, H-coded backorder, losses, gains, due-ins,
or starting position in current or prior quarters. The existence of a means to adjust the net
difference does not justify ignoring the costly problems. Some common causes include
modifications the IMS may not be aware of, unreported condemnations, poor contractor
reporting, and theft. The IMS must make every effort to identify and correct the underlying
problems.

*28.4.8.1. Research of Reported Asset Data. Research of item history records must be
conducted whenever there is a variance between the net reported assets and the net balance
accountable. Following are some suggestions, which might assist in the research effort:
*28.4.8.1.2. D035A Weekly Transaction Register (A-D035A.-111-W2-GTR). If there is any
action at a depot (shipment/receipt of assets, requisition placed on back order, etc.) on the NSN,
it will appear on this product. Immediately below the last transaction there will be asset balance
broken out by condition codes. This information can be used to validate depot balances and
asset shipments reporting in SIRS. Defense Standard System (DSS) provides another source to
research requisitions and shipment/receipts. Reportable Asset Management Process (RAMP)
also has a record of shipments.

*28.4.8.1.3. Non-reported Repair Assets. All assets currently being repaired at non-reporting
interservice or contractor repair facilities must be file maintained into SIRS.

*28.4.8.1.4. The Government and commercial carriers also have other tools available for tracing
shipments that the IMS must utilize.

*28.4.8.1.5. If the IMS cannot determine from their research why there is a variance, the IMS
must consider requesting a worldwide inventory. For classified items and NWRM items, the
IMS must request a worldwide inventory. No write-offs for classified items or NWRM items
must be performed without documented asset reconciliation actions that must include a
worldwide inventory and a minimum of general officer or SES signature approval. After at least
three consecutive quarters since the initial discovery, the adjustment may occur.

*28.5.1. Condemn. This is the accumulated (from quarter to quarter) total of assets condemned.
Condemnations (base and depot) are reported by D002A and D035A on a quarterly basis.
Include in this figure assets that have been changed to condition code “H,” “P,” “S,” or “2”
within the quarter preceding the asset cutoff date. Include those assets in transit from
maintenance to supply in condition “2.” Condemnations are displayed on the Factors Printout.
Generally, the quantity that appears on the Asset Reconciliation report and the Factors Printout
should be compatible. Differences may occur when the ES file maintains changes to the usage
data. Check the Factors Printout to assure inclusion of all condemnations file maintained by the
ES. If the ES determines that any condemnations are not representative of normal anticipated
usage, they must be excluded from the Factors/Usage Printout and not be used to project future
condemnations. However, these condemnations represent valid losses to the inventory and must
be included in the asset reconciliation process. When an asset is condemned for reasons other
than normal wear-out, and thus is not included in the condemnation lines of the Factors/Usage
Printout, the loss must be recorded as a loss to condemnation on the asset reconciliation.
Document the cause of any such condemnations on the online notepads. For example, “4 each
condemnations excluded from Factors/Usage Printout because items were destroyed in
warehouse fire on 1 Jan 99.”

*28.5.2. Install. Installation losses are assets issued for initial installation in a weapon system
or next higher assembly. These are reported by D035A and appear on the SUD screen, DIS
SIRS DTI SUD (Fig 16.1.), as INITIAL INST ISS (see para 16.2.). Also include issues on
Project Code 428 (SPRAM) having an "N" demand code, signifying a new issue. The IMS must
keep track of the shipment of Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance
(SPRAM) assets by recording them as losses. SPRAM replenishment shipments must not be
recorded as losses as they should have a corresponding condemnation or NRTS action.
Generally, initial/new SPRAM will normally be procured with initial provisioning or follow-on
spares funds and be direct shipped to the using base. If this is the case, neither the SPRAM due-
in procurement nor the SPRAM losses will be included in the asset reconciliation process or in
the computation worksheet. If initial/new SPRAM requirements are procured with MSD funds
and enter the depot warehouse, shipments of these assets to the using base must be counted as
losses as must shipments “out-of-stock” for initial/new SPRAM requirements.

*28.5.3. On Loan. This line is to be used only for issues of on loan assets when it is determined
that the assets will not be returned to AF inventory. If on loan assets are reported and included in
the computation, they do not apply to this line. Since entries in this field should be rare,
documentation must be detailed and specific. This field is only updated through IMS file
maintenance, as there is no mechanical source for the data.

*28.5.4. FMS. These are the assets issued to FMS from AF stock. These shipments are
reported by D035A; however, not all reported shipments to FMS constitute losses. A loss is
recorded only when a shipment is made from the spares inventory (assets included in Total
Acquired). An example of “a loss” is the filling of a requisition from a country, which has a
stock level case, recorded in the computation. Another example of a shipment that is “a loss” is
the filling of an FMS unprogrammed requisition with AF excess stock. An example of a
shipment that is not a loss is the filling of an H-coded requisition. Do not include unprogrammed
FMS procurements shipped direct from the contractor. If the valid losses are numerous and
would require an intensive amount of annotation, identify the appropriate requisitions on either
the Quarterly ILP & Other Services Requests listing (PCN A-D035A.-1L2-Q1-GAN), which
shows all candidates for procurement using BP 18 funds. No documentation is required if the
quantity reported from D035A is not changed. However, the overlay must be reviewed because
it may include shipments to FMS H-coded requisitions. Documentation is required if the IMS
changes the quantity. The document number, which shipped the asset(s) from stock, is
considered proper documentation.

*28.5.5. NRA. These are assets shipped to Non Reporting Activities. These are assets shipped
to the Materiel Utilization Control Office (MUCO) “FN” accounts and all other non-reporting
activities other than FMS and Security Assistance. They are reported by D035A and appear on
the SUD screen, DIS SIRS DTI SUD (Fig 16.1.), as SHIP TO NRA (see para 16.2.). The data
from D035A includes shipments to other services, which must be removed from the losses when
assets are expected to be returned as unserviceable, and exchanged for serviceable. Examples:
Do not include shipments to activities (such as SICA services, FAA, or NASA) when assets are
expected to be returned as unserviceable and exchanged for serviceable. Do not include
shipments to other services for repair under a depot maintenance interservice support agreement
(DMISA). Losses to non-reporting activities require specific documentation on the online
notepads. By definition, visibility is totally lost for assets shipped to these activities. Except for
“FX” and “FN” accounts, most shipments will not be made on a requisitioning document
number, but on an FDXXXX document number. Documentation must be retained which
identifies the requester, location, purpose, and dates when the shipment is made on a FDXXXX
document number.
*28.5.6. Specl Proj. Include all assets issued in support of Special Projects only when they will
not be returned to AF spares inventory. Losses to special projects must be documented with the
document number and the official project code. This field is only updated through IMS file
maintenance because there is no mechanical source for the data.

*28.5.7. Mod. These are assets that have lost their identity through the modification process
and are no longer interchangeable with the SGM. If items are linked (or should be linked) within
the same I&S subgroup master, the loss from modification will not be shown. Only one asset
reconciliation will be maintained for the entire I&S subgroup master and only gross quantities
reflected. Documentation must identify the gaining national SN. An entry on this line will result
in a corresponding entry in the ASSET GAINS section of the gaining NSN. This field is only
updated through IMS file maintenance because there is no mechanical source for the data.

*28.5.8. Min IAV. This line is for accumulating all asset losses, which resulted from inventory
adjustment vouchers. While Minus IAV quantities are reported by D035A each quarter, they are
not placed in this field. All IAVs must be researched to verify an “actual” gain or loss has
occurred and is not already counted as a gain or loss above. When using an IAV adjustment
reported by a depot account, documentation must include the IAV document number, which can
be found in the weekly transaction register (document identifier code D8A for a gain and D9A
for a loss). When using a reported IAV to a base account, document the base SRAN. Since
inventory adjustments at base level have different criteria than depot adjustments, validation is
required before this loss is recorded. AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, Part 1, Chapter 6, provides the
required level of management, record retention policy, and OPR for processing IAVs. When
there are both "plus" and "minus" IAVs being used in the same quarter, only the "net" IAV
quantity must be recorded. When an IAV loss/gain is netted, it must be documented as in the
following example:

Minus IAV       -10 SW204972114321
Plus IAV        +5 SRAN FB2319
NET IAV          -5

If the result is a net plus IAV, it must be entered under asset gains.

*28.5.9. Trans DRMO. These are transfers of quantified excesses sent to Defense Reutilization
and Marketing Office (DRMO) and items coded for disposal. These are reported by D035A each
quarter and are displayed on the SRD screen, DIS SIRS DTI SUD (Fig 16.1.) as TRAN TO
DRMO (see para 16.2.). When assets are transferred to disposal as a result of management
decisions (not condemnations), the IMS must record the loss on this line. No documentation is
required if the quantity reported by D035A is not changed. Documentation is only required if
the IMS updates this field. The document number(s) which transferred the asset(s) must be
recorded as supporting documentation.

*28.5.10. Other. This is reserved for all other valid asset losses that do not conform to the
above definitions. Unexplainable, unverified losses may not be included. Examples of other
losses are: gifts to the National Museum of the USAF, items donated to state or county
governments. Any losses reported in this field must be thoroughly documented. In addition, the
two other types of losses that had their own line on the old AFMC Form 247 must be reflected
under “Other.” They are:

*28.5.10.1. Mockups. Assets issued for permanent display or to be used as a standard by a
repair facility (contract or organic). In the past few years, many such assets have become subject
to SPRAM reporting and must be recorded on the installations line above. These issues must be
supported by written documentation. There must also be written documentation verifying that
these losses do not duplicate reported SPRAM losses.

*28.5.10.2. Test Equipment. This is an issue to repair facilities to be used for testing or check
out purposes or to fill a table of allowance requirement. Assets acquired on Tables of Allowance
(TAs) are reported, but to the D039/D200C Equipment Item system and not to SIRS. Most
issues to repair facilities to support testing are currently being included in SPRAM. Losses
recorded in this field must be supported by written documentation verifying that these losses do
not duplicate reported SPRAM losses.

*28.5.11. Plus IAV. IAV gains are file maintained in this field. Although Plus IAV quantities
are reported by D035A each quarter they are not placed in this field. Instead, they are displayed
as memo entries on the bottom of the Asset Reconciliation report (see para 28.10.). If an IAV
does not reflect a change in the actual accountable assets balance or is already included as a gain
or loss, it will not be used here (see para 28.5.8. Minus IAV).

*28.5.12. Modification. Assets that were gained through the modification of an item, aircraft,
or system during the time period being reconciled are reported here. They have either gained the
identity and/or became interchangeable with the NSN on this form. If items are linked (or
should be linked) within the same I&S subgroup, the gain from modification will not be shown
here. Only one asset reconciliation must be performed for the entire I&S subgroup and only
gross quantities reflected. Include all assets modified since the last reconciliation to the asset
cutoff date. Potential sources for data are D035A and IMS records. Documentation for gains
from modification must identify the losing NSN and be input on the online notepads. An entry
on this line must have a corresponding entry in the "ASSET LOSSES" of the losing NSN.

*28.6.4. Bal Accountable. This field reflects the quantity of accountable assets that should be
in the AF spares inventory. It is computed by subtracting losses and adding gains from the
starting asset position.

*28.8.4. DIA SVC Recl. Included in this field are the projected serviceable assets to be
retrieved from reclamation as of the asset cutoff date. These are the reported due in assets from a
programmed reclamation project. These are input to SIRS from J018R and are annotated by the
IMS on the AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintained in a location
readily available for audits/inspections. Reclamation due-ins also include anticipated due-ins
from Class IV and V modification removals. Since the potential yield and condition of assets
from reclamation projects varies greatly including the due-in could pose unacceptable risk to
weapon system support, the IMS/MM will not load the due-ins from reclamation in the
requirements computation. This field must be blank. Reclamation due-ins will not be posted.
*28.8.5. DIA UNSVC Recl. Included in this field are the projected unserviceable assets to be
retrieved from reclamation as of the asset cutoff date. These are the reported due in assets from a
programmed reclamation project. These are input to SIRS from J018R and are annotated by the
IMS on the AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintained in a location
readily available for audits/inspections. Reclamation due-ins also include anticipated due-ins
from Class IV and V modification removals. Since the potential yield and condition of assets
from reclamation projects varies greatly including the due-in could pose unacceptable risk to
weapon system support, the IMS/MM will not load the due-ins from reclamation in the
requirements computation. This field must be blank. Reclamation due-ins will not be posted.

*28.8.6. DIA TOC Recl. Included in this field are the projected TOC assets to be retrieved
from reclamation as of the asset cutoff date. These are the reported due in assets from a
programmed reclamation project. These are input to SIRS from J018R and are annotated by the
IMS on the AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintained in a location
readily available for audits/inspections. Reclamation due-ins also include anticipated due-ins
from Class IV and V modification removals. Since the potential yield and condition of assets
from reclamation projects varies greatly including the due-in could pose unacceptable risk to
weapon system support, the IMS/MM will not load the due-ins from reclamation in the
requirements computation. This field must be blank. Reclamation due-ins will not be posted.

*28.8.10. DIA SVC FMS. This field is the projected serviceable assets that are excess to the
needs of a FMS country. This data is usually not reported in J018R and must be manually file
maintained each quarter by the IMS if J018R did not overlay it. If the assets are not received
within six months after the IMS approval date the DIA record must be deleted and the quantity
removed from the Total Acquired and Starting Position fields (see para 28.8.1.3.).

*28.8.11. DIA UNSVC FMS. This field is the projected unserviceable assets that are excess to
the needs of a FMS country. This data is usually not reported in J018R and must be manually
file maintained each quarter by the IMS if J018R did not overlay it. If the assets are not received
within 6 months after the IMS approval date the DIA record must be deleted and the quantity
removed from the Total Acquired and Starting Position fields (see para 28.8.1.3.).

*28.8.12. DIA TOC FMS. This field is the projected TOC assets that are excess to a FMS
country (see para 28.8.1.3.). This data is usually not reported in J018R and must be manually
file maintained each quarter by the IMS if J018R did not overlay it. If the assets are not received
within 6 months after the IMS approval date the DIA record must be deleted and the quantity
removed from the Total Acquired and Starting Position fields.

*28.9.8. OWO. These are the unserviceable On Work Order assets that are reported to SIRS by
G019C. These are assets undergoing organic repair. OWO assets affect the computation of
MISTR lines and the resulting DPEM budget. OWO is removed from peacetime repair input
line as previously obligated. SIRS compares reported OWO quantities to the reported DIOH
quantities from D035A. The DIOH is the condition code “M” balance and should include the
sum of OWO, Awaiting Parts (AWP), and Awaiting Maintenance (AWM). If the reported
DIOH is greater than the OWO from G019C, SIRS adds the difference to the reported
unserviceable depot assets. If the reported DIOH is less than the reported OWO, SIRS reduces
the reported OWO to the number of reported DIOH assets and an error message will appear on
the IMS Item Review List (IRL) screen (see para 13.2.8.11.).

*28.9.15. DOTM. A Due-Out to Maintenance (DOTM) action occurs when maintenance turns
in an unserviceable item (including condemned items) and does not receive a serviceable item in
return; therefore the debit/credit accounting action is incomplete. The unserviceable asset is then
reported as if it were a spare asset although it is not; it has created a hole (temporarily) in the
aircraft or end item. This causes the spares inventory to be overstated in D200A unless the
install asset was condemned. DOTM is input to SIRS from D035A and processed in SIRS in the
same manner as the on hand assets described in para 28.9. above. The IMS/MM will not
increase the DOTM reported in D200A from D035A. The IMS/MM must use the backorder list
as of the end of quarter to validate the DOTM circling the DOTM quantities on the backorder
list. If the reported DOTM quantity in D200A (ISA screen or the SRAN Asset Listing) exceeds
the total AF Priority 1-10 backorder quantity reported in D035A as of the cutoff date for the
item, the IMS/MM must reduce the DOTM quantity to a quantity equal or lower than the total
AF Priority 1-10 backorder quantity as there should be some reasonable correlation between
DOTM quantities and MICAPs and firm due-out backorders. Priority11-15 backorders are for
stock levels. Exclude stock level backorders priority 11-15. The backorders must be from the
SRAN(s) reporting the DOTM. The IMS must validate the DOTM with the reporting activity
when possible. When validating DOTM, the IMS must ensure that the validation is done as of
the asset cutoff date. The DOTM quantities shown on the ISA screen, DIS SIRS DTI ISA (see
para 26.4.1.) indicate that, as of that date, there were install assets in the repair cycle for which a
serviceable asset had not been received. File maintenance to the DOTM is done on the NTPD
screen, FM SIRS SND NTPD (see para 26.6.). For consumable items (ERRCs “N” and “P”),
follow procedures in para 25.6. and subparagraphs.

*28.9.16. H Coded Reps. H-coded FMS requisitions indicate that there are FMS reparable
assets included in the reported spares. H-coded requisition quantities do not generate until a
reparable asset is received in the distribution system. Therefore, the presence of an FMS H-
coded requisition on backorder as of the asset cutoff date means that an asset owned by an FMS
country is included in the AF spares inventory. As in the case of DOTM assets, this causes the
spare inventory to be overstated. To offset this overstatement, the H-coded requisition must be
added to the reported FMS H-CD BO additive. Use only the H-coded requisitions (both
programmed and unprogrammed) still on the backorder list as of the computation cutoff date. H-
coded backorders received after the computation cutoff date may only be added to the first
quarter input and output requirements in the apportionment year of the Family Stratified Repair
Requirement portion of the ARRCS B21 to ensure timely repair. This data element can be file
maintained as the FM H-CD BO on the ADRQ screen, FM SIRS SND ADRQ (see para
25.4.16.).

*31.5.2. When an AF SICA NIMSC 5 item has been cataloged as an insurance item due to the
use by the PICA of “Z” for the Acquisition Advice Code, SIRS will output a notice to the IMS
and ES saying “NIMSC 5 AND ITEM CATEGORY CODE ‘I’ ARE INCOMPATIBLE.” The
IMS can change the Item Category Code to blank only if the Item Category Code is an “S” or “I”
(see para 14.6.). By changing the AF SICA NIMSC 5 insurance item to computing within SIRS,
the RDE will automatically be passed to the PICA. This item must have a JLC Form 19,
PICA/SICA Management Level Change And/or Reassignment Request on file requesting that
the PICA change the Acquisition Advice Code.

*31.6.2. The INS/NSO Item Status Listing AD200.ANBAX82B or ANBA#82K is the
computation worksheet that provides computational results for items that have an Item Category
code of “I” for Insurance, or an "S" for NSO. The computation worksheet provides a limited set
of computational lines to display the Buy and Repair quantities for the CY, AY, BY, and EY
pick-off points. The hard copy (Fig 31.7.) is automatically produced from the initial, final and
summary computations. The hard copy product is automatically generated after
each SIRS computation, for items computing a buy, term, repair, excess, or based on the item
activity code. For items computing excess, this product is produced only if this is the first time
the item is in excess, or if the current computed excess quantity is larger than last cycle’s excess
quantity. This listing also provides a summary of the Buy, Termination, Excess, and Repair
quantities and dollars. Each data element displayed is described in paras 31.7 and 31.8. All this
same data can be viewed online (Figs 31.1. - 31.5.), using the DIS SIRS CW INIS command.
Historical data can be viewed online, by entering a valid AS OF date. There can be four or more
screens: Summary of the Buy, Termination, Repair, Excess quantities (page 1), Repair Detail
(page 2), Buy/Retention Detail (page 3), and the I&S family (page 4). The Repair Detail page
can take more than one screen to display all data. The Buy/Retention Detail page can take more
than 1 screen to display all data. Type the SGM in the SGM field, then after page 1 displays; use
the paging commands to transfer to the other pages.

*33.3.5.9.1. The item has declining programs and no reprocurement predicted in the SIRS
computation (i.e., no third short position through the retention period).

*33.5.4. Termination Codes. The following list of codes and their definitions explain the reason
for making a termination decision. Use of several codes per item is allowed. As a minimum all
non-termination decisions except for CODE 13 must be signed by both the IMS/MM and
supervisor. Contact the HQ AFMC Terminations OPR for assistance in coding terminations that
are not covered by the following codes:

*33.5.4.1. CODE 02. CONTRACT ELIGIBLE FOR TERMINATION: A quantity on contract
is eligible for termination action, the termination model has been run, and a termination authority
template has been submitted. The item appears in ABCS because the on order quantity could not
be adjusted before the final computation. Use local signature level policy to approve the SGM
Computation worksheet, the “what if” recomputation, or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing.
Include delinquent contracts that can be terminated for default—all assets on contract are in
termination. See para 33.5.4.1.1. for contracts that must be terminated for the convenience of the
government. *Note: CODE 17. DELINQUENT CONTRACT ELIGIBLE FOR
TERMINATION: Use this code when the delinquent contract cannot be terminated for default.
A quantity on contract is eligible for termination action and the termination model has been run;
however, the computed termination quantity is less than the total quantity on contract.
Therefore, the contract cannot be terminated for default and has to be terminated for the
convenience of the government. Procurement cannot legally terminate a delinquent contract for
the convenience of the government. Procurement has to extend the delinquent contract first prior
to terminating it. Therefore, in cases where the IMS wants to terminate a delinquent contract for
the convenience of the government, the IMS must first request in writing for procurement to do
an amendment to the contract extending the delivery schedule on the contract before submitting
the termination authority template. Use local signature level policy to approve the SGM
Computation worksheet, the “what if” recomputation, or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing.

*33.5.4.6. CODE 07. DATA ERROR ADJUSTMENTS: Item does not require reduction or
termination when data are corrected. Corrections in the final SIRS computation could not be
done during the file maintenance cycle. If the data were not corrected before the final SIRS
computation and the code 07 was entered after the final CSIS, code 07 remains in ABCS to
explain on order excess quantities in the CSIS. An explanation of the error must be annotated on
the SGM Computation Worksheet, the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation,
or the latest "what if" recomputation. The IMS/MM must run a recomputation to show the item
is no longer in termination when the data is corrected. Use of this code as a minimum requires
IMS/MM and supervisor signature. *Note: CODE 16. DELIVERED AFTER ASSET CUTOFF
(ACO) DATE: This code includes contract deliveries that occur after the asset cutoff date. The
IMS was not aware of the delivery until after the final computation processed. The IMS/MM
must run a recomputation showing the item is no longer in termination when the data is
corrected. Use of this code requires IMS/MM and supervisor signature as a minimum.

*33.5.4.11. CODE 12. OTHER, WILL NOT TERMINATE: This code is used when a decision
not to terminate does not fall under codes 02 through 11 or 13 through 15. The termination
model has been run. Explain and justify the decision not to reduce or terminate an item. The
explanation must include the recommendation of the term model and why the recommendation
should not be followed. Approval no lower than Group level is required on the SGM
Computation Worksheet, the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation, or the
latest "what if" recomputation. Decisions not to terminate actions with a value greater
$1,000,000 require approval of the center commander. Repeat terminations require review and
approval at the same signature level as the initial termination.

*33.5.4.12. CODE 13. FINAL COMP – FINAL CSIS VARIANCE: Used when (1) the final
SIRS computation does not compute a termination but the CSIS displays a termination quantity
in the Budget Item Detail (S01), AAO Position, Column 7, Line 21 or (2) the quantity in the
Budget Item Detail (S01), AAO Position, Column 7, Line 21 is larger than the computed
termination quantity in SIRS. Include the quantity and dollar amount from the CSIS under this
code. The IMS/MM must sign the SGM Computation Worksheet, the INS/ NSO Item Status
Listing from the summary computation or the latest “what if” recomputation. The IMS/MM
must also attach a copy of the CSIS S01 or a print screen of the AFAO and Retention Position
line 21 from the CSIS that shows the difference.

*33.5.4.13. CODE 14. ECONOMIC ORDER, WILL NOT TERMINATE: This code is used
for purchases on which contractor will only bid on a minimum quantity or on which the
contractor bid a quantity discount price and for which the purchase was approved at squadron
level or higher (see para 1.10.5.). The termination model was run and it recommended
termination. If the termination model recommended “Do not terminate,” use termination codes
08, 09 or 10. The minimum signature level for this code is squadron. Repeat terminations
require same signature level on budget cycle. Termination model is run on repeat terminations
every cycle.
*33.6.2.2.2. The repair cost and termination quantity may be found on the SGM Computation
Worksheet. Termination costs, settlement costs, and new unit cost are not required entries and
must only be input if the contracting activity returned a termination authority template or other
written communication with the information.

*33.6.2.2.5. Item dimension characteristics. Length, width, and depth values are listed under the
“UNITPACKSIZE/ LGTHWDTHDPTH” heading on the automated PR. The value in this field
is expressed in inches with an implied decimal before the last position. That means if the value
of the UNIT LGTH field is 0185 the value to be entered in the model is 19. The same is true of
the UNPCK/WEIGH field on the PR, which is expressed in pounds. If the value under WEIGH
is 00055, the value to be entered in the model is 6. The dimensions and weight are also available
on the PTQH screen in on line Shipping Information System (SIS) D035T system. D035T also
feeds the information to Special Packaging Instructions Retrieval and Exchange System
(SPIRES) so it may also be used. If you use D035T information, use the unit pack dimensions
and unit pack weight. After completing these cells, scroll left and down to the Computation
Entries portion of the spreadsheet.

*34.3.2. DOLP. No DOLP is required and will not be file maintained. However, once a DOLP
has been entered, it can be zeroed (see para 14.12.).
IC-2 TO AFMCMAN 23-1, Requirements for Secondary Items (D200A, D200N)
10 October 2008
These changes have not been integrated into the basic publication. The reader must use
this IC in conjunction with the publication and these changes take precedence.


*SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This Interim Change implements changes necessitated due to the creation of Air Force
Global Logistics Center (AFGLSC). The Air Logistics Center (ALC) commander is no
longer in the chain of command for most of the Inventory Management Specialists and
the office symbols of responsible parties have changed. Additional inputs were provided
based on new AFGLSC roles and responsibilities.

*1.3.6.1.4. Source of Supply = JCD
*1.3.6.1.7. Materiel Management Aggregation Codes (MMAC) to exclude: BA, BD,
BE, BP, BX, CB, CG, CI, DC, DE, DF, DH, ES, EX, GB, GP, IN, JC, KA, KH, LK,
MF, MJ, ND, RE, SF, UO, WB, WO, XG, XL, XO, XR, XT, XU, XV, XW, XY, XZ,
ZG.
*1.3.6.2.3. Source of Supply = JCD
*1.3.6.2.5. Materiel Management Aggregation Codes (MMAC) to exclude: AU, BA,
BD, BE, BP, BX, CB, CG, CI, DC, DE, DF, DH, ES, EX, GB, GP, IN, JC, KA, KH, LK,
MF, MJ, ND, RE, SF, UI, UN, UO, WB, WO, XG, XL, XO, XR, XT, XU, XV, XW, XY,
XZ, ZG.
*14.3.1.2. Application Level Deferred Disposal Codes. Requests for a system wide
retention (deferred disposal code) will be submitted by the system program manager or
program group manager and signed by the 591st Supply Chain Management Group
(SCMG) commander or equivalent. The group commander signed request will be
forwarded to 401 SCMS/GUMD, and 401 SCMS/GUMD will submit the request to
AF/A4RM for approval/disapproval. When AF/A4RM notifies 401 SCMS/GUMD of
approval, a deferred disposal code of “C” or “P” will be input into D200F Applications,
Program and Indentures (API) to retain the assets. This code is displayed on the BMD
screen. It is file maintained in D200F API, and cannot be file maintained in SIRS. . For
Air Force policy on retention of assets and assigning an application level Deferred
Disposal Code see AFMAN 23-110, Volume III, Part 1, Chapter 9, Air Force Materiel
Utilization and Disposition Programs, Section 9D. A system level Deferred Disposal
Code is either "C," or "P". “"C" on an application indicates that the deferred disposal
applies to depot level assets of all items (common or peculiar) that are used on that
application, even if the item is also used on other applications. "P" on an application
indicates that the deferred disposal applies only to depot level assets of "peculiar" items
or items that have that application as the only application. When a ‘C’ or ‘P’ code is
input into D200F API on the Standard Program Designator screen, API assigns this code
on all components of the application and passes the data to SIRS. If any application has
code “C,” code “C” is assigned to the component. If any application has code “P” and
other applications have blank codes, no code is assigned to the component. If all of a
component’s applications have the same code, that code is assigned to the component.
The assignment of the "C"or "P" deferred disposal code does not affect the computation
of the items requirements in SIRS, but any excess assets are not passed to D035G. Assets
for these items are displayed in their own column on the CSIS.
*14.3.1.3.1. Deferred Disposal Code “M”. Use of the deferred disposal code “M”
requires a letter signed by the 591st SCMG commander or equivalent unless HQ Air
Force, Department of Defense, Congress or the President has downward directed the
retention in written correspondence. A new letter will be obtained annually from the
group commander to continue use of the code.
*14.3.1.3.1.2. The “M” is also used for NSNs having no assets, for which the IMS is not
going to buy any assets, and acquisition advise code does not indicate that the item is not
stocked, but the product directorate wants to retain the item in the stocklist rather than
deleting the NSN. A consolidated set of rationale for the ALC (list each basic rationale
and number of items in each organization using that rationale) will be provided to 401
SCMS/GUMD.
*14.3.1.3.2. R - IMS Decision. This code permits all or part of the total assets to fall into
the contingency retention segment of the CSIS. If there are exceptional situations such as
the need to retain parts on an older weapon system, an “R” code may be used. (If there is
no known procurement source, use deferred disposal code G). Requests for use of the
“R” retention (deferred disposal code) will be submitted by the system program manager
or program group manager and signed by the 591st SCMG commander or equivilant.
The required written justification to “R” code an item, or a block of items must be filed
and readily available. This justification will specify the individual NSN(s) to be kept,
why, the items need to be retained, how many assets for each NSN need to be retained
and methodology and calculation used to determine that, unit price of the item, extended
value of the items, how many cubic feet an item occupies, extended cubic footage for
retained assets of a NSN, projected yearly cost for storage of the items in the warehouses,
how many items are condemned or are projected to be condemned per year, years of
supply (requested deferred disposal level divided by condemnations per year) and for
how long the items need to be retained. The list sent forward for approval will be sorted
so that those items having the most years of supply will appear at the top of the list.
Signed group commander approval must be retained for historical and audit purposes.
After the letter has been signed by the group commander, the IMS will file maintain the
“R” code and the deferred level that is on the letter into D200A. The code and deferred
level on the letter will remain in D200A for that cycle and the next three consecutive
cycles or until the letter signed by the group commander expires, the letter is superseded
by another letter signed by the group commander or until the justification for “R” code is
no longer valid whichever is sooner. See paragraph 14.3.2.1 for exceptions. A new letter
will be obtained annually from the group commander to continue use of the code. Use
of this code requires input of a Deferred Disposal Code Level (see below). Because
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, Part 1, Chapter 10, Supply Management Procedures/Special
Equipment and Supplies, paragraph 10.303.6.6, requires containers in stock classes 8140
and 8145 to have a deferred disposal code group commander signature is not required for
them, but an annual review of containers by the item management team will be required
to ensure the Air Force is only keeping enough containers to cover the spares and installs
of the items shipped in the containers.
*14.3.1.3.3. F - Weapon system being phased out of AF inventory and being offered to
FMS. This code can be used if the IMS has written documentation from a higher
headquarters organization. Use of the “F” requires a letter signed by the 591st SCMG
commander or equivalent unless HQ Air Force, Department of Defense, Congress or the
President has downward directed the retention in written correspondence. A new letter
will be obtained annually from the group commander to continue use of the code. Use
of this code requires input of a Deferred Disposal Code Level (see below). Base the
Deferred Disposal Level on the document from the higher headquarters organization. Do
not file maintain the ‘F’ deferred disposal code or deferred level based on the FMS
Retention Level on the W001 product as the W001 FMS Retention Level automatically
overlays in D200A to the retention segment of the FMS additive.
*14.3.1.3.4. G - General contingency requirement. Use of the “G” requires a letter
signed by the 591st SCMG commander. A new letter will be obtained annually from the
591st SCMG commander or equivalent to continue use of the code. This code can be
used when a one-time buy has been made for an explicit reason. This code will also be
used to designate items for which no known procurement source exists. This justification
will specify the individual NSN(s) to be kept, why the items need to be retained, how
many assets for each NSN need to be retained and methodology and calculation used to
determine that, unit price of the item, extended value of the items, how many cubic feet
an item occupies, extended cubic footage for retained assets of a NSN, projected yearly
cost for storage of the items in the warehouses, how many items are condemned or are
projected to be condemned per year, years of supply (requested deferred disposal level
divided by condemnations per year) and for how long the items need to be retained. The
list sent forward for approval will be sorted so that those items having the most years of
supply will appear at the top of the list. Use of this code requires input of a Deferred
Disposal Code Level (see paragraph 14.3.2). This code will also be applied to all items
under Performanced Based Logistic (PBL) contracts on which the contractor is doing all
the demand and supply planning including calculation of requirements for the items.
Under these contracts, the PBL contractor will determine and recommend to the ALC
which items are excess and the ALC will manually initiate the disposal action in D035G
Reutilization and Disposition System if the ALC agrees with the contractor
recommendation. Group commander signature is not required for PBL items.
*14.3.2.1. On initial establishment of an item, SIRS inputs zeros to this field. The IMS
file maintains the required level for M, F, G, or R coded items. Base the deferred level
for G and R coded items on the expected condemnation of the item over the expected life
of the system(s) on which it is used plus a safety factor. If the condemnation rate of the
item is not expected to change over the life of the system(s), running a what-if
recomputation using the weapon system life code provides an easy method for
determining a deferred level. If using this method, use the select retention quantity on the
recomputation as the deferred level. If the condemnation rate is not expected to remain
the same, documentation must be obtained from the engineer with the projection of
condemnations. The deferred level from the signed approval letter will be input into
SIRS and remain in SIRS for that cycle and the next three consecutive cycles until the
letter signed by the 591st SCMG commander or equivalent expires, the letter is
superseded by another letter signed by the SCMG commander or equivalent in
organizations outside the AFGLSC or until the justification for the code is no longer
valid whichever is sooner. The deferred level may be reduced prior to expiration of the
signed approval letter if the year the life of the weapon system expires has decreased, the
item is being replaced or if the reliability of the item is dramatically increased creating a
drastic decrease in condemnations or replacement percents. Changes will be thoroughly
documented and justified. The deferred level will not be increased without a new signed
approval letter. An entry must be numeric or ZZZZZ. A value of ZZZZZ is used to
delete a previously established level. The deletion of a level results in SIRS input of
zeros and a blank source reference code. When the IMS wants to remove the deferred
disposal code, he should first remove the deferred level by file maintaining Zs in the
deferred level, and then file maintaining a “B” in the deferred disposal code. A value
cannot be entered when the Item Deferred Disposal Code is "C" or "P".
*14.3.2.2. Use of the Deferred Level for "M" military contingency items. The system
program manager or program group manager provides the deferred level and the IMS file
maintains that deferred level after the 591st SCMG commander or equivalent signs the
letter. (See paragraph 14.3.1.3.1). When the deferred level is zero, SIRS will compute
the item to an optimum position with the requirement equaling the total assets on hand
and on order. When the deferred level is greater than zero, and the assets exceed the
deferred level, all assets on hand above the level are identified as excess and all assets on
order are identified for termination. When the deferred level is greater than zero and
greater than the number of assets, SIRS will not generate a buy requirement.
*31.8.22.1. Similar to R coded retention policy, rationale for retaining the item in the
stocklist without buying must be approved through your 591st Supply Chain
Management Group commander or equivalent and coordinated with your local D200A
Functional OPR. A consolidated set of rationale for the ALC (list each basic rationale
and number of items in each group using that rationale) will be provided to 401
SCMS/GUMD by the local D200A Functional OPR annually.
*33.3.1. Every computation cycle the IMS/MM will work ALL their items computing in
termination starting their review with the highest termination dollar valued items and
working down the list on the Item Review Listing. This policy ensures that efforts to
avoid unnecessary costs to the government focus on items with the highest termination
value mostly likely to provide the largest recovery of dollars if terminated first and lower
value termination quantities more likely to be found uneconomical to terminate by the
termination model are reviewed next.
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                                MANUAL 23-1
                                                                                                                  12 JUNE 2008
                                                                                             Incorporating Change 1, 22 July 2008

                                                                                                                                      Operations

                                                                            REQUIREMENTS FOR SECONDARY ITEMS
                                                                                                 (D200A, D200N)

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBLILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website a
                www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restriction on this publication.


OPR: AFMC/A4YR                                                                                          Certified by: HQ AFMC/A4Y
                                                                                                                 (Ronald S. Rosenthal)
Supersedes AFMCMAN23-1, 5 January 2007                                                                                     Pages: 844

This manual prescribes guidance and procedural instructions for computing XD1, XD2, XB3 and XF3
secondary item requirements. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change implements new guidelines that clarify requirements of the computation of secondary
item requirements, reflects the new office symbols as a result of the realignment to the AFGLSC, identi-
fies new Source of Supply, Acquisition Advice Codes as well as Cataloging Budget Code and Materiel
Management Aggregation Codes. Additional links to the Interactive Requirements Information Services
(IRIS) are also included. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.

Chapter 1— GENERAL                                                                                                                             34
      1.1.   Applicability. .............................................................................................................      34
      1.2.   Purpose. ......................................................................................................................   34
      1.3.   Types of Items. ..........................................................................................................        35
Table 1.1.   Examples. ..................................................................................................................      36
      1.4.   General Responsibilities. ...........................................................................................             39
      1.5.   Requirements Segments. ............................................................................................               42
      1.6.   Categories of Requirements. ......................................................................................                43
2                                                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      1.7.     Computation Timespan. .............................................................................................              43
      1.8.     Initial and Follow On Spares. ....................................................................................               44
      1.9.     Stock Number Establishment. ....................................................................................                 45
      1.10. Review and Adjustment Actions. ..............................................................................                       46
      1.11.    Life Of Type Buys. ....................................................................................................          49
      1.12.    Identifying Candidates And Requirements For Multiple Year Contracting. .............                                             50
      1.13. Retention of Documentation & Products. ..................................................................                           51
Figure 1.1.    Time Periods. ............................................................................................................       57
      1.14. Performanced Based Logistics (PBL) Contracts. .....................................................                                 57

Chapter 2— HOW TO ACCESS SIRS                                                                                                                   59
      2.1.     Introduction. ...............................................................................................................    59
      2.2.     Schedule. ....................................................................................................................   59
      2.3.     General Access. .........................................................................................................        59
      2.4.     Access to SIRS Without GUI. ...................................................................................                  59
      2.5.     Access to SIRS Using GUI. .......................................................................................                60
Figure 2.1.    Requirements Data Bank Main Menu. .....................................................................                          61
Figure 2.2.    Example of Drop Down Menu. .................................................................................                     62
Figure 2.3.    Example of Multiple Levels Drop Down Menus. .....................................................                                63
Figure 2.4.    Example of Mid-Level Menu. ..................................................................................                    64
Figure 2.5.    Example of Lowest Level Menu. ..............................................................................                     65
      2.6.     GUI Navigation Buttons. ...........................................................................................              65
Figure 2.6.    Example of Screen With GUI Navigation Buttons. ..................................................                                67
      2.7.     Source Reference Codes. ...........................................................................................              67
      2.8.     Non GUI Navigation Function Keys. ........................................................................                       68
Table 2.1.     Non-GUI Navigation Function Keys. .......................................................................                        68
      2.9.     Organization of the SIRS Online Screens. .................................................................                       69
Figure 2.7.    RDB FOE Final Operating Environment Menu. ......................................................                                 70
      2.10.    Display Screens. .........................................................................................................       70
Figure 2.8.    Display DIS Main Menu. ..........................................................................................                71
Figure 2.9.    Display SIRS Recoverable Menu. ............................................................................                      72
Table 2.2.     Display Screens. ........................................................................................................        73
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                            3


Figure 2.10. Display CW Comp Worksheet Menu. ......................................................................                                75
Figure 2.11. Display DTI Data Type Interrogations Menu. ..........................................................                                 76
Figure 2.12. Display FUD Factors/Usage Data Menu. .................................................................                                77
Figure 2.13. Display IOA Index of Actions Selection Screen. .....................................................                                  80
Figure 2.14. Display MISC Miscellaneous Menu. ........................................................................                             81
Figure 2.15. Display SND Stock Number Data Menu. .................................................................                                83
Figure 2.16. Display TBLD Table Data Menu. .............................................................................                           86
Figure 2.17. File Maintenance FM Main Menu. ...........................................................................                            87
        2.11.     File Maintenance Screens. .........................................................................................              87
Figure 2.18. File Maintenance SIRS Recoverables Menu. ...........................................................                                  89
Figure 2.19. File Maintenance GRPR Group Recomp Selection Screen. .....................................                                            90
Figure 2.20. File Maintenance SND Stock Number Data Menu. .................................................                                        91
Table 2.3.        File Maintenance Screens. ........................................................................................               92
        2.12. Output Products Screens. ...........................................................................................                 92
Figure 2.21. Output Products Main Menu. ....................................................................................                       93
Figure 2.22. Output Products SJR Submit Job Request Menu. .....................................................                                   94
Figure 2.23. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu. ..........................................                                         95
Figure 2.24. User Function Keys Screen. ......................................................................................                     96

Chapter 3— INTERFACING SYSTEM INPUTS                                                                                                              97
        3.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................    97
        3.2.      Standard Base Supply System (SBSS) D002A ..........................................................                             97
        3.3.      Item Manager Wholesale Requisition Process D035A. .............................................                                 98
        3.4.      Wholesale Management and Efficiency Reports System D035B. ............................                                          100
        3.5.      Recoverable Assembly Management Process System (RAMP) D035C. ..................                                                 100
        3.6.      Readiness Base Leveling System (RBL) D035E. ......................................................                              100
        3.7.      WSMIS REALM Requirements Computation Support System D087H. ..................                                                   100
        3.8.      Requirements Item Identification Data system (RIID) D200E. ................................                                     101
        3.9.      Applications, Program & Indenture System (API) D200F. .......................................                                   102
        3.10.     Job Order Production Master System G004L. ...........................................................                           103
        3.11. MISTR Requirements Scheduling and Analysis System G019C. .............................                                              103
4                                                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      3.12. Contract Depot Maintenance Production and Cost System G072D. .........................                                           103
      3.13. Acquisition and Due-In System J018R. .....................................................................                       103
      3.14. Data From Other Services Via M024B. .....................................................................                        104
      3.15. Security Assistance Management Information System (SAMIS) W001. ..................                                               104
Table 3.1.      SIRS On Order/Due In Processing of J018R Input. .................................................                            104
Figure 3.1.     Input and Output Interfacing Systems. .....................................................................                  106
Figure 3.2.     Contractor Data Flow. ...............................................................................................        107

Chapter 4— INTERFACING SYSTEM OUTPUTS                                                                                                        108
      4.1.      Output Files To Interfacing Systems. ........................................................................                108
      4.2.      Item Manager Wholesale Requisition Process System (D035A). .............................                                     108
      4.3.      Readiness Based Leveling (RBL) System (D035E). .................................................                             109
      4.4.      Resupply Planning Factors System (D037). ..............................................................                      109
      4.5.      Master item Identification Control System (D043). ..................................................                         109
      4.6.      The Dyna-Metric System (D064). .............................................................................                 109
      4.7.      Defense Materiel Utilization and Disposition Program System (D035G). ...............                                         109
      4.8.      Logistics Management Data Base D075. ...................................................................                     110
Table 4.1.      Daily Demand Rate Computation. ............................................................................                  112
Table 4.2.      Example: National Stock Number (NSN) 6543002323232 .....................................                                     113
      4.9.      Combat Ammunition System (D078W). ...................................................................                        113
      4.10. Air Force Requirements Forecasting System (D085). ...............................................                                114
Table 4.3.      Data Elements. ..........................................................................................................    114
      4.11. D087E. .......................................................................................................................   114
Table 4.4.      Data Elements. ..........................................................................................................    114
      4.12. D087H. .......................................................................................................................   114
Table 4.5.      Data Elements. ..........................................................................................................    114
      4.13. D087W. ......................................................................................................................    114
Table 4.6.      Data Elements. ..........................................................................................................    115
      4.14. D087X. .......................................................................................................................   115
Table 4.7.      Data Elements. ..........................................................................................................    115
      4.15.     Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) (D200N) System. ..............................                                  115
      4.16.     Repairability Forecast Model D357. ..........................................................................                115
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                           5


Table 4.8.       Data Elements. ..........................................................................................................       115
        4.17. Weapon System Cost Retrieval System H036C. .......................................................                                 115
Table 4.9.       Data Elements. ..........................................................................................................       116
        4.18.    Data To Other Services Via M024B. .........................................................................                     116
        4.19. Security Assistance Management Information System (SAMIS) (W001). ...............                                                  116
Figure 4.1.      Assets and Requirements for D035G. .......................................................................                      117

Chapter 5— PRODUCTS FOR THE OPR                                                                                                                  118
        5.1.     Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   118
Figure 5.1.      Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu. ..........................................                                   118
        5.2.     Output Products OPR Selection Screen. ....................................................................                      118
Figure 5.2.      Output Products OPR Reports Selection Screen. .....................................................                             119
Figure 5.3.      Output Products QCC Quality Control Checklist Selection Screen. ........................                                        120
        5.3.     Quality Control Checklist. .........................................................................................            120
Figure 5.4.      Output Products ISD Input System Product Selection Menu. ..................................                                     121
        5.4.     Input System Data Products. ......................................................................................              121
Figure 5.5.      End Of Quarter Asset/Level/Usage Data. .................................................................                        128
Figure 5.6.      IM Wholesale Requisition Data (IMS). ....................................................................                       129
Figure 5.7.      Item Management SC&D Data. ................................................................................                     130
Figure 5.8.      History Accumulation Data. .....................................................................................                131
Figure 5.9.      Intransit Control Data. ..............................................................................................          132
Figure 5.10. Job Order Production Master Data. ..........................................................................                        133
Figure 5.11. Contract Depot Maintenance Production & Cost Data. ............................................                                     134
Figure 5.12. MISTR Requirements Scheduling & Analysis Data. ...............................................                                      135
Figure 5.13. Acquisition & Due-In Data. ......................................................................................                   136
Figure 5.14. Security Assistance MIS Data. .................................................................................                     137
Figure 5.15. Readiness Based Leveling Data. ...............................................................................                      138
Figure 5.16. Requirements Data Exchange Data. .........................................................................                          139

Chapter 6— TABLES & DEFAULT VALUES                                                                                                               140
        6.1.     Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   140
Figure 6.1.      File Maintenance Table Data Menu. .........................................................................                     140
6                                                                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        6.2.      BP/SMC/BSO Table. .................................................................................................       141
Figure 6.2.       BSBT DP/SMC/BSO Table. .....................................................................................              142
        6.3.      BP SMC PSEUDO MD Table. ..................................................................................                142
Figure 6.3.       BSMD BP SMC PSEUDO MD Table. .....................................................................                        143
        6.4.      BTRT BP SMC Target Fill Rate Table. ....................................................................                  143
Figure 6.4.       BTRT BP SMC Target Fill Rate Table. ...................................................................                   144
Figure 6.5.       BVRT BSO KEY/BSO Value RSLT Table (Page 1). ..............................................                                145
Figure 6.6.       BVRT BSO KEY/BSO Value RSLT Table (Page 2). ..............................................                                146
        6.5.      BSO Value Result Tables. .........................................................................................        146
        6.6.      Contractor Identity Table. ..........................................................................................     147
Figure 6.7.       CIT Contractor Identity Table. .................................................................................          147
        6.7.      Contractor Output Table. ...........................................................................................      147
        6.8.      Excluded MMAC Table. ............................................................................................         148
Figure 6.8.       COT Contractor Output Table. .................................................................................            148
Figure 6.9.       HLFT High-Low Factors Table. ...............................................................................              149
        6.9.      High-Low Factors Table. ...........................................................................................       149
Figure 6.10. IIT Inflation Index Table. .........................................................................................           150
        6.10.     Inflation Index Table. ................................................................................................   150
        6.11. Retention Level Adjustment Factor Table. ................................................................                     150
Figure 6.11. RLAF Retention Level Adjustment Factor Table. ....................................................                             151
        6.12.     Aircraft Availability Model Mission Design Series/Mission Design Table. .............                                     151
        6.13. MD Goal/Floor Factor Table. ....................................................................................              152
Figure 6.12. MAMD AAM MDS/MD Table. ...............................................................................                         153
Figure 6.13. MGFT MD Goal/Floor Factor Table. .......................................................................                       154
Figure 6.14. OWRM Table. ..........................................................................................................         155
        6.14. OWRM Table. ...........................................................................................................       155
        6.15. Pipeline Adjustment Factors Table. ...........................................................................                156
Figure 6.15. PAFT P-L Adjustment Factors Table. ......................................................................                      157
        6.16.     PRELOG Error Level Conversion Table. ..................................................................                   158
Figure 6.16. PECT PRELOG Error Level Conversion Table. ......................................................                               159
        6.17. Standard Data Table. ..................................................................................................       159
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                                  7


Figure 6.17. SDT Standard Data Table. ........................................................................................                          160
        6.18. Standard Data Table By ALC. ...................................................................................                           162
Figure 6.18. SDTA Standard Data Table by ALC. .......................................................................                                   163
        6.19. Standard Data Table By ERRC. ................................................................................                             163
Figure 6.19. SDTE Standard Data Table by ERRC. .....................................................................                                    165
        6.20.     Establishment of System Management Codes. ..........................................................                                  165
Figure 6.20. API BP-SMC Table. .................................................................................................                        166

Chapter 7— QUALITY REVIEWS                                                                                                                              167
        7.1.      General. ......................................................................................................................       167
Table 7.1.        IMS Quality Review Checklist – For Items With ERRC = C or T. .........................                                                168
Table 7.2.        IMS Quality Review Checklist – For Items With ERRC = N or P. .........................                                                176
Table 7.3.        AF SICA NIMSC 5 Checklist                         .................................................................................   182
Table 7.4.        Factors & Usage Quality Review Checklist- For Items With ERRC = C or T. .......                                                       186
Table 7.5.        Factors & Usage Quality Review Checklist- For Items With ERRC = N or P. .......                                                       192
Table 7.6.        Repair Quality Checklist. ..........................................................................................                  199
Table 7.7.        Termination Review Checklist. ................................................................................                        204
Table 7.8.        MPRP Review Checklist. .........................................................................................                      206
Table 7.9.        HQ AFMC Review Summary. ..................................................................................                            209
Table 7.10. ALC Review Team Summary. ..................................................................................                                 210

Chapter 8— BATCH VALIDATION REPORTS FOR THE HQ AFMC SIRS OPR                                                                                            213
        8.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................         213
Figure 8.1.       ISID Interface System Input Dates Display Screen. .................................................                                   213
        8.2.      Basic Format Of Data Summary Statistics Reports. ..................................................                                   214
Figure 8.2.       D002A Data Summary Statistics Report. .................................................................                               216
        8.3.      D002A Report. ...........................................................................................................             216
        8.4.      D035A Report. ...........................................................................................................             216
Figure 8.3.       D035A Data Summary Statistics Report. .................................................................                               217
        8.5.      D035B Report. ...........................................................................................................             217
Figure 8.4.       D035B Data Summary Statistics Report. .................................................................                               218
        8.6.      D035C Reports. .........................................................................................................              218
8                                                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 8.5.      D035C-C Data Summary Statistics Report. .............................................................                           219
Figure 8.6.      D035C-A Data Summary Statistics Report. .............................................................                           219
       8.7.      RBL (D035E) Report. ................................................................................................            219
Figure 8.7.      D035E Data Summary Statistics Report. ..................................................................                        220
       8.8.      D087H Report. ...........................................................................................................       220
       8.9.      G004L Report. ...........................................................................................................       220
Figure 8.8.      D004L Data Summary Statistics Report. ..................................................................                        221
       8.10. G019C Report. ...........................................................................................................           221
Figure 8.9.      G019C Data Summary Statistics Report. .................................................................                         222
       8.11. G072D Report. ...........................................................................................................           222
Figure 8.10. G072D Data Summary Statistics Report. .................................................................                             223
       8.12. J018R Report. ............................................................................................................          223
       8.13. M024B Report. ..........................................................................................................            223
       8.14. W001 Report. .............................................................................................................          223
Figure 8.11. W001 Data Summary Statistics Report. ...................................................................                            224
       8.15. Batch Data Error Report. ...........................................................................................                224
Figure 8.12. Example of Batch Data Error Report. .......................................................................                         224

Chapter 9— REQUIREMENTS COMPUTATION                                                                                                              225
       9.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   225
Figure 9.1.      Display CW Comp Worksheet Selection Screen. .....................................................                               225
       9.2.      The SGM Computation Worksheet. ..........................................................................                       226
       9.3.      Page 1 Basic Data. .....................................................................................................        227
Figure 9.2.      Display SMCW Page 1 Basic Data. ..........................................................................                      228
       9.4.      Page 2 Pipelines and Usage. ......................................................................................              233
Figure 9.3.      Display SMCW Page 2 Pipeline Days and Usage. ...................................................                                234
       9.5.      Page 3 Rates and Percentages. ...................................................................................               236
Table 9.1.       Example of How Factors Used. ................................................................................                   237
Figure 9.4.      Display SMCW Page 3 Rates and Percentages. .......................................................                              238
Figure 9.5.      Display SMCW Page 4 Assets. .................................................................................                   239
       9.6.      Page 4 Assets. ............................................................................................................     240
Figure 9.6.      Display SMCW Page 5 Additives. ...........................................................................                      241
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                         9


        9.7.       Page 5 Additives. .......................................................................................................   241
Figure 9.7.        Display SMCW Page 6 Computational Lines. .........................................................                          242
        9.8.       Page 6 Computational Lines. .....................................................................................           242
Table 9.2.         Example: OIM OP Rqmt. .........................................................................................             243
Table 9.3.         Example: Base OIM Base O/ST Rqmt. ....................................................................                      244
Table 9.4.         Example: OIM Base R/C Rqmt. ...............................................................................                 245
Table 9.5.         Example: Base Sfty Lvl-1 Number of Users = 5 ......................................................                         246
Table 9.6.         Example: Tot Base Stk Lvl (Full). ............................................................................              246
Table 9.7.         Example: PDM NJR Program. ..................................................................................                247
Table 9.8.         Example: PDM NJR Rqmt. ......................................................................................               248
Table 9.9.         Example: EOH NJR Program. ..................................................................................                248
Table 9.10. Example: EOH NJR Rqmt ........................................................................................                     249
Table 9.11. Example: NHA MISTR NJR Program. ....................................................................                               249
Table 9.12. Example: NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt. .........................................................................                             250
Table 9.13. Example: PDM JR Program. ....................................................................................                      250
Table 9.14. Example: PDM JR Rqmt (CNDMN). .......................................................................                              250
Table 9.15. Example: EOH JR Program. .....................................................................................                     251
Table 9.16. Example: EOH JR Rqmt (CNDMN). .......................................................................                              251
Table 9.17. Example: NHA MISTR JR Program ........................................................................                             251
Table 9.18. Example: NHA MISTR JR Rqmt (CNDMN). ..........................................................                                     252
Table 9.19. Example: TOTAL JR CNDMN. ...............................................................................                           252
Table 9.20. Example: NJR STK LVL-NJR Stock Level Days = 14; NJR Factor = 14/90 =
            .1556. ........................................................................................................................    253
Table 9.21. Example: JR STK LVL-JR Stock Level Days = 14; JR Factor = 14/90 = .1556 .....                                                      253
Table 9.22. Example: TOTAL OVHL STK LVL. .......................................................................                               254
Table 9.23. Example: Additive Rqmt Non-Recur. ......................................................................                           255
Table 9.24. Example: Total Gross Rqmt (Full). ..........................................................................                       255
Table 9.25. Example: Total Gross Rqmt (LTD). .........................................................................                         256
Table 9.26. Example: Svc Due In - Procurement Lead time = 15 months ..................................                                         257
Table 9.27. Example: On Order - Procurement Lead time = 15 months .....................................                                        258
10                                                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.28. Example: Total Svc                    ..................................................................................................   258
Table 9.29. Example: 1st Over (Full). .........................................................................................                        258
Table 9.30. Example:1st Over (Ltd). ...........................................................................................                        259
Table 9.31. Example: 1st Short (Full). .........................................................................................                       259
Table 9.32. Example: 1st Short (Ltd). ..........................................................................................                       259
Table 9.33. Example: Base Processed. ........................................................................................                          260
Table 9.34. Example: Base CNDMN. .........................................................................................                             260
Table 9.35. Example: Base Repair. ..............................................................................................                       260
Table 9.36. Example: 2nd Over (Full). ........................................................................................                         261
Table 9.37. Example: 2nd Over (Ltd). .........................................................................................                         261
Table 9.38. Example 2nd Short (Full). ........................................................................................                         262
Table 9.39. Example: 2nd Short (Ltd). ........................................................................................                         262
Table 9.40. Example:TOC Assets. ...............................................................................................                        262
Table 9.41. Example:OIM Rep Gens. ..........................................................................................                           263
Table 9.42. Example:OIM Rep Gen Cndmn MISTR Condemnation % = 17 (Current &
            Forecast). ..................................................................................................................              264
Table 9.43. Example: Net OIM Rep Gens. ..................................................................................                              264
Figure 9.8.        Example #1: OIM Gens Avail From Rpr. .................................................................                              265
Figure 9.9.        Example #2: OIM GENS AVAIL FROM RPR-Depot Repair Cycle days = 190
                   (190/90 = 2 quarters + 10 days remainder) and (90 - 10 = 80) and (80/90 =
                   .888888 DRC factor) ................................................................................................                266
Table 9.44. Example: OIM Dep Rpr Cycle. ................................................................................                               267
Table 9.45. Example: NJR Rep Gens. .........................................................................................                           267
Table 9.46. Example: NJR Rep Gens Cndmn. .............................................................................                                 267
Table 9.47. Example: Net NJR Rep Gens. ...................................................................................                             268
Figure 9.10. Example No 1: NJR GENS AVAIL FROM RPR Depot Repair Cycle days = 15,
             90- 15 = 75/90 = .833333 depot repair cycle factor. ................................................                                      268
Figure 9.11. Example No 2: NJR GENS AVAIL FROM RPR Depot Repair Cycle days =
             190 190/90=2 quarters+10 days remainder 90-10=80 80/90=.888888 depot repair
             cycle factor. ..............................................................................................................              269
Table 9.48. Example: NJR Dep Repr Cycle Rqmt. .....................................................................                                    270
Table 9.49. Example: UNSVC/TOC Due In. ..............................................................................                                  270
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                     11


Table 9.50. Example: Due In Unserviceable Condemnation Percent = 17 (Current &
            Forecast). ..................................................................................................................   271
Figure 9.12. Example: Due In Avail from RPR Factor .................................................................                        272
Table 9.51. Example: Tot Avail From Dep Rpr. .........................................................................                      272
Table 9.52. Example: 3rd Over (Full). .........................................................................................             273
Table 9.53. Example:3rd Over (Ltd). ...........................................................................................             273
Table 9.54. Example: 3rd Short (Full). ........................................................................................             274
Table 9.55. Example: 3rd Short (Ltd). .........................................................................................             274
        9.9.       MISTR Output Requirements. ...................................................................................           275
Table 9.56. Example: Balance W-B Requirement Rlt Qtr. ..........................................................                            275
Table 9.57. Example: Balance OWRM Requirements. ...............................................................                             276
Table 9.58. Example: Adjusted 2nd Short Position. ....................................................................                      276
Table 9.59. Example:OWRM 2nd Short Requirement. ...............................................................                             277
Table 9.60. Example: Assets Available For WRM Repair. .........................................................                             277
Table 9.61. Example: Maximum W-B Repair Requirement. ......................................................                                 277
Table 9.62. Example: Maximum OWRM Repair Requirement ..................................................                                     278
Table 9.63. Example: POS MISTR OUTPUT .............................................................................                         278
Table 9.64. Example: W-B MISTR Output. ................................................................................                     279
Table 9.65. Example: OWRM MISTR Output. ...........................................................................                         279
Table 9.66. Example: W-B/OWRM MISTR Output. ..................................................................                              280
Table 9.67. Example: Total MISTR Output. ...............................................................................                    280
        9.10. MISTR Input Requirements. ......................................................................................              280
Figure 9.13. Example: POS MISTR Input. ...................................................................................                  281
Figure 9.14. Example: W-B MISTR Input. ...................................................................................                  282
Figure 9.15. Example: OWRM MISTR Input. ..............................................................................                      283
Table 9.68. Example: MISTR Input. ...........................................................................................               283
        9.11. Pages 7 & 8MISTR Screens. .....................................................................................               283
Figure 9.16. Display SMCW Page 7 Total MISTR Requirements. ..............................................                                   284
Figure 9.17. Display SMCW page 8 MISTR POS W-B OWRM Requirements. .........................                                                 285
        9.12.      Pages 9 & 10 - Buy Operating Level Summary. .......................................................                      286
12                                                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.69. Possible Data Elements, Applied Assets and Computational Results. .....................                                               287
Figure 9.18. Display SMCW page 9 Buy Operating Level Full Funding. ....................................                                           287
        9.13.     Page 11 Computation Status. .....................................................................................               287
Figure 9.19. Display SMCW page 11 Computation Status. ..........................................................                                  288
Table 9.70. Sources of Repair. .....................................................................................................              292
        9.14. Page 12 I & S FAMILY GROUP. .............................................................................                           293
Figure 9.20. Display SMCW page 13 Application Data. ..............................................................                                293
        9.15. Page 13 APPLICATION DATA. ..............................................................................                            293
        9.16. Page 14 DEFERRALS PAGE. ..................................................................................                          294
        9.17. Page 15 Coding and Approval. ..................................................................................                     294
Figure 9.21. Proration Technique. .................................................................................................               295
Figure 9.22. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 1). .......................................................                                    296
Figure 9.23. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 2). .......................................................                                    297
Figure 9.24. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 3). .......................................................                                    298
Figure 9.25. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 4). .......................................................                                    299
Figure 9.26. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 5). .......................................................                                    300
Figure 9.27. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 6). .......................................................                                    301
Figure 9.28. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 7). .......................................................                                    301
Figure 9.29. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 8). .......................................................                                    302
Figure 9.30. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 9). .......................................................                                    302
Figure 9.31. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 10). .....................................................                                     303
Figure 9.32. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 11). .....................................................                                     303
Figure 9.33. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 12). .....................................................                                     304
Figure 9.34. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 13). .....................................................                                     304

Chapter 10— ITEM RECOMPUTATIONS                                                                                                                   305
      10.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   305
Figure 10.1. File Maintenance FRIR For Real Item Recomp Screen. ..........................................                                        305
      10.2.       "For Real" Item Recomputation. ................................................................................                 305
Figure 10.2. File Maintenance WTIR What If Item Recomp Screen. ..........................................                                         307
      10.3.       "What If" Item Recomputation. .................................................................................                 307
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                            13


Figure 10.3. File Maintenance IRFM Item Recomp Menu. ..........................................................                                    308
Figure 10.4. File Maintenance SADR Simulation Additives Screen. ...........................................                                        309
       10.4.       Simulation Additives. ................................................................................................          309
Table 10.1. Additives Requirements. ...........................................................................................                    310
Figure 10.5. File Maintenance SALV Simulation Adjusted Levels Screen. .................................                                            311
       10.5.       Simulation Adjusted Levels. ......................................................................................              311
       10.6.       Simulation Basic Management Data. .........................................................................                     311
Figure 10.6. File Maintenance SBMD (Simulation Basic Management Data Screen). ................                                                     312
Figure 10.7. File Maintenance SFAD Simulation Factor Data Screen. ........................................                                         313
       10.7.       Simulation Factors. ....................................................................................................        313
Figure 10.8. File Maintenance SIPD Simulation Item Program Data Screen. ..............................                                             314
       10.8.       Simulation Item Programs. ........................................................................................              314
Figure 10.9. File Maintenance SNTP Simulation Non Time Phased Assets Screen. ...................                                                   315
       10.9.       Simulation Non Time Phased Assets. ........................................................................                     315
Table 10.2. Screen ........................................................................................................................        316
       10.10.      Simulation Pipeline Data Screen. ..............................................................................                 316
Figure 10.10. File Maintenance SPLD Simulation Pipeline Data Screen. ......................................                                        317
Figure 10.11. File Maintenance STPA Simulation Time Phased Assets Screen. ...........................                                              318
       10.11. Simulation Time Phased Assets. ................................................................................                      318
Figure 10.12. File Maintenance SUSD Simulation Usage Data Screen. ........................................                                         319
       10.12. Simulation Usage. ......................................................................................................             319
Figure 10.13. File Maintenance SWD Simulation War Data Screen. .............................................                                       320
       10.13. Simulation War Data. ................................................................................................                320

Chapter 11— INDEX OF ACTIONS PRODUCTS                                                                                                              321
       11.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   321
       11.2.       The Buy, Termination & Excess I/A Products. .........................................................                           321
       11.3.       The Repair I/A Products. ...........................................................................................            321
       11.4.       Product Format for the Buy, Termination, and Excess I/A Reports. .........................                                      322
       11.5.       Product Format for the Repair I/A Reports. ..............................................................                       324
       11.6.       Display Index Of Actions Screens. ............................................................................                  325
Figure 11.1. Display IOA Index Of Actions Selection Screen. ....................................................                                   326
14                                                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 11.2. Display IOA Index Of Actions Buy Screen. .............................................................                               327
Figure 11.3. Display IOA Index Of Actions Repair Screen Left. .................................................                                   328
Figure 11.4. Index of Actions Net Buy (By NSN). .......................................................................                           328
Figure 11.5. Index of Actions Net Buy (By MMAC/FSC) ...........................................................                                   329
Figure 11.6. Index of Actions – Net Buy (By BP/SMC). .............................................................                                329
Figure 11.7. Index of Actions – Termination (By NSN). .............................................................                               329
Figure 11.8. Index of Actions – Termination (By MMAC/FSC). .................................................                                      330
Figure 11.9. Index of Actions – Termination (By BP/SMC). .......................................................                                  330
Figure 11.10. Index of Actions – Excess (By NSN). ......................................................................                          330
Figure 11.11. Index of Actions – Excess (By MMAC/FSC). .........................................................                                  331
Figure 11.12. Index of Actions – Excess (By BP/SMC). ................................................................                             331
Figure 11.13. Index of Action Repair MMAC XX FSC XXXX By Apportionment Year Value. ....                                                           331
Figure 11.14. Index of Action Repair BP XX SMC XXXX By Apportionment Year Value. .......                                                          332
Figure 11.15. Index of Action Repair IMS XXX By Apportionment Year Value. ........................                                                332
Figure 11.16. Index of Action Repair Division x Apportionment Year Value. ..............................                                          332
Figure 11.17. Index of Action Repair ES By Apportionment Year Value. ....................................                                         333
Figure 11.18. Index of Action Repair Division x By Subgroup Master Stock Number. ................                                                 333

Chapter 12— EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST REVIEW PRODUCTS                                                                                                  334
      12.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   334
      12.2.       ES Review List. .........................................................................................................       334
Figure 12.1. Display IRL IMS/ES Review List Screen. ...............................................................                               335
      12.3.       Old Stock Number Usage (AD200.AENAB89D) (Figure 12.5.). .............................                                           337
      12.4.       Output Products Equipment Specialist Selection Screen. .........................................                                337
Figure 12.2. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu. ..........................................                                        338
Figure 12.3. Display EPSS Equipment Specialist Selection Screen. ............................................                                     339
      12.5.       Terms Relating To Failures Of Items. .......................................................................                    339
Table 12.1. Operating Hours. .......................................................................................................              341
      12.6.       Equipment Specialist Responsibilities. ......................................................................                   343
      12.7.       Validation Of Usage, Factors and Application Data. ................................................                             347
Figure 12.4. ES Review List. ........................................................................................................             349
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                           15


Figure 12.5. Old Stock Number Usage Report. ............................................................................                          350

Chapter 13— ITEM MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST REVIEW PRODUCTS                                                                                            351
      13.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   351
      13.2.       IMS Review List (AD200.AKBA#8DS) ...................................................................                            351
Figure 13.1. Display IRL IMS/ES Review List Screen. ...............................................................                               352
      13.3.       Old Stock Number Additives (AD200.AEPAB89D) (Figure 13.6.) .........................                                            354
      13.4.       Stock Number Identity Cross Reference Report. .......................................................                           354
Figure 13.2. Display SNIC Stock Number ID Cross Reference Screen. ......................................                                          355
      13.5.       Output Products Item Manager Selection Screen. .....................................................                            356
Figure 13.3. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu. ..........................................                                        357
Figure 13.4. Output Products PSS Item Manager Selection Screen. ............................................                                      358
Figure 13.5. IMS Review List. ......................................................................................................              358
Figure 13.6. Old Stock Number Additives Report. .......................................................................                           359
Figure 13.7. Stock Number Identity Cross-Reference (Gains/Changes/Loses). ...........................                                             359

Chapter 14— BASIC MANAGEMENT DATA                                                                                                                 360
      14.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   360
Figure 14.1. File Maintenance BMD Basic Management Data Screen. .......................................                                           360
      14.2.       Budget Code. .............................................................................................................      361
Table 14.1. Budget Code/Budget Program Code Cross Reference. ............................................                                         363
      14.3.       Deferred Disposal Data. .............................................................................................           365
      14.4.       Interim Contract Support/Reliability Improvement Warranty (ICS/RIW) Data. ......                                                369
      14.5.       Item Activity Code. ....................................................................................................        370
Table 14.2. Codes and Applicable Review Cycle. .......................................................................                            370
      14.6.       Item Category Code. ..................................................................................................          371
      14.7.       Item name. .................................................................................................................    371
      14.8.       Lot Size Quantity. ......................................................................................................       371
      14.9.       Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM) Exclusion Code. ..........................................                                    372
      14.10. Safety Level Exclusion Indicator. ..............................................................................                     372
      14.11. Unit Prices. .................................................................................................................       372
      14.12.      Date of Last Procurement (DOLP). ...........................................................................                    373
      14.13. Weapon System Life Code. .......................................................................................                     373
16                                                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      14.14. Other Data Elements On The BMD Screen. ..............................................................                                 374
Figure 14.2. File Maintenance ISS I and S Structure Data. ..........................................................                               376
      14.15.       I and S Structure File Maintenance Screen. ...............................................................                      376

Chapter 15— REPAIR POLICY AND MISTR REPAIR DATA SCREENS                                                                                            377
      15.1.        Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   377
      15.2.        Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) Procedures. ................................                                      377
      15.3.        Use of Temporary Work Request AF Form 206 Repair. ...........................................                                   378
      15.4.        Depot Floating Stock and Rotatable Spares. .............................................................                        379
Figure 15.1. File Maintenance MRPR MISTR RPR and Repair Selection Screen. .....................                                                    381
      15.5.        File Maintenance of the MISTR Repair Data (MRPR). ............................................                                  381
Figure 15.2. File Maintenance MISTR RPR and Repair Data Screen. .........................................                                          383
      15.6.        Display MISTR Repair Data (MRPR). ......................................................................                        384
Figure 15.3. Display MRPR MISTR and Repair Data Screen (Left). ..........................................                                          384
Figure 15.4. Display MRPR MISTR and Repair Data Screen (Right). ........................................                                           385
      15.7.        The MISTR Repair and Repair Data Product. ...........................................................                           385
      15.8.        Repair Cost. ...............................................................................................................    388
      15.9.        Weighting of DRC Days and Unit Repair Cost. ........................................................                            390
Table 15.1. Example. ...................................................................................................................           391
Figure 15.5. MISTR Repair and Repair Data. ...............................................................................                         392

Chapter 16— USAGE                                                                                                                                  393
      16.1.        Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   393
Figure 16.1. Display SUD SRAN Usage Data Screen (left). ........................................................                                   395
      16.2.        Display Usage By Current Stock Number and SRAN. .............................................                                   395
Figure 16.2. Display SUD SRAN Usage Data Screen (right). ......................................................                                    396
Figure 16.3. Display MUH MAJCOM Usage History (left). ........................................................                                     397
      16.3.        Display Usage Screens (Figure 16.4., Figure 16.5., ..................................................                           397
Figure 16.4. Display FUD Factors/Usage Selection Screen. ........................................................                                  399
Figure 16.5. Display UH Usage History Data Screen (left). .........................................................                                400
Figure 16.6. Display UH Usage History Data Screen (right). .......................................................                                 401
Figure 16.7. Display TSUH Total SGM Usage History Data Screen (left). .................................                                            402
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                          17


Figure 16.8. Display TSUH Total SGM Usage History Data Screen (right). ...............................                                           403
      16.4.      Base Reparable Generations. .....................................................................................               403
      16.5.      Base Reparable This Station. .....................................................................................              403
      16.6.      Base Not Reparable This Station. ..............................................................................                 404
      16.7.      Base Condemnations. .................................................................................................           404
      16.8.      Depot Reparable Generations. ...................................................................................                404
      16.9.      MISTR Repairs (MISTR RPR). .................................................................................                    405
      16.10. MISTR Condemnations (MISTR CNDMN). ............................................................                                     405
      16.11.     Depot Condemnations Total (DEP CNDM TOT). ....................................................                                  405
      16.12. File Maintenance Usage Screen. ................................................................................                     406
Figure 16.9. File Maintenance USGD Usage Data Screen. ..........................................................                                 407
      16.13.     The Factors/Usage Printout. ......................................................................................              408
      16.14.     Spares Requirement Review Board (SRRB) Output Products. .................................                                       412
Figure 16.10. Factors/Usage Printout (Page 1). ..............................................................................                    413
Figure 16.11. Factors/Usage Printout (Page 2). ..............................................................................                    413
Figure 16.12. Factors/Usage Printout (Page 3). ..............................................................................                    414
Figure 16.13. MAJCOM Usage History. ........................................................................................                     414
Figure 16.14. MAJCOM Breakout Percentage. ..............................................................................                         414

Chapter 17— FACTORS                                                                                                                              415
      17.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   415
      17.2.      Definitions of Factors. ...............................................................................................         415
      17.3.      Factors For Consumable Items. .................................................................................                 416
      17.4.      Shifting of Factors and Resetting To Computing. .....................................................                           417
      17.5.      Factor Interpolation. ...................................................................................................       417
Table 17.1. Example of Impact of the Interpolation Indicator. ...................................................                                418
      17.6.      Base NRTS Percent. ..................................................................................................           418
      17.7.      Base Condemnation Percent. .....................................................................................                418
      17.8.      MISTR Condemnation Percent. .................................................................................                   419
      17.9.      Total OIM Demand Rate. ..........................................................................................               419
      17.10.     Mean Time Between Demands. .................................................................................                    419
      17.11.     OIM Depot Demand Rate. .........................................................................................                419
18                                                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      17.12.     OIM Base Repair Rate. ..............................................................................................            419
      17.13. Base Processed Percent. .............................................................................................               420
      17.14.     Depot Level Maintenance Factors. ............................................................................                   420
      17.15. Non Job Routed Program Percents. ...........................................................................                        420
      17.16. Non Job Routed Replacement Percents. ....................................................................                           420
      17.17.     Job Routed Condemnation Percents. .........................................................................                     421
Figure 17.1. Display FUD Factors/Usage Menu. ..........................................................................                          422
      17.18. The Display Factors/Usage Menu. .............................................................................                       422
      17.19. The Display Factors Basic Data. ................................................................................                    422
Figure 17.2. Display FBD Factor Basic Data Screen. ...................................................................                           423
      17.20. The Display Rates And Percents screen. ...................................................................                          425
Figure 17.3. Display RAP Rates and Percents Data Screen. .........................................................                               425
      17.21. The Display Forecast Rates And Percents Screen. ....................................................                                425
Figure 17.4. Display FRAP Forecast Rates and Percents Data Screen. ........................................                                      426
Figure 17.5. Display PF Past Factors Screen (page 1). .................................................................                          427
      17.22. The Display Past Factors Screens. .............................................................................                     427
Figure 17.6. Display PF Past Factors Screen (page 2). .................................................................                          428
      17.23. The Display Factors Application Data Screen. ..........................................................                             428
Figure 17.7. Display FAD Factor Applications Data Screen. .......................................................                                429
      17.24.     File Maintenance of Factor Data. ..............................................................................                 429
Figure 17.8. File Maintenance FACD Factor Data Screen. ..........................................................                                430
      17.25.     The Base RTS Exclusion Indicator. ...........................................................................                   430
      17.26.     Factor Indicator Code. ...............................................................................................          431
      17.27. Exponential Smoothing. .............................................................................................                432
Table 17.2. Example of Historical Data. ......................................................................................                   433
Table 17.3. Example of Exponential Smoothing. ........................................................................                           433
Table 17.4. Example of MAD Computation. ...............................................................................                          434
Table 17.5. Definitions of Factor Indicator Code. .......................................................................                        434

Chapter 18— PROGRAMS AND APPLICATION DATA                                                                                                        437
      18.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   437
      18.2.      Basic Process. ............................................................................................................     437
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                          19


      18.3.       Definitions. ...............................................................................................................   437
      18.4.       Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................    439
      18.5.       Aircraft and Engines List on the World Wide Web. ..................................................                            440
Figure 18.1. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu. ..........................................                                       442
      18.6.       SIRS Programs Products and Display Screens. .........................................................                          442
Figure 18.2. Output Products IPD Item Program Product Selection Screen. ................................                                         443
Figure 18.3. Display SND Stock Number Data Selection Screen. ...............................................                                     444
Figure 18.4. Display IPD Item Program Selection Screen. ...........................................................                              445
Figure 18.5. Display IPD Item Future Peace Programs Screen. ...................................................                                  446
      18.7.       Type Program Code. ..................................................................................................          446
Figure 18.6. Display IPD Item Installed Past Programs. ..............................................................                            447
      18.8.       Past Actual Programs For Aircraft. ............................................................................                448
      18.9.       Projected Programs For Aircraft. ...............................................................................               449
      18.10. Programs for Unclassified Drones and Missiles. .......................................................                              450
      18.11.      Engine Operating Hours. ...........................................................................................            450
      18.12. Programs For PDM, EOH, Trainers and Applications Using PECs. .........................                                              450
      18.13. Programs For Equipment Items. ................................................................................                      451
      18.14. NHA MISTR Programs. ............................................................................................                    451
      18.15. Programs Tailored To Modification Schedules. ........................................................                               452
      18.16. Quarterly Shifting Of Programs. ................................................................................                    455
      18.17. Computation of the Item Installed Program. .............................................................                            456
      18.18. Time Phased Program Data. ......................................................................................                    456
      18.19. API File Maintenance of Programs. ..........................................................................                        456
Figure 18.7. File Maintenance PRGM Programs Selection Menu. ...............................................                                      457
Figure 18.8. File Maintenance FPAP Past Actual Program Screen. .............................................                                     458
Figure 18.9. File Maintenance FPRP Projected Program Screen. ................................................                                    460
Figure 18.10. File Maintenance FFWD Projected Wartime Program Screen. ................................                                           461
Figure 18.11. File Maintenance SPD Standard Program Designator Screen. .................................                                         462
      18.20. API File Maintenance Of Standard Program Designators (SPD). .............................                                           462
      18.21.      Standard Program Designator Types. ........................................................................                    463
      18.22. SPD Subtype. .............................................................................................................          466
20                                                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      18.23.     System Essentiality Code. ..........................................................................................            466
      18.24. Freeze/Deferred Disposal Code. ................................................................................                     466
      18.25. Other Data On the SPD Screen. .................................................................................                     467
      18.26. API File Maintenance Of Application Data. .............................................................                             467
Figure 18.12. - File Maintenance IND Indentures Screen. .............................................................                            469
Figure 18.13. - File Maintenance PS Program Selection Screen. ...................................................                                470
      18.27.     Application Program Select Code. .............................................................................                  470
      18.28. Application Mission Item Essentiality Code. ............................................................                            471
      18.29. Application Program Development Code. .................................................................                             472
      18.30.     Application Program Begin Date. .............................................................................                   472
      18.31. Quantity Per Application and Application Percent. ...................................................                               473
Figure 18.14. Display PDPS Program Selection Data By SPD. .....................................................                                  474
      18.32. API Display Application Program Data By Application/SPD. .................................                                          474
      18.33. API Display Application Program Data By Component/Item. ..................................                                          474
Figure 18.15. Display CPS Program Selection Data By Component. ............................................                                      475
      18.34. API Program Products. ..............................................................................................                475
Figure 18.16. API Programs Products Selection Menu. .................................................................                            476
Table 18.1. Format of the Application. ........................................................................................                  478

Chapter 19— PREDICTIVE LOGISTICS                                                                                                                 480
      19.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   480
Figure 19.1. Display FUD Factors/Usage Menu ...........................................................................                          480
Figure 19.2. Display RAP Rates and Percents Data Screen. .........................................................                               482
      19.2.      The PRELOG Computation. ......................................................................................                  482
Figure 19.3. Display PPH PRELOG Plot Headers Screen. ...........................................................                                 484
      19.3.      Prelog Plot Headers. ..................................................................................................         484
Figure 19.4. Display PP PRELOG Plots Screen. ..........................................................................                          486
      19.4.      Prelog Plots. ...............................................................................................................   486
      19.5.      PRELOG Equations. ..................................................................................................            487
Figure 19.5. Display PE PRELOG Equations Screen. ..................................................................                              488
Figure 19.6. Display PRELOG Data Menu. ..................................................................................                        490
      19.6.      PRELOG Selected Information. ................................................................................                   490
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                              21


Figure 19.7. Display PST PRELOG Selected Information Screen. ..............................................                                          491
      19.7.       PRELOG Error List ...................................................................................................              491
Figure 19.8. Display PEL PRELOG Error List Screen. ................................................................                                  492
      19.8.       PRELOG Error Summary ..........................................................................................                    492
Figure 19.9. Display PES PRELOG Error Summary Screen. .......................................................                                        494
Figure 19.10. PRELOG Plots. .........................................................................................................                495
Figure 19.11. PRELOG Equations. .................................................................................................                    495
Figure 19.12. PRELOG Selected Information. ...............................................................................                           496
Figure 19.13. PRELOG Error List and Summary (Page 1). ...........................................................                                    496
Figure 19.14. PRELOG Error List and Summary (Page 2). ...........................................................                                    496

Chapter 20— ROUTED REPAIR REPLACEMENT QUANTITY                                                                                                       497
      20.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................      497
      20.2.       Policy. ........................................................................................................................   497
      20.3.       Process Description. ...................................................................................................           498
      20.4.       Responsibilities. .........................................................................................................        498
      20.5.       Hard Copy Products. ..................................................................................................             500
      20.6.       RRRQ Display Screen. ..............................................................................................                501
Figure 20.1. Display RQI RRRQ Items Screen. ...........................................................................                              502
Figure 20.2. RRRQ Index For IMS. ..............................................................................................                      503
Figure 20.3. RRRQ Index For ALC. .............................................................................................                       503
Figure 20.4. Development of RRRQ Data. ...................................................................................                           504

Chapter 21— OTHER WAR RESERVE MATERIEL                                                                                                               505
      21.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................      505
      21.2.       Inputs to the OWRM Computation. ...........................................................................                        505
Figure 21.1. Display WARD War Data Screen. ...........................................................................                               506
      21.3.       OWRM Computation Logic. .....................................................................................                      506
      21.4.       File Maintenance of War Data Elements. ..................................................................                          508
Figure 21.2. File Maintenance WARD War Data Screen. ............................................................                                     509
      21.5.       War Total OIM Demand Rate. ..................................................................................                      509
      21.6.       War Rates & Factors. .................................................................................................             510
22                                                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      21.7.        War Pipeline Days. ....................................................................................................            511
      21.8.        Other War Data. .........................................................................................................          512
      21.9.        The SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet. ............................................................                                   512
Figure 21.3. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet (page 1). ...............................................                                               514
Figure 21.4. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 2). ...................................                                                    515
Figure 21.5. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 3 levels). .........................                                                       516
Figure 21.6. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 3 rqmts). .........................                                                        517
Figure 21.7. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 3 results). ........................                                                       518
Figure 21.8. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 3 deficit). ........................                                                       519
Figure 21.9. OWRM Computation Worksheet Product (Page 1: Item Detail) .............................                                                   520
Figure 21.10. OWRM Computation Worksheet Product (Page 2: Actual Computation
              Worksheet). ..............................................................................................................              520

Chapter 22— PROCUREMENT LEAD TIMES                                                                                                                    521
      22.1.        Introduction. ...............................................................................................................      521
      22.2.        ALT. ...........................................................................................................................   521
      22.3.        Production Lead Time Computation. .........................................................................                        523
      22.4.        Lead Time for Items Acquired Under the SAIP Program. ........................................                                      525
      22.5.        File Maintenance of Lead Time Days . ......................................................................                        525

Chapter 23— PIPELINE TIMES                                                                                                                            527
      23.1.        Introduction. ...............................................................................................................      527
Figure 23.1. Display PLD Pipeline Data Screen. ..........................................................................                             527
      23.2.        General Policy. ...........................................................................................................        527
Figure 23.2. File Maintenance PLD Pipeline Data Screen. ..........................................................                                    528
      23.3.        General Instructions For File Maintenance of Pipeline Times. .................................                                     529
      23.4.        Base Order and Shipping Time (O&ST) Days. .........................................................                                529
      23.5.        Non-Job-Routed (NJR) Stock Level Days. ................................................................                            530
      23.6.        Job-Routed (JR) Stock Level Days. ...........................................................................                      530
      23.7.        Base Repair Cycle Days. ...........................................................................................                530
      23.8.        Depot Repair Cycle Days. .........................................................................................                 530
      23.9.        Base Processing Days. ...............................................................................................              531
      23.10.       Reparable Intransit Days. ...........................................................................................              531
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                           23


      23.11. Supply to Maintenance Days. ....................................................................................                     531
      23.12. Shop Flow Days. ........................................................................................................             532
      23.13.      Serviceable Turn-in Time. .........................................................................................             532
      23.14.      Repair Lead Time. .....................................................................................................         532
      23.15. Time-Phased Depot Repair Cycle. .............................................................................                        532
      23.16. Depot Repaired Items With NJR DLM Program. ......................................................                                    533

Chapter 24— ADJUSTED STOCK LEVELS                                                                                                                 534
      24.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   534
      24.2.       Processing of Data From D035E. ..............................................................................                   534
      24.3.       The Display Adjusted Levels Verification Worksheet Screen ..................................                                    536
Figure 24.1. Display ALVW Adjusted Levels Verification Worksheet Screen. ..........................                                               536
Figure 24.2. Display ALVW Adjusted Levels Verification Worksheet Totals Screen. ...............                                                   537
      24.4.       General Policy For Adjusted Stock Levels. ...............................................................                       537
      24.5.       File Maintenance of Adjusted Stock Level Data. ......................................................                           538
Figure 24.3. File Maintenance ALVW Adjusted Level Selection Screen. ...................................                                           539
Figure 24.4. File Maintenance ALVL Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet Screen. ..............                                                   540
      24.6.       Categories of Adjusted Stock Levels (ASLs). ...........................................................                         542
      24.7.       The Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet. ............................................................                         545
      24.8.       Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance (SPRAM). ....................                                            546
Figure 24.5. C-Factor Table. .........................................................................................................            547
Figure 24.6. Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet. ..................................................................                            548

Chapter 25— ADDITIVES                                                                                                                             549
      25.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   549
      25.2.       Display Additive Requirements (ADRQ) Screen. .....................................................                              550
Figure 25.1. Display ADRQ Additives Data Screen. ....................................................................                             550
      25.3.       General Instructions For File Maintenance of Additives. ..........................................                              550
Figure 25.2. File Maintenance ADRQ Additives Data Screen. ....................................................                                    552
      25.4.       Additives On The ADRQ Screen. ..............................................................................                    553
      25.5.       Additives On The NTPD Screen. ..............................................................................                    557
      25.6.       High Priority Backorders for Consumable Items. .....................................................                            557
      25.7.       Documentation of Additive Requirements. ...............................................................                         558
24                                                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      25.8.     Reductions Beyond Safety Levels. ............................................................................                   559

Chapter 26— NON-TIME PHASED ASSETS AND TIME PHASED ASSETS                                                                                       561
      26.1.     Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   561
      26.2.     Definition of ALC Asset Purpose Codes. ..................................................................                       561
      26.3.     Definitions of ALC Asset Condition Codes. .............................................................                         562
      26.4.     Display Asset Data By Stock Number and SRAN. ...................................................                                564
Figure 26.1. Display ISA SRAN Assets Left Screen. ...................................................................                           565
Figure 26.2. Display ISA SRAN Assets Right Screen. .................................................................                            566
      26.5.     Definitions Of Non Time-Phased Assets. ..................................................................                       566
Figure 26.3. File Maintenance NTPD Non Time Phased Assets Screen. .....................................                                         569
      26.6.     File Maintenance Non Time Phased Asset Data (NTPD) Screen. ............................                                         569
Figure 26.4. Display NTPD Non Time Phased Assets Screen. .....................................................                                  570
      26.7.     Display Non Time-Phased Asset Data NTPD Screen. ..............................................                                  570
      26.8.     Definitions Of Time-Phased Assets. ..........................................................................                   571
Figure 26.5. File Maintenance TPAD Time Phased Assets Screen. .............................................                                     573
      26.9.     File Maintenance Time Phased Asset Data (TPAD) Screen. ....................................                                     573
Figure 26.6. Display TPAD Time Phased Assets Screen. ............................................................                               574
      26.10. Display Time-Phased Asset Data (TPAD) Screen. ...................................................                                  574
Figure 26.7. Display CARD Non Time Phased Assets Screen (Page 1). .....................................                                         576
      26.11.    Display Asset Data by Stock Number (CARD) Screens. ..........................................                                   576
Figure 26.8. Display CARD Time Phased Assets Screen (Page 2). .............................................                                     577
Figure 26.9. Display CARD Assets Totals Screen (Page 3). ........................................................                               578
Figure 26.10. Display CARD Asset Totals At Buy Screen (Page 4). .............................................                                   579
Figure 26.11. Display CARD Obsolete Assets (Page 5). ................................................................                           580
      26.12. The Consolidated Assets and Additive Report. .........................................................                             580
Figure 26.12. Consolidated Assets and Additive (page 1). .............................................................                          582
Figure 26.13. Consolidated Assets and Additive (page 2). .............................................................                          583
Figure 26.14. Consolidated Assets and Additive (page 3). .............................................................                          583

Chapter 27— REQUIREMENTS DATA EXCHANGE WITH OTHER SERVICES                                                                                      584
      27.1.     Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   584
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                          25


Figure 27.1. Display RDEO Output To Other Services. ...............................................................                              584
      27.2.      AF SICA/NIMSC 5 Procedures. ................................................................................                    584
Figure 27.2. File Maintenance SMCW SGM Screen. ...................................................................                               585
Table 27.1. Example Non-Recurring Demands ...........................................................................                            586
Table 27.2. Example Recurring Demands ...................................................................................                        587
Table 27.3. Example Unserviceable Returns ...............................................................................                        587
      27.3.      AF PICA/NIMSC 5 Procedures. ................................................................................                    587
Figure 27.3. Display OSTD Other Services Total Demands & Requirements. ............................                                              589
      27.4.      AF PICA/NIMSC 6 Procedures. ................................................................................                    590
      27.5.      Air Force SICA NIMSC 2, 4 or 8 Items. ...................................................................                       591
Figure 27.4. File Maintenance RDSS RDE Data Selection Menu. ...............................................                                      591
      27.6.      File Maintenance of RDE. .........................................................................................              591
Figure 27.5. File Maintenance RDFM RDE Data Screen – Change. ............................................                                        592
Figure 27.6. File Maintenance RDFM RDE Data Screen – Add. .................................................                                      593
      27.7.      Format of RDE Transaction. ......................................................................................               593

Chapter 28— ASSET RECONCILIATION                                                                                                                 598
      28.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   598
      28.2.      General File Maintenance Procedures. ......................................................................                     598
      28.3.      Asset Reconciliation Process. ....................................................................................              599
Figure 28.1. File Maintenance ARD Asset Reconciliation Screen. ..............................................                                    600
      28.4.      Asset Reconciliation Data (ARD) Screens (Figure 28.1. ..........................................                                600
Figure 28.2. Display ARD Asset Reconciliation Screen. .............................................................                              601
      28.5.      Asset Reconciliation Losses And Gains (ARLG) Screens. .......................................                                   605
Figure 28.3. File Maintenance ARLG A-R Losses and Gains Screen. .........................................                                        606
Figure 28.4. Display ARLG A-R Losses and Gain Screen. ..........................................................                                 607
      28.6.      Asset Reconciliation Computational Results (ARCR) Screen. .................................                                     610
Figure 28.5. Display ARCR A-R Computational Results Screen. ................................................                                     611
      28.7.      Asset Reconciliation On Order (AROO) Assets Screen. ...........................................                                 612
Figure 28.6. Display AROO A-R On Order Assets Screen. .........................................................                                  612
      28.8.      Asset Reconciliation Due In (ARDI) Assets Screen. ................................................                              613
26                                                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 28.7. Display ARDI A-R Due In Assets Screen. ...............................................................                              615
      28.9.      Asset Reconciliation On Hand (AROH) Assets Screens. ..........................................                                  615
Figure 28.8. File Maintenance AROH A-R On Hand Assets Screen (page 1). ............................                                              618
Figure 28.9. File Maintenance AROH A-R On Hand Assets Screen (page 2). ............................                                              619
      28.10. The Asset Reconciliation Report. ..............................................................................                     620
Figure 28.10. Asset Reconciliation Report (Page 1). ......................................................................                       621
Figure 28.11. Asset Reconciliation Report (Page 2). ......................................................................                       622
Figure 28.12. Asset Reconciliation Report (Page 3). ......................................................................                       622

Chapter 29— SAFETY LEVELS PRODUCTS                                                                                                               623
      29.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   623
Figure 29.1. Display SIRS Recoverables Menu. ...........................................................................                         623
      29.2.      Aircraft Availability Model Products. .......................................................................                   623
Figure 29.2. Display AAMD Aircraft Availability Model Data Menu. ........................................                                        624
Figure 29.3. Display AMD AAM OWRM Summary Results Screen. .........................................                                              625
Figure 29.4. Display BYMD Aircraft Availability By MD Screen. .............................................                                      627
Figure 29.5. Display MDFR Aircraft Availability Fill Rate Goals Screen. ..................................                                       628
Figure 29.6. Display OPT One Percent Table Screen. ..................................................................                            629
Figure 29.7. Display PIL Problem Item List Screen. ....................................................................                          630
Figure 29.8. Output Products AAMR AAM Products Selection Screen. .....................................                                           631
      29.3.      Variable Safety Level Products. ................................................................................                632
Figure 29.9. Display VSLD Variable Safety Level Data Menu. ...................................................                                   633
Figure 29.10. Display ANSN VSL Analysis Summary By BP/SMC Screen. ................................                                               635
Figure 29.11. Display RBRA VSL Results By BP/ALC Summary Screen. ...................................                                             636
Figure 29.12. Display RBBD VSL Results By BP-Dollars Screen (page 1). .................................                                          637
Figure 29.13. Display RBBD VSL Results By BP-Dollars Screen (page 2). .................................                                          638
Figure 29.14. Display RBBD VSL Results By BP-Dollars Screen (page 3). .................................                                          639
Figure 29.15. Display RBBP VSL Results By BP-Assets Screen (page 1). ...................................                                         640
Figure 29.16. Display RBBP VSL Results By BP-Assets Screen (page 2). ...................................                                         641
Figure 29.17. Display RSSA VSL Results By BP/SMC/ALC Screen. ...........................................                                         642
Figure 29.18. Display RBSB VSL Results By BP/SMC Dollars Screen. .......................................                                         643
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                           27


Figure 29.19. Output Products VDA Variable Safety Level Data Product Selection Screen. ........                                                   644
Figure 29.20. Problem Item List. ....................................................................................................             645

Chapter 30— ANALYSIS PRODUCTS                                                                                                                     646
      30.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   646
Figure 30.1. Display SIRS Recoverable Main Menu. ...................................................................                              646
      30.2.       Trend Analysis Screens For Items. ............................................................................                  646
Figure 30.2. Display SND Stock Number Data Menu. .................................................................                                647
Figure 30.3. Display Trend Analysis Basic Management Data Screen. .......................................                                         648
Figure 30.4. Display Trend Analysis Pipeline Data Screen. .........................................................                               649
Figure 30.5. Display Trend Analysis Requirements At Buy Screen. ............................................                                      650
Figure 30.6. Display Trend Analysis Assets At Buy Screen. .......................................................                                 651
Figure 30.7. Display Trend Analysis MISTR Input Screen. .........................................................                                 652
Figure 30.8. Display Trend Analysis MISTR Output Screen. ......................................................                                   653
Figure 30.9. Display Trend Analysis Factors Screen. ...................................................................                           654
      30.3.       Trend Analysis Screens for Weapon Systems' Programs. .........................................                                  654
Figure 30.10. RDB FOE Main Menu. .............................................................................................                    655
Figure 30.11. TRND Trend Analysis Programs Menu. ..................................................................                               656
Figure 30.12. Trend Analysis TAC Current Projected To Past Projected Programs Screen. .........                                                   657
Figure 30.13. Trend Analysis TAP Past Projected To Past Actual Programs Screen. ....................                                              658
      30.4.       Depot Data Bank Screens. .........................................................................................              658
Figure 30.14. Display DDBS Depot Data Bank Summary Menu. ..................................................                                       659
Figure 30.15. Display ACAA Airlift Code A Analysis Screen. .....................................................                                  660
Figure 30.16. Display CDA Code Analysis Screen. .......................................................................                           661
Figure 30.17. Display FDAE Frequency Distribution By ALC and ERRC Screen. .......................                                                 662
Figure 30.18. Display FDBB Frequency Distribution By BP Screen. ............................................                                      663
Figure 30.19. Display ICA Item Category Analysis Screen. ..........................................................                               664
Figure 30.20. Display MCA MIEC Analysis Screen. .....................................................................                             665
Figure 30.21. Display NOUA Number of Users Analysis Screen. .................................................                                     666
Figure 30.22. Display PLAN Pipeline Analysis Screen. .................................................................                            667
Figure 30.23. Display RAFA Rates and Factors Analysis Screen. .................................................                                   668
28                                                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.24. Display SPA Standard Price Analysis Screen. .........................................................                              669
Figure 30.25. Display ACAA Airlift Code A Analysis Screen. .....................................................                                 670

Chapter 31— INSURANCE ITEMS AND NUMERIC STOCKAGE OBJECTIVE
           ITEMS                                                                                                                                 671
      31.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   671
      31.2.      Definition of Insurance Item. .....................................................................................             671
      31.3.      Definition of Numeric Stockage Objective Item. ......................................................                           672
      31.4.      Levels For Insurance and NSO Items. .......................................................................                     673
      31.5.      Special Rules for Items Managed by Multiple Services. ...........................................                               674
      31.6.      The INS/NSO Item Status Listing. ............................................................................                   674
Figure 31.1. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Summary Screen. ................................                                           675
      31.7.      INS/NSO Item Status Listing General Data Elements. .............................................                                675
      31.8.      INS/NSO Item Status Listing Computation Lines. ....................................................                             676
Figure 31.2. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Repair Screen. .....................................                                       677
Figure 31.3. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Repair Detail Screen. ..........................                                           678
Figure 31.4. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Buy/Retention Screen. ........................                                             680
Figure 31.5. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Detail Screen. ......................................                                      681
Figure 31.6. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing I&S Family Screen. ............................                                            682
Figure 31.7. Insurance/NSO Item Status Listing. .........................................................................                        683

Chapter 32— INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS                                                                                                              684
      32.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   684
      32.2.      CLSSA Foreign Military Sales Order I (FMSO I). ...................................................                              684
      32.3.      Requirements Support for Programmed and Unprogrammed FMS Requisitions. ....                                                     684
      32.4.      FMSO I Reduction/Deletion Processing. ...................................................................                       685
      32.5.      Excess Offers from CLSSA and non-CLSSA Customers. ........................................                                      686
      32.6.      FMS Engine Overhauls. .............................................................................................             686
      32.7.      Repair and Replace Reparable Returns. ....................................................................                      686
      32.8.      FMS Retention. ..........................................................................................................       687

Chapter 33— TERMINATION ACTIONS                                                                                                                  688
      33.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   688
      33.2.      Definitions. ................................................................................................................   688
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                               29


      33.3.       Policy. ........................................................................................................................    689
      33.4.       Procedures. .................................................................................................................       690
      33.5.       Reporting and Anaysis. ..............................................................................................               695
      33.6.       The Termination Model. ............................................................................................                 700
Figure 33.1. Termination Authority Template. .............................................................................                            706
Figure 33.2. Termination Authority Template 19920801 (REVERSE) (EF-V3). ........................                                                      707
Figure 33.3. ABCS Format 4 Report. ............................................................................................                       708
Figure 33.4. Term Model, Part One, Contract and Warehousing Entries. ....................................                                             709
Figure 33.5. Term Model, Part One: Computation Entries. ..........................................................                                    710
Figure 33.6. Term Model, Part One: Computation Entries for Term Model (INS/NSO). ............                                                         710
Figure 33.7. Term Model, Part Two: Termination Model Results. ..............................................                                          711

Chapter 34— MATERIEL SUPPORT DIVISION (MSD) PRICING                                                                                                   712
      34.1.       General. ......................................................................................................................     712
      34.2.       Pricing Flow when the AF is the PICA (Primary Inventory Control Activity). ........                                                 712
      34.3.       Pricing Flow when the AF is the Secondary Inventory Control Activity (SICA). ....                                                   713
      34.4.       New Item Pricing. ......................................................................................................            713
Table 34.1. Default Estimated Repair Cost Percent ....................................................................                                714
      34.5.       Forecasted Unit Price (FUP). .....................................................................................                  714
      34.6.       Latest Repair Cost (LRC). .........................................................................................                 714
      34.7.       Relationship Between Unit Price and Latest Repair Cost. ........................................                                    715
      34.8.       Contractor Quotes/Estimates. ....................................................................................                   715
      34.9.       Recovering Contract Incentive Award and Management Service Fees. ...................                                                716
      34.10. Item Pricing System (IPS) Description. .....................................................................                             717
      34.11. Out of Cycle Price Changes. ......................................................................................                       718
Table 34.2. Price Change Request Data Elements .......................................................................                                718
      34.12. Iterative Pricing (IP). .................................................................................................                718
      34.13. Pricing Analysis and Report Tool (PART). ...............................................................                                 719

Chapter 35— INTRODUCTION TO THE CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM
           STRATIFICATION                                                                                                                             720
      35.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................       720
      35.2.       Input. ..........................................................................................................................   720
30                                                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      35.3.       Purpose. ......................................................................................................................   720
      35.4.       Simulations. ...............................................................................................................      721
      35.5.       Budget & Repair Time Spans. ...................................................................................                   721
      35.6.       Obsolete Assets. .........................................................................................................        722
      35.7.       Outputs. ......................................................................................................................   722
Figure 35.1. CSIS Budget Time Span. ..........................................................................................                      722
Figure 35.2. CSIS Repair Time Span. ...........................................................................................                     723

Chapter 36— CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION PRODUCTS                                                                                          724
      36.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................     724
      36.2.       Header Data. ..............................................................................................................       724
      36.3.       Budget CSIS Deficit Item Listing. .............................................................................                   725
      36.4.       CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing By Part Number (S13), (Figure 36.4.). ...............                                            726
      36.5.       Repair Requirement Item Listing. .............................................................................                    726
      36.6.       Budget Summary Products. .......................................................................................                  728
      36.7.       Repair Summary Products. ........................................................................................                 728
      36.8.       All CSIS Products. .....................................................................................................          728
Table 36.1. CSIS Products. ..........................................................................................................               729
Figure 36.1. CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing. ............................................................................                         733
Figure 36.2. CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing (Continuation). ...................................................                                   733
Figure 36.3. CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing (Continuation). ...................................................                                   734
Figure 36.4. CSIS Deficit Listing by Part Number. ......................................................................                            734
Figure 36.5. CSIS Repair Requirements Listing. ..........................................................................                           734
Figure 36.6. CSIS Repair Requirements Listing (Continuation). .................................................                                     735

Chapter 37— CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION - BUDGET
           TABLES I AND II                                                                                                                          736
      37.1.       Opening Position. .......................................................................................................         736
      37.2.       Current Year Position. ...............................................................................................            739
      37.3.       Apportionment Year Position. ...................................................................................                  741
      37.4.       Budget Year Position. ................................................................................................            744
      37.5.       Extended Year Position. ............................................................................................              746
      37.6.       Readiness Position. ....................................................................................................          749
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                          31


      37.7.      Approved Force Acquisition Objective (AFAO) and Retention Position. ................                                            751
Figure 37.1. CSIS Budget - Opening Position. .............................................................................                       755
Figure 37.2. CSIS Budget - Current Year Position. ......................................................................                         755
Figure 37.3. CSIS Budget - Apportionment Year Position. ..........................................................                               756
Figure 37.4. CSIS Budget - Budget Year Position. .......................................................................                         756
Figure 37.5. CSIS Budget - Extended Year Position. ...................................................................                           757
Figure 37.6. CSIS Budget - Readiness Position. ...........................................................................                       757
Figure 37.7. CSIS Budget - AFAO & Retention Position. ...........................................................                                758

Chapter 38— CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION – REPAIR –
           TABLES IV AND V                                                                                                                       759
      38.1.      Opening Position. .......................................................................................................       759
      38.2.      Current Year Position. ...............................................................................................          760
      38.3.      Apportionment Year Position. ...................................................................................                763
      38.4.      Budget Year Position. ................................................................................................          766
      38.5.      Extended Year Position. ............................................................................................            768
      38.6.      Readiness Position. ....................................................................................................        770
Figure 38.1. CSIS Repair - Opening Position. ..............................................................................                      772
Figure 38.2. CSIS Repair - Current Position. ................................................................................                    772
Figure 38.3. CSIS Repair - Apportionment Year Position. ...........................................................                              773
Figure 38.4. CSIS Repair - Budget Year Position. ........................................................................                        773
Figure 38.5. CSIS Repair - Extended Year Position. ....................................................................                          774
Figure 38.6. CSIS Repair - Readiness Position. ............................................................................                      774

Chapter 39— CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION INFORMATION
           DATA                                                                                                                                  775
      39.1.      Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   775
      39.2.      Section A, Total Assets. .............................................................................................          775
      39.3.      Section B, Due-In Assets. ..........................................................................................            775
      39.4.      Section C, Obsolete Assets. .......................................................................................             776
      39.5.      Section D, WRM Assets. ...........................................................................................              776
      39.6.      Section E, WRM Overages. .......................................................................................                776
      39.7.      Section F, Procurement Initiation Requirement. .......................................................                          776
32                                                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      39.8.       Section G, Miscellaneous Data. .................................................................................                777
      39.9.       Section H, Item Counts. .............................................................................................           778
      39.10. Section I, Levels Analysis. ........................................................................................                 779
      39.11. Section J, Levels Average Data. ................................................................................                     780
      39.12.      Section K, MISTR Input. ...........................................................................................             780
      39.13. Section L, MISTR Output. .........................................................................................                   780
      39.14. Section M, MISTR Cost Data. ...................................................................................                      780
      39.15. Section N, MISTR Input by Location. .......................................................................                          781
      39.16. Section O, Projected Requirements. ..........................................................................                        781
      39.17. Section P, Past Usage.. ...............................................................................................              781
      39.18. Section Q, Additive Requirements Analysis. ............................................................                              781
      39.19. Section R, NIMSC 5 Unserviceable Returns. ............................................................                               782
Figure 39.1. CSIS Information Data. ............................................................................................                  783
Figure 39.2. CSIS Information Data (continued). .........................................................................                         784
Figure 39.3. CSIS Information Data (continued). .........................................................................                         785
Figure 39.4. CSIS Information Data (continued). .........................................................................                         786

Chapter 40— CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION SIMULATION                                                                                      787
      40.1.       Asset Simulation/Buy Simulation. .............................................................................                  787
      40.2.       Unserviceable Assets Simulation. ..............................................................................                 788
      40.3.       On order Contract Assets. ..........................................................................................            789
      40.4.       Buy Simulation. .........................................................................................................       790
      40.5.       Simulation of Assets, Buy And Repair for Insurance and NSO Items. .....................                                         791
Figure 40.1. Buy Simulation Chart. ..............................................................................................                 793

Chapter 41— CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION ON LINE SYSTEM                                                                                  794
      41.1.       Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   794
      41.2.       System Procedures. ....................................................................................................         794
      41.3.       Display Menu. ............................................................................................................      794
      41.4.       Asset Cutoff Dates Menu (Figure 41.1.). ...................................................................                     795
      41.5.       Budget Products Menu and Repair Products Menu. ..................................................                               795
      41.6.       Budget Item Detail (S01) (Figure 41.3.). ...................................................................                    795
      41.7.       Budget Deficit Item Listing (S04, S05, S06, S07, S08) (Figure 41.4.). ....................                                      796
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                            33


      41.8.       Budget Summary Products (T01 through T24) (Figure 41.5.). .................................                      796
      41.9.       Repair Requirement Listing (S09, S10) (Figure 41.8.). .............................................              796
      41.10.      Repair Item Detail (S20) (Figure 41.9.). ....................................................................    796
      41.11. Repair Summary Products (U01 through U10) (Figure 41.10. ..................................                           797
Figure 41.1. Asset Cutoff Dates Menu. .........................................................................................    797
Figure 41.2. Budget Products Menu. .............................................................................................   798
Figure 41.3. Budget Item Detail (S01) Screen. .............................................................................        798
Figure 41.4. Budget Deficit Item Listing (S06) Screen. ...............................................................             798
Figure 41.5. Budget Summary (T21) Screen. ...............................................................................          799
Figure 41.6. Budget Summary (T13) Screen. ...............................................................................          799
Figure 41.7. Repair Products Menu. .............................................................................................   799
Figure 41.8. Repair Requirements Listing (S10) Screen. .............................................................               800
Figure 41.9. Repair Item Detail (S20) Screen. ..............................................................................       800
Figure 41.10. Repair Summary (U09) Screen. ................................................................................        800
Figure 41.11. Repair Summary (U05) Screen. ................................................................................        800

Chapter 42— CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION SPARES
           REQUIREMENTS REVIEWBOARD INFORMATION                                                                                    801
      42.1.       There are six screens in the D200N (CSIS) that reflect the Spares Requirements
                  Review Board (SRRB) initiatives. The screens are as follows: ...............................                     801
Figure 42.1. DNSB - Default NSB Percentages. ...........................................................................           801
Figure 42.2. DMAG - DMAG SALES – SOR. .............................................................................                802
Figure 42.3. OTHS - OTHER SERVICES SALES – ALC. .........................................................                          803
Figure 42.4. PMSM - PROJECTED MAJCOM –MAJCOM. ......................................................                               804
Figure 42.5. PMSI – PROJECTED MAJCOM SALES – MDS. ..................................................                               805
Figure 42.6. SGMS – PROJECTED MAJCOM – SGM. ..............................................................                         806

Attachment 1— SUBJECT INDEX (PARAGRAPH NUMBERS AND FIGURES ARE
           SHOWN IN PARENTHESIS)                                                                                                   807
34                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                 Chapter 1

                                                GENERAL

1.1. Applicability. This manual applies to all Air Logistics Centers (ALC) and HQ AFMC personnel
responsible for development, adjustment, computation, review, and approval of requirements for recover-
able secondary items and consumable secondary items and management actions that result from those
requirements. Procedures contained in this manual apply primarily to Inventory Management Specialists
(IMS), Equipment Specialists (ES), Production Management Specialists (PMS) and ALC management.
This manual does not apply to the Air National Guard or the U.S. Air Force Reserves.

1.2. Purpose. This manual provides basic guidelines for computing replenishment requirements for sec-
ondary items, both recoverable and consumable items. Requirements computed with these procedures
will reflect the average materiel support requirements for Air Force operations.
     1.2.1. Items are computed in the Secondary Item Requirements Computation System (SIRS) using
     data that are current on the last day of each calendar quarter (March, June, September and December).
     This date will be referred to as the computation asset cutoff date. This system has been assigned Data
     System Designator D200A and will be referred to as SIRS throughout this manual. SIRS provides all
     the input data for the Central Secondary Item Stratification's (CSIS) system. The purpose of the CSIS
     is to display budget and repair deficits for each requirements segment by fiscal year. The CSIS pro-
     vides data on asset distribution against requirements and is used as a baseline for inventory analysis.
     This system has been assigned Data System Designator D200N and will be referred to as CSIS
     throughout this manual. SIRS and CSIS are a part of the Requirements Management System (RMS)
     and store data on the Requirements Data Bank (RDB).
     1.2.2. Procedures, forms, computation worksheets, and supporting data developed in this process
     make up the official record to substantiate the acquisition program, budget projections, and other
     logistics actions. Documentation will be retained according to AFI 33-322, Records Management
     Program, AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures
     and Responsibilities and this manual's paragraph 1.13. and subparagraphs according to any local pol-
     icy.
     1.2.3. This manual provides descriptions of the various automated methodologies associated with the
     requirements process, as well as policies and procedures that apply to those processes.
     1.2.4. Items covered by this manual are those assigned expendability, recoverability, reparability cat-
     egory (ERRC) codes XD1 or “C”, XD2 or “T”, XB3 or “N” and XF3 or “P”. These are usually sec-
     ondary items installed in a higher assembly such as an aircraft, a vehicle, a piece of equipment, or
     another recoverable secondary item. Upon failure, these items are removed and replaced with service-
     able assets. The unserviceable assets for recoverable items are turned into a maintenance facility for
     repair and eventual reissue. Under normal circumstances, any unserviceable assets for a consumable
     item are disposed.
     1.2.5. When the weighted unit repair cost exceeds 75% of the replacement price –Forecasted Unit
     Price (FUP) 0 fir a reparable item (ERRC “C” or “T”), the Source, Maintenance and Recoverability
     (SMR) code of the item will be reviewed. See the following paragraphs for procedures. Review the
     SMR assignment of consumable items when they have a high annual demand value and experience
     significant field repair. For further information on cost to repair, see AFMCI 23-112, Management of
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 35


   Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) and for ERRC/SMR codes TO 00-25-195, AF Technical Order Sys-
   tem Source, Maintenance and Recoverability Coding of Air Force Weapons, Systems, and Equip-
   ments.
       1.2.5.1. When item weighted repair cost exceeds 75% of the FUP, there are no contracts for the
       item within the last five years, the annual repair requirement for the item is $1 million or more and
       the item can still be procured; the IMS will request that procurement obtain an unit price quote
       from the contractor. The IMS will file maintain the unit price quoted as the Actual Unit Price and
       date of the quote as the Date of Last Procurement (DOLP) into SIRS. If after the receipt of the
       quote the weighted repair cost still exceeds 75% of the Quoted Unit Price or the item was bought
       within the last five years and the weighted repair cost exceeds 75% of the FUP, the item manage-
       ment team (IMS, ES, PMS and program manager will conduct an economic and mission support
       analysis to determine if the item should be retained as a recoverable item (ERRC “C” or “T”) or be
       converted to a consumable item (ERRC “N” or “P”), document their rationale and how they
       arrived at their decision and retain the documentation for an audit trail. Maintain the documenta-
       tion until two years after the price has been superseded. If the analysis supports conversion to a
       consumable item, initiate the cataloging action.
       1.2.5.2. If a quote cannot be obtained from a contractor as outlined in the preceding paragraph or
       the annual repair requirement for the item is less than $1 million and a like item has a unit price
       from a more recent purchase, use the FUP from a like item to perform the comparison. If the
       weighted repair cost would also exceed 75% of the FUP of the like item, the item management
       team (IMS, ES, PMS and program manager will conduct an economic and mission support analy-
       sis to determine if the item should be retained as a recoverable item (ERRC “C” or “T”) or be con-
       verted to a consumable item (ERRC “N” or “P”), document their rationale and how they arrived at
       their decision and retain the documentation for an audit trail. Maintain the documentation until
       two years after the price has been superseded. If the analysis supports conversion to a consumable
       item, initiate the cataloging action.
       1.2.5.3. Items still in use that are no longer procurable but that are reparable should not be con-
       verted from recoverable items to consumable items. If the weighted repair cost exceeds 75% of the
       FUP for these items, document the fact that they are no longer procurable as rationale for keeping
       them as recoverable items and retain the information as an audit trail.

1.3. Types of Items. Time-phased computations are done for all Subgroup Master stock numbers
(SGMs) that have been recorded in SIRS, with the exception of obsolete items, insurance (INS) items,
Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO) items, No Compute coded items, and special items listed in 1.3.6.
SIRS produces the INS/NSO Item Status Listing for items coded insurance or NSO (see Chapter 31). A
Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) is available in D200N for every item. Requirement compu-
tation worksheets are produced for acquisition advice code "V" items (use until exhausted), and buy com-
putations could be generated which must be scrubbed.
   1.3.1. Obsolete Items (subgroup master and interchangeable). All reported assets are identified
   in management reports and output to other systems as excess quantities available for disposal. When
   the subgroup master stock number is coded obsolete, all stock numbers interchangeable with this sub-
   group master stock number are considered obsolete and their assets are processed as excess. All obso-
   lete on order assets are termination candidates.
36                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     1.3.2. Contingency Items. These items do not have an application to a current system or next higher
     assembly (NHA), which is in use or planned to be in use. However, a decision has been made to retain
     the items for military contingency plans that have not been finalized. These items are identified by an
     "M" in the deferred disposal code (see paragraph 14.3.2.3.2). Contingency items are computed by
     comparing total assets to the deferred disposal level. If assets on hand exceed that level, the quantity,
     which exceeds the level, is identified as excess, plus all on order assets are candidates for termination.
     If assets on hand are less than the level, the level is reduced to equal the assets, since SIRS is pro-
     grammed to ensure that no buy quantities are developed for contingency items. If assets on hand are
     less than the level but there are also on order assets available, the on order quantity required to fill the
     level deficit is retained, and the balance of the on order is identified for termination. A zero level indi-
     cates that all assets, on hand and on order, equal the requirement. Repair of contingency-coded assets
     is not authorized.

Table 1.1. Examples.
Ex        Item              Assets
          Level [SERV & UNSV] + [On Order] = Results
#1        50        VS      40       +       10        = Optimum
#2        50        VS      40       +       20        = Termination of 10 on order
#3         0        VS      40       +       10        = Optimum level adjusted to 50
#4        50        VS      60       +        0        = Excess of 10 assets on hand
#5        40        VS      50       +       10        = Excess of 10 assets on hand & termination of 10 on
                                                       order
#6        60        VS      40       +       10        = Optimum level adjusted to 50 (No buy authorized)

     1.3.3. Insurance Items. These items have been identified through cataloging as not subject to normal
     failures, but are retained in SIRS to support losses, which may occur as a result of accidents or acts of
     nature. (See Chapter 31).
     1.3.4. Numerical Stockage Items. These items are expected to fail as a result of normal use or oper-
     ations; however, such failures are expected to be low or sporadic. This Numeric Stockage Objective
     (NSO) code is reviewed at least annually to determine if the code should be deleted or retained. When
     usage increases and the code is removed, the item becomes a normal active demand based item and is
     computed normally. (See Chapter 31).
     1.3.5. No compute coded Items. When the item is assigned a compute code of code “B”, “N", "P”,
     “X”, or an active item is assigned a compute code of ‘R”, SIRS will not compute requirements. The
     item's assets are used in preparing management reports. (See paragraph 14.14.3.).
     1.3.6. Items Excluded From SIRS. The Requirement Item Identification Data system (RIID) or
     D200E assigns a value to the System Comp Code for the National Stock Number (NSN) that deter-
     mines which other segments of D200 get sent information on that NSN. A code of 'A' designates that
     SIRS will get data for that NSN.
        1.3.6.1. For Consumable items (ERRC ‘N’ & ‘P’), the items are excluded if:
               1.3.6.1.1. Procurement Source Codes NOT equal to 2 or 3.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               37


         1.3.6.1.2. First two positions of the NIIN = ND (or position 5-6 of the 15 position stock num-
         ber).
         1.3.6.1.3. First position of the NIIN = K (or position 5 of the 15 position stock number) (kit
         items).
         1.3.6.1.4. Source of Supply = HAD or JCD
         1.3.6.1.5. Acquisition Advice Codes (AAC) = F, J, K, L, N, P, T, X or Y.
         1.3.6.1.6. Cataloging Budget Code = A, E, H, N, W, Z, 6 OR 9.
         1.3.6.1.7. Materiel Management Aggregation Codes (MMAC) to exclude: BA, BD, BE, BP,
         BX, CB, CG, CI, CM, DC, DE, DF, DH, ES, EX, GB, GP, IN, JC, KA, KH, LK, MF, MJ, ND,
         RE, SF, UO, WB, WK, WO, XG, XL, XO, XR, XT, XU, XV, XW, XY, XZ, ZG.
         1.3.6.1.8. DELETED.
     1.3.6.2. For Reparable items (ERRC ‘C’ & ‘T’), the items are excluded if:
         1.3.6.2.1. First two positions of the NIIN = ND (or position 5-6 of the 15 position stock num-
         ber).
         1.3.6.2.2. First position of the NIIN = K (or position 5 of the 15 position stock number) (kit
         items).
         1.3.6.2.3. Source of Supply = HAD or JCD
         1.3.6.2.4. Acquisition Advice Codes (AAC) = P, T, Y. Cataloging Budget Code = A, E, N, W,
         Z, OR 9.
         1.3.6.2.5. Materiel Management Aggregation Codes (MMAC) to exclude: AU, BA, BD, BE,
         BP, BX, CB, CG, CI, CM, DC, DE, DF, DH, ES, EX, GB, GP, IN, JC, KA, KH, LK, MF, MJ,
         ND, RE, SF, UI, UN, UO, WB, WK, WO, XG, XL, XO, XR, XT, XU, XV, XW, XY, XZ, ZG.
  1.3.7. Quick Engine Change (QEC) Kits. A QEC kit is a group of stock listed Materiel Support
  Division and General Support Division accessory items required to attach an engine to an aircraft. The
  QEC kit NSNs are stock fund exempt and should have a Budget Program code of 1E. (See paragraph
  14.2.1.). Requirements for QECs are not computed in SIRS and the IMS should delete all reported
  assets and any offsetting requirements.
     1.3.7.1. One QEC kit is authorized for each spare engine (per AFI 21-104). The kits as a whole are
     normally procured during the acquisition of the engines, not as follow-on spares. Once the initial
     complement of QEC kits are acquired the only spares procurement required is for the component
     parts.
     1.3.7.2. While installed on the engine or aircraft the kit looses its identity as a NSN. Under the
     normal three level maintenance concept, when the engine is prepared for shipment to EOH repair
     the QEC kit is removed and reported at the base. QEC NSNs only appear in the Air Force Recov-
     erable Assembly Management System (AFRAMS) when separated from the engine. The kits stay
     at the owning activity until the engine is returned and the kit is reinstalled. Since the QEC is com-
     prised of stock listed components, which can be removed and replaced at field level, they are vir-
     tually 100 percent base repaired. There is no programmed depot repair for QEC kits.
38                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        1.3.7.3. Under remove and replace repair concept of engine repair (JEIM “A” and “I” jobs), the
        QECs are returned with the engine to the depot. The depot job routes the QEC, never condemning
        a whole kit, resulting in no demands on depot supply for the QEC NSN.
        1.3.7.4. Material Support Division components items of the QEC kits. Because QEC kits come in
        attached to engines under the remove and repair concept, demands on supply may occur (also
        called depot reparable generations) for Material Support Division recoverable component items.
        In addition to appropriate Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance (OIM) and Programmed
        Depot Maintenance (PDM) program(s), the appropriate applications must be added to the item
        application record in the Application Program Indenture (API), D200F system, to cover any
        changes in the repair concept.
        1.3.7.5. QECs may be shipped to the IMS as extras when an engine is destroyed or disposed.
        These kits are most often always in reparable condition, as the number of component parts present
        or missing and their serviceability is unknown. The cost to restore a reparable kit containing
        unserviceable and missing components with stock funded serviceable assets would be prohibitive.
        Repair is rare and accomplished only on AF Form 206 funded with appropriate system program
        director or engine funds if a critical need is established by the system program director or engine
        manager.
        1.3.7.6. Serviceable kits at the depot usually only occur at the time of provisioning awaiting ship-
        ment to the spare engine.
     1.3.8. Afterburners are authorized for each spare engine (see AFI 21-104) and although base assets
     are reported by AFRAMS the requirements are not computed in the SIRS system. The IMS should
     delete all reported assets and any offsetting requirements.
     1.3.9. An item with a shelf life code should be bought on an Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity
     contract, which would allow the IM to exercise options to put the parts on contract as they are needed.
     (See AFMCI 23-102).
     1.3.10. Calendar Time Change Items. Air Force bases send the IMS the projection for selected
     time change items (AFMAN 23-110, Volume I, Part One, Chapter 10, section 10M) on AFTO Form
     223, Time Change Requirements Forecast (TO 00-20-9, RCS: HAF-LGM(SA)9488). The normal
     requirements are adequate in most cases for peaking time change demands on the system. In other
     cases where peaks are offset by levels, additive requirements are input to the requirements computa-
     tion to compensate for the deficiency. Intensified management must be applied to all time-change
     items until either random or predictable pattern can be established. Reviews must be made of these
     selected items to make sure only valid additive requirements are input to adjust requirements compu-
     tations. For requirements to be computed automatically, the IMS and ES prepare the following data
     and input to API and SIRS. Assign a five-digit program element code to each time-change item. The
     IMS or program monitor develops a future program for each quarter. The future program is the num-
     ber of time changes required by quarter over the 10-year period. Get the time-change removal dates
     from data submitted under TO 00-20-9. Develop the retention program by multiplying the 38th quar-
     ter by 12. The new item code of "N" must be retained to prevent loss of estimated demand rates in the
     item's records. To retain this code, file maintain the application program begin date to limit the past
     usage to less than 24 months. The application program select code is 3000. The application quantity
     per application is 1 and the application percent is 100. Total OIM demand rate is 1.000. Base NRTS
     percent is 100, current and forecast. Base stock level days are zero. Depot stock level days are zero.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 39


   Depot repair cycle reflects the time required to generate economic repair lot quantities in addition to
   actual shop flow days. All other factors are input as in normal processing of recoverable items. For
   Cartridge-actuated devices/Propellant-activated devices (CAD/PAD) life support time-change items,
   develop an additive. Production quantities are qualified for delivery by expending a predetermined
   portion of each lot. If this sample fails, the entire lot is rejected. Therefore, an additive requirement
   equal to the greater of one lot size or 150 days time-change requirement is authorized. This quantity is
   entered as an additive requirement in the first quarter of the computation.

1.4. General Responsibilities.
   1.4.1. The IMS reviews all data for assigned items, with the exception of the data the ES reviews and
   file maintains (see paragraph 1.4.2.). This includes surveillance of data provided by interfacing sys-
   tems, on line file maintenance, and review of SIRS output products. When changing any data element,
   document the reason for the change using the Notepad. The paper copy of the SGM Computation
   Worksheet Requirements will be used by the IMS as the signature, review, and approval document for
   computing items. The paper copy of the INS/NSO Item Status Listing will be used by the IMS as the
   signature, review, and approval document for INS/NSO items. The IMS will sign and date these doc-
   uments anytime that the item shows a buy, repair, termination or excess. If any changes are made to
   the buy requirement in the computation, the buy code will be annotated on the computation or INS/
   NSO Item Status Listing. The buy code will be the same as the code used in ABCS and a short expla-
   nation for the change will be made on the product as well. If any changes are made to the repair
   requirement in the computation, the repair code will be annotated on the computation or INS/NSO
   Item Status Listing. The repair code will be the same as the code used on the B-21 and a short expla-
   nation of the change will be made on the product as well. The term code will recorded on the compu-
   tation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing. The term code will be from Chapter 23 and will match the
   code used in ABCS, and a brief explanation or the reason for using the code and any actions taken will
   be written on the product. The IMS will document what they intend to do with the excess on the com-
   putation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing. . The IMS will file maintain the disposal or retention codes
   in Reutilization/Disposition system D035G. The IMS will also sign and date these documents if they
   show an optimum position on the quarter(s) indicated by the activity code as being the review quar-
   ter(s). A signature signifies that the IMS has reviewed the information contained in the SGM Compu-
   tation Worksheet Requirements, recomputation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing, that the IMS worked
   the item (as needed) and that to the best of the knowledge of the IMS the information is correct. The
   IMS also initiates management actions indicated by SIRS outputs. The IMS schedules repair of unser-
   viceable recoverable assets through organic or contractor facilities. The IMS initiates acquisitions in
   timely manner to ensure that assets are available when they are required. Contract repair should be
   considered prior to procurement of new parts when no organic repair capability is available. The IMS
   processes termination actions promptly, when the on order quantities are no longer required for sup-
   port, in order to recover funds. The IMS disposes of assets excess to all requirements. See paragraph
   1.1.3 and subparagraphs for documentation and product retention requirements.
       1.4.1.1. 401 SCMS/GUMD highly recommends the following sequence to the IMS/MM for
       working items during the file maintenance window:
              - Termination Items
              - Buys Items
              - Repair Items
40                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                - Items whose actual data is not near what was previously forecasted
                - No Compute Items
                - Excess Items with no deferred disposal codes
                - Items with pipelines exceeding defaults
                - Other
        1.4.1.2. An effort will be made by the IMS/MM/PMS to work every item managed by them dur-
        ing the file maintenance cycle that requires review (as mentioned in paragraph 1.4.1.1.) and
        those that require review due to the item activity code. Interactive Requirements Information Ser-
        vices (IRIS) has an Item Review Listing of items fitting in the above categories. This web based
        tool was designed for the IMS/MM and PMS to use during file maintenance. It presents the list of
        NSNs for the IMS/MM and PMS in the order of most important to review down to least important
        to review. The IMS/MM and PMS will work down the Item Review Listing (IRL) working as
        many items during the March, June , September and December cycles as possible. The IMS/MM
        will work their terms first as they are time sensitive. The IMS/MM will review all data elements of
        each requirements computation and INS/NSO Item Status Listing as they work down the IRL
        sequence. The IMS/MM has the capability to document the on line IRL in IRIS indicating which
        items they have reviewed/worked.
        1.4.1.3. The IMS/MM will review/work asset reconciliation products output to them every quar-
        ter using the IRIS asset reconciliation reports. The IMS/MM will track throughout the quarter
        shipments to and receipts from contractors, shipments from stock to FMS customers and ship-
        ments to non-reporting activities using the D035 transaction registers in order to facilitate the asset
        reconciliation process.
        1.4.1.4. The IMS/MM will review data elements with SRC “E: on their products as they work
        through the IRL listing. This review will ensure the file maintained data is still current and valid.
        1.4.1.5. Due to ongoing lean initiatives, the file maintenance window has been shortened and
        there is no longer a “Summary” computation produced. If the IMS uses the above sequence for
        their quarterly item review, they will be accountable in reviews, inspections and audits for only the
        items they worked through the IRL.
     1.4.2. The ES reviews each item’s usage, factors, programs, application program designators/standard
     program designators, application program begin dates, quantity per application, application percent,
     application mission item essentiality codes, application program select codes and Factor Indicator
     Codes for accuracy and completeness and will file maintain any needed corrections.. This includes
     surveillance of usage data and noting any trends, determination if historical data are indicative of
     future activity, and computation of estimated factors. The ES will perform at least an annual review of
     application Program Element Codes (PECs) assigned to the items the ES manages and associated pro-
     gram data to evaluate (a) the continued need for the application PEC and associated program data, (b)
     the adequacy of documentation explaining the rationale for the use of the application PEC, and (c) the
     accuracy of the application PEC program data for those PECs for which the ES is responsible. The ES
     performs on line file maintenance of this data in the Applications, Programs and Indentures (API) sys-
     tem D200F and in SIRS. When changing any data element in SIRS, the ES will document the reason
     for the change using the Notepad. The ES will document the Factors/Usage Printout with any changes
     made to data file maintained on the Program Select screen in API including the rationale for the
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              41


  changes. The ES will ensure for the items belonging to the ES that the indentures are file maintained
  in API and are correct—API is open for file maintenance throughout most of the year unlike SIRS.
  The ES also provides technical advice to IMS and ALC management concerning items applicable to
  assigned systems. This advice includes, but is not limited to, issues concerning interchangeability and
  substitutability of NSNs, repair concepts, ERRC coding, and reliability. The ES will sign and date the
  ES file copy of all Factors/Usage Printouts and Final/Summary/Recomputed Factors/Usage Printouts
  or the computation, recomputation or INS/NSO Item Status Listing for terms, buys, repair and excess.
  A signature signifies the ES has reviewed the information contained in the Factors/Usage Printout, the
  ES worked the item (as needed) and that to the best of the knowledge of the ES the information is cor-
  rect. See paragraph 1.13. and subparagraphs for documentation and product retention requirements.
     1.4.2.1. 401 SCMS/GUMD highly recommends the following sequence to the ES for working
     items during the file maintenance window:
             - Termination Items
             - Buys Items
             - Repair Items
             - Items whose actual data is not near what was previously forecasted
             - No Compute Items
             - Excess Items with no deferred disposal codes
             - MISTR Condemnations greater than Depot Condemnations Total
             - OIM usage with no OIM program
             - DLM usage with no DLM program
             - Other
     1.4.2.2. An effort will be made by the ES to work every item managed by the ES during the file
     maintenance cycle that requires review (as mentioned in paragraph 1.4.2.1.) and those that
     require review due to the item activity code. Interactive Requirements Information Services (IRIS)
     has an Item Review Listing with the items fitting in the above categories. This web based tool was
     designed for the ES to use during file maintenance. The ES will work down the Item Review List-
     ing working as many items during the March, June , September and December cycles as possible.
     The ES will review all data elements of each Factors/Usage Printout as they work down the IRL.
     The ES has the capability to document the on line IRL in IRIS indicating which items they have
     reviewed/worked.
     1.4.2.3. The ES will review/work the Factors/Usage Printout output to them every quarter. They
     will pay special attention to the Factor Indicator Code and any estimated factors and rates to
     ensure they are still current and valid.
     1.4.2.4. The ES will validate data elements with SRC “E” on the Factors/Usage Printout as they
     work down the IRL sequence. This review will ensure the file maintained data is still current and
     valid.
     1.4.2.5. Due to ongoing lean initiatives, the file maintenance window has been shortened and
     there is no longer a “Summary” computation produced. If the ES uses the above sequence for their
42                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        quarterly item review, they will be accountable in reviews, inspections, and audits for only the
        items they worked through the IRL.
     1.4.3. Each ALC will establish signature level policy for the entire ALC for computations, INS/NSO
     Item Status Listings and Factors/Usage Printouts. These signature levels will ensure that high dollar
     actions (i.e. buy, repair, excess, and termination) receive review by other person(s) in addition to the
     IMS and ES. In cases where AFMC has established a minimum signature level in AFMCMAN 23-1,
     the ALC policy may require higher signature level not a lower signature level. Each ALC will provide
     a copy of its signature level policy to the AFMC SIRS OPR (401 SCMS/GUMD).
     1.4.4. In general, ALC management is responsible for the overall integrity of computed requirements
     within its area of responsibility. ALC managers and supervisors can delegate to selected analysts the
     authority to review and validate item computations and to provide advice to senior ALC managers.
     Such delegation authority, however, does not release ALC management from the above responsibility.
     1.4.5. IMS/MM, PMS and ES supervisors have the capability to monitor the Item Review Listing on
     the Interactive Requirements Information Services (IRIS) to ensure their personnel are reviewing their
     items.

1.5. Requirements Segments. SIRS is a wholesale system. SIRS computes spare parts requirements for
all customers worldwide on an aggregate basis, and applies all available worldwide assets to these
requirements. SIRS uses historical failure and program data to determine a failure rate to be applied to a
future program. (Chapter 9 provides detailed description of the computation methodology and proce-
dures). Historical pipeline and lead-time data are also recorded and applied to future activity. Require-
ments are broken down into the following segments, each of which is computed separately.
     1.5.1. Operating requirement, to ensure that all assets removed due to failure will be replaced at the
     time of removal.
     1.5.2. Condemnations, to replace assets that cannot be repaired.
     1.5.3. Lead times, to ensure that a supply of assets are available to replace condemnations during the
     time required to order and receive replenishment spares.
     1.5.4. Pipeline requirements, to cover the times assets may be unavailable for issue while they are in
     transit between using and maintenance activities.
     1.5.5. Repair cycle requirements, to cover the time required to restore unserviceable recoverable
     assets to a serviceable condition in a maintenance facility.
     1.5.6. Safety level, to cover unexpected fluctuations in demands or variations in pipeline times. This
     is the only segment of the computation that does not represent a firm requirement. It is set according
     to support and backorder reduction goals determined by HQ USAF. Documentation on the Safety
     Level computations in SIRS and the values of the current goals are located on the SIRS (D200A) web
     page managed by HQ AFMC/A4Y.
     1.5.7. Additive requirements, to support special projects, programs, or any other requirement that do
     not fit into one of the above categories (see Chapter 25).
     1.5.8. War Reserve Materiel (WRM) requirements and Readiness Spares Packages (RSP) require-
     ments, to support contingencies and scenarios established by USAF wartime planning documents.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                     43


   SIRS receives some of this data from interfacing systems and computes the remaining requirements
   separately from the above requirements segments.

1.6. Categories of Requirements. SIRS compares computed requirements with available assets and
determines what actions are required to ensure support for future operations. SIRS determines the most
economical use of the existing inventory and provides visibility of quantities for which there is no antici-
pated need. SIRS computes the following requirements categories, also referred to as management
actions.
   1.6.1. Repair. The quantity of unserviceable recoverable assets to be repaired to assure that service-
   able assets will be available to replace projected failures.
   1.6.2. Buy. The quantity to be considered for acquisition to assure continued support lead-time from
   the latest quarterly computation cutoff date.
   1.6.3. Termination. When available assets are more than sufficient to support computed require-
   ments, SIRS recommends that all or part of purchase request or an undelivered contract quantity of
   new acquisition be considered for cancellation.
   1.6.4. Excess. When SIRS determines that available assets are more than sufficient to support com-
   puted requirements through the foreseeable future, it will display a quantity to be considered for dis-
   posal.

1.7. Computation Timespan. The purpose of SIRS is to determine what management actions should be
taken immediately to support operations, and to provide a baseline for budget submission and analysis. To
support the budget function, SIRS projects requirements by fiscal year. Requirements are computed on a
quarterly cycle. The computation process includes a peacetime computation and an Other War Reserve
Material (OWRM) computation (see Chapter 21). Both peacetime and OWRM requirements are com-
puted three times during each quarterly processing cycle. The computations are programmed to run as an
initial requirements computation, a final requirements computation, and a summary computation.
   1.7.1. Cutoff Dates. Requirements are computed on a time-phased basis for a maximum span of 38
   quarters. The starting point of each quarterly peacetime requirements computation is the first quarter
   following the cutoff date. These Asset Cutoff Dates are 30 June, 30 September, 31 December, and 31
   March. Once a year, during the 31 March cycle, the data headings in the computation and the fiscal
   years are shifted to the left, and the various pick off points for buy, termination, retention, and stratifi-
   cation are established for that year. On the 30 September cycle, factors are shifted. The time periods
   described below, and pictured in Figure 1.1., are identified in the computation for applying assets and
   additive requirements, for selecting data for print, and for determining summary positions. There are
   periods of the computation and segments of the computation. The 3 periods are the buy, termination
   and retention, which are displayed on the computation worksheet and include requirements from the
   cutoff date through a point in time. Segments are discrete blocks of time not necessarily starting as of
   the cutoff date.
   1.7.2. Current Year (CY). Identifies the requirements computed for the first fiscal year covering the
   time period from the cutoff date to the first day of the next fiscal year (1 October). The requirement for
   the current year that is computed on the 31 March cycle includes data for 2 quarters (31 March and 30
   June). The requirement for the current year that is computed on the 30 June cycle includes data only
44                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     for that quarter that ends on 30 September. There is no current year requirement developed during the
     30 September and 31 December cycles.
     1.7.3. Apportionment Year (AY). Identifies the requirements computed for the second fiscal (31
     March and 30 June cycle) or the first fiscal year (30 September and 31 December). It is also known as
     the operating year. Requirements are computed for the full year during the 31 March cycle, 30 June
     and 30 September cycles. On the 31 December cycle, 3 quarters of data are computed for the appor-
     tionment year.
     1.7.4. Budget Year (BY). Identifies the requirements computed for the fiscal year following the
     apportionment year.
     1.7.5. Extended Year (EY). Identifies the requirements computed for the fiscal year following the
     budget year.
     1.7.6. Buy Period. This period includes all the requirements computed from the cutoff date of the
     computation through the current year and the apportionment year, plus the procurement lead-time.
     The procurement lead-time is the total of the administrative lead-time months plus the production
     lead-time months. The procurement lead-time may vary from a minimum of 1 month to the maximum
     system capability of 72months.
     1.7.7. Budget year buy point. This point is selected 12 months beyond the buy period and is used to
     determine the computed requirements that would require a budget year projection of funds. Another
     method for determining this point is that it is procurement lead-time beyond the end of the budget
     year. It is used for planning purposes.
     1.7.8. Extended Year Buy Point. This point is selected 12 months beyond the budget year buy point
     and is used to determine the computed requirements that would require a second budget year or
     extended year projection of funds. Another method for determining this point is that it is procurement
     lead-time beyond the end the extended year. It is also used for planning purposes.
     1.7.9. Termination Period. This period identifies the requirements computed from the cutoff
     through the 12 months immediately following the buy period.
     1.7.10. Retention Period. Identifies the requirements computed from the cutoff date through three
     years beyond the 38th quarter. The retention program is a single quantity of program that contains 12
     quarters of data, based on the projected life of the weapon and support system.
     1.7.11. Retention Segment. SIRS computes requirements through the computation program span of
     38 quarters.

1.8. Initial and Follow On Spares. SIRS is a replenishment spares computation system. SIRS normally
does not compute the initial spares requirements. Its purpose is to compute follow on spares requirements
for established items that apply to active systems. Follow-on spares support normally involves replenish-
ment of assets that have been lost due to condemnations. During the weapon system provisioning process,
the D200H Initial Requirements Determination (IRD) system computes minimum spares requirements to
support a weapon system through a program forecast period, which is the procurement lead time plus
three months past a weapon system's preliminary operating capability. These minimum requirements
include condemnations through the procurement lead-time, pipeline requirements, and other levels that
must be in place to support newly fielded systems. The system program director places spares quantities
computed in the IRD under a Provisioning Item Order (PIO) against the provisioning contract. The con-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                45


tracting function reports these quantities in the J018R Acquisition and Due-in System, which in turn pass
them to SIRS as on-order assets. The IMS should note these quantities. Even though the IRD computes
spares to support pipeline and other initial requirements, SIRS also computes these requirements, which
the on-order assets should offset.

1.9. Stock Number Establishment. RIID provides a file containing catalog and management data
changes for XD1 and XD2 items also called “recoverable” and for XB3 and XF3 items also called “con-
sumable” items.
   1.9.1. The Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability, Category (ERRC) Codes are described in
   AFMAN 23-110, Vol. I, Part 4, Chapter 1, Amendment 1A-27. ERRC codes are used to categorize AF
   inventory into various management groupings. The 3-position ERRC designator and the one position
   ERRC code are interchangeable.
       1.9.1.1. Expendability refers to the type of accounting employed for a particular item of supply or
       NSN during the time it is in use in the AF inventory. "X" = items consumed in use or become a
       part of a higher assembly during periods of use. “N” is neither consumed in use nor do they lose
       their identity by installation on a higher assembly.
       1.9.1.2. Recoverability & Reparability is the second position. "B" identifies items that are not
       subject to repair and items that are consumed in use. "F" identifies items that are authorized to be
       repaired at organizational and intermediate levels. "D" identifies items that are subject to repair
       and should be returned to a depot.
   1.9.2. Each item has been assigned a National Stock Number (NSN). In some cases Requirements
   Item Identification Data (RIID), D200E will identify two or more NSNs that may be used inter-
   changeably and these items will be categorized into subgroups. The most preferred item is designated
   the Subgroup Master stock number (SGM), also called the Master Stock Number. An Interchangeable
   Stock Number is an item that is completely (two-way) interchangeable with the subgroup master stock
   number. The Current Stock Number (CSN) or Actual NSN is the most current stock number assigned
   to an item; it may be either a subgroup master or an interchangeable stock number. The Reference
   Stock Number is a stock number that was previously assigned to a current stock number. A Bachelor
   Stock Number is the master stock number for an item that does not have any interchangeable NSNs.
   A one-way interchangeable stock number is an item that is related but not exactly a fit. SIRS treats a
   one-way interchangeable NSN as a bachelor item, since SIRS operates on subgroup master NSNs and
   their two-way interchangeable NSNs only. A separate computation is made for each completely
   (two-way) interchangeable subgroup within an Interchangeability and Substitutability (I&S) group.
   1.9.3. Just like D041, SIRS computes requirements at subgroup master level including Insurance &
   NSO items. Unlike D041, after these SGM requirements have been computed, SIRS performs an
   additional series of computations for items that are in an I&S family with more than on SGM. It
   begins with the least preferred SGM and if it has a buy deficit (3rd Short) in any quarter of the compu-
   tation time span it passes that deficit up to the next preferred SGM. This is done in the form of a
   non-recurring “additive” requirement divided into Peacetime, RSP, and OWRM values. SIRS then
   recomputes the requirements including repair of the next preferred SGM. This process continues until
   each SGM in the I&S family has been recomputed. This ensures that repair is accomplished at the
   lowest level possible while at the same time ensuring that only the latest configuration (I&S Master)
   is bought. The buy deficits on all the lesser-preferred items are passed to the D200N CSIS as a “Buy
   Not Required.”
46                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     1.9.4. The RIID file is the sole source for establishing, changing and deleting stock numbers in SIRS.
     Stock numbers cannot be established or deleted in SIRS through file maintenance. A record is estab-
     lished in the SIRS file when the catalog management data file from RIID contains a master or current
     stock number that has not been previously established in SIRS. Each new master stock number in the
     RIID file results in a skeleton record in SIRS that contains data from RIID (see paragraph 3.8.) per-
     tinent to the master stock number. Each new current stock number in the RIID file results in a skeleton
     record in SIRS that contains data from RIID pertinent to that current stock number. Stock number or
     catalog changes indicated by the RIID file result in changes to the current or master stock numbers in
     SIRS. When the unit price is less than unit repair cost, the item should be considered a “consumable”
     verses a “repairable” based on economic reasons of “throw away” verses “repair it”. If an item
     breaches the 75% threshold it is to be reviewed by the ES or Engineer for possible ERRC code
     change. For further information on cost to repair, see AFMCI 23-112, and for ERRC/SMR codes TO
     00-25-195.
     1.9.5. Item Management Specialist (IMS) codes, also called Management Designator Codes ( MDCs)
     and Equipment Specialist (ES) codes are established and changed in D035A on the D035A-MIRB
     screen. D035A passes these codes (using a ZAB transaction) to D043, which passes the data to RIID,
     which passes the codes to SIRS.
     1.9.6. For new NSNs, SIRS assigns standard default values to some data elements that are variables
     for calculating certain requirements segments. In order for SIRS to compute requirements for an item,
     the IMS and ES must ensure that the unit cost, budget code/system management code and at least one
     application program select code are not blank. These actions will cause SIRS to assign a "Y" for the
     Compute Code.
     1.9.7. When SIRS computes requirements it will consider failure data for all items in the subgroup.
     All computed requirements, however, will be aggregated to the subgroup master NSN and rolled by
     SIRS to the I&S SGM NSN. This allows acquisition of the most preferred I&S SGM NSN to replen-
     ish all NSNs in the subgroup. Customer refusal to use standard interchangeable items instead of the
     preferred item is not sufficient grounds for acquiring the preferred item if assets of interchangeable
     items are available. Maintenance engineering must resolve the problems of unacceptable substitution
     to establish that available assets are unsuitable and should not be used before any acquisition actions
     are initiated or adjusted. If an item is determined to be an unsuitable substitute for all applications, it
     should be coded for disposal in D043.

1.10. Review and Adjustment Actions. When any of the following cases apply, repair and acquisition
actions must be adjusted. If applicable, budget requirements projected by SIRS must also be adjusted
before submission to higher headquarters.
     1.10.1. First and Second Replenishment Acquisitions.
        1.10.1.1. When SIRS computes an acquisition action for an item for the first time, the safety level
        and projected condemnations can be budgeted for. These requirements are not acquired until
        actual failures are reported. However, if condemnations can be completely justified (engineering
        analysis, like items with significant condemnation rates, etc), and staffed through appropriate
        offices including FM, prudent management dictates that acquisition may occur. If actual failures
        or condemnations are reported, the base and depot level requirements are based on the percentage
        of actual data used in computing the total demand rate.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 47


     1.10.1.2. Acquisition of safety levels may be considered when determining Spares Acquisition
     Integrated with Production (SAIP) quantities. Initial lay-in issues for base initial spares support
     list (ISSL), etc., are not considered failures for this purpose.
     1.10.1.3. When buy quantities are deferred due to the above policy, the subsequent year (budget
     year) quantities on the budget CSIS Item Deficit Listing should be increased by the same quantity
     to ensure that funds are projected in the proper fiscal period.
     1.10.1.4. Repeated deferral of buys for the same items are not allowed. If an item does not exhibit
     a demand pattern indicated by the provisioning factors, a reevaluation of the item factors by the
     engineering function should be initiated. If after this reevaluation, it is determined that the factors
     are accurate, then the item deficit should be deferred outside the budget window (beyond the
     Extended Year).
  1.10.2. Authorized Readiness Spares Package (RSP) Requirements. Are budgeted and acquired
  in the first replenishment acquisition unless HQ AFMC directs deferred acquisition.
  1.10.3. Restrictions on Uneconomical Acquisitions. Acquisition action is not initiated if the net buy is
  less than 5 percent of the annual operating requirement (known as the Buy Operating Level), unless
  deferment will cause supply support problems. When the net buy quantity is less than 5 percent of the
  Buy Operating Level, an asterisk appears in the dollar value field of the Index of Actions printout.
  Budget submissions will defer uneconomical buys to the following fiscal year.
  1.10.4. Screening Assets. Since SIRS computes worldwide requirements, all available assets in the
  Department of Defense (DOD) must be considered to fill those requirements to preclude unnecessary
  acquisitions and repairs. Before an acquisition or a repair action is initiated the IMS/MM, will deter-
  mine that assets cannot be obtained from any of the following sources or use of the following sources
  would not be in the best interest of the Government due to shelf life, safety, cost/benefit analysis, etc.
  One example of cost/benefit analysis is which is less expensive repair of the item or using a temporary
  work request to pull the item from a NHA that is excess and having the item condition checked. Doc-
  umentation explaining the decision reached will be retained in the IMS/MM folder for two years after
  the delivery of assets.
     1.10.4.1. Modification. This may include modification of excess inventories, assembly of excess
     components, or assets removed as a result of modification programs.
     1.10.4.2. Next Higher Assembly (NHA) excesses.
         1.10.4.2.1. The NHA for a component NSN may be found by going into D200F, Application
         and Indentures (AI) selecting output products then selecting Component Item Review List or
         Indentures Chains-All. (The two outputs are in different formats. The second will provide for
         the NHAs, the item name, SMR code and ERRC.)Enter the component NIIN on the screen that
         appears and then hit the enter key. The product should print within fifteen minutes to the
         printer assigned on the User Function Keys screen in D200.
         1.10.4.2.2. For NHAs that are ERRC C or T, the IMS/MM can see if item is stratifying assets
         to Potential DOD Excess by going into D200N. Select IOE and hit the Enter key. Select option
         08 and hit the Enter key. Select display and hit the Enter key. Select budget products and hit
         the Enter key. Select S01 and hit the Enter key. Tab to Position and type AF by it. Tab to the
         Master Stock Number and type in the NIIN under it and hit the Enter key. Use the F5 key to go
         to the next screen. Check Line 21, Columns 3-5 to see if the NHA has any excess reporting.
48                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


            1.10.4.2.3. Check the Reutilization/Disposition System (RDS) D035G to see if the NHAs are
            available to support the requirement. (See AFMCMAN 23-110, Volume 3, Part 1, Chapter 9,
            paragraph 9.19.6 and the RDS Users Manual for instructions on doing this.)
            1.10.4.2.4. If the component currently has backorders reporting, the NHA IMS/MM who has
            the excess assets may be willing to allow the component IMS/MM to pass the requisition in
            D035A to the NHA NSN for filling. If the NHA IMS/MM approves passage of the requisition,
            the component IMS/MM manually makes the change of the component NSN to the NHA NSN
            in D035A on the BOAB screen.
        1.10.4.3. Reclamation. Sources of reclamation may include the Aerospace Maintenance Regener-
        ation Center (AMARC), equipment being considered for disposal, or damaged aircraft or equip-
        ment.
        1.10.4.4. Assets being held by other services and excess to their needs.
        1.10.4.5. Assets on loan to contractors or other government agencies and scheduled to be
        returned.
        1.10.4.6. Assets that may be bought back from Foreign Military Sales (FMS) customers.
        1.10.4.7. Contract repair of unserviceable assets when no organic repair is available.
     1.10.5. Economic Procurement Quantities. Consideration must be given to a vendor's minimum
     quantity or value requirements, which, if ignored, can result in excessive unit costs. Requirements
     computations, while reflecting specific quantities to be acquired, cannot determine what is the most
     economical buy in terms of minimum quantities or what is the most cost effective method of acquisi-
     tion. The IMS decides this, based on documentation that contracting personnel furnish. In addition,
     public law requires that each spare parts acquisition action be considered for Multiple Year Procure-
     ment (MYP), which allows acquisition of more than one year's requirement with a single acquisition
     action. Paragraph 1.12. provides MYP policy as it pertains to recoverable spares. Public Law (10
     U.S.C. 2210 and 2213) also prohibits the IMS.MM from initiating procurement of MSD items
     exceeding the year’s requirement. For MSD items the IMS/MM shall not move out year requirements
     forward.
     1.10.6. Management Review Actions. HQ AFMC and ALC staff conduct periodic item level
     reviews of computed requirements.
     1.10.7. All items with a peacetime and/or Readiness Spares Package (RSP) Current Year (CY) and/or
     Apportionment Year (AY) buy requirement that also have a positive Asset Reconciliation Variance
     may be subject to a complete or partial buy deferral. A positive Asset Reconciliation Variance indi-
     cates that there are more reported on hand assets than the known accountable balance of world-wide
     spares. The buy quantity, up to the amount of that variance, will be considered for possible deferral
     until it can be determined if these additional assets truly exist. If the variance could not be resolved
     through research and corrective file maintenance the buy quantity will be reduced by the amount of
     the variance quantity in the Automated Budget Compilation System (ABCS) using Code 02W with a
     corresponding increase in the Budget Year (BY).
        1.10.7.1. If the variance quantity is equal to or larger than the combined peacetime/RSP buy quan-
        tity the entire buy will be deferred to the BY.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  49


      1.10.7.2. If the combined peacetime/RSP buy quantity is greater than the variance quantity the
      buy quantity will be reduced by the amount of the variance, beginning with the peacetime portion
      of the buy. The variance quantity will be deferred to the BY.
      1.10.7.3. The only exceptions to the above policy are:
          1.10.7.3.1. If the positive variance percent is less than or equal to 5% or the dollar value of the
          variance is less than or equal to $10,000 and the Inventory Management Specialist (IMS) has
          determined that deferral of the buy would significantly affect their ability to support the cus-
          tomer they can document the Stock Group Master (SGM) Comp Worksheet with their ratio-
          nale and proceed with the buy action without having to obtain management approval.
          1.10.7.3.2. If the positive variance percent is greater than 5% and the dollar value of the vari-
          ance is greater than $10,000 and the IMS has determined that deferral of the buy would signif-
          icantly affect their ability to support the customer they must document the SGM Comp
          Worksheet with their rationale and obtain division level signature concurring with that deci-
          sion prior to proceeding with the buy action.

1.11. Life Of Type Buys.
   1.11.1. Definition. A Life-of-Type Buy (LOTB) is a one-time procurement, when all cost-effective
   and prudent alternatives have been exhausted, for the total future requirement of an item that is no
   longer expected to be produced. The procurement quantity shall be based upon demand or engineering
   estimates of mortality sufficient to support the applicable equipment until phased out. (DoD 4140.1-R,
   AP1.1.69) Other manufacturing source alternatives addressed in DoD 4140.1-R, Para C3.6.2.4 will be
   considered prior to making a LOTB. When a LOTB is necessary, procurement shall occur as close as
   possible to one procurement lead time away. This section describes the process and procedures to be
   used by the Inventory Management Specialist (IMS), the Equipment Specialist (ES) and the ALC
   Director of Financial Management for LOTB. AFMCI 23-103, Para 2.3 and AFMCI 23-106, Para
   1.10.7 authorizes acquisition of spare parts to cover the anticipated operational life of a weapon sys-
   tem under certain conditions. LOTB, is authorized in cases where such actions can be economically
   justified. A LOTB is normally initiated at the end of a production run for initial spares when reestab-
   lishment of production capability for follow on spares would not be economically feasible or when an
   item has been identified as having diminishing manufacturing sources.
   1.11.2. Procedures. The decision to apply LOTB procedures requires evaluation of support consider-
   ation, cost and benefits, and alternative acquisition actions. For new systems, requirements for items
   bought under LOTB provisions should be computed using the Initial Requirements Determination
   (IRD) system (D200H). If access to IRD is not available, they may be manually computed on AFMC
   Form 614, Recoverable item Initial Requirements Computation Worksheet per initial requirements
   instructions found in AFMCI 23-106. For items already in D200A, a “what if” recomputation can be
   run using the Weapons System Life field on the BMD screen (see paragraph 14.13.).
      1.11.2.1. The following types of items are excluded from LOTB consideration. Items subject to
      design change or technical obsolescence except when dealing with diminishing manufacturing
      sources and DoD 4140.1-R, Para C3.6.2.4 provides no viable cost effective alternatives and the
      system on which the item is used will not be phased out near the time of delivery of spares. Items
      that are assigned Acquisition Method Codes that indicates they are to be acquired competitively.
      Items that exhibit an unstable demand history, or with a demand history that is insufficient to pre-
50                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        dict long-range demands. Items that may be subsequently acquired from the prime contractor at a
        price substantially less than the current standard unit cost. Items subject to shelf life deterioration.
        1.11.2.2. When a LOTB is considered for programs that involve other services or FMS, the con-
        currence of the agency or country being supported are required.
        1.11.2.3. The following must be taken into account when considering a LOTB:
            1.11.2.3.1. Assets that may be available from reclamation.
            1.11.2.3.2. Related costs, such as those for hardware and technical data, and administrative
            costs.
            1.11.2.3.3. The cost to retain production tooling and test equipment, production start-up costs,
            and spares costs.
            1.11.2.3.4. The cost of future acquisitions of spares, using the forecast unit price.
            1.11.2.3.5. The effects that the costs in Paragraph 1.11.2.3.2., paragraphs 1.11.2.3.3. and
            Paragraph 1.11.2.3.4. may have on spares support.
            1.11.2.3.6. The costs to administer and manage excess stocks that would result from a LOTB.
     1.11.3. Responsibilities for LOTB.
        1.11.3.1. The IMS validates the cost effectiveness of a proposed LOTB, taking into account the
        cost considerations in paragraph 1.11.2.3. above. The IMS obtains the concurrence of other ser-
        vices and FMS customers, if required. The IMS prepares a letter containing the justification for the
        LOTB, unit cost, repair cost, quantity on hand (serviceable and unserviceable), years of usage,
        summary of quantities previously purchased and yearly repaired quantities, recommended quan-
        tity to buy, and justification for sole source. The notice from the contractor is an attachment to this
        letter.
        1.11.3.2. The ES validates that none of the exclusions in paragraph 1.11.2.1. apply. The ES val-
        idates the weapon system's projected lifespan program projection.
        1.11.3.3. Required coordination for the LOTB is according to ALC policy, but should include the
        coordination from the ALC SIRS OPR and from the appropriate ALC financial manager. The
        ALC/CD will have final approval of all LOTB. If approved, ALC/CD will inform the ALC SIRS
        OPR and the IMS that the IMS can file maintain the Weapons System Life field on the BMD
        screen (see paragraph 14.13.).
     1.11.4. LOTBs in the Requirements Computation. To preclude approved LOTB quantities that
     have not been delivered from computing into termination, the Weapon System Life needs to be file
     maintained on the BMD screen (See paragraph 14.13.). If a quantity that has been acquired as part of
     a LOTB computes into termination, it should be assigned termination code 07 due to the failure to file
     maintain the Weapon System Life No termination action should be taken.

1.12. Identifying Candidates And Requirements For Multiple Year Contracting.
     1.12.1. Introduction. All components within DoD involved with the acquisition process are directed
     by federal statute to investigate buying in economic quantities for each spare parts acquisition. Multi-
     ple year contracting methods are intended to fulfill the intent of this direction. When appropriate, the
     Inventory Management Specialist's (IMS) first choice should be the use of a MYC. The Multiple Year
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 51


   Procurement program (MYP) is one way to satisfy several years' requirements for spare parts with a
   single contract. Although the primary purposes of the MYP are to reduce unit cost and lead-times,
   other potential benefits include reduced administrative workload for the IMS, procurement personnel,
   and the Purchase Request (PR)/Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) control func-
   tion; reduced paperwork, better prices and discounts due to larger quantities, insured production con-
   tinuity; and contractor incentive for investment in capital equipment and facilities. AFMCI 23-102,
   Chapters 7, paragraphs 7.9, 7.10 and 7.11, establishes policy for and provides a description of the
   MYP. This chapter applies to all replenishment spares requirements that meet the selection criteria for
   the MYP, as described in paragraph 1.12.2. The ALC should conduct periodic (at least annual)
   reviews of multiple year candidate items. The reviews should have a goal of determining how well
   multiple year policy is being implemented and of identifying potential problems with existing policy.
   Multiple year contracting should be a budget requirements review area of interest.
   1.12.2. Item Selection. To be considered for the MYP, an item must meet all of the following condi-
   tions: The item program must be forecastable. A forecastable program is one, which can be deter-
   mined with a reasonable degree of certainty. Most SIRS items have forecastable programs. The item
   must compute into a deficit buy position in the Apportionment Year (AY) and the Budget Year (BY),
   as indicated on the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) Deficit Listing. Items may also com-
   pute deficits beyond the BY and still be eligible for the MYC. However, they must compute into a def-
   icit in the AY and the BY. For an item to be considered for a 3-year multi year contract, the item must
   be in a buy position in the apportionment, budget, and extended years on the CSIS listing. RSP and
   OWRM deficits may be included as part of the first year's buy. For fourth or fifth year buys, consider
   items that compute condemnations (base, depot overhaul, and job routed) greater than ten percent of
   the computed Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance (OIM) operating requirement plus the
   total Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) program. The quantities to be procured in the fourth and fifth
   years will never exceed the forecasted condemnations (condemnation percent times forecasted repara-
   ble generations). In addition, the item must be of stable design and configuration. It must not be
   scheduled for replacement or for a modification that would affect the failure rate

1.13. Retention of Documentation & Products. D200A products are listed by title & product-ID.
These are minimal requirements. Local policy may require longer retention of documents or suppress
printing of some documents that are not required to be kept. All Indices of Action products are to be
retained according to ALC local policy.
   1.13.1. Item folder is destroyed 2 years after item is out of FMS and AF inventory: This life of NSN
   retention of folder contents policy applies to all AFMC Forms 318, Item Contracting History Record
   and all Asset Reconciliation reports: For D200A Asset Reconciliations, retain (March summary only
   – final if summary not printed. Jun, Sep, and Dec copies of D200A Asset Reconciliations may be
   thrown away upon receipt of the products for the next quarter.), For A-D041.-YW1-F9-XXX Asset
   Reconciliations retain (March final only. Jun, Sep, and Dec copies do not need to be retained as long
   as documentation has been moved from them to the March final Asset Reconciliation). Retain AFMC
   Forms 247 and AFMC Form 47. If the summary computation is not run, keep the products from the
   final computation. (If the IMS chooses not to retain/use the optional AFMC Form 318, Item Contract-
   ing History Record the IMS will retain the AFMC Form 339s, Due-In Assets Status Record showing
   the initiation of the PR, the award of the contract, and the delivery of the assets as a permanent record
   for the life of the item.)
52                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     1.13.2. For items on which purchases were initiated, all the products in this paragraph may be
     destroyed 2 years after contract is closed and all assets have been delivered or 2 years after the con-
     tract is terminated:
       copy of contract (or electronic file copy of the contract—must be readily accessible and easily
readable and printable by anyone needing the information)
        PR/MIPRs
        D220 Provisioning Documents
        Provisioned Item Order (PIO)
All supporting documentation such as:
        Initial Requirements Determination (IRD) Item Worksheet               AD200.H40108ZP
        IRD Programming Checklist                                             AD200.H60108ZP
D200A Products:
        Initial MISTR Repair and Repair Data (IMS)                            AD200.AFCA#8IH
        Factors/Usage Printout (see para 1.13.12.)                            A-D200.AFDA#85U
(Keep the summary products listed below, or final products if summary products are not available, con-
taining approval signatures)
        SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements                                AD200.AIDAX88I
        Consolidated Assets and Additive Requirements                         AD200.AHBA#87B
        Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet                                 AD200.ACKA#8BO
        MISTR Repair and Repair Data (IMS)                                    AD200.AFCA#8IH
        MISTR Repair and Repair Data (ES)                                     AD200.AFCA#8EH
        Factors/Usage Printout                                                A-D200.AFDA#85U
        SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet                                        AD200.AIPA#88K
        Insurance/NSO Item Status Listing                                     AD200.ANBAX82B
        Entire Signed “What If” Item Recomputation (if applicable)
     1.13.3. Destroy after 2 years or after termination is closed, whichever is greater, documentation sup-
     porting terminations:
        All cataloging data and source material
        Documentation supporting applications
        Termination Model
     1.13.4. Destroy 2 years after data is superseded or obsolete in D200A:
        All cataloging data and source material
        Documentation supporting applications
     1.13.5. Destroy after 2 years:
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             53


          AF Form 414, Overhaul Contractor Stock Balance Report
          Backorder List (if used as basis for validating and/or changing requirement in D200A or ABCS
Repair)
          CLSSA Requirements Listing                               (U-W001.-GBK product)
          FMS Retention Levels                                     (U-W001.-RAA product)
          J018R Category I and IIR Requirement Data Report         (A-J018R.-5YB-M5-850 product)
          Processing Master Record Quarterly Asset Listing         A-D035B-1LX-Q7-GAE product)
   1.13.6. Destroy after 2 years (unless needed to support buy or terminations, per paragraph 1.13.2.
   and paragraph 1.13.3.) the following pushed products.
D200A Products:
Initial MISTR Repair and Repair Data (IMS)                   AD200.AFCA#8IH
Factors/Usage Printout (see para 1.13.12.)                   A-D200.AFDA#85U
(Keep the summary products listed below, or final products if summary products are not available, con-
taining approval signatures)(***According to ALC local policy)
SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements                       AD200.AIDAX88I
Consolidated Assets and Additive Requirements                AD200.AHBA#87B
Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet                        AD200.ACKA#8BO
MISTR Repair and Repair Data (IMS)                           AD200.AFCA#8IH
MISTR Repair and Repair Data (ES)                            AD200.AFCA#8EH
Factors/Usage Printout                                       AD200.AFDA#85U
Item Program Data – Future Program – Peace                   A-D200.AEBA#8AC
SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet                               AD200.AIPA#88K
INS/NSO Item Status Listing                                  AD200.ANBAX82B
Entire Signed “What If” Item Recomputation (if applicable)
All Final Indices of Action for Term ***
All Final Indices of Action for Excess ***
All Final Indices of Action for Buy ***
All Final Indices of Action for Repair ***
All Final Indices of Action for RRRQ ***
Stock Number Identity Cross Reference                        AD200.AETAB8AB
Any executive management summary reports
Any reports documenting repair of D041 or D200A items
B21 Quarterly Projection Worksheet
54                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Any reports documenting excess D041 or D200A items
Quarterly Base Repair Cycle Time report
Quarterly Order and Shipping Times report
Quarterly Reparable Item Transportation Time report
ES Review List                                              A-D200.AKEA#8ES
IMS Review List                                             A-D200.AKBA#8DS
     1.13.7. Destroy Initial D200A product after receipt of Final D200A product unless they contain pen
     and ink documentation required support actions taken: (*** According to ALC local policy)
SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements                      AD200.AIDA#88I
INS/NSO Item Status Listing                                 AD200.ANBA#82B or K
MISTR Repair and Repair Data (ES)                           AD200.AFCA#8EH
Factors/Usage Printout                                      AD200.AFDA#85U
SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet                              AD200.AIPA#88K
Asset Reconciliation – Investment Items                     AD200.AKAA#8AK
Item Program Data – Past Program                            AD200.AE3A#8AA
Item Program Data – Future Program                          AD200.AEBA#8AC
PRELOG Equations                                            AD200.ADSA#86E
All Indices of Action for Term ***
All Indices of Action for Excess ***
All Indices of Action for Buy ***
All Indices of Action for Repair ***
All Indices of Action for RRRQ ***
     1.13.8. Destroy Final D200A products after receipt of Summary D200A product (unless signature
     document):
(*If used for the signature document, follow rules for paragraphs 1.13.2., 1.13.3. or 1.13.6. as applica-
ble.)
(***According to ALC local policy)
SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements                      AD200.AIDA#88I
INS/NSO Item Status Listing                                 AD200.ANBA#82B or K
Factors/Usage Printout                                      AD200.AFDA#85U
MISTR Repair and Repair Data (ES) AD200                     AFCA#8EH
MISTR Repair and Repair Data (IMS)                          AD200.AFCA#8IH
SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet                              AD200.AIPA#88K
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          55


Asset Reconciliation – Investment Items                  AD200.AKAA#8AK
Item Program Data – Past Program                         AD200.AE3A#8AA
Item Program Data – Future Program                       AD200.AEBA#8AC
PRELOG Plots                                             AD200.AFVA#86B
All Indices of Action for Term ***
All Indices of Action for Excess ***
All Indices of Action for Buy ***
All Indices of Action for Repair ***
All Indices of Action for RRRQ **
Destroy on receipt of next cycle’s products:
G004L/G019C/G072D Exception Notice
Item ES Notification Report                              AD200.ALSA98EY
Application ES Notification Report                       AD200.ALTA98EY
Final Item Program Data – Past Programs                  AD200.AE3A#8AA
Final Item Program Data – Future Program                 AD200.AEBA#8AC
Final PRELOG Equations                                   AD200.ADSA#86E
Summary PRELOG Plots                                     AD200.AFVA#86B
Exception Report for G004L/G019C/G072D (IMS)             AD200.AANAC87H
Exception Report for G004L/G019C/G072D (ES)              AD200.AAPAC88H
   1.13.9. Destroy Initial D200A product after receipt of Final D200A product unless they contain pen
   and ink documentation required support actions taken: (*** According to ALC local policy)
SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements                   AD200.AIDA#88I
INS/NSO Item Status Listing                              AD200.ANBA#82B or K
MISTR Repair and Repair Data (ES)                        AD200.AFCA#8EH
Factors/Usage Printout                                   AD200.AFDA#85U
SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet                           AD200.AIPA#88K
Asset Reconciliation - Investment Items                  AD200.AKAA#8AK
Item Program Data – Past Program                         AD200.AE3A#8AA
Item Program Data – Future Program                       AD200.AEBA#8AC
PRELOG Equations                                         AD200.ADSA#86E
All Indices of Action for Term ***
All Indices of Action for Excess ***
All Indices of Action for Buy ***
56                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


All Indices of Action for Repair ***
All Indices of Action for RRRQ ***
     1.13.10. Destroy Final D200A products after receipt of Summary D200A product (unless signature
     document):
     (*If used for the signature document, follow rules for paragraphs 1.13.2., 1.13.3. or 1.13.6. as appli-
     cable.)
(***According to ALC local policy)
SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements                        AD200.AIDA#88I
INS/NSO Item Status Listing                                   AD200.ANBA#82B or K
Factors/Usage Printout                                        AD200.AFDA#85U
MISTR Repair and Repair Data (ES)AD200                        AFCA#8EH
MISTR Repair and Repair Data (IMS)                            AD200.AFCA#8IH
SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet                                AD200.AIPA#88K
Asset Reconciliation - Investment Items                       AD200.AKAA#8AK
Item Program Data – Past Program                              AD200.AE3A#8AA
Item Program Data – Future Program                            AD200.AEBA#8AC
PRELOG Plots                                                  AD200.AFVA#86B
All Indices of Action for Term ***
All Indices of Action for Excess ***
All Indices of Action for Buy ***
All Indices of Action for Repair ***
All Indices of Action for RRRQ ***
     1.13.11. Destroy on receipt of next cycle's products:
G004L/G019C/G072D Exception Notice
Item ES Notification Report                                   AD200.ALSA98EY
Application ES Notification Report                            AD200.ALTA98EY
Final Item Program Data – Past Programs                       AD200.AE3A#8AA
Final Item Program Data – Future Program                      AD200.AEBA#8AC
Final PRELOG Equations                                        AD200.ADSA#86E
Summary PRELOG Plots                                          AD200.AFVA#86B
Exception Report for G004L/G019C/G072D (IMS)                  AD200.AANAC87H
Exception Report for G004L/G019C/G072D (ES)                   AD200.AAPAC88H
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 57


   1.13.12. All documentation for estimated factors, rates and percents including studies, methodology,
   and calculations used to arrive at them and documentation of key assumptions, facts, specific details,
   decision makers’ names and signatures and dates of decisions will be retained for 2 years after any
   resultant buy quantities are delivered or for 2 year after any resultant termination action has been com-
   pleted. If no buy or termination resulted, the documentation will be retained for 2 years after repair
   actions resulting from them have been completed.

Figure 1.1. Time Periods.




1.14. Performanced Based Logistics (PBL) Contracts.
   1.14.1. When a PBL contractor is required by the contract to do all the demand and supply planning
   including requirements calculation for the items and is using its own data systems to fulfill the obliga-
   tion, the PBL contractor and ALC inventory management specialists, equipment specialist and pro-
   duction management specialist are not required to check within D200A/F the inputs of Government
   systems overlaying to D200A/F for those items covered by the PBL contract. The input systems are
   responsible for the accuracy of the data provided.
   1.14.2. The ALC management will ensure PBL contract/ALC arrangement fulfills DoD 4140.1-R,
   Chapter 9 mandates for a Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) on every item and the Second-
   ary Supply Inventory Report (SSIR) covering all items regardless of funding. This provides for the
   general accounting requirement in 50 U.S.C. 412. For the SSIR, variances on NSNs for which a PBL
58                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     contractor is responsible the ALC SSIR OPR will use the explanation: “Item is managed by a Perfor-
     mance Based Logistics contractor.”
     1.14.3. The ALC will also incorporate in the PBL contract stipulations a requirement for the PBL
     contractor to comply with 10 U.S.C. 2213 when stock funds are used.
     1.14.4. The ALC will incorporate in the PBL contract stipulations a requirement for the PBL contrac-
     tor to accept and respond to Air Force Audit Agency and U.S. General Accounting Office audits on
     the items they are managing under the PBL contract.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  59


                                                Chapter 2

                                        HOW TO ACCESS SIRS

2.1. Introduction. The Secondary Item Requirements System (SIRS) D200A is part of the Requirements
Management System (RMS) that stores data on the Requirement Data Base (RDB). SIRS operates on an
AMDAHL computer at Hill AFB, UT at OO-ALC. Viewing of data and file maintenance of data can be
done using PCs at any site. Access to data is controlled by the user-id.

2.2. Schedule. SIRS has 4 quarterly cycles a year that are keyed to asset cutoff dates of 31 December, 31
March, 30 June, and 30 September. Data from interfacing systems are input to SIRS after the asset cutoff
date and at the start of the Initial computation. There are 3 computations run each quarter for SIRS, an Ini-
tial, a Final, and a Summary. File maintenance should be done during the file maintenance cycle (about 4
weeks), which starts after the initial computation is completed and ends with the start of the final compu-
tation. There may be a week for file maintenance after the final computation is completed and before the
start of the summary computation. The SIRS on line data base is maintained real time and reflects the lat-
est data from interfacing systems or file maintained data, whichever was input last. After the summary
computation, neither the SIRS database nor the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) can be
updated for that quarter. The SIRS file maintenance screens are closed from the start of the summary com-
putation until after the next cycle’s initial computation is completed. Hard copy products can be produced
at each ALC and at HQ AFMC from the results of any computation. Output files to D200N (CSIS), are
produced from the final and summary computation run. Output files to other interfacing systems are pro-
duced from the summary computation.

2.3. General Access.
   2.3.1. The procedures to log on and to log off any of the RDB systems differ depending on the type of
   equipment and the communications package used. One method is the user first makes a connection
   through a communications package, Relay PC Gold, to the Local Area Network (LAN). When the
   logon screen appears, type “RDB2WP” and press ENTER. The next screen is the User-ID/Password
   screen, which identifies users to the RDB system and limits access depending on the individual user
   profile. Type your user-id and password and press ENTER. At the RDB System News screen press
   ENTER to proceed to the RDB Main Menu.
   2.3.2. Another method, is to access SIRS with the Graphic User Interface (GUI). The GUI capability
   serves as a screen template over the basic SIRS to provide a Windows environment with the mouse
   “point and click” access to SIRS screens and data elements. To access SIRS with GUI, the GUI soft-
   ware must be loaded onto the user’s PC. Instructions are provided on the D200A web page maintained
   by the AFMC SIRS OPR (401 SCMS/GUMD).
   2.3.3. To log off of SIRS, the user can back out, screen by screen, using either the F10 or F11 key, or
   type DONE on the command line. Log off the RDB using local procedures.

2.4. Access to SIRS Without GUI. Without GUI, the alphabetical screen designator must be typed in
the Command (CMD) line located at the left hand bottom corner of the screen display. At the RDB Main
Menu, the uses can type in IOE to get to the CSIS (see Chapter 35, Chapter 36, Chapter 36, Chapter
37, Chapter 39, Chapter 40 and Chapter 41). If the user types in FOE, then the FOE screen appears.
Depending on the user-id, the user can access DIS (Display) and maybe able to also access DQ (data
60                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


query), FM (File Maintenance), OP (output products) and TRND (trend analysis). Typing in DIS brings
up the DISPLAY screen, which provides access to these systems:
       - AI – Application Indenture portion of API (D200F)
       - EQP – Equipment (D200C)
       - PRGM – Program portion of API (D200F)
       - SIRS – SIRS (D200A)
       - RIID – Requirements Item Identification (D200E)
The user would type in SIRS in the command line to get to the SIRS. For function keys see paragraph
2.8. The user can type in the entire command string (DIS SIRS SND WARD.) followed by a period even
if the typing goes over the F1 and F10 data displayed, and press ENTER.

2.5. Access to SIRS Using GUI. It is easier to use SIRS in the Windows-based GUI environment with
the mouse “point and click” capability. At the RDB Main Menu screen (Figure 2.1.) the user would point
to SIRS and double click. The user can navigate through SIRS, screen by screen (paragraph 2.5.2.), or
by using the SIRS drop down menus (paragraph 2.5.1.). SIRS provides three modes of access to the sys-
tem; Display for viewing data, File Maintenance for changing data, and Output Products (OP-SUBMIT)
for selecting and printing hard copy reports. OP-REVIEW allows the user to check on the status of his
output print product job.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            61


Figure 2.1. Requirements Data Bank Main Menu.




   2.5.1. GUI Navigation Using Drop Down Menus. Users who know their final screen destination will
   find the SIRS drop down menus to be a quick and convenient form of navigation. From the RMS Main
   Menu, select SIRS from the menu selections across the very top of your screen by pointing and click-
   ing on “SIRS” (see Figure 2.2.).
62                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 2.2. Example of Drop Down Menu.




     2.5.2. After selecting SIRS by pointing and clicking on SIRS, additional levels of screen menus will
     appear that will allow the user to select the mode and type of data desired. The arrow to the right of the
     menu selection indicates that there are additional menu levels available. Hold the left mouse key down
     to navigate through the menu selections. Once the desired selection is highlighted, release the mouse
     button and the selected screen will appear. Figure 2.3. shows the menu navigation for viewing most
     SIRS data. “Display” is selected at the first level menu; “Stock Number Data” is at the second or mid
     level, and the menu for accessing the lowest level screens is displayed.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 63


Figure 2.3. Example of Multiple Levels Drop Down Menus.




   2.5.3. GUI Navigation Screen By Screen. Users who do not know their final screen destination may
   navigate screen by screen. Navigation is intuitive and acronyms are spelled out. From the RDB Main
   Menu (Figure 2.1.), select “Final Operating Environment”. On the next screen, select the desired
   mode, such as “Display” or “File Maintenance”. Then select “Recoverables” for SIRS. The next
   screen (Figure 2.4.) will list the same menu selections offered by the mid-level drop down menu (Fig-
   ure 2.3.), but the acronyms are spelled out. Point and double click at the selection and that screen will
   appear, with the acronyms again spelled out. Figure 2.5. shows the options available for the low level
   menu “Stock Number Data”.
64                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 2.4. Example of Mid-Level Menu.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 65


Figure 2.5. Example of Lowest Level Menu.




2.6. GUI Navigation Buttons. The bottom of each data screen provides various “point and click” navi-
gation buttons that enable the user to read the data for a selected stock number (see Figure 2.6.). The but-
tons are available for use on that screen whenever they are highlighted. The navigation buttons are as
follows.
Top. This button allows the user to get to the top of the “vertical” pages of data. When this button is
pointed and clicked on, the message “Top of List” will appear.
Bottom. This button allows the user to get to the bottom of the “vertical” pages of data. When this button
is pointed and clicked on, the message “Bottom of List” will appear. It will also appear when the last page
is reached when using the Forward button.
Back. This button allows the user to scroll back one “vertical” page. When all pages have been exhausted,
the message “Top of List” will appear.
Forward. This button allows the user to scroll forward one “vertical” page. When all pages have been
exhausted, the message “Bottom of List” will appear.
Done. This button will cause the system to leave the selected screen and revert to the previous level’s
menu.
66                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Left. Applicable only when there are too many data elements to display on one screen and there is a left
and right screen. If the “Left” is dimly lit, the left screen is being displayed, and the “Right” will be high-
lighted in dark letters. Point and click to the desired screen for display.
Right. Applicable only when there are too many data elements to display on one screen and there is a left
and right screen. If the “Right” is dimly lit, the Right screen is being displayed, and the “Left” will be
highlighted in dark letters. Point and click to the desired screen for display.
Print. Provides for the screen print only of the screen that is currently being displayed. Only the screen
image will be printed. Printing of reports must be done using the Output Products (OP) menu option
instead of the Display (DIS) or File Maintenance (FM) options.
Notepad. Provides access to the documentation that has been recorded during file maintenance of the
data elements being displayed.
Refresh. Serves as the “erasure” for any data that is changed on the screen prior to pressing the enter key,
and will cause the screen to revert to the original data that was displayed on the screen. Must be used
before pressing the ENTER key.
Enter. Causes the system to react to data input on the screen.
Page Numbers. Provides for the capability to display and view multiple pages of data. Up to 15 pages of
data can be accessed, if applicable. The page number that is dimly lit is the page number of data that is
being displayed. Page numbers that are highlighted in dark letters, indicate additional page numbers that
are available for viewing.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              67


Figure 2.6. Example of Screen With GUI Navigation Buttons.




2.7. Source Reference Codes. Many data elements SIRS have a Source Reference Code (SRC). These
codes appear to the right of the data element they apply to. The SRCs are system generated and cannot be
file maintained.
   2.7.1. “A” represents “actual” and indicates that the data being shown have been received through an
   interface with a mechanized data system.
   2.7.2. “C” represents “computed or computer assigned” and indicates that the data being shown have
   been mechanically computed or assigned by SIRS. This code is also used with factors to indicate that
   the eight quarter moving average technique has been selected for the rates and percents used in the
   computation.
   2.7.3. “D” represents prices that were updated from D043 via the RIID interface.
   2.7.4. “E” represents “entered” and indicates that the data being shown have been received through a
   file maintenance action.
   2.7.5. “F” can be used only with the rates and percents and indicates that a four-quarter moving aver-
   age is being used for that rate or percent.
   2.7.6. “J” indicates the data came from J018R.
68                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     2.7.7. “M” indicates J018R file maintenance or estimated data internal within J018R, e.g., unit price,
     administrative lead time, production lead time, etc. Considered the same as code “J” above for D200A
     purposes.
     2.7.8. “N” represents Iterative Pricing from the Item Pricing System (IPS) (D200N) used for repair
     prices. Used only for the March cycles.
     2.7.9. “P” represents peacetime values that are used in the Other War Reserve Material (OWRM)
     computation. This code is also used with factors to indicate that the Predictive Logistics (PRELOG)
     technique for computing rates and percents has been selected.
     2.7.10. “S” represents “standard” or the default value. The data was developed by HQ USAF. SIRS
     uses these default values in the absence of actual data or entered data.
     2.7.11. “W” represents wartime values that are used in the OWRM computation.
     2.7.12. “X” indicates that the Exponential Smoothing technique for computing rates and percents is
     being used in the computation.

2.8. Non GUI Navigation Function Keys. Here are the “Non-GUI” navigation command and function
keys that are used. These definitions can be displayed online by entering FOE DIS UVD UVFK. Some
commands can be shortened to 2 positions, (left LE, right RI, back BA, Forw FO, Top TO, bottom BO.

Table 2.1. Non-GUI Navigation Function Keys.
FUNC KEY             COMMAND             DESCRIPTION
F1                   HELP                ACCESS HELP INFORMATION
F2                   STIC                STICKY CURSOR
F3                   TOP                 GO TO TOP OF FILE
F4                   BOTT                GO TO BOTTOM OF FILE
F5                   FORW                SCROLL FORWARD IN FILE
F6                   BACK                SCROLL BACKWARD IN FILE
F7                   LEFT                VIEW LEFT SCREEN
F8                   RIGH                VIEW RIGHT SCREEN
F9                   STAT                DISPLAY JOB STATUS SCREEN
F10                  DONE                RETURN TO PREVIOUS MENU LEVEL
F11                  RDB                 RETURN TO MAIN MENU LEVEL
F12                  BYE                 EXIT RMS
F13                  FIRS                GO TO FIRST RECORD
F14                  LAST                GO TO LAST RECORD
F15                  NEXT                GO TO NEXT RECORD
F16                  PREV                GO TO PREVIOUS RECORD
F17                  REST                RESTART
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           69


FUNC KEY           COMMAND            DESCRIPTION
F18                PRIN               PRINT SOMETHING
F19 and F20                           N/A
                   Pnnn               Page to specific page number, e.g., P3 = page 3
                   Fnnn               Page forward the number of pages selected (F2 = go
                                      forward 2 pages)
                   Bnnn               Page backward the number of pages selected (B2 = go
                                      backward 2 pages)

2.9. Organization of the SIRS Online Screens. After logging onto the Requirement Management Sys-
tems (RMS) Requirements Data Bank (RDB), the first screen (Figure 2.1.) offers a choice of Final Oper-
ating Environment (FOE) or Initial Operating Environment. The Central Secondary Item Stratification
(CSIS) or D200N system is the only system under the Initial Operating Environment (see Chapter 41).
Selecting the FOE screen gives the user a menu (Figure 2.7.) with 5 choices: Display (DIS), Data Query
(DQ), File Maintenance (FM), Output Products (OP) and Trend Analysis (TRND). The Trend Analysis
selection is only for the weapon systems program data of the Application Program Indenture (API),
D200F system and is explained in 30.3. The Output Products menu (Figure 2.21.) is explained in para-
graph 2.12. The File Maintenance menu (Figure 2.17.) is explained in paragraph 2.11. The Display
menu (figure 20.8) is explained in paragraph 2.10. The Data Query screen is not covered in this users
manual. Data query is only available to the OPRs at the ALCs and at HQ AFMC and is explained in a sep-
arate manual.
70                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 2.7. RDB FOE Final Operating Environment Menu.




2.10. Display Screens. The user must have a valid user-id and password for each RMS system to view
the data on the Display screens. To view SIRS data, from the Display Main menu (Figure 2.8.) select the
Recoverables menu (Figure 2.9.).
     2.10.1. Interrogation information is available as of the asset cutoff date, which is displayed in the
     upper right corner of each screen. The on line interrogation screens also provide a two-digit code to
     indicate the segment of the quarterly SIRS computer run. The first position indicates the segment of
     the quarter: “I” for Initial, “F” for Final, and “S” for Summary. The second position indicates the num-
     ber of times the item has been re-computed for that computation cycle. Individual data element file
     maintenance changes are updated immediately on the Display screens upon the successful input of file
     maintenance actions. However, the use of the updated data values in the computation is not reflected
     on the display screens until either a “For Real” (FRIR) screen computation is run (see paragraph
     2.11.5.), or a final computation or summary computation is run. For example, the revised quantity that
     resulted from the file maintenance of an additive requirement would be reflected on the Display of
     Additives (ADRQ) screen, but the revised quantity would not appear on the Display of the Computa-
     tion Worksheet (SMCW) screen until either the For Real, final or summary computations were run.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008             71


Figure 2.8. Display DIS Main Menu.
72                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 2.9. Display SIRS Recoverable Menu.




     2.10.2. The following display screens are available to view SIRS data. The screen string commands
     required to access the data are also listed. Using GUI, the user can point and click on the “drop down”
     boxes to select the desired Display screen. Without GUI, the command string must be entered in the
     Command (CMD) line at the bottom left hand side of the screen. Note that the screen strings displayed
     below are the commands to be used without the GUI capability. With GUI, the access sequence for the
     “DIS” and “ SIRS “ is reversed on the “drop down” boxes. The PFI selection brings up only one
     screen, the Item Review List selection screen, or IRL.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                       73


Table 2.2. Display Screens.
Name                                     Screen Command Line      Reference
Aircraft Availability Model Data         FOE DIS SIRS AAMD        Chapter 29
INS/NSO Item Status Listing              FOE DIS SIRS CW INIS     Chapter 31
SGM Computation Worksheet                FOE DIS SIRS CW SMCW     Chapter 9
SGM OWRM Comp Worksheet                  FOE DIS SIRS CW SOCW     Chapter 21
Depot Data Bank                          FOE DIS SIRS DDBS        Chapter 30
SRAN Assets                              FOE DIS SIRS DTI ISA     Chapter 26
SRAN Usage                               FOE DIS SIRS DTI SUD     Chapter 16
Item Application Data                    FOE DIS SIRS FUD FAD     Chapter 18
Factors Basic Data                       FOE DIS SIRS FUD FBD     Chapter 17
Forecasted Rates and Percents            FOE DIS SIRS FUD FRAP    Chapter 17
MISTR Repair Data                        OE DIS SIRS FUD MRPR     Chapter 15
PRELOG Equations                         FOE DIS SIRS FUD PE      Chapter 19
Past Factors                             FOE DIS SIRS FUD PF      Chapter 16
PRELOG Plots                             FOE DIS SIRS FUD PP      Chapter 19
PRELOG Plot Headers                      FOE DIS SIRS FUD PPH     Chapter 19
Rates and Percents                       FOE DIS SIRS FUD RAP     Chapter 17
Total SGM Usage History                  FOE DIS SIRS FUD TSUH    Chapter 16
Usage History                            FOE DIS SIRS FUD UH      Chapter 16
Index Of Actions                         FOE DIS SIRS INDX        Chapter 11
Interface Systems Input Dates            FOE DIS SIRS MISC ISID   Chapter 8
Other Services Demands and Rqmts         FOE DIS SIRS MISC OSTD   Chapter 27
PRELOG Error List                        FOE DIS SIRS PD PEL      Chapter 19
PRELOG Error Summary                     FOE DIS SIRS PD PES      Chapter 19
PRELOG Selected Information              FOE DIS SIRS PD PSI      Chapter 19
IM Review List                           FOE DIS SIRS PFI         Chapter 13
ES Review List                           FOE DIS SIRS PFI         Chapter 12
RRRQ Items                               FOE DIS SIRS RPR RQI     Chapter 20
Additive Requirements                    FOE DIS SIRS SND ADRQ    Chapter 25
Adjusted Levels Verification Worksheet   FOE DIS SIRS SND ALVW    Chapter 24
A-R Computational Results                FOE DIS SIRS SND ARCR    Chapter 28
Asset Reconciliation (A-R) Data          FOE DIS SIRS SND ARD     Chapter 28
A-R Due-In Assets                        FOE DIS SIRS SND ARDI    Chapter 28
74                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Name                                            Screen Command Line                     Reference
A-R Losses and Gains                            FOE DIS SIRS SND ARLG                   Chapter 28
A-R On Hand Assets                              FOE DIS SIRS SND AROH                   Chapter 28
A-R On Order Assets                             FOE DIS SIRS SND AROO                   Chapter 28
Basic Management Data                           FOE DIS SIRS SND BMD                    Chapter 14
Consolidated Assets and Requirements            FOE DIS SIRS SND CARD                   Chapter 26
Item Program Data                               FOE DIS SIRS SND IPD                    Chapter 18
Non Time Phased Asset Data                      FOE DIS SIRS SND NTPD                   Chapter 26
Pipeline Data                                   FOE DIS SIRS SND PLD                    Chapter 23
Procurement Lead-times (ALT and PLT)            FOE DIS SIRS SND PLD                    Chapter 22
RDE Output To Other Services                    FOE DIS SIRS SND RDEO                   Chapter 27
Stock Number ID Cross Reference                 FOE DIS SIRS SND SNIC                   Chapter 13
Time Phased Asset Data                          FOE DIS SIRS SND TPAD                   Chapter 26
Trend Analysis (by item)                        FOE DIS SIRS SND TRND                   Chapter 30
War Data                                        FOE DIS SIRS SND WARD                   Chapter 21
Variable Safety Level Data                      FOE DIS SIRS VSL                        Chapter 29
     2.10.3. The following are summaries about the data on each display screen.
        2.10.3.1. Aircraft Availability Model Data (AAMD) (Figure 29.2.) menu provides access to the 5
        screens displaying data from the Aircraft Availability Model computation. The data is used by the
        HQ AFMC SIRS OPR.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             75


Figure 2.10. Display CW Comp Worksheet Menu.




      2.10.3.2. The CW menu (Figure 2.10.) has 3 selections.
         2.10.3.2.1. INIS – Insurance/NSO Item Status Listing. Displays the computational results for
         Insurance and Numerical Stockage Objective (NSO) items. Provides computed buy, repair,
         termination, and excess results by fiscal year (CY, AY, BY, EY, and Retention). The screen has
         three pages: Page 1 – Basic management data, buy and repair requirements, termination and
         excess quantities; Page 2 – Repair Detail and Page 3 – Buy/Retention Detail. See Chapter 31.
         2.10.3.2.2. SMCW – Subgroup Master Computation Worksheet. Displays the computational
         results for all computing items. Provides computed buy, repair, termination, and excess results
         by selected future “pick-off points” that follow the asset cutoff date. The selected pick-of
         points are the 1st Quarter (the immediate quarter following the asset cutoff date), the PCLT
         (the future quarter that is Procurement Lead Time beyond the asset cutoff date, CY PD (the
         future quarter that is PCLT beyond the end of the Current Year), AY PD (the future quarter that
         is PCLT beyond the end of the Apportionment Year ), BY PD (the future quarter that is PCLT
         beyond the end of the Budget Year ), EY PD (the future quarter that is PCLT beyond the end
         of the Extended Year ), and RETN (the Retention segment of the computation). The 14 screens
         are described in Chapter 9.
76                                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         2.10.3.2.3. SOCW – Subgroup Master OWRM Computation Worksheet displays the compu-
         tational results of the Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM) computation (called the Pre-
         stocked requirement in D041). The screen has three pages: Page 1 – Basic management data;
         Page 2 – War and Peace rates and percents used in the OWRM computation and Page 3 –
         OWRM computation lines for months 5, 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12. See Chapter 21.
      2.10.3.3. The Depot Data Bank Summary (DDBS) menu (Figure 30.14.) provides access to the
      11 screens displaying summary information for all ERRC “C” and “T” items on the SIRS database
      as of the most recent summary computation. See paragraph 30.4.

Figure 2.11. Display DTI Data Type Interrogations Menu.




      2.10.3.4. The DTI menu (Figure 2.11.) has 2 selections.
         2.10.3.4.1. SRAN Assets (ISA) (Figure 26.1. and Figure 26.2.) display the base asset bal-
         ances, levels, and Due Out To Maintenance (DOTM) by current stock number, account code,
         and individual Stock Record Account Number (SRAN). The data is displayed on Left and
         Right screens. The Right screen displays the Condition “X” assets as an informational entry.
         See paragraph 26.4.
         2.10.3.4.2. SRAN Usage Data (SUD) (Figure 16.1. and Figure 16.2.) display the base and
         depot usage data by current stock number, account code, and individual SRAN and provides
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               77


         the gains and losses data used in the asset reconciliation process. The data is displayed on Left
         and Right screens. See paragraph 16.2.

Figure 2.12. Display FUD Factors/Usage Data Menu.




      2.10.3.5. The FUD menu (Figure 2.12.) has 11 selections.
         2.10.3.5.1. Factors Application Data (FAD) (Figure 17.7.) displays the application data for
         the item that was input to the API system, and then passed to SIRS. The application data
         reflected is the application designator (called the Standard Program Designator or SPD in
         API), application program select code, mission item essentiality code, program begin date,
         quantity per application, and the application percent. This data is described in Chapter 18.
         This is page 7 of seven screens that show the data reflected on the Factors/Usage Printout (Fig-
         ure 16.10., Figure 16.11. and Figure 16.12.).
         2.10.3.5.2. Factors Basic Data (FBD) (Figure 17.2.) displays basic management (manager
         codes, item program select code, Interim Contract Support (ICS)/Reliability Improvement
         Warranty (RIW) code and expiration date, base Reparable This Station (RTS) exclusion indi-
         cator, safety level exclusion code, factor indicator code, source of repair percents, unit price,
         unit repair cost, and the condition code “X” assets). This screen also displays the part number,
         Contractor and Government Entity Code (CAGE) code and can be accessed by either the Sub
         Group Master stock number (SGM) or by part number and CAGE. When accessing by part
78                                                               AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     number, the associated CAGE must be entered. The FBD is the first of seven screens that dis-
     play the data on the Factors/Usage Printout (Figure 16.10. Figure 16.11. and Figure 16.12.).
     These seven screens are interchangeable and can be accessed from any of the seven screens by
     pointing and clicking to the page number at the bottom of each screen. The seven screens and
     their applicable page number are: FBD (1), RAP (2), FRAP (3), UH (4), TSUH (5), PF (6),
     FAD (7).
     2.10.3.5.3. Forecast Rates And Percents (FRAP) (Figure 17.4.) displays the current, 1st, 2nd,
     3rd, 4th, and 5th forecasted values for the 16 rates and percents and Mean Time Between
     Demands (MTBD) used in the SIRS computation. This is page 3 of the seven screens that
     show the data reflected on the Factors/Usage Printout (Figure 16.10. Figure 16.11. and Fig-
     ure 16.12.).
     2.10.3.5.4. MISTR RPR And Repair Data (MRPR) (Figure 15.3. and Figure 15.4.) display
     the past 12 quarters of overhaul Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) repair quan-
     tities by Source of Repair (SOR), production/contract number, Contract Line Item Number
     (CLIN), and the associated unit repair cost, supply to maintenance days, shop flow days, and
     serviceable turn-in days. Quarters 1 – 8 are displayed on the left screen, where quarter 1 is the
     most recent past quarter, and quarters 9-12 are displayed on the right screen. See paragraph
     15.6.
     2.10.3.5.5. Prelog Equations (PE) (Figure 19.5.) displays the equations used by Predictive
     Logistics (PRELOG). PRELOG is one of the five methods in SIRS for computing the Total
     OIM Demand Rate (TOIMDR) used for computing requirements. The data is used by the ESs
     and OPRs. See paragraph 19.5.
     2.10.3.5.6. Past Factors (PF) (Figure 17.5. and Figure 17.6.) display the past factor computed
     values for the past two years (eight quarters) for all of the rates and percents. Also the Moving
     Average History (MAH) and the individual Quarter (QTR) values are displayed on two verti-
     cal pages (Top and Bottom). The first PF screen is page 6 of the seven screens that show the
     data reflected on the Factors/Usage Printout ( Figure 16.10. Figure 16.11. and Figure 16.12.
     ).
     2.10.3.5.7. Prelog Plots (PP) (Figure 19.4.) displays a plot for an SGM. Predictive Logistics
     (PRELOG) is one of the five methods in SIRS for computing the Total OIM Demand Rate
     (TOIMDR) used for computing requirements. The data is used by the ESs and OPRs. See
     paragraph 19.4.
     2.10.3.5.8. Prelog Plot Headers (PPH)(Figure 19.3.). This is the first of three screens that dis-
     play PRELOG data and allows the user to view a single plot header for a specific SGM. The
     three screens are interchangeable and can be accessed from any of the three screens by point-
     ing and clicking to the page numbers lit up at the bottom of the screens. The three screens and
     their applicable page numbers are: PPH (page 1), PP (page 2), and PE (page 3). Predictive
     Logistics (PRELOG) is one of the five methods in SIRS for computing the Total OIM Demand
     Rate (TOIMDR) used for computing requirements. The data is used by the ESs and OPRs. See
     paragraph 19.3.
     2.10.3.5.9. Rates And Percents (RAP) (Figure 17.3.) displays the 16 rates and percents used
     in the computation, plus the Mean Time Between Demand (MTBD). The last used, 24 month,
     12 month, PRELOG, and Exponential Smoothing computed values for each of the 17 rates and
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              79


        percents are displayed. See paragraph 17.20. This is page 2 of the seven screens that show the
        data reflected on the Factors/Usage Printout (Figure 16.10., Figure 16.11. and Figure 16.12.).
        2.10.3.5.10. Total SGM Usage History (TSUH) (Figure 16.6. and Figure 16.7.) display the
        past 12-quarter base period of usage data totaled for the SGM. The 2 screens also display the
        past installed program for Organizational Intermediate Maintenance (OIM), Programmed
        Depot Maintenance (PDM), Engine Overhaul (EOH), and Management of Items Subject to
        Repair (MISTR). The Left screen displays the latest eight quarters (quarters 1-8) of total usage
        history and program. The Right screen displays the oldest four quarters (quarters 9-12) of
        usage data. See paragraph 16.3. This is page 5 of the seven screens that show the data reflected
        on the Factors/Usage Printout (Figure 16.10., Figure 16.11. and Figure 16.12.).
        2.10.3.5.11. Usage History (UH) (Figure 16.4. and Figure 16.5.) display the past 12-quarter
        base period of usage data, which includes base RTS, base Not Reparable This Station (NRTS),
        base condemnations, base reparable generations, depot reparable generations, MISTR repairs,
        MISTR condemnations, and total depot condemnations, by current and sub group master stock
        number. The UH screen has a “left” and “right” screen and vertically scrolls between Top and
        Bottom. The “left” screen displays the latest eight quarters (quarters 1-8) of usage history, and
        the “right” screen displays the oldest four quarters (quarter 9-12) of usage data. The screen
        shows both the actual (ACT) data received from interfacing systems and data file maintained
        (F/M) by the equipment specialist. See paragraph 16.3. This is page four of the seven screens
        that show the data reflected on the Factors/Usage Printout (Figure 16.10., Figure 16.11. and
        Figure 16.12.).
     2.10.3.6. The Index Of Actions (INDX) selection screen (Figure 2.13.) has 11 selections. The
     screen allows the user to select the display of buy, termination, excess, and repair quantities by
     various ALC, Budget Program (BP), System Management Code (SMC), Materiel Management
     Aggregation Codes (MMAC), Federal Stock Class (FSC), Division, IMS, and ES sequences and
     summaries. See Chapter 11.
80                                                            AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 2.13. Display IOA Index of Actions Selection Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          81


Figure 2.14. Display MISC Miscellaneous Menu.




      2.10.3.7. The MISC menu (Figure 2.14.) has 2 selections.
         2.10.3.7.1. Interface System Input Dates (ISID) (Figure 8.1.) displays the dates when each
         interfacing system file was received for input to the SIRS database. Used by the OPRs. See
         paragraph 8.1.
         2.10.3.7.2. Othr Svc Tot Dmnd And Rqmt (OSTD) (Figure 27.3.) displays the comparison
         between the past Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) demands provided by D035B and the
         RDE future requirements projected by the other services. The past eight quarters of data and
         20 quarters of future RDE requirements are displayed. The service (Army, Navy, Marines, or
         Other) must be selected to view the comparison data. See paragraph 27.3.7.
      2.10.3.8. The PD menu (Figure 19.6.) has 3 selections. Predictive Logistics (PRELOG) is one of
      the five methods in SIRS for computing the Total OIM Demand Rate (TOIMDR) used for com-
      puting requirements. The data is used by the ESs and OPRs. See Chapter 19.
         2.10.3.8.1. Prelog Error List (PEL) (Figure 19.8.) display PRELOG error data. Data can be
         accessed by ALC, ALC and division, or by ALC, division and ES code. See paragraph 19.7.
82                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        2.10.3.8.2. Prelog Error Summary (PES) (Figure 19.9.) displays summary PRELOG error
        data. Data can be accessed by ALC, ALC and division, or by ALC, division and ES code. See
        paragraph 19.8.
        2.10.3.8.3. Prelog Selected Info (PSI) (Figure 19.7.) displays information about the SGMs
        that were selected for PRELOG screening. Data can be accessed by ALC site ID, division, or
        ES code. See paragraph 19.6.
     2.10.3.9. Selecting the Product Format Information (PFI) (Figure 13.1.) displays the Item Review
     List (IRL) menu. The IRL menu provides the capability to select stock numbers that should be
     reviewed by ALC, division, IMS code, and ES code. The user must select no computes, termina-
     tions, buys, excesses, or repairs. Select the options and press ENTER. The screen will re-appear
     with the selected data and any informational messages to identify possible discrepancies in the
     data elements.
     2.10.3.10. The RPR menu (Figure 20.1.) displays the SGMs with Routed Repair Replacement
     Quantity (RRRQ). Data will appear on this screen only if there is a job routed item and the item
     has more serviceable assets than are currently required, and the assets could be issued to the job
     routed line to save money and time. See Chapter 20.
     2.10.3.11. The Stock Number Data (SND) menu (Figure 2.15.) has 18 selections.
        2.10.3.11.1. Additive Requirements (ADRQ) (Figure 25.1.) displays all time-phased additive
        requirements that have been input for the current stock number. The additives are listed two
        per page until all applicable additives are displayed. Use the Forward key to scroll through all
        of the additives that have been input for a selected stock number. See paragraph 25.2.
        2.10.3.11.2. Adj Lvl Verification Worksht (ALVW) (Figure 24.1. and Figure 24.2.) display
        the time-phased adjusted levels by Stock Record Account Number (SRAN) for all SRANs
        with adjusted levels. Can be used to identify all of the SRANs with adjusted levels or can be
        used to access a specific SRAN. Use the Forward key to scroll through all of the adjusted lev-
        els. See paragraph 24.3.
        2.10.3.11.3. A-R Computational Results (ARCR) (Figure 28.5.) displays the Asset Reconcil-
        iation (A-R) computational results of using data from the previous screens. The ARCR is page
        three of the asset reconciliation series of display screens. See paragraph 28.6.
        2.10.3.11.4. Asset Reconciliation Data (ARD) (Figure 28.2.) displays the past four quarters of
        asset reconciliation data. Provides the Total Acquired and Starting Asset Position. The ARD is
        page one of six screens that display asset reconciliation data. The six screens of the asset rec-
        onciliation and their applicable page number are: ARD (1), ARLG (2), ARCR (3), AROO (4),
        ARDI (5), and AROH (6). Any of the six screens can be accessed from any of the other asset
        reconciliation screens by pointing and clicking to the highlighted page numbers at the bottom
        of the screen. See paragraph 28.4.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              83


Figure 2.15. Display SND Stock Number Data Menu.




         2.10.3.11.5. A-R Due In Assets (ARDI) (Figure 28.7.) displays the due in asset quantities that
         were reported and updated for the past four quarters. The ARDI is page five of the asset recon-
         ciliation series of display screens. See paragraph 28.8.
         2.10.3.11.6. A-R Losses And Gains (ARLG) (Figure 28.4.) displays the past four quarters of
         asset gains and losses by individual category. The ARLG is page 2 of the asset reconciliation
         series of display screens. See paragraph 28.5.
         2.10.3.11.7. A-R On Hand Assets (AROH) (Figure 28.8. and Figure 28.9.) displays the on
         hand asset quantities that were reported and updated for the past four quarters. Use the scroll
         feature to see additional lines of data. The AROH is page six of the asset reconciliation series
         of display screens. See paragraph 28.9.
         2.10.3.11.8. A-R On Order Assets (AROO) (Figure 28.6.) displays the on order quantities
         that were reported and updated for the past four quarters. The AROO is page four of the asset
         reconciliation series of display screens. See paragraph 28.7.
         2.10.3.11.9. Basic Management Data (BMD) (Figure 14.1.). Displays the basic management
         data assigned to an individual current stock number. Data elements are; ALC, IMS code, ES
         code, item name, Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Category (ERRC), item program
         select code, budget code, system management code, item category, comp code, safety level
84                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


           exclusion indicator, unit price, forecasted unit price, Interim Contract Support (ICS)/Reliabil-
           ity Improvement Warranty (RIW) code and expiration date, deferred disposal code and level,
           Other War Reserve Material (OWRM) exclusion indicator, factor indicator code, new item
           code and lot size quantity. See Chapter 14.
           2.10.3.11.10. CNSOL Assets And RqmtS (CARD) (Figure 26.7.) displays the asset position,
           by category and “pick-off point”, of the item by current stock number. The screen contains five
           pages, which can be accessed by pointing and clicking to the page numbers at the bottom of
           the screen. The condition “X” assets are displayed on page 1. See paragraph 26.11. The five
           pages of the CARD screen are.
                Page 1 – Non Time-Phased Assets for serviceable and unserviceable assets.
                Page 2 – Time-Phased Assets by pick-off points.
                Page 3 – Total asset quantities by pick-off points.
                Page 4 – Total asset quantities at the buy point.
                Page 5 – Obsolete current stock numbers.
           2.10.3.11.11. ITEM Program DATA (IPD) (Figure 18.4.). Displays the past and future peace-
           time item installed programs and future wartime item installed programs by application, type,
           and service. The data can be accessed by all or individual applications, types, or service codes.
           See paragraph 18.6.2.
Item Programs
“P” for past                  “F” for future                  “W” for future war.
Standard Program Designator – No drop down options; leave blank for all, or enter specific desired appli-
cation.
Program Types
“1” for Flying Hours                                          “3” for Inventory Months
“4” for Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM)                    “5” for Sorties
“6” for Engine Overhaul (EOH)                                 “7” Drones recoveries
“8” for Ammunition                                            “9” Management of Items Subject to Repair
(MISTR)
Service Codes
“A” for Air Force             “B” for Army            “C” for Navy              “D” for Marines
“G” for Coast Guard           “M” for Foreign Military Sales (FMS)              “X” for Other
           2.10.3.11.12. Non Time-Phased Asset Data (NTPD) (Figure 26.4.) displays the serviceable,
           unserviceable, and Technical Order Compliance (TOC) assets by individual asset category and
           current stock number. Also, provides the condition “X” assets. See paragraph 26.7.
           2.10.3.11.13. Pipeline Data (PLD) (Figure 23.1.) displays the pipeline days, and the lead
           times (administrative and production) in both days and months. The pipeline days included are
           the Base Order and Shipping (O and ST) Days, Base Repair Cycle Days, Job Routed (JR)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                         85


       Stock Level Days, Non- JR Stock Level Days, and the five elements of the Depot Repair Cycle
       Days. The time-phased Depot Repair Cycle Days, along with the time-phased effective date,
       are also displayed. See Chapter 23.
       2.10.3.11.14. Requirements Data Exchange Output To Other Services (RDEO) (Figure 27.1.)
       displays four quarters of projected Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) recurring and
       non-recurring demands, and unserviceable returns that have been forwarded to another service
       as the Air Force requirement. See paragraph 27.2.
       2.10.3.11.15. Stock Number ID Cross Ref (SNIC) (Figure 13.2.). There are two pages to this
       screen: Page 1 – Displays the ALC gains and changes for stock numbers where the Federal
       Stock Class (FSC), Materiel Management Aggregation Code (MMAC), AF Manager, or
       ERRC have changed. Page 2 – Displays the losing data for items that have been replaced by or
       consolidated with another stock number. Either page may be accessed by pointing and clicking
       to the page numbers highlighted at the bottom of the screen. See paragraph 13.4.
       2.10.3.11.16. Time-Phased Asset Data (TPAD) (Figure 26.6.) displays the due in and on order
       assets, by category, by current stock number, that are used in the computation. See paragraph
       26.10.
       2.10.3.11.17. Trend Analysis (TRND) (Figure 30.3., through Figure 30.9.) displays the past
       four quarters of data element values that were resident in the history files for the summary
       computations, for the SGM, to indicate trends over time. There are seven pages of trend data
       that can be accessed by pointing and clicking to the page number at the bottom of the screen.
       The type of trend data is available on the following pages.
          Page 1 – Basic Management Data.
          Page 2 – Pipeline Data.
          Page 3 – Computed requirements at the buy point.
          Page 4 – Assets used in the computation at the buy point.
          Page 5 – MISTR Input requirements.
          Page 6 – MISTR Output requirements.
          Page 7 – Factors (rates and percents) used in the computation.
       2.10.3.11.18. WAR Data (WARD) (Figure 21.1.) displays the rates, percents, pipelines, and
       number of users values that were used in the Other War Reserve Material (OWRM) computa-
       tion.
86                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 2.16. Display TBLD Table Data Menu.




      2.10.3.12. The Table (TBLD) menu (Figure 2.16.) has 17 selections. The BP-SMC-BSO table
      lists the Budget Program (BP) and System Management Code (SMC) combinations used by SIRS.
      The Inflation Index table lists the inflation factors used to compute the forecasted unit prices. The
      MD Goal/Floor Factors table lists the aircraft target/goals. The Other War Reserve Material
      (OWRM) table lists the values used by the OWRM computation. The 3 Standard Data tables con-
      tain data used as default values in the SIRS computation. These tables are used by the IMS and
      Ess. The other tables are used by the OPRs. See Chapter 6.
      2.10.3.13. The Variable Safety Level Data (VSLD) menu (Figure 29.9.) provides access to the 6
      screens displaying data from the VSL computation. The data is used by the HQ AFMC SIRS
      OPRs. See paragraph 29.3.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               87


Figure 2.17. File Maintenance FM Main Menu.




2.11. File Maintenance Screens. From the File Maintenance Main menu (Figure 2.17.) select the
Recoverables menu (Figure 2.18.). The Recoverables file maintenance menu has 6 selections. The IMS
and ES will use the SND selection to do most of their file maintenance (see paragraph 2.11.6.)
   2.11.1. The user must have a valid user-id and password to file maintain SIRS data. The HQ AFMC
   OPR has a user profile that allows access to all SIRS file maintenance screens, including the only
   access to the Group Recomputation screen (Figure 2.19.) and to the Table Data (Figure 6.1.). The
   ALC OPR has a user profile that allows access to most SIRS file maintenance screens. The IMS has a
   user profile that allows access to most of the SIRS file maintenance screens. The ES has a user profile
   that allows access to a few of the SIRS file maintenance screens. The ES will need a user-id and pass-
   word that also allows access to the API system’s AI and PRGM file maintenance screens. The ES file
   maintains applications and program data (see paragraphs 18.19., 18.20. and 18.26.). In SIRS, if the
   IMS or ES can access a screen, access is granted for any stock number. If file maintenance is done, the
   user-id for the person will be recorded on the notepad.
   2.11.2. The SIRS file maintenance screens can only be accessed after the initial computation is done
   and before the final computation has started, and after the final computation is done and before the
   summary computation has started. When using GUI, do not input spaces in numeric fields. Enter the
   number and SIRS will right justify it. If not using GUI, file maintenance of numeric fields can be done
88                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     3 ways: (1) fill the numeric field with numbers, (2) space over to the first column that requires a num-
     ber and enter the number (3) enter the number in the first position and space out the rest of the field. If
     data is entered that is rejected by the SIRS edits, SIRS displays an error message. If the user presses
     ENTER and does not correct the data, SIRS displays a message “”F/M will be disregarded. Confirm
     Y/N”. If the user types Y and presses ENTER, the screen will look like it did before the file mainte-
     nance was done. If data is entered that passes the SIRS edits, the notepad for that screen will appear.
     If nothing is typed on the notepad, SIRS displays the message “F/M For Element Not Accepted. Con-
     firm Y/N”. If the user types Y and presses ENTER the user will be returned to the screen from the
     notepad and the screen will display the message “No Data Changed”. The screen will look like it did
     before the file maintenance was done.
     2.11.3. Notepad. The notepad is not a word processor. For each data element SIRS can store 10 lines
     of 79 characters each. The user must use the TAB key to move from line to line. Notepad text can be
     altered in several different ways. If the user chooses not to input text, a confirmation message appears
     stating that the file maintenance action will be disregarded. If text exists, the user can type over exist-
     ing lines, add, or delete data. Text cannot be totally blanked out if a file maintained value exists for
     this cycle. Only those lines with non-blank text are retained on the database. The notepad displays the
     old value (as of the last computation) along with the SRC and the new value. SIRS will not accept file
     maintenance without an explanation on a notepad, for the data element. The documentation will
     remain in SIRS until it is removed or changed during the current processing cycle. The notepad docu-
     mentation is printed at the end of some products. After the summary computation is run, the documen-
     tation stays with the history file and cannot be changed.
        2.11.3.1. There are three generic notepads in SIRS. No file maintenance need be done to update
        them. They can be used for any general information that should be noted for the item or when an
        item level notepad is not available. For example, the SIRS user may want to explain why a record
        was deleted, or why an unusual actual data value was not changed. Element level notepads do not
        exist in these cases, and the generic notepad can be used in their place. The generic notepads are
        located on the FACTOR DATA screen (menu selection SIRS FM SND FACD), on the ASSET
        RECONCILIATION DATA screen (menu selection SIRS FM SND ARD), and on the SGM
        COMP WORKSHEET Rqmts screen (menu selection SIRS FM CW). (NOTE: The generic note-
        pad is not available on the SIRS FM CW screen for insurance and NSO items.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             89


Figure 2.18. File Maintenance SIRS Recoverables Menu.




   2.11.4. Computation Worksheet (Figure 9.13.). Selecting the CW option, takes the user to page 1 of
   the SMCW file maintenance screen (see paragraph 9.16.1.). The IMS can file maintain the FMS
   Rqmt and FMS PR QTY. The selection “PUSH RDE TO PICA” is selected when the IMS wants to
   send revised Projected Recurring Demands to the Primary Inventory Control Activity (PICA) from
   the March, June or December cycles (see paragraph 27.2.2.).
   2.11.5. For Real Item Recomputation (Figure 10.1.). Any OPR, IMS, or ES that has a valid SIRS file
   maintenance user-id and password can initiate a computation on an individual item. This is done after
   data has been file maintained in SIRS. Therefore, when the SIRS file maintenance screens are closed,
   a “for real” recomputation cannot be done. The “For Real” updates the computation results that can be
   viewed online in the SIRS. This recomputation does not change data sent to interfacing systems
   including Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS). Only data resulting from a SIRS computation
   (initial, final and summary) are used to update CSIS. (See paragraph 10.2.)
90                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 2.19. File Maintenance GRPR Group Recomp Selection Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                91


Figure 2.20. File Maintenance SND Stock Number Data Menu.




   2.11.6. Stock Number Data (Figure 2.20.). The following file maintenance screens are used by the
   IMS and ES to file maintain SIRS data. The screen string commands required to access the data are
   also listed. Using GUI, the user can point and click on the “drop down” boxes to select the desired file
   maintenance screen. Without GUI, the command string must be entered in the Command (CMD) line
   at the bottom left hand side of the screen. Note that the screen strings displayed below are the com-
   mands to be used without the GUI capability. With GUI, the access sequence for the “FM” and
   “RCVS” is reversed on the “drop down” boxes.
92                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 2.3. File Maintenance Screens.
Name                                             Screen Command Line                    Reference
Additives                                        FOE FM SIRS SND ADRQ                   Chapter 25
Adjusted Levels                                  FOE FM SIRS SND ALVW                   Chapter 24
Asset Reconciliation Results                     FOE FM SIRS SND ARCR                   Chapter 28
Asset Reconciliation (A-R)                       FOE FM SIRS SND ARD                    Chapter 28
A-R Due In                                       FOE FM SIRS SND ARDI                   Chapter 28
Asset Losses and Gains                           FOE FM SIRS SND ARLG                   Chapter 28
Assets On Hand                                   FOE FM SIRS SND AROH                   Chapter 28
Assets On Order                                  FOE FM SIRS SND AROO                   Chapter 28
Basic Management Data                            FOE FM SIRS SND BMD                    Chapter 14
Factors Data                                     FOE FM SIRS SND FACD                   Chapter 17
I and S Structure Data                           FOE FM SIRS SND ISS                    Chapter 14
MISTR Repair                                     FOE FM SIRS SND MRPR                   Chapter 15
Non Time Phased Assets                           FOE FM SIRS SND NTPD                   Chapter 26
Pipeline Data                                    FOE FM SIRS SND PLD                    Chapter 23
Procurement Lead-times (ALT and PLT)             FOE FM SIRS SND PLD                    Chapter 22
Other Services Requirements                      FOE FM SIRS SND RDSS                   Chapter 27
Time Phased Assets                               FOE FM SIRS SND TPAD                   Chapter 26
Usage Data                                       FOE FM SIRS SND USGD                   Chapter 16
War Data                                         FOE FM SIRS SND WARD                   Chapter 21

     2.11.7. Table Data (Figure 6.1.). The HQ AFMC OPR file maintains the table data used by SIRS. See
     Chapter 6.
     2.11.8. What If Item Recomputaton (Figure 10.2.). Any OPR, IMS, or ES that has a valid SIRS file
     maintenance user-id and password can initiate a “simulation” computation on an individual item. The
     “What If” is used to temporarily change data elements on the simulation database and produce results
     that can only be seen on a hard copy product. The “What If” item recomputation does not permanently
     change any SIRS data element, nor is the data used to update CSIS. The “What If” can be run any time
     the database is available, and when the SIRS file maintenance screens are closed. When an error is not
     corrected during the file maintenance process prior to the SIRS summary computation or when the
     user wants to see the impact of a management decision on the item, the user can request a “What If”
     recomputation to simulate the computational results with the corrected or projected data elements.
     (See paragraph 10.3.)

2.12. Output Products Screens. The user must have a valid user-id and password to obtain output prod-
ucts from SIRS. Select OP from the RDB-FOE menu (Figure 2.7.), then select SJR (Figure 2.21.), then
select SIRS (Figure 2.22.) to get the Output Products Submit Job Request for Recoverables menu (Fig-
ure 2.23.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                93


   2.12.1. The Aircraft Availability Model reports are selected from the AAMR screen (Figure 29.8.).
   These reports are described in paragraphs 29.2.6., 29.2.7., 29.2.8., 29.2.9., 29.2.10., 29.2.11., and
   29.2.12. These reports are used by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR.
   2.12.2. The ES reports menu (Figure 12.3.) allows the user to select the Factors/Usage printout, the
   PRELOG Equations product, the PRELOG plots, the MISTR RPR and Repair Data product or the
   SRAN Usage product by SGM, or by part number, or by ALC and division and ES code. See para-
   graph 12.4.
   2.12.3. The Output Products Item Program reports menu (Figure 18.2.) allows the user to select past
   peacetime, future peacetime or future wartime item installed programs. It is possible to limit the prod-
   uct by selecting an application, or a program type. See paragraph 18.6.1.

Figure 2.21. Output Products Main Menu.




   2.12.4. The Input System Data reports menu (Figure 5.4.)allows an OPR to request Input System
   Data reports, one report at a time, for an ALC. These reports provide summary information about the
   data received from interfacing systems. See paragraph 5.4.
   2.12.5. The OPR reports selection screen (Figure 5.2.) allows the OPR to select a product by SGM,
   or by ALC and division, or by ALC, division and IMS code, or by ALC, division and ES code. The
   products are SGM Computation Worksheet, SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet, Asset Reconcili-
   ation, Consolidated Assets, INS/NSO Item Status Listing, Factors/Usage Printout, Adjusted Level
   Verification worksheet, SRAN Assets, SRAN Usage, PRELOG Equations, PRELOG Plots, PRELOG
   Selected Information, and PRELOG Error List and Summary . See paragraph 5.2.
   2.12.6. The IMS reports menu (Figure 13.4.) allows the user to select any of the following products,
   by SGM, or by ALC and division and IMS code: Asset Reconciliation, SGM Computation Worksheet,
94                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


     SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet, Consolidated Assets, Factors/Usage Printout, Adjusted Level
     Verification, MISTR RPR and Repair Data, INS/NSO Status Listing, SRAN assets and SRAN usage
     product. See paragraph 13.5.2.
     2.12.7. The Quality Control Checklist selection screen (Figure 5.3.) allows the ALC SIRS OPR to get
     a list of items with various conditions (such as all items coded insurance). See paragraph 5.3.
     2.12.8. The Variable Safety Level reports are selected from the VDA screen (Figure 29.19.). These
     reports are described in paragraphs 29.3.7., 29.3.8., 29.3.9., 29.3.10., 29.3.11., 29.3.12., 29.3.13. and
     29.3.14. These reports are used by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR.

Figure 2.22. Output Products SJR Submit Job Request Menu.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            95


Figure 2.23. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu.




   2.12.9. Output product information.
      2.12.9.1. Print schedule: Output products requested from the D200A system will generate on the
      following schedule. All times are Eastern Standard/Daylight Time.
          2.12.9.1.1. Monday – Saturday: Products print on the quarter hour starting at 0700 to 2100.
          Products requested after 2100 will generate the following day at 0700. Products requested
          after 2100 on Saturday will print the next morning at 0800.
          2.12.9.1.2. Sunday: Products print on the quarter hour starting at 0800 to 1800. Products
          requested after 1800 will print the following day at 0700.
          2.12.9.1.3. This schedule applies to What If recomputations, For Real recomputations, and
          any other print product requested by the D200A user.
      2.12.9.2. Changing your default printer: The users’ default printer can be changed in D200 at the
      following screen (Figure 2.24.):
96                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 2.24. User Function Keys Screen.




      This screen can be reached by selecting Main, UDV, FM, UVFK from the RMS GUI software
      (FOE FM UDV UVFK.). To change the Default Printer, enter the desired printer ID. For large
      products the user may wish to print the file from CA-Dispatch. To do that, the user may enter
      DISP as the Default Printer. Note it is not recommended the user change any of the User Function
      Keys on the screen. More information on How to Print can be found on the D200A web site.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                97


                                                 Chapter 3

                                     INTERFACING SYSTEM INPUTS

3.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the data received from interfacing automated data systems
(Figure 3.2.) at each ALC and from WP-AFB that are input to SIRS which operates on the AMDAHL
computer at Hill Air Force Base. Data files are received from these systems once each quarter, for input to
the initial SIRS computation. The input data, except for D200F & D087H, have the same cutoff dates as
the SIRS system’s computation cycles: 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December. These data
files are available for input to SIRS 15 to 20 days after the applicable cutoff dates. D200F provides data
for each initial, final and summary SIRS computation. D087H provides data for the initial SIRS computa-
tion and can provide data for the final SIRS computation. An * in a file id indicates the 1 position ALC
code: (G = OO-ALC; H = OC-ALC; L = WR-ALC; P = CPSG at San Antonio, Texas). File formats can
be obtained from the Corporate Data Repository system Q111A, using the Interface Control Document
(ICD), which is listed with each file.

3.2. Standard Base Supply System (SBSS) D002A provides end of quarter totals for Assets/Levels/
Usage data to SIRS for Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Category (ERRC) “C”, “T”, “N” and
“P” items.
       3.2.1. SIRS use the base condemnations, base NRTS, and base RTS from D002A (if available) or
       from D035A by current stock number and SRAN. On the ISA screen (see paragraph 26.4.) SIRS dis-
       plays the data that used to be on the D104 “FF1” product, IM Quarterly Worldwide Assets and Levels
       report. On the SUD screen (see paragraph 16.1. and 16.2.), SIRS displays the usage that used to be
       on the D104 “FF2” product, IM Quarterly Worldwide Requirements-Reconciliation.. SIRS produces a
       hard copy SRAN Asset report and a SRAN Usage report. See Chapter 16 for how SIRS uses the
       usage data, and Chapter 26 for how SIRS uses the asset data.
       3.2.2. D002A provides the 7SC transaction to report base condemnations, base NRTS, and base RTS
       by Weapon System and MAJCOM in support of the Spares Requirements Review Board (SRRB) ini-
       tiatives. This data is used instead of the daily usage data accumulated by the Recoverable Assembly
       Management (RAMP) process that is included in the D035A quarterly interface. The 7SC transaction
       includes the Organization Code and Program Financial Management Record (PFMR) codes which
       identifies the usage data by Weapon System and MAJCOM. When the D035A and D002A files are
       merged for ERRC Code N & P items, the D035A NRTS and BASE CNDMN are not overlaid with
       D002A data. However, the D002A RTS is always overlaid. In general the following rules apply:
          - If the record is in both 7SC and D035A:
           - For ERRC C & T items, the comp will use the 7SC usage and the D035A assets.
        - For ERRC N & P items, the comp will use the 7SC RTS, D035A usage for other usage fields,
and the D035A assets.
          - If the record is in 7SC only:
           - For ERRC C & T items, the comp will use the 7SC usage and all assets should be equal to zero
(0).
        - For ERRC N & P items, the comp will use the 7SC RTS. NRTS, BASE CNDMN and all assets
should be equal to zero (0).
98                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        - If the record is in D035A only: For ERRC C, T, N, & P use the D035A usage and assets.

3.3. Item Manager Wholesale Requisition Process D035A. The D035A Quarterly Stock Balance &
Consumption Report Data file SYSPRD.SCD035.B1DXD0U (0) file (ICD 10270) provides quarterly
stock balance and consumption report data, such as depot reparable generations and depot condemna-
tions. SIRS gets this file from each ALC. There are 9 different types of records on this file. Chapter 16
explains how the usage from these records is handled by SIRS. Chapter 26 explains how the assets from
these records are used by SIRS.
     3.3.1. The AFRAMS transaction records have a document identifier code “ZCA”, record identity of
     “T”, 3 position division manager designator code, subgroup master stock number, Current stock num-
     ber, ERRC (= “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue, SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position pur-
     pose code (= A, K, R, W, or X), effective date (YYMM, year and month), 1 position AF recoverable
     assembly management system geographical zone code, account increase quantity, inventory adjust-
     ment voucher quantity plus, overhaul condemned quantity, field maintenance (Base) Condemnation
     Quantity, Base Repaired This Station Quantity, Base Not Repaired This Station Quantity, shipment
     from account quantity, Transfer to Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office Quantity, Initial Instal-
     lation Issue Quantity, Inventory Adjustment Voucher Quantity Minus, Depot Reparable Generation
     Quantity, Shipment to Security Assistance Program Quantity, Shipment to Non-reporting Activity
     Quantity, shipment to Southeast Asia quantity, and the equipment specialist code.
     3.3.2. The Quarterly Assets and Levels Data records have a document identifier code “ZCA”, a
     record identity code of an “A” (AFMC Base Support), “B” (Supply System Manager), “C” (Item
     Manager SC&D) or “1” (AF Base Assets and Level Data), division manager designator code, sub-
     group master stock number, Current stock number, ERRC (= “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue,
     SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position purpose code (= A, K, R, W, or X), effective date
     (YYMM, year and month), 1 position AF recoverable assembly management system geographical
     zone code, serviceable balance quantity, due in from maintenance balance quantity, floating stock bal-
     ance quantity, unserviceable reparable balance quantity, due in from overhaul quantity, Technical
     Order Compliance (TOC) balance quantity, war readiness materiel balance quantity, war readiness
     materiel level quantity, demand level quantity, requisition objective quantity, due out to maintenance
     balance quantity, special purpose recoverable authorized to maintenance level quantity, special pur-
     pose recoverable authorized to maintenance quantity, and equipment specialist code.
     3.3.3. The AFRAMS Intransit data records have a document identifier code “ZCA”, a record identity
     of “E”, division manager designator code, subgroup master stock number, Current stock number,
     ERRC (= “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue, SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position purpose
     code (= A, K, R, W, or X), effective date (YYMM, year and month), Intransit Serviceable quantity,
     Intransit Unserviceable quantity and equipment specialist code.
     3.3.4. The AFMC Base Support data records have a document identifier code “ZCQ”, record identity
     of “A”, division manager designator code, subgroup master stock number, Current stock number,
     ERRC (= “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue, SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position purpose
     code (= A, K, R, W, or X), effective date (YYMM, year and month), 1 position AF recoverable assem-
     bly management system geographical zone code, serviceable balance quantity, due in from mainte-
     nance balance quantity, floating stock balance quantity, unserviceable balance quantity, Technical
     Order Compliance (TOC) balance quantity, war readiness materiel balance quantity, due in from over-
     haul quantity, due out to maintenance balance quantity, war readiness materiel level quantity, demand
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  99


  level quantity, requisitioning objective level quantity, overhaul reparable generation quantity, over-
  haul condemned quantity, field maintenance reparable this station quantity, field maintenance not rep-
  arable this station quantity, field maintenance condemnation quantity, account increase quantity, plus
  inventory adjustment voucher quantity, shipment from account quantity, transfer to defense reutiliza-
  tion and marketing office quantity, initial installation issue quantity, minus inventory adjustment
  voucher quantity, shipment to security assistance program quantity, shipment to non-reporting activity
  quantity, shipment to southeast Asia quantity, and equipment specialist code.
  3.3.5. The Supply System Manager data records have a document identifier code “ZCQ”, record iden-
  tity of “B”, division manager designator code, subgroup master stock number, Current stock number,
  ERRC (= “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue, SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position purpose
  code (= A, K, R, W, or X), effective date (YYMM, year and month), 1 position AF recoverable assem-
  bly management system geographical zone code, serviceable balance quantity, unserviceable balance
  quantity, Technical Order Compliance (TOC) balance quantity, due in from overhaul quantity, requisi-
  tioning objective level quantity, overhaul reparable generation quantity, overhaul condemned quantity,
  account increase quantity, plus inventory adjustment voucher quantity, shipment from account quan-
  tity, transfer to defense reutilization and marketing office quantity, initial installation issue quantity,
  minus inventory adjustment voucher quantity, shipment to security assistance program quantity, ship-
  ment to non-reporting activity quantity, shipment to southeast Asia quantity, and equipment specialist
  code.
  3.3.6. The IM SC&D data records have a document identifier code “ZCQ”, record identity of “C”,
  division manager designator code, subgroup master stock number, Current stock number, ERRC (=
  “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue, SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position purpose code (= A,
  K, R, W, or X), effective date (YYMM, year and month), 1 position AF recoverable assembly man-
  agement system geographical zone code, serviceable balance quantity, unserviceable balance quantity,
  Technical Order Compliance (TOC) balance quantity, due in from overhaul quantity, overhaul repara-
  ble generation quantity, overhaul condemned quantity, account increase quantity, plus inventory
  adjustment voucher quantity, shipment from account quantity, transfer to defense reutilization and
  marketing office quantity, initial installation issue quantity, minus inventory adjustment voucher
  quantity, shipment to security assistance program quantity, shipment to non-reporting activity quan-
  tity, shipment to southeast Asia quantity, and equipment specialist code.
  3.3.7. The Overhaul Contractor data records have a document identifier code “ZCQ”, record identity
  of “H”, division manager designator code, subgroup master stock number, Current stock number,
  ERRC (= “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue, SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position purpose
  code (= A, K, R, W, or X), effective date (YYMM, year and month), 1 position AF recoverable assem-
  bly management system geographical zone code, serviceable balance quantity, unserviceable balance
  quantity, contractor procured end item quantity last 3 months, overhaul condemned quantity, overhaul
  reparable generation quantity, abbreviated contractor name and equipment specialist code.
  3.3.8. The AF Base Assets & Level data records have a document identifier code “ZCQ”, record iden-
  tity of “1”, division manager designator code, subgroup master stock number, Current stock number,
  ERRC (= “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue, SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position purpose
  code (= A, K, R, W, or X), effective date (YYMM, year and month), 1 position AF recoverable assem-
  bly management system geographical zone code, serviceable balance quantity, unserviceable balance
  quantity, due in from maintenance quantity, war reserve materiel balance quantity, war reserve mate-
100                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      riel level quantity, demand level quantity, requisitioning objective level quantity, due in quantity, due
      out to maintenance balance quantity, due out quantity, frequency code and equipment specialist code.
      3.3.9. The AF Base Transaction data records have a document identifier code “ZCQ”, record identity
      of “2”, division manager designator code, subgroup master stock number, Current stock number,
      ERRC (= “C”, “T”, “N”, or “P”), unit of issue, SRAN, 1 position ownership code, 1 position purpose
      code (= A, K, R, W, or X), effective date (YYMM, year and month), 1 position AF recoverable assem-
      bly management system geographical zone code, account increase quantity, reparable this station
      quantity, plus inventory adjustment voucher quantity, not reparable this station quantity, shipment
      from account quantity, transfer to defense reutilization and marketing office quantity, field mainte-
      nance condemnation quantity, initial installation issue quantity, minus inventory adjustment voucher
      quantity, frequency code and equipment specialist code.

3.4. Wholesale Management and Efficiency Reports System D035B. The D035B Quarterly Recover-
able Demand Extract file, ZB.ABZFEG0 (ICD 2771) provides the number of assets requisitioned from
USAF by Foreign Military Sales (FMS) and other services, by current stock number for ERRC “C”, “T”,
“N” and “P”. Only recurring demands will be included. FMS H-Coded (total quantity by NSN) will also
be included. Requisitions, which are rejected, cancelled or passed to another source, will not be included.
Recurring Foreign Military Sales Demand Quantity, Recurring Demand Quantity – Army, Recurring
Demand Quantity – Navy, Recurring Demand Quantity – Marine, Recurring Demand Quantity – Other
Service, and Backorder Quantity – Foreign Military Sales H-Coded. For ERRC “N” and “P” items only,
the recurring other services demand data is stored as Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) on the data-
base, since this data does not come in on the M024B files (paragraph 3.14.). This RDE data can be
viewed and file maintained on the RDSS screen (see paragraph 27.6.) by using the “pseudo RIC” of
ARM for Army, NAV for Navy, and OTH for other.

3.5. Recoverable Assembly Management Process System (RAMP) D035C. Two files for SIRS are
produced quarterly by RAMP. The D035C Repair Cycle Time file, SCDPRD*.ZCU.B23FA, (ICD 2774)
provides base repair cycle days and base processing days by subgroup master stock number. The other
RAMP file is the SCDPRD*.ZCU.B43NA file (ICD 2773). The 2 types of records (GG and HH) on this
file provide, by subgroup master stock number, base order and shipping time (O&ST) days (HH record)
and Reparable Intransit Days (GG record). SIRS matches on positions 5-13 (NIIN) of the D035C stock
number.

3.6. Readiness Base Leveling System (RBL) D035E. The RBL (D035E) Special Level Data file, SCD-
PRD*.ZEU.SPLVL(0) (ICD 2604), is received quarterly. The file contains the Special Level Master Sum-
mary records for bases with an approved fixed or minimum special level. Each record will have the
Effective Date (authorization date), base demand level quantity, base adjusted stock level quantity, float-
ing stock level quantity (always zero), justification phrase text (contains blanks if adjusted stock level
quantity is zero), and level justification code (contains blanks if adjusted stock level quantity is zero) by
current stock number/Stock Record Account Number (SRAN). (Records for SRANs performing only
depot level maintenance functions, as designated by HQ AFMC, are not sent by RBL (D035E). The
Effective Date is YYDDD, or contains zeros if adjusted stock level quantity is zero.

3.7. WSMIS REALM Requirements Computation Support System D087H. The Requirements Exe-
cution/Availability Logistics Module (REALM) of the Weapon System Management Information System
(WSMIS) D087H operates on the WSMIS computer at Wright Patterson AFB and provides 2 files to
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               101


SIRS each quarter for the initial computation. It is possible to have inputs from D087H for the final com-
putation. The records are by the 9 position National Item Identification Number (NIIN). Records for stock
numbers with “ND” in the first 2 positions of the NIIN will not be sent.
   3.7.1. The D087H War Time Rates Adjusted & Factors file, WSMPRDN.RLU.D200AA.OUT (0)
   (ICD 2766) provides War Total Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance Demand Rate
   (TOIMDR) in the format 9V9999 where V is the assumed decimal point, Wartime Adjustment Factor
   in the format 99V99 where V is the assumed decimal point, and Work Unit Code by actual stock num-
   ber for Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM) items. The TOIMDR and wartime adjustment factor
   will not be passed together in the same quarter. If the wartime adjustment factor is passed, it must be
   greater than zero and not equal to 1. (The wartime adjustment factor may be used to increase demand
   rates for electronic warfare items). No duplicate stock numbers will be included on this file. (See
   Chapter 21).
   3.7.2. The D087H file, WSMPRDN.RLU.D200AB.OUT (0), (ICD 2783)provides 38 quarters of
   prepositioned requirement quantities for 3 types of records. The first position of each record is either
   an “H” for High Priority Mission Support Kit (HPMSK) requirements, a “W” for WTDOS or an R”
   for WRSK/BLSS. The same NIIN can have multiple records. These requirements are additives to
   SIRS. (See paragraphs 25.4.1., 25.4.18. and 25.4.19.

3.8. Requirements Item Identification Data system (RIID) D200E. SIRS obtains cataloging data, and
subsequent changes, from the D200E system, which is updated weekly by D043. The RIID database is on
the same AMDAHL computer at Hill AFB, as SIRS. RIID does a “snapshot” of selected data for each ini-
tial SIRS computation. SIRS extracts the data, rather than RIID sending a file to SIRS. Changes to the
data from RIID should be started in the proper source system.
   3.8.1. Data is for all Interchangeability & Substitutability (I&S) groups having ERRC “C”,“N”, “P”,
   and “T” codes, and contain Related Item Stock Number, Order Of Use, Order Of Use Modifier, Track-
   ing Code, I&S Family Master Item Stock Number, and Subgroup Master Stock Number come from
   D043 to RIID. Elements of data provided by RIID, and visible on the online screens are: Air Logistics
   Center (ALC) code of AF item manager, Division Item Manager designator code, Equipment special-
   ist code, Production Management Specialist Buyer and Seller Codes, Unit price and source reference
   code of A (for all new items and updated unit price for stock fund exempted items and for AF SICA
   items), ERRC code, Unit of issue, Deferred Disposal Code, Date of Last Purchase, Insurance code and
   source reference code of A, Item Name, New Item Code, Precious Metal Indicator, fund code (IN =
   insurance item), Part Number (Reference Number Logistics) and Contractor and Government Entity
   Code (CAGE) (called the FSCM in RIID), acquisition advice code (“D” equals DOD integrated mate-
   riel, managed, stocked and issued or not obsolete; “T” = condemned item or “Y” = obsolete with no
   assets), SIRS codes the item as obsolete.
   3.8.2. This data provide SIRS the means of maintaining current Catalog Management Data (CMD)
   and Nonconsumable Item Materiel Support Code (NIMSC) data. RIID provides SIRS a delete record
   when the ERRC code changes from “C”, “T”, “N”, “P”, “S”, or “U” or the item goes Non-Pub.
   (Non-Pub means the item is no longer stock listed and has a source of supply code equal to “JCD” for
   disposal). RIID provides all command and Nonconsumable Item Materiel Support Code (NIMSC)
   changes related to “C”, “T”, “N”, “P”, “S”, and “U” ERRC coded items (except Kit and Non-Pub
   items). These records contain the unit price for new items (from cataloging establishment). Updated
   unit prices are provided only for AF Secondary Inventory Control Activity (SICA) items. SIRS codes
102                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      the item as “obsolete” for acquisition advice code of “D, “Y” and “T”. Acquisition Code of “D”
      equals DOD integrated materiel, managed, stocked and issued (not obsolete). Acquisition advice code
      of “T” = condemned item, and “Y” = obsolete with no assets.
      3.8.3. The records also contain the current stock number, the Primary Inventory Control Activity
      (PICA) NIMSC code, the PICA routing identifier, the SICA NIMSC codes for the Army, AF, Marine
      and Navy and the SICA routing identifier for the Army, AF, Marine and Navy.
      3.8.4. On a monthly basis the Contracting Information Database System (J018R) provides files, by
      Air Logistic Center (ALC), which include the 15 digit Stock Number; a Production Lead Time Code
      (D=Scheduled Lead Time, SPACE= Actual Lead Time); the Contract Award Date; the Contract Line
      Item Total Price Status Code (A=Actual, E=Estimated); Requirement Source Reference Code
      (DD=DOD, NU=Programmed FMS, 4F=Non-Programmed FMS); Contract Line Item Unit Price
      Amount; Production Lead-time (PLT) Days Quantity; Administrative Lead-time (ALT) Days Quan-
      tity; Procurement Instrument Identification Number; the Supplemental Procurement Instrument Iden-
      tification Number; and the Contract Line Number. If the data in RIID has a more current date than was
      being provided by J018R the RIID data takes precedence. ALT days and PLT days are converted to
      months by RIID using the routine in paragraph 22.5., and also passed to SIRS. On an Annual basis
      the Contracting Information Database System (J018R) transfers its complete database into RIID of the
      same elements listed above which includes all changes received from the monthly files for the past 12
      months.
      3.8.5. PMS codes will now be fed into RIID D200E by the G072D and G019C systems and will in
      turn be fed into the D200A Comp quarterly via the RIID Snapshot. If the PMS codes do not make the
      RIID Snapshot, the codes will not appear in the D200A comp until the following quarter.
      3.8.6. On a quarterly basis the Contract Depot Maintenance Production and Cost System (G072D)
      provides files, by Air Logistic Center (ALC), which include the Fiscal Year Code, the Repair Group
      Category, the Division Designator Production Management Specialist Seller Code, the Production
      Management Specialist Seller Code , the Division Designator Production Management Specialist
      Buyer Code, the Production Management Specialist Buyer Code, the Federal Supply Classification
      Number, the 9 digit National Item Identification Number (NIIN), and the Material Management
      Aggregation Code. G072D provides only changes that have occurred during the reporting quarter.
      3.8.7. On a quarterly basis the MISTR Requirements Scheduling and Analysis System (G019C) pro-
      vides files, by Air Logistic Center (ALC), which include the Federal Stock Number Code, the Record
      Code (A=Active, R=Retired, and S=Skeleton), the Fiscal Year Code, the 15 digit Master National
      Stock Number, the 15 digit Stock Number (Actual Stock Number), the Production Management Spe-
      cialist Buyer Code, and the Inventory Manager Air Logistics Center Code. G019c provides their Mas-
      ter File and D200E selects from this file the elements that are needed. NOTE: The Production
      Management Specialist Buyer Code from G019C will take precedence over the Production Manage-
      ment Specialist Buyer Code from the G072D system.

3.9. Applications, Program & Indenture System (API) D200F. The API database is on the same
AMDAHL computer at Hill AFB as SIRS. API computes data and does a “snapshot” of selected data for
each initial, final and summary SIRS computation. SIRS extracts this data, rather than API sending a file
to SIRS. API provides SIRS with the item installed programs, for projected peacetime operating pro-
grams, unclassified projected wartime programs and past actual peacetime operating programs. (See
Chapter 18).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 103


3.10. Job Order Production Master System G004L. The G004L Overhaul Usage Transaction file
RMAPRD*.ALU.ALIG3C1.QT(0) (ICD 2634) is received quarterly with Overhaul Usage data. Depot
Overhaul Repaired and Depot Overhaul Condemned quantities are on this file by individual identifying
numbers, the actual (current) stock number, the Production Number, or Contract Number & Contract Line
Item Number (CLIN), and the Source of Repair. Each record also contains a two-position source of repair
ALC code (OC, OO or WR). Only records with Job Designator Codes (last position of the Production
Number) equal to “A”, “C”, or “H” and temporary work requests ( AF Form 206) with production num-
bers that begin with “T” and end in either “A” or “C” will be sent to SIRS. Each record contains the Stan-
dard Unit Repair Cost projected for an individual repair which includes labor, Government Furnished
Material (GFM) and G&A (unit repair cost in whole dollars), by the current quarter’s organic depot over-
haul repaired quantities (Management of Items Subject to Repair or MISTR Repairs), the current quar-
ter’s organic depot overhaul condemned quantities (MISTR Condemnations), and the Field Engine
Exchangeable Management System Code (FEEMS) by current stock number/SOR/production number.
The FEEMS indicator is equal to an “X” to indicate a FEEMS item, otherwise this code is blank.

3.11. MISTR Requirements Scheduling and Analysis System G019C. The Organic Repair Data
RMAPRD*.LEU.LEIQEA0(0) (ICD 2632) is received quarterly to provide organic repair data. Depot
Overhaul Repairs are on this file by individual identifying numbers, the actual (current) stock number, the
Production Number or Contract Number & CLIN, and the Source of Repair. Each record also contains a
two-position source of repair ALC code (OC, OO or WR). Only records with Job Designator Codes (last
position of the Production Number) equal to “A”, “C”, or “H” will be sent to SIRS. Each record contains
the End Item Sales Price Amount (unit repair cost in whole dollars), shop flow days, Net Direct Product
Standard Hours (unit repair man-hours), and On Work Order (OWO) balances by current stock number/
SOR/production number. On the 31 March and 30 June cycles, the Standard End Item Sales Price will be
for the next fiscal year. On the 30 September and 31 December cycles, the Standard End Item Sales Price
will be the current fiscal year. The Net Direct Product Standard Hours will be blank unless the stock num-
ber is also the subgroup master stock number.

3.12. Contract Depot Maintenance Production and Cost System G072D. The G072D Contractor
Overhaul Usage file RACPRD*.LOU.LOIZF01(0) (ICD 2633) provides Contractor Overhaul Usage data.
Each record contains the unit sales price, shop flow days, current quarters contractor depot overhaul
repaired (MISTR Repairs) and condemned quantities (MISTR Condemnations) by actual stock number/
SOR/contract number/Contract Line Item Number (CLIN). The SOR code will be either “CT” for Air
Force contracts or “DM” for Depot Maintenance Interservice Support Agreement (DMISA) type con-
tracts. . On the 31 March and 30 June cycles, the unit sales price will be multiplied by the inflation factor
for the current year by G072D. On the 30 September and 31 December cycles, the unit sales price will be
multiplied by the inflation factor for the next fiscal year. (See Figure 3.2.).

3.13. Acquisition and Due-In System J018R. The J018R Due In Acquisition Category One & Two
Requirements file RPMPRDX.BZU.BZI5Y8D (ICD 10181) provides Due In Acquisition Category One
and Two Requirements. (See Table 3.1. for explanation of processing codes.)
   3.13.1. The first type of records contain: Current stock number, ERRC, Type due-in asset record ( A
   = Purchase Request (PR), B = Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR), C = contractor
   on order, D = reclamation, K = On Loan, M = Foreign Military Sales, T = Termination, Y = Interser-
   vice Supply Support Program ), Supply (Material) Condition Code (A = serviceable; D = TOC; & F =
   unserviceable), PR or MIPR funding status code: (C = committed; R = reported, Bl = on contract), As
104                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      of date (YYMM), Budget program code, System management code, War Reserve Materiel Code (S =
      RSP; T = purpose code B (Prestocked); Bl = N/A), Peacetime Operating Stock Code (I-initial, R=
      replacement, Bl=N/A), 24 quarters of time-phased Due-in Asset quantities (with quarter 1 corre-
      sponding to the first future quarter), and Due-in assets balance quantity (which is any remaining quan-
      tity due in beyond the 24th quarter). SIRS will put this quantity in the 38th future quarter of the
      database.
      3.13.2. The second type of records contain current stock number, ERRC, type due-in asset record (Z
      = PR or MIPR), Supply (material) Condition Code, PR/MIPR funding status code, PR/MIPR number,
      Line item quantity, Purchase Request Date, Type Purchase Request Code, War Reserve Materiel Code
      (S = RSP; T = purpose code B (Prestocked); Bl = N/A), and Peacetime Operating Stock Code. These
      are the unfunded PR requirements not currently used in D200A.

3.14. Data From Other Services Via M024B. The M024BE6FO Interservice Requirements Data
Exchange (ICD 10182) contains the projected demands and projected unserviceable returns for each Sec-
ondary Item Control Activity (SICA), Army, Navy and other Services, and other DOD agencies, by sub-
group master stock number. See Chapter 27 for the record format and how this data is processed by
SIRS.

3.15. Security Assistance Management Information System (SAMIS) W001. The Class A Foreign
Military Sales Offer One Requirements file SMK0O2AA (ICD 10183 ) provides Foreign Military Sales
additive requirement quantities by current stock number (see paragraph 25.3.4.). SAMIS operates only
at Tinker AFB.

Table 3.1. SIRS On Order/Due In Processing of J018R Input.
TYPE                      PR
DUE IN         COND       STAT       RSP      POS
CODE           CODE       CODE       IND      IND       SIRS DATA ELEMENT
A              Bl         C          Bl       I         ON ORDER PR FUNDED (INIT)
A              Bl         C          Bl       R         ON ORDER PR FUNDED (REPL)
A              Bl         C          S        Bl        ON ORDER PR FUNDED (W-S)
A              Bl         C          T        Bl        ON ORDER PR FUNDED (OWRM)


B              A          C          Bl       R         ON ORDER PR FUNDED (REPL)


C              A          Bl         Bl       I         ON ORDER CONTRACT (INIT)
C              A          Bl         Bl       R         ON ORDER CONTRCT (REPL)
C              A          Bl         S        Bl        ON ORDER CONTRACT (W-S)
C              A          Bl         T        Bl        ON ORDER CONTRACT (OWRM)


D              A                                        DUE-IN SERVICEABLE (RECL)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                             105


TYPE                 PR
DUE IN       COND    STAT         RSP   POS
CODE         CODE    CODE         IND   IND     SIRS DATA ELEMENT
D            F                                  DUE-IN UNSERVICEABLE (RECL)
D            D                                  DUE-IN TOC (RECL)


M            A                                  DUE-IN SERVICEABLE (FMS)
M            F                                  DUE-IN UNSERVICEABLE (FMS)
M            D                                  DUE-IN TOC (FMS)


T            A                                  DUE-IN SERVICEABLE (TERM)
T            F                                  DUE-IN UNSERVICEABLE (TERM)
T            D                                  DUE-IN TOC (TERM)
T            A       Bl           Bl    R       DUE-IN SERVICEABLE (REPL)


Y            A                                  DUE-IN SERVICEABLE (OTHER)
Y            F                                  DUE-IN UNSERVICEABLE (OTHER)
Y            D                                  DUE-IN TOC (OTHER)
A-Purchase Request                              A-Serviceable
B-Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request   F-Unserviceable
C-Contract                                      D-Technical Order Compliance
D-Reclamation
L-On Loan                                       PR/MIPR FUNDING STATUS CODE
M-Foreign Military Sales                        C-Funded
T-Termination                                   R-Unfunded
Y-Interservice Supply Support Program           Bl (Blank) – On Contract


READINESS SPARES PACKAGE (RSP) INDICATOR                          POS INDICATOR
S-Readiness Spares Package                                        I-Initial
T-Purpose Code ‘B’ (Prestocked)                                   R-Replacement
Bl (Blank) – N/A                                                  Bl (Blank) – N/A
106                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 3.1. Input and Output Interfacing Systems.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008            107


Figure 3.2. Contractor Data Flow.
108                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                  Chapter 4

                                  INTERFACING SYSTEM OUTPUTS

4.1. Output Files To Interfacing Systems. All output files (see Figure 3.1.) are produced once a quarter
from the summary SIRS computation, unless otherwise stated. Output files can be produced from the final
SIRS computation, when the summary computation is not run that quarter. File formats can be obtained
from the Corporate Data Repository system Q111A, using the Interface Control Document (ICD), which
is listed with each file.

4.2. Item Manager Wholesale Requisition Process System (D035A). The Levels Transaction file
DB.ABA3**UN.RIPD (ICD 2825) contains the computed levels which are to be used as parameters for
the release and distribution of assets against customers’ requisitions. There are 2 types of records on the
file identified by a blank (record type 1) or an “R” (record type 2) in position 7 of the record.
      4.2.1. Record type 1 contains: subgroup master stock number, Unit of issue, Compute Code, Total
      procurement lead time months, Maximum Release Quantity (for Expendability, Recoverability, Repa-
      rability Category (ERRC) “N” and “P” items only), Control Level, Support Level and Routed Item
      Repair Quantity, Division Manager Designator Code, Common/peculiar item code (A = common, B =
      peculiar, N = no application), Approved Force Acquisition Objective Level Quantity (Termination
      Level is the same as Control Level Quantity only for ERRC “N” and “P” items), Retention Level
      Quantity (only for ERRC “N” and “P” items). For subgroup master stock numbers coded military con-
      tingency, insurance, Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO), obsolete, or no-compute, the 3 quantity
      fields (control level, support level and routed item repair quantity) would contain zeroes.
         4.2.1.1. Control Level is the same as the worldwide termination level quantity. It’s used to deter-
         mine whether or not to release assets against nonprogrammed requisitions (requirements for those
         customers who haven’t been included in the SIRS computation).
         4.2.1.2. Support Level is equal to 1 quarter’s worth of the control level quantity. This is calculated
         by counting the number of months between the start of the computation and the termination period
         and dividing the result into the control level quantity, rounding to an integer. It is used as a limit
         for the release of priority programmed requisitions (requirements for those customers who have
         been included in the SIRS computation).
         4.2.1.3. The Routed Repair Replacement quantity (RRRQ) represents the number of serviceable
         assets excess to the total gross requirement. This quantity is selected at the 2ND OVER position for
         those items containing an overage quantity in every quarter from the start point through the buy
         period. The RRRQ is the smallest overage quantity appearing in any of the appropriate quarters.
         The Source Of Repair (SOR) uses these assets to prevent line-generated job repair. A line-gener-
         ated item is an item generating as reparable while performance of Programmed Depot Mainte-
         nance (PDM)on an aircraft, engine overhaul, or repair of an Next Higher Assembly (NHA). This
         data can be viewed online FOE DIS SIRS RPR. See Chapter 20.
      4.2.2. Record type 2 contains Subgroup master stock number, Unit of issue, Compute Code and 4
      quarters of the peacetime Management of Items Subject To Repair (MISTR) output de-accumulated
      quantities for the Apportionment Year (AY).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                109


4.3. Readiness Based Leveling (RBL) System (D035E). SIRS provides RBL (D035E) various com-
puted quantities by subgroup master stock number on the Requirements Data File (ICD 2763) and the
Requirements Data Exchange File (ICD 10184).

4.4. Resupply Planning Factors System (D037). 2 files from the March SIRS cycle are sent to D037, a
system which runs once a year. Item Detail Data DB.ABFS01UN.RIPX (ICD 10185) contains war and
peace data. The data is used by D037 to identify reparable aircraft spares where the Mission Item Essen-
tiality Code (MIEC) indicates that the item is a candidate for Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM).
Application Data file DB.AFBFS02UN.RIPY (ICD 10186) is used by D037 to identify the aircraft on
which a spare is used and to develop the item program for the applicable aircraft.

4.5. Master item Identification Control System (D043).
   4.5.1. The Defense Inactive Item Program file DB.ABBC01UN.RIPF (ICD 2885) is output once a
   year from the 30 September cycle to be received by D043 by 15 November. To meet this date, the data
   is developed during the initial computation. This file provides candidates for the Defense Inactive
   Item Program (DIIP), which are those inactive items that have no reported usage in the 24-month base
   period and no projected requirements. The following items are excluded from this file: NC or ND in
   positions 5-6 of the stock number, no compute code = N, deferred disposal code = M (military contin-
   gency), obsolete code = D, Materiel Management Aggregation Codes (MMAC)= CA, CI, CM, or CS
   (positions 14-15 of the stock number), and any interchangeable stock number within a subgroup con-
   taining either usage within the base period, additive requirements, or special levels. This file contains
   media/status code, cataloging activity code (OC-ALC = SX; OO-ALC = SU; SA-ALC = SE; WR-LC
   = TG), preparation date (YYDDD), retention reason code (3 = insurance item; 4 = NSO item; 5 = HQ
   AFMC disposal freeze coded item; 6 = IMS deferred disposal coded item), advice code (= RE if reten-
   tion reason code = 3, 4, 5, or 6), and reply date (Julian date of DIIP file generation if advice code is
   RE, else blank).
   4.5.2. The Airlift Code file DB.ABAZ01UN.RIPJ (ICD 2884) lists those master stock numbers,
   which have an airlift code (=”A”). These are the items (except insurance, NSO, military contingency
   and obsolete), which are in a buy position or have a repair requirement in any quarter from the first
   quarter through the buy point.

4.6. The Dyna-Metric System (D064). The Technical Data Extract file D041G801U (ICD 2761) and
the Application and Program Data File D041G802 (ICD 2762) are provided quarterly. These files contain
cataloging data, application data, factors and phased data for active items with budget program code = 15.

4.7. Defense Materiel Utilization and Disposition Program System (D035G). The Assets & Require-
ments Data File DB.ABMI**UN.RIPG (ICD 2769) contains assets and requirements records for those
items whose assets fall into a termination, excess or long supply position, along with those items that have
a buy and/or or repair requirement (in order to compare the parts that other services have in excess). See
Figure 4.1. Records are not produced if the master stock number is not numeric in the first 11 positions.
When the first position of record type is “A” (Assets), those records are for stock numbers, which have
assets falling into an excess position within the termination period and within the retention period. The
second type of records is the long supply requirements, identified by “R” (requirement) in the first posi-
tion of record type. Both types of records on this file contain materiel management aggregation code, sub-
group master stock number, unit of issue, requirement or asset quantity declared to D035G, unit price
110                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


amount, division manager designator, activity code, budget program code, system management code,
materiel program code, item name, interchangeable stock number indicator, last demand date, contin-
gency and deferred disposal level, forecast unit price amount, and ERRC (= C, N, P or T).
      4.7.1. Asset Records to D035G. In addition, the asset records contain supply condition code, fund
      authority code, depot gross retention level, depot minimum retention level, depot termination level,
      and overhaul recovery percent (100 minus the current overhaul condemnation percent). For military
      contingency items, the level is entered into the gross retention, minimum retention and termination
      level fields. For insurance items, the retention level is entered into the depot gross retention and min-
      imum retention fields and the buy level is entered into the termination level field. Separate A2, A4 and
      A5 records are produced for serviceable and unserviceable assets. Technical Order Compliance
      (TOC) assets are considered serviceable. A condition code of “S” for serviceable or “U” for unser-
      viceable is entered into each record. A fund authority code of “2” is assigned to A2 and A4 records. A
      fund authority code of “1” is assigned to A5 records. When either an A2, A4 or A5 quantity is devel-
      oped for an item and a R2 repair requirement is also developed for the same item, the serviceable asset
      quantity is coded as unserviceable. Type record identifies:
         4.7.1.1. A2 – Potential Reutilization Quantity. Consists of the worldwide serviceable, TOC, and
         netted unserviceable assets above the worldwide selected retention level.
         4.7.1.2. A4 – Nonreimbursable Transfer Retention Quantities. Consists of the worldwide service-
         able assets above the worldwide termination level minus the total assets determined to be potential
         excess. Assets identified as deferred disposal are included in these quantities.
         4.7.1.3. A5 – Reimburseable Transfer Retention Quantities. Consists of the worldwide service-
         able, TOC, and unserviceable assets above the worldwide buy operating level minus the sum of
         assets determined to be potential reutilization and nonreimbursable transfer retention.
      4.7.2. Requirements Records to D035G. For each type of asset record, long supply requirement
      records are produced. The exceptions are when an A2 record for serviceable assets is output, require-
      ments records R1, R2, R3, and R4 won’t be produced, and when an A4 or A5 record for serviceable
      assets is output, requirement record R1 won’t be produced. The Buy Code is either “B” for buy or “R”
      for repair when the type record is R3 or R4. Type record identifies:
         4.7.2.1. R1 – Buy Requirement. Represents the total buy quantity selected at the buy period of the
         requirements computation.
         4.7.2.2. R2 – Repair Requirement. Indicates the MISTR repair requirements from the start of the
         computation through the Apportionment Year (AY). This segment also includes the TOC repairs.
         4.7.2.3. R3 – Budget Year (BY) Requirement (BY Buy plus BY Repair). The MISTR repair
         requirements for 12 months (budget year) subsequent to the AY plus the budget shortage (termina-
         tion period) minus the buy requirement, which is the R1.
         4.7.2.4. R4 – Retention Requirement. Indicates the MISTR repair requirement from the end of the
         BY through retention plus (the additional shortage requirement at the retention period less the R1,
         plus that portion of the R3 which is the termination shortage).

4.8. Logistics Management Data Base D075.
      4.8.1. D075 operates at Tinker AFB and receives thousands of data elements on the following files.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             111


DB.AB4N03UN.RIPC            Assets, Usage & Requirements Master (ICD 2768).
DB.AB4N04UN.RIPD            Computation Product Work File (ICD 2871).
DB.AB4N08UN/RIPH            Item Future Program MISTR Master (ICD 2872).
DB.AB4N09UN.RIPI            Item Future Program Master (ICD 2873).
DB.AB4N10UN.RIPJ            Item Index Master (ICD 2874).
DB.AB4N11UN.RIPK            Item Index Stock Number/Part Number Master (ICD 2875).
DB.AB4N12UN.RIPL            Item Past Program Master (ICD 2876).
DB.AB4N13UN.RIPM            Other War Reserve Materiel Worksheet (ICD 2877).
DB.AB4N14UN.RIPN            Technical Data Master (ICD 2878).
DB.AB4N01UN.RIPA            Application Index Master (ICD 2879).
DB.AB4N02UN.RIPB            Application Program Master (ICD 2880).
DB.AB4N05UN.RIPE            Item Application Master (ICD 2881).
DB.AB4N06UN.RIPF            Item Future Program Peace Master (ICD 2882).
DB.AB4N07UN.RIPG            Item Future Program War Master (ICD 2883).
  4.8.2. The Management of Item Subject To Repair Requirements file RMMPRD*.CCU.QAB0 (ICD
  10271) identifies the projected long range 5-year repair requirements and application data for selected
  current and subgroup master stock numbers including insurance, military contingency, no compute
  and NSO items. 4 types of records (A, B, C, and G) are produced, all containing current stock number,
  subgroup master stock number, record identity, and manager designator.
     4.8.2.1. The type “A” record is produced for each current stock number with active subgroup
     input or output MISTR data. Each record contains current stock number, subgroup master stock
     number division item management specialist code, ERRC, contingency/insurance/NSO indicator
     or blank, obsolete code (= E, O, or blank, where E = obsolete subgroup master stock numbers, O
     = obsolete interchangeable stock numbers), budget program code, system management code,
     materiel program code, new item code (= N or blank), MIEC, item name, repair lead time days,
     compute code, past 12 months depot reparable generations (see paragraph 4.10.2.6), unservice-
     able contractor scheduled quantity, unserviceable due-in from overhaul quantity, unit repair cost,
     item activity code, depot overhaul condemnation percent current 24 months, daily demand rate
     (see paragraph 4.8.2.5.), peacetime MISTR input (25 quarters), prepositioned MISTR input (25
     quarters), Prestocked MISTR input (25 quarters), and Interim Contractor Support/Reliability War-
     ranty (ICS/RIW) code.
     4.8.2.2. The type “B” record is produced for each current stock number with active subgroup
     input or output MISTR data. Each record contains current stock number, subgroup master stock
     number, Peacetime MISTR output (25 quarters), Prepositioned MISTR output (25 quarters) and
     Prestocked MISTR output (25 quarters).
     4.8.2.3. The type “C” record is produced for each current stock number whose subgroup is inac-
     tive, and for each current stock number whose subgroup is active but has a MISTR input and out-
     put of zero. Each record contains current stock number, subgroup master stock number, division
     item management specialist code, ERRC, contingency/insurance/NSO indicator or blank, obsolete
112                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      code (= E, O, or blank, where E = obsolete subgroup master stock numbers, O = obsolete inter-
      changeable stock numbers), budget program code, system management code, materiel program
      code, new item code (= N or blank), MIEC, item name, repair lead time days, compute code, past
      12 months depot reparable generations (see paragraph 4.8.2.6.), unserviceable contractor sched-
      uled quantity, unserviceable due-in from overhaul quantity, unit repair cost, item activity code,
      depot overhaul condemnation percent current 24 months, input repair insurance/NSO require-
      ment, output repair insurance/NSO requirement and Interim Contractor Support/Reliability War-
      ranty (ICS/RIW) code.
      4.8.2.4. The type “G” record is produced for each subgroup master stock number having item
      application data. Each record can contain one to nine applications with associated data for the
      same stock number. Since a stock number can have more than 9 applications, there can be multiple
      records for the same stock number in order to send all applications to D075. Each record contains
      current stock number, subgroup master stock number, division item management specialist code,
      the 15 position application program designator and the Quantity Per Application (QPA) and
      Application Percent (associated with the oldest Program Begin Date (PBD), if the application has
      multiple PBDs), and the OIM repair percent developed for each of 6 years (see paragraph
      4.8.2.7.).
      4.8.2.5. The following is how to compute the daily demand rate. The total overhaul condemna-
      tions deaccumulated for the second and third quarters of the computations, subsequent to the cut-
      off date, are divided by the number of days per quarter that has positive data greater than zero. The
      quotient is carried to a six-decimal position. The base reparable generation condemnations deac-
      cumulated for the second and third quarters of the computation, subsequent to the cutoff date, are
      divided by the number of days per quarter that has positive data greater than zero. The quotient is
      carried to a six-decimal position. The net nonslipped OIM reparable generations (Rep Gens) (Not
      Reparable This Station (NRTS) deaccumulated plus the net nonslipped Non Job Routed (NJR)
      reparable generations deaccumulated for the second and third quarters of the computation, subse-
      quent to the cutoff date, are divided by the number of days per quarter that has positive data
      greater than zero. The quotient is carried to a six decimal position. The results of steps 1, 2, and 3
      are totaled and rounded (adjusted) to a three-decimal position for output to D075. Final output is
      three integers and three decimals.

Table 4.1. Daily Demand Rate Computation.
Data Element                          Qtr 2       Qtr 3        Result
Number of days in quarter             90          90
Total Ovhl Cond (dac)                 18          0            18/90 = .200000
Base Rep Gens Cond (dac)              12          6            18/180 = .100000
Net Non-Slipped OIM Rep Gens          16          12
Net Non-Slipped NJR Rep Gens          4           4            36/180 = .200000
                                                                          -----------
Daily Demand Rate                                                        .500000

      4.8.2.6. The past 12 months’ depot reparable generations are determined as follows: The sum of
      the past 12 months base NRTS plus the sum of the past 12 months depot reparable generations is
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 113


        result #1. The sum of the past 12 months depot condemnations (dep cond dac) minus the sum of
        the past 12 months MISTR condemnations is result #2. The result #2 is subtracted from the result
        #1 and output to D075. A negative result will be adjusted to a zero quantity.
        4.8.2.7. The OIM repair percent is developed only for those items having OIM future item
        installed programs. A percent is developed for each application for 6 fiscal years as the percent of
        that application’s OIM program compared to the total OIM program for all applications for that
        item.

Table 4.2. Example: National Stock Number (NSN) 6543002323232
Application       FY89          FY90           FY91          FY92
B052H             1650          2000           1800          1700
F015E             4000          5000           3700          4000
C005B             2000          3000           4000          3800
                  -------------------------------------------------
Total Program     7650          10000          9500          9500

FY 89                  1650/7650 = 22 % applicable to B052H
                       4000/7650 = 52 % applicable to F015E
                       2000/7650 = 26 % applicable to C005B
FY 90                  2000/10000 = 20 % applicable to B052H
                       5000/10000 = 50 % applicable to F015E
                       3000/10000 = 30 % applicable to C005B
FY 91                  1800/9500 = 19 % applicable to B052H
                       3700/9500 = 39 % applicable to F015E
                       4000/9500 = 42 % applicable to C005B
FY 92                  1700/9500 = 18 % applicable to B052H
                       4000/9500 = 42 % applicable to F015E
                       3800/9500 = 40 % applicable to C005B

4.9. Combat Ammunition System (D078W). The Item Management Stock Control and Distribution
Levels File DB.ABA501UN.RIPE (ICD 10720) contain the computed levels, which are to be used as
parameters for the release and distribution of assets against customers’ requisitions. This file contains all
active subgroup masters for OO-ALC and WR-ALC with quantities other than zeroes. This file does not
contain data for stock numbers with MMACs of CA, CI, CM, and CS. Each record contains: subgroup
master stock number, unit of issue, compute code, procurement lead time months, termination level, sup-
port level quantity, routed item repair quantity, division manager designator code, common/peculiar item
code (A = common, B = peculiar, N = no application). The levels are computed as described in para-
graph 4.2.
114                                                               AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


4.10. Air Force Requirements Forecasting System (D085). D085 receives several thousand data ele-
ments on the following files.

Table 4.3. Data Elements.
DB.AB5A01UN.RIPM             Item Descriptive Data      (ICD 2901)
DB.AB5A02UN.RIPM             Factors                    (ICD 2902)
DB.AB5A03UN.RIPM             Usage & Past Program       (ICD 2903)
DB.AB5A04UN.RIPM             Due In Asset Data          (ICD 2904)
DB.AB5A05UN.RIPM             Requirements Data          (ICD 2905)
DB.AB5A06UN.RIPM             Future Program             (ICD 2906)
DB.AB5A07UN.RIPM             Asset Data                 (ICD 2907)
DB.AB5A08UN.RIPM             Item Application Data      (ICD 2908)

4.11. D087E. The Get Well Assessment Module (GWAM) of the Weapon System Management Informa-
tion System D087E gets several hundred data elements on the following files.

Table 4.4. Data Elements.
DB.AB4N14UN.RIPN             Technical Data Master                   (ICD 2889)
DB.AB4N04UN.RIPD             Computation Product Work File           (ICD 2890)
DB.AB4N03UN.RIPC             Asset Usage and Requirement Master      (ICD 2891)
DB.AB4N05UN.RIPE             Item Application Master                 (ICD 2892)

4.12. D087H. The Requirements Execution Availability Logistics Module (REALM) of the Weapon Sys-
tem Management Information System (WSMIS) D087H gets several hundred data elements on the fol-
lowing files.

Table 4.5. Data Elements.
DB.AB4N14UN.RIPN             Technical Data Master                     (ICD 2893)
DB.AB4N12UN.RIPL             Item Past Program Master                  (ICD 2894)
DB.AB4N03UN.RIPC             Asset Usage and Requirement Master        (ICD 2895)

4.13. D087W. The Weapon System Management Information System (WSMIS) D087W gets several
hundred data elements on the following files.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          115


Table 4.6. Data Elements.
DB.AB4N14UN.RIPN              Technical Data Master                       (ICD 10607)
DB.AB4N04UN.RIPD              Computation Product Work File               (ICD 10617)
DB.AB4N03UN.RIPC              Asset Usage and Requirement Master          (ICD 10609)
RC.ODKA0NU                    Item Application Master By NNIN             (ICD 10610)
LM.IDQAONU                    Item Past Program Master                    (ICD 10611)
RMPRD*.CEU.HFT3N              Economic Order Quantity Master File         (ICD 10612)

4.14. D087X. The Execution and Prioritization Of Repairs Support System D087X gets several hundred
data elements on the following files.

Table 4.7. Data Elements.
DB.AB4N05UN.RIPE               Item Application Master                (ICD 10857)
DB.AB4N14UN.RIPN               Technical Data Master                  (ICD 10858)
DB.AB4N04UN.RIPD               Computation Product Work File          (ICD 10859)

4.15. Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) (D200N) System. D200N also operates at Hill
AFB, on the Requirements Data Bank (RDB) computer. SIRS sends requirements, assets and general
information data (manager designator code, budget program, system management code, ERRC, unit
price, repair cost, MIEC, obsolete code, item category code, new item code, deferred disposal code, no
compute code), for all items to D200N after each SIRS computation. D200N provides J018R with CSIS
deficit item data. See Chapter 35, Chapter 36, Chapter 37, Chapter 38, Chapter 39, Chapter 40, and
Chapter 40.

4.16. Repairability Forecast Model D357. Several hundred data elements on the following files are
sent to D357.

Table 4.8. Data Elements.
LM.CCIDRA0            Item Future Program Peace Master File           (ICD 10660)
LM.CCMDXA0            Technical Data Master                           (ICD 10661)
LM.INDAONU            Computation Product Work File                   (ICD 10662)
LM.CCMDVA0            Asset Usage and Requirements Master             (ICD 10663)

4.17. Weapon System Cost Retrieval System H036C. Several hundred data elements on the following
files, are sent to H036C once a year from the results of the September SIRS computation.
116                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 4.9. Data Elements.
National Stock Number Initial Issue Quantity File              (ICD 2765)
DB.AB5A01UN.RIPM               Item Descriptive Data File      (ICD 10260)
DB.AB5A03UN.RIPM               Usage & Past Program File       (ICD 10261)
DB.AB5A08UN.RIPM               Item Application Data File      (ICD 10262)

4.18. Data To Other Services Via M024B. The Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) transactions
RDBPROD.CSA.ABZ101UN.RIPR (ICD 10741) are output via M024B once a year to all services from
the September computation cycle. The records contain projected recurring demands, projected unservice-
able returns, projected nonrecurring demands, unit of issue, prestocked requirement, and Primary Inven-
tory Control Activity (PICA) and Secondary Item Control Activity (SICA) routing identifiers by
subgroup master stock number. (See Chapter 27).

4.19. Security Assistance Management Information System (SAMIS) (W001). The National Stock
Number Lead-time Data DB.ABCM01UN.RIPP (ICD 10263)provides by subgroup master stock number,
procurement lead-time and repair lead time days (supply to maintenance days plus shop flow days plus
serviceable turn-in days).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                         117


Figure 4.1. Assets and Requirements for D035G.
118                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                 Chapter 5

                                      PRODUCTS FOR THE OPR

5.1. Introduction. This Chapter describes output products available to the ALC SIRS OPRs, using the
OPR Reports Selection Screen, the Quality Control Checklist and the Input System Products Selection
Screen. From the RDB main menu, select Output Products, then select Submit Job Request, then select
Recoverables to get to the Output Products menu (Figure 5.1.).

Figure 5.1. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu.




5.2. Output Products OPR Selection Screen.
      5.2.1. From the SIRS Output Products menu, select OPSS and the OPSS screen is displayed (Figure
      5.2.). To get a product from a previous cycle, change the AS OF date. Type the Subgroup Master stock
      number (SGM) and select the product to get a product for that stock number. Leave the SGM blank
      and type the ALC and one position division code (DIV) and 2-position IMS code and select the prod-
      uct, to get that product for all NSNS for that IMS. Leave the SGM blank and type the ALC and one
      position division code (DIV) and select the product, to get the product for all stock numbers managed
      by that division. Leave the SGM blank and type the ALC and one position division code (DIV) and
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            119


   2-position ES code and select the product, to get that product for all NSNS for that ES. Press ENTER.
   The screen will display a message XXXXXX job number has been requested. Use procedures for
   CA-DISPATCH at your location to get your printed product. The product should be printed at the
   printer designated as your RDB printer. The SGM Computation Worksheet is described in Chapter 9.
   The SGM OWRM Comp Worksheet is described in Chapter 21. The Asset Reconciliation product is
   described in Chapter 28. The Consolidated Assets product is described in Chapter 26. The INS/NSO
   Item Status Listing is described in Chapter 31. The Factors/Usage Printout is described in Chapter
   16. The Adjusted Level Verification product is described in Chapter 24. The SRAN Asset report is
   described in Chapter 26. The SRAN Usage report is described in Chapter 16. The Prelog Equations,
   Prelog Plots, Prelog Selected Info and Prelog Error List & Summary are described in Chapter 19. To
   get the MISTR RPR and Repair Data product, access the ES product screen (see paragraph 12.4.) or
   IMS product screen (see paragraph 13.5.). See paragraph 2.12.9. for output product generation
   schedule.

Figure 5.2. Output Products OPR Reports Selection Screen.
120                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 5.3. Output Products QCC Quality Control Checklist Selection Screen.




5.3. Quality Control Checklist. From the SIRS Output Products menu, select QCC. Using the QCC
screen (Figure 5.3.), the ALC SIRS OPR can select the Quality Control Checklist by ALC or by ALC and
Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Category (ERRC). The ERRC can only be “C” or “T”. The
report lists the SGMs that have the following conditions by placing an “X” under the appropriate column
that is listed here in ( ): military contingency (CNTGN), insurance or Numeric Stockage Objective (ITM
CTGY), obsolete (OBS) and no compute (COMP IND). Then for each SGM listed, is displayed that
item’s item management specialist code (DIV DESIG IMS), item activity code (ITM ACT CD), budget
program code (BP CD) and system management code (SMC). At the end of the report are displayed the
number of SGMS for each of the following 5 categories and the number of SGMs in that category that are
coded no compute. The 5 categories are: (1) The total number of SGMS for that ALC and ERRC. (2) The
number of items with the item category code of “I” or “Y” making them insurance items. (3) The number
of items with the item deferred disposal code of “M” making them military contingency items. (4) The
number of items with the item category code of “S” or “Z” making them NSO items. (5) The number of
items with an acquisition advice code of “T” or “Y” making them obsolete items.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                121


Figure 5.4. Output Products ISD Input System Product Selection Menu.




5.4. Input System Data Products. From the SIRS Output Products menu, select ISD. The Input System
Data Products Selection Menu (Figure 5.4.) allows an OPR to request Input System Data products, one
product at a time. The user can put an “X” by one product selection only. Each product is by ALC only.
The user must type a valid ALC (OC, OO, SA, or WR. SM is no longer used). There is no Special Support
product since SIRS no longer gets data from D034A. All products can be produced by ALC & IMS. The
product is for all divisions and IMS for that ALC. An option is to type a valid division code and get the
product for that division only. A third option is to type a valid division code and a valid IMS code and get
the selected product for that IMS only. The IM Wholesale Requisition Data (D035A), Job Order Produc-
tion Master Data (G004L), Contract Depot Maintenance Production and Cost Data (G072D), MISTR
Requirements Scheduling & Analysis Data (G019C) and the SBSS Asset/Level/Usage (D002A) are also
available by ALC & ES. These products can be selected for all divisions and ES for that ALC, for a
selected division only, or for a selected ES only. The current stock number and the SGM reflect the Fed-
eral Stock Class (FSC), National Item Identity Number (NIIN) and Materiel Management Aggregation
Codes (MMAC) that have been retained on the SIRS data base as a result of reconciliation with Require-
ments Item Identification Data (RIID). During the RIID snapshot process, any division codes, IMS and
ES codes that are blank, are converted to 9’s. These records appear at the end of the products. To get this
data by itself, enter 9’s in the DIV, IMS and ES fields.
122                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      5.4.1. Standard Base Supply System (SBSS). This product (Figure 5.5.) displays data input to
      SIRS from D002A by Stock Number Record Account (SRAN) and current stock number. D002A pro-
      vides SIRS with an accumulated quantity of the most recent previous quarter’s usage data (Repaired
      This Station (RTS), Not Repaired This Station (NRTS) and base condemnations) for ERRC “C”, “T”
      and “P” items only. The product may be requested by ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC
      and IMS division and IMS. The first selection displays information for all items at a center. The sec-
      ond selection displays information for all items within an IMS division. The third selection displays
      information for all items managed under an individual IMS code. Data is printed in ascending ALC,
      Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. This product can also be requested by ALC and ES divi-
      sion, or by ALC and ES division and ES. A stock number is not printed if no data was received for it.
      A product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notifi-
      cation message is sent to the user when a product cannot be printed. The data displayed is as of the
      most recent past fiscal quarter. See paragraph 3.2. and Chapter 16 for how this data is used in SIRS.
      5.4.2. IM Wholesale Requisition Data. This product (Figure 5.6.) displays data input to SIRS from
      D035A by Stock Number Record Account (SRAN) and current stock number. The product lists cur-
      rent stock number, the SGM, the SRAN, purpose code and the zone. The product may be requested by
      ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS division and IMS. The first selection displays
      information for all items at a center. The second selection displays information for all items within an
      IMS division. The third selection displays information for all items managed under an individual IMS
      code. Data is printed in ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. This product can
      also be requested by ALC and ES division, or by ALC and ES division and ES. When the ES code is
      selected, the product title will display as IM Wholesale Requisition Data (ES). A stock number is not
      printed if no data was received for it. A product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/DIV/IMS
      selected on the ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user when a product cannot be printed.
      See paragraph 3.3. and Chapter 16 for how this data is used in SIRS. The data displayed is as of the
      most recent past fiscal quarter:
         5.4.2.1. STK-NR CUR. The current National Stock Number (NSN).
         5.4.2.2. NSN SGM. The subgroup master stock number.
         5.4.2.3. ALC. The Air Logistics Center responsible for the management of the stock numbers on
         the product.
         5.4.2.4. DIV. The division at the ALC where the NSNs are managed.
         5.4.2.5. IMS. The individual Inventory Management Specialist responsible for the management
         of the NSN.
         5.4.2.6. ES. When the ES is selected rather than the IMS, this is the equipment specialist respon-
         sible for the item.
         5.4.2.7. DEP REP GEN. The Depot Reparable Generations for the item.
         5.4.2.8. RTS. The quantity Repaired This Station for the item.
         5.4.2.9. NRTS. The quantity Not Repaired This Station for the item.
         5.4.2.10. DEP CNDMN. The Depot Condemnations for the item.
         5.4.2.11. BASE CNDMN. The Base Condemnations for the item.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             123


     5.4.2.12. PLUS IAV. The Plus Inventory Adjustment Voucher for the item.
     5.4.2.13. MIN IAV QTY. The Minus Inventory Adjustment Voucher for the item.
     5.4.2.14. RQN OBJ. The Requisitioning Objective for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.15. DMND LVL. The Demand Level for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.16. TRANS DRMO. The Transfers to Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office for the
     item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.17. SHPT TO NRA. The Shipments to Non Reporting Activities for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.18. SHPT FR ACCT. The Shipments from Account for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.19. SHPT TO FMS. The Shipments to Foreign Military Sales for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.20. INIT INSTL ISS. The Initial Installation Issues for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.21. INCR TO ACCT. The Increase to Account for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.22. DIA. The Due In Assets for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.23. DUE OUT. The Due Out for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.24. DIFM ASSET. The Due In From Maintenance for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.25. DOTM RQMT. The Due Out To Maintenance requirement for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.26. DIOH ASSET. The Due In from Overhaul assets for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.27. SVC ASSET. The Serviceable Assets for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.28. SVC INTRAN ASSET. The Serviceable Intransit Assets for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.29. UNSVC ASSET. The Unserviceable Assets for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.30. UNSVC INTRAN ASSET. The Unserviceable Intransit Assets for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.31. WRM ASSET. The War Readiness Materiel Assets for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.32. WRM LVL. The War Readiness Materiel Level for the item, by SRAN.
     5.4.2.33. CONTR NM AND ADDR. The Contract Number and Contractor’s Address (if any) for
     the item.
     5.4.2.34. PRCUR LAST 3 MO. The quantity that has been procured in the last three months.
     5.4.2.35. DT JUL COMPRS. Julian Date.
     5.4.2.36. COND X ASSET. The assets that are in Condition “X”.
  5.4.3. Item Management SC&D Data Product. This product (Figure 5.7.) displays Stock balance
  & Consumption product Data (SC&D) input to SIRS from D035B for the current fiscal year and fiscal
  quarter. The product can be requested by ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS
  division and IMS. The first selection displays information for all items at a center. The second selec-
  tion displays information for all items within an IMS division. The third selection displays informa-
  tion for all items managed under an individual IMS code. The product displays the recurring demands
  from the Army, Navy, Marines and other services along with recurring demands from Foreign Mili-
  tary Sales (FMS) and Foreign Military Sales Materiel Repair Requirements List Back Order (FMS
124                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      H-CD BO). Data is printed in ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. A stock
      number is not printed if no data was received for it. A product is not printed if there is no data for the
      ALC/DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user when a product
      cannot be printed. See paragraph 3.4. and Chapter 27 for how this data is used in SIRS.
      5.4.4. History Accumulation Data. This product (Figure 5.8.) displays the base repair cycle days
      and base processing days by SGM, input to SIRS from D035C. This product can be requested by
      ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS division and IMS. The first selection displays
      information for all items at a center. The second selection displays information for all items within an
      IMS division. The third selection displays information for all items managed under an individual IMS
      code. Data is printed in ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. A stock number
      is not printed if no data was received for it. A product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/
      DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user when a product cannot
      be printed. See paragraph 3.5. and Chapter 23 for how this data is used by SIRS.
      5.4.5. Intransit Control Data. This product (Figure 5.9.) displays the repair intransit days and base
      order and shipping time days by SGM, input to SIRS from D035C. This product can be requested by
      ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS division and IMS. The first selection displays
      information for all items at a center. The second selection displays information for all items within an
      IMS division. The third selection displays information for all items managed under an individual IMS
      code. Data is printed in ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. A stock number
      is not printed if no data was received for it. A product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/
      DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user when a product cannot
      be printed. See paragraph 3.5. and Chapter 23 for how this data is used by SIRS.
      5.4.6. Job Order Production Master Data. This product (Figure 5.10.) displays data from the most
      recent past quarter input to SIRS from G004L. The product lists current stock number, the Source Of
      Repair (SOR), Production Number, Field Engine Exchangeable Management System (FEEMS) Indi-
      cator, Unit Repair Cost, Actual Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) Repair quantities
      and actual Not Repaired This Station (NRTS) Non Job Routed (NJR) condemnations. The product
      may be requested by ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS division and IMS. The
      first selection displays information for all items at a center. The second selection displays information
      for all items within an IMS division. The third selection displays information for all items managed
      under an individual IMS code. Data is printed in ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Num-
      ber order. This product can also be requested by ALC and ES division, or by ALC and ES division and
      ES. When the ES code is selected, the product title will display as Job Order Prod Master Data (ES).
      A stock number is not printed if no data was received for it. A product is not printed if there is no data
      for the ALC/DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user when a
      product cannot be printed. The data displayed is as of the most recent past fiscal quarter: See para-
      graph 3.10. and Chapter 15 for how this data is used by SIRS.
      5.4.7. Contract Depot Maintenance Production & Cost Data. This product (Figure 5.11.) dis-
      plays data from the most recent past quarter input to SIRS from G072D. The product lists current
      stock number, the Source Of Repair (SOR), Contract Number, Contract Line Item Number (CLIN),
      Unit Repair Cost, Shop Flow Days, Actual MISTR Repair quantities and actual NRTS NJR condem-
      nations. The product may be requested by ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS
      division and IMS. The first selection displays information for all items at a center. The second selec-
      tion displays information for all items within an IMS division. The third selection displays informa-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               125


  tion for all items managed under an individual IMS code. Data is printed in ascending ALC, Division,
  or IMS, and Stock Number order. This product can also be requested by ALC and ES division, or by
  ALC and ES division and ES. When the ES code is selected, the product title will display as Contract
  Depot Maint Prod & Cost Data (ES). A stock number is not printed if no data was received for it. A
  product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notifica-
  tion message is sent to the user when a product cannot be printed. The data displayed is as of the most
  recent past fiscal quarter: See paragraph 3.12. and Chapter 15 for how this data is used by SIRS.
  5.4.8. MISTR Requirements Scheduling & Analysis. This product (Figure 5.12.) displays data
  from the most recent past quarter input to SIRS from G019C. The product lists current stock number,
  the Source Of Repair (SOR), Production Number, Unit Repair Cost, shop flow days, unit repair
  man-hours and On Work Order (OWO) quantity. The product may be requested by ALC, or by ALC
  and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS division and IMS. The first selection displays information for
  all items at a center. The second selection displays information for all items within an IMS division.
  The third selection displays information for all items managed under an individual IMS code. Data is
  printed in ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. This product can also be
  requested by ALC and ES division, or by ALC and ES division and ES. When the ES code is selected,
  the product title will display as MISTR Rqmts Scheduling & Analysis Data (ES). A stock number is
  not printed if no data was received for it. A product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/DIV/
  IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user when a product cannot be
  printed. The data displayed is as of the most recent past fiscal quarter. See paragraph 3.11. and
  Chapter 15 for how this data is used by SIRS.
  5.4.9. Acquisition & Due-In Data. This product (Figure 5.13.) displays up to 24 quarters and bal-
  ance of projected purchase request data as of the asset cutoff date, by current stock number, input to
  SIRS from J018R. This product can be requested by ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC
  and IMS division and IMS. The first selection displays information for all items at a center. The sec-
  ond selection displays information for all items within an IMS division. The third selection displays
  information for all items managed under an individual IMS code. Data is printed in ascending ALC,
  Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. A stock number is not printed if no data was received for
  it. A product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A noti-
  fication message is sent to the user when a product cannot be printed. See paragraph 3.13. and Chap-
  ter 26 for how this data is used by SIRS.
     5.4.9.1. STK-NR CUR. The current (actual) stock number.
     5.4.9.2. ALC. The Air Logistics Center responsible for the management of the stock numbers on
     the product.
     5.4.9.3. DIV. The division at the ALC where the NSNs are managed.
     5.4.9.4. IMS. The individual Inventory Management Specialist responsible for the management
     of the NSN.
     5.4.9.5. TYPE DIA. This code identifies the type of Due In Asset (DIA).
     5.4.9.6. MTL COND. Materiel Condition code.
     5.4.9.7. PR FUND. Purchase Request Funding Code.
     5.4.9.8. WRM IND. The War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Indicator.
126                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         5.4.9.9. DT AS OF. The asset cutoff date for the data displayed.
         5.4.9.10. POS IND. The Peacetime Operating Stocks (POS) indicator.
         5.4.9.11. PR NR. Purchase Request Number.
         5.4.9.12. PR QTY. The total purchase request quantity.
         5.4.9.13. DT PR COMPRS. Date PR compressed.
         5.4.9.14. TYP PR MIPR. Type PR Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) for the
         item.
      5.4.10. Security Assistance Management Information System Data. This product (Figure 5.14.)
      displays the Security Assistance Management Information System (SAMIS) data by current stock
      number, as of Julian Date, and the FMS requirements, input to SIRS from W001. This product can be
      requested by ALC, or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS division and IMS. The first
      selection displays information for all items at a center. The second selection displays information for
      all items within an IMS division. The third selection displays information for all items managed under
      an individual IMS code. Data is printed in ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Number
      order. A stock number is not printed if no data was received for it. A product is not printed if there is
      no data for the ALC/DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user
      when a product cannot be printed.
      5.4.11. Readiness Based Leveling Data. This product (Figure 5.15.) displays the levels by current
      stock number and SRAN, input to SIRS from RBL (D035E). This product can be requested by ALC,
      or by ALC and IMS division, or by ALC and IMS division and IMS. The first selection displays infor-
      mation for all items at a center. The second selection displays information for all items within an IMS
      division. The third selection displays information for all items managed under an individual IMS
      code. Data is printed in ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. A stock number
      is not printed if no data was received for it. A product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/
      DIV/IMS selected on the ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user when a product cannot
      be printed. See paragraph 3.6. and Chapter 24 for how this data is used by SIRS.
         5.4.11.1. ALC. The Air Logistics Center responsible for the management of the stock numbers on
         the product.
         5.4.11.2. DIV. The division at the ALC where the NSNs are managed.
         5.4.11.3. IMS. The individual Inventory Management Specialist responsible for the management
         of the NSN.
         5.4.11.4. STK-NR CUR. The current (actual) stock number.
         5.4.11.5. SRAN. Stock Number Record Account.
         5.4.11.6. DT SRAN SPCL LVL AUTH. The date the special level was authorized.
         5.4.11.7. STAT SRAN DMND LVL. The demand level.
         5.4.11.8. STAT SRAN BASE LVL AUTH. The base level authorized.
         5.4.11.9. STAT SRAN LEVEL JUST CD. The level justification code.
         5.4.11.10. STAT SRAN SPCL LVL JUST. The text describing the justification for the special
         level.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            127


  5.4.12. Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) Data. This product (Figure 5.16.) displays up to 20
  quarters of projected requirements and unserviceable returns by stock number, input to SIRS from
  other services and other DOD agencies. This product can be requested by ALC, or by ALC and IMS
  division, or by ALC and IMS division and IMS. The first selection displays information for all items
  at a center. The second selection displays information for all items within an IMS division. The third
  selection displays information for all items managed under an individual IMS code. Data is printed in
  ascending ALC, Division, or IMS, and Stock Number order. A stock number is not printed if no data
  was received for it. A product is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/DIV/IMS selected on the
  ISD menu. A notification message is sent to the user when a product cannot be printed. For details
  about this data, see Chapter 27.
     5.4.12.1. ALC. The Air Logistics Center responsible for the management of the stock numbers on
     the product.
     5.4.12.2. DIV. The division at the ALC where the NSNs are managed.
     5.4.12.3. IMS. The individual Inventory Management Specialist responsible for the management
     of the NSN.
     5.4.12.4. Stock Number. The stock number received.
     5.4.12.5. RIC. The routing identifier code.
     5.4.12.6. Stat Add Rqmt RDE Recur. The recurring requirements.
     5.4.12.7. Stat Rde Rpr Ret. The unserviceable returns.
     5.4.12.8. Stat Add Rqmt Rde Non Recur. The non-recurring requirement (if any).
128                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 5.5. End Of Quarter Asset/Level/Usage Data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                           129


Figure 5.6. IM Wholesale Requisition Data (IMS).
130                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 5.7. Item Management SC&D Data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                 131


Figure 5.8. History Accumulation Data.
132                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 5.9. Intransit Control Data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                         133


Figure 5.10. Job Order Production Master Data.
134                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 5.11. Contract Depot Maintenance Production & Cost Data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                      135


Figure 5.12. MISTR Requirements Scheduling & Analysis Data.
136                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 5.13. Acquisition & Due-In Data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                     137


Figure 5.14. Security Assistance MIS Data.
138                                           AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 5.15. Readiness Based Leveling Data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                        139


Figure 5.16. Requirements Data Exchange Data.
140                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                  Chapter 6

                                     TABLES & DEFAULT VALUES

6.1. Introduction. This chapter defines the table data in SIRS that can be viewed by the users and how
this data is file maintained by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. The screens shown are for file maintenance,
which can only be accessed by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. However, the display screens are identical to
these file maintenance screens, and the display screens can be viewed by all users. The file maintenance
Table menu screen (Figure 6.1.) and the display Table menu screen FOE SIRS DIS TBLD list tables based
on the user profile. Figure 6.1. shows the file maintenance Table menu screen for the HQ AFMC SIRS
OPR. Paragraph 6.20. explains the file maintenance of the BP-SMC table in D200F, Applications Pro-
grams Indenture (API), which has to be file maintained before Budget Program (BP) & System Manage-
ment Code (SMC) data can be file maintained in SIRS.

Figure 6.1. File Maintenance Table Data Menu.




      6.1.1. In general, any of the display table screens look like the corresponding file maintenance table
      screens. Therefore, only the file maintenance mode screens will be shown in this chapter. All screens
      display the screen ID, the current date and the AS OF Date in the right upper corner. The AS OF Date
      identifies the Asset Cutoff Date of the computation cycle in the format dd mmm yy. To view historical
      data on a display screen, the user must enter a valid Asset Cutoff Date, 31 Mar yy, 30 Jun yy, 30 Sep
      yy or 31 Dec yy. A two position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the right of the AS OF field. The first
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               141


   position identifies the computation cycle (“I” for Initial, “F” for Final and “S” for Summary). The sec-
   ond position represents the number of times the item was recomputed during that computation cycle,
   and therefore, will always be zero for these screens. In file maintenance mode, the screens have a
   function field (FUNC). The file maintenance screens allow all or some of these values in the function
   field: blank for View, “V” for View, “A” for Add, “C” for Change and “D” for Delete.
   6.1.2. RUN. Some screens display this two-position field that identifies what part of the quarterly
   cycle, SIRS is currently in. If an “I”, SIRS is at the beginning of the quarterly cycle, but has not run
   the initial computation. If a “PM”, SIRS is at the Pre-Final. If an “M”, SIRS is ready for the Final
   computation. If a “PF”, SIRS is ready for the Pre-Summary cycle. If an “F”, SIRS is ready for the
   Summary computation.

6.2. BP/SMC/BSO Table.
   6.2.1. The BSBT table (Figure 6.2.) displays all Budget Programs (BP) & System Management
   Codes (SMC) along with the Budget Support Objective (BSO) for each BP-SMC combination. The
   file maintenance mode BSBT Table (Figure 6.2.) looks like the display mode BSBS Table, but has the
   additional field Start Comp (paragraphs 6.2.2.). Before the IMS can file maintain a BP-SMC combi-
   nation for an item using the Basic Management Data screen (Figure 14.1.), that BP-SMC combina-
   tion must be in this table (see paragraph 14.2.5. and Table 14.1.). First, a BP-SMC combination must
   be added or deleted in the BP-SMC table in the D200F/API system, by the HQ AFMC API OPR.
   When adding a new BP SMC combination, if the BSO is not provided by the budget OPR, use 050 as
   a default value. The BSO can be any 3-digit number from 001 to 100. API automatically updates the
   BP/SMC/BSO table in SIRS. In SIRS, the BSO can be changed on this table by typing function code
   “C”, press ENTER, then type over existing values and press ENTER. Multiple changes can be done
   before pressing ENTER. The BSO in SIRS will be adjusted by the Variable Safety Level (VSL) com-
   putation. If no items for a BP-SMC combination have any VSL requirements, the BSO field displays
   *****, and a message is displayed, on the display mode BSBS table. If the user tries an add or delete,
   SIRS will display the message “Entry not allowed”. The data on this table is used for the MGFT MD
   Goal/Floor Factor Table (Figure 6.13.).
   6.2.2. HQ AFMC SIRS OPR only. The file maintenance screen has a “Start Comp” field in the lower
   right hand corner. The function field may be left blank. After completion of the Pre-Final cycle, type
   “M” in the Start Comp field and press ENTER to initiate the Final cycle. After completion of the Final
   cycle, type “P” in the Start Comp field and press ENTER to initiate the Pre-Summary cycle, or type
   “O” to start the Summary only cycle. After completion of the Pre-Summary cycle, type “F” in the
   Start Comp field and press ENTER to initiate the Summary cycle. A confirmation message is dis-
   played. Do not use this field to start the Initial or Pre-Final cycle.
142                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 6.2. BSBT DP/SMC/BSO Table.




6.3. BP SMC PSEUDO MD Table. The BSMD table (Figure 6.3.) displays the Budget Programs (BP)
& System Management Codes (SMC) along with a 7 position alphanumeric value for the Mission Design
(MD). All BP-SMC combinations that are for an aircraft should be listed with pseudo MD equal to 3 “Z’s”
followed by the 4 position MD for that aircraft. Figure 6.3. displays 1E B01B with ZZZB001, for the air-
craft B001B. Other BP-SMC (for non-aircraft) values are listed with a pseudo MD equal to “ZZZFAKE”.
This table is used by the Aircraft Availability Model (AAM) computation. The internal AAM table, MD
Funding Environment table, is updated based upon the changes to the Pseudo MDs. Valid functions are
“B” for Add, “blank” for view, “C” for Change and “D” Delete. To add, the BP-SMC combination must
already be on the BP-SMC-BSO Table (see paragraph 6.2.). To add, type “B” in a function field, and
press ENTER. SIRS will provide a blank line. Then type a valid BP-SMC with the pseudo MD and press
ENTER. To delete, type “D” by the BP-SMC and press ENTER. When using the Change function, only
the Pseudo MD can be changed. The database is updated and the message “Update Successful” is dis-
played.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               143


Figure 6.3. BSMD BP SMC PSEUDO MD Table.




6.4. BTRT BP SMC Target Fill Rate Table. The BTRT Table (Figure 6.4.) displays the target fill rates
for each BP-SMC combination. The Target Fill Rate is the composite percent used by the Aircraft Avail-
ability Model computation to adjust the Budget Support Objective (BSO), which is the desired level of
support for items in that BP-SMC group. In display mode, historical data can be viewed by typing a valid
AS OF Date and Run code (see paragraph 6.1.2.). In file maintenance mode, only function code “C” and
“V” can be used. Only the target fill rate can be changed. Type “C” and press ENTER. Then type a valid
number from zero to 100, in the Target Fill Rate field. Multiple fields can be changed on the screen. Press
ENTER. SIRS updates the database and displays the message Update Successful.
144                                               AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 6.4. BTRT BP SMC Target Fill Rate Table.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                  145


Figure 6.5. BVRT BSO KEY/BSO Value RSLT Table (Page 1).
146                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 6.6. BVRT BSO KEY/BSO Value RSLT Table (Page 2).




6.5. BSO Value Result Tables. The BVRT table displays the Budget Support Objectives (BSO) values
and results that are used in the Aircraft Availability Model (AAM) computation. All BSOs are updated
from the pre-final and pre-summary runs of the BSO computation. These are the BSOs that were selected
to meet the target fill rates for the BP/SMCs.
      6.5.1. The user can scroll through all BSO Keys and associated values. In display mode, only the HQ
      AFMC SIRS OPR can view historical data by typing a valid AS OF Date and Run code (see para-
      graph 6.1.2.). In file maintenance mode, only function code “C” change can be used on page 1 (Fig-
      ure 6.5.), and only function code “V” can be used on page 2 (Figure 6.6.). In file maintenance mode,
      the second screen allows the user to view all this data. Use the paging commands (type NEXT) to get
      from page 1 to page 2. Then use the scrolling commands (type FORW) to view all the data on page 2.
      6.5.2. In file maintenance mode, the BVRT screen allows the user to update and view data from
      “What IF” group recomputations. If simulation data does not exist, SIRS creates it by copying produc-
      tion data as the screen displays the information. Then any changes update the simulation data only.
      6.5.3. When the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR changes the value for BSO Key 001, or any VSL FAC or BSO
      RNGE, all other BSO Key values for BSO keys 2 through 100 are computed by SIRS. The BSO KEY
      VAL must by a 9-position field 0.00000000 – 1.00000000. The BSO RNGE 1must be a 3-position
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                147


   number from 002 through 098. The BSO RNGE 2 must by a 3-position number 003 through 099, and
   must be greater than or equal to BSO RNGE 1. BSO RNGE 3 is always 100 and cannot be changed.
   VSL FAC 1, VSL FAC 2, and VSL FAC 3 each must be a valid 7-position number 0.010000 through
   0.099000. Multiple fields can be changed on the screen. After making all changes, press ENTER.
   SIRS updates the database and displays the message Update Successful. Currently, SIRS has Factor 1
   = 0.670000 for BSO 002 – 010, and Factor 2 = 0.915000 for BSO 011 – 078, and Factor3 = 0.790000
   for BSO 080- 100.

6.6. Contractor Identity Table. The CIT Table screen (Figure 6.7.) displays the name and address of
each contractor who receives factor or computation data from the summary computation. Use the scroll-
ing commands to see additional data. Type a full or partial Contractor Key and press ENTER, to see that
contractor data. Any alphanumeric, blank or special characters can be file maintained into the other fields.

Figure 6.7. CIT Contractor Identity Table.




6.7. Contractor Output Table. The COT table (Figure 6.8.) displays the aircraft and engines designa-
tors under Standard Program Designator (SPD), and Item Identity Number (IIN) that the contractor wants
data for. Each screen can display a maximum of 15 lines of data. The data is sequenced by the SPD first
then any IIN data. Each line also has a Data Indicator field, which is either a “C” for computation data
148                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


only, an “F” for factor data only or a “B” for both. Use the scrolling commands to see additional data. The
contractor must already be on the CIT Table. The fields are edited.

6.8. Excluded MMAC Table. This table contains 3 columns of data for function (FUNC), the MMAC
and the reason. When SIRS matches the item’s MMAC with the Materiel Management Aggregation
Codes (MMAC) on this table, SIRS will put an “F” in the No-Compute code. The “F” causes SIRS not to
do a computation for the items but the data will still be passed to the Central Secondary Item Stratification
(CSIS), D200N system . Only the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR can file maintain this table. A request to include
a MMAC on this table should be sent to the ALC SIRS OPR, who will forward approved requests to the
HQ AFMC SIRS OPR.

Figure 6.8. COT Contractor Output Table.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          149


Figure 6.9. HLFT High-Low Factors Table.




6.9. High-Low Factors Table. The HLFT table (Figure 6.9.) displays the ranges of data used for the
Budget Support Objective (BSO) computation. The BSO computation provides the information needed to
make the selection of the support objective to be applied in the buy computation and Other War Reserve
Material (OWRM) level computations. The support objective is a cost-effectiveness ration that measures
the return of applying additional assets in terms of expected backorders. The UPPER RANGE must be 1
through 100. When the UPPER RANGE is equal to 100, it can be changed but not deleted. The HI FAC-
TOR and LO FACTOR must be a valid number from 0 to 100. To add data, enter “A” in the function field
and press ENTER. Type a valid value in the UPPER RANGE field and press ENTER. Enter the data for
the HI FACTOR and LO FACTOR and press ENTER. To change data, enter “C” in the function field and
press ENTER. Type a valid value in the UPPER RANGE field and press ENTER. Enter the data and press
ENTER. To delete, type “D” in the function field, and type a valid value in the UPPER RANGE field and
press ENTER.
150                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 6.10. IIT Inflation Index Table.




6.10. Inflation Index Table. The INI Table (Figure 6.10.) displays the inflation factors by Fiscal Year
(FY) that are used by SIRS to compute the forecasted unit price. The data should be updated once a year
during the June initial file maintenance cycle, from numbers provided by the HQ AFMC budget people.
As a minimum, the new year should be added to this table. Each Budget Program (BP) has its own table.
Each table can contain a maximum of 30 years. Type a valid BP and press ENTER to see the data. Func-
tion code “C” is used to change data and to add additional years. The delete function deletes all BP
records for the current fiscal year. Enter a valid four-digit year for FY. Fiscal years must be entered con-
secutively starting with the far left column, moving top to bottom, then filling in the middle column top to
bottom, and last filling in the far right column top to bottom. Once a fiscal year is entered it cannot be
overtyped. Only the inflation index can be changed by typing over it. The INFLA INDEX must be greater
than zero, and can have one or two digits before the decimal point and up to 3 digits after the decimal
point. When all 30 positions of the table are full, an additional field is generated in the lower right hand
corner. The next subsequent FY is automatically generated. Type the inflation index for that year, and
press ENTER. The 31st entry is moved into the 30th position, and the oldest (first position) year is auto-
matically deleted.

6.11. Retention Level Adjustment Factor Table. The RLAF table (Figure 6.11.) is in the SIRS compu-
tation to develop the retention levels (see paragraph 9.13.12.). The HQ AFMC SIRS OPR file maintains
the data by either the Mission Design Series (MDS) for the aircraft or the Budget Program (BP) and Sys-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                151


tem Management Code (SMC). To be on this table, the MDS must already be on the SPD table in the API/
D200F system. To be on this table the BP-SMC combination must already be on the BP-SMC table in
API/D200F. Only function codes “C” and “V” are allowed on the file maintenance screen. Each field is
file maintained as 1 digit, the decimal point, and 2 digits. Risk Factor can be from 1.00 to 2.00 and cannot
be blank. The default value for Risk Factor is 1.50. Base Reduction Factor can be from zero to 1.00 and
cannot be blank. The default value for Base Reduction Factor is 0.50. Condemnation Factor can be from
1.00 to 3.00 and cannot be blank. The default value for Condemnation Factor is 2.00. SIRS uses this table
to update the internal SGM Retention Level Adjustment Factors table. If there is an MDS for an item in
the SGM/MDS table, SIRS will select the corresponding values for that MDS from the Retention Level
Adjustment Factor Table to use for that item. If there are multiple MDSs for an item, SIRS will select the
largest of the values from all of the item’s MDSs. If SIRS cannot find an MDS linked to the item, then it
will use the item’s BP/SMC combination to select the values associated with that BP-SMC from the
Retention Level Adjustment Factors table.

Figure 6.11. RLAF Retention Level Adjustment Factor Table.




6.12. Aircraft Availability Model Mission Design Series/Mission Design Table. This MAMD table
(Figure 6.12.) displays data sorted by Mission Design Series (MDS), then by MD within an MDS. To add
an MDS, the MDS must be valid and unique (not already in the table). Once an MDS is in the table, it can
be deleted, but not changed.
152                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


6.13. MD Goal/Floor Factor Table. The MGFT table (Figure 6.13.) displays data used by the Aircraft
Availability computation.
      6.13.1. Target Goals for aircraft are provided by HQ USAF and file maintained by the HQ AFMC
      SIRS OPR under the AVAIL column. When HQ USAF provides goals for more than one fiscal year,
      the data may need to be updated for the March cycle, when the fiscal years shift. The same value is file
      maintained for both Full and Limited funding, unless different goals are provided. Goals for the cur-
      rent year are not used. In the column called TM PER, 2nd refers to the AY, BUY refers to the BY, and
      then the EY numbers are used for the remaining lines TERM, POM and all “W” lines. WAR/PEACE
      is either a “P” for peace or “W” for war. Use TAB key, type in the MDS in the MD field, press
      ENTER, then input each goal as 3 numeric digits. The goal can only be from 000 to 1000.
      6.13.2. The user can update all four FLOOR FACTORS and either the AVAILABLITY or the BUD-
      GET GOAL. BASE is the buy floor. DEPOT is the depot floor. TOTAL is the total floor. NEG LVL is
      the special level floor. Any number can be file maintained. If the user enters an AVAIL GOAL and a
      BUDGET GOAL, then the BUDGET GOAL is ignored. If the users enters Zs in any of the FLOOR
      FACTORS fields, default values of “1.00” will be assigned to all four floor factors for that line, and a
      default value of “92” will be assigned to AVAIL GOAL and a default value of “00000” will be
      assigned to the BUDGET GOAL. Both the AVAIL GOAL SRC and BUDGET GOAL SRC will be
      reset to “C”. The SRC is either “C” for computed or “E” for file maintained. When all lines on the
      screen are file maintained, press ENTER.
      6.13.3. In display mode, the user can view historical data by entering a valid AS OF DATE. If the user
      enters an MD, the screen displays the goad data for the MD. Leaving the MD field blank displays all
      available MD data. If an MDS value is entered in the MD field, SIRS moves the MDS value to the
      MDS field and fills the MD field with the appropriate MD and displays the data for that MD.
      6.13.4. The targets are also used to improve resource repair allocation. Implemented in SIRS is a
      Variable Repair Computation (VRC). VRC computes safety levels for items not in a buy. VRC ini-
      tially computes a safety level equal to 2.5 standard deviations of the expected pipeline quantity. If
      assets exceed the total requirements including the safety level, VRC increases the safety level above
      the 2.5 standard deviations by an amount that is a function of the aircraft availability targets.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008              153


Figure 6.12. MAMD AAM MDS/MD Table.
154                                             AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 6.13. MGFT MD Goal/Floor Factor Table.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               155


Figure 6.14. OWRM Table.




6.14. OWRM Table. The values on the OWRM table (Figure 6.14.) are used in the Other War Reserve
Material (OWRM) computation (see Chapter 21). Values can be file maintained for any SMC, which has
to be already on the BP-SMC table in API/D200F. There is always one set of OWRM values for SMC =
blank. These values are used as “defaults”, when the item’s SMC is not on this table.
   6.14.1. WAR COMP TMSP is the OWRM computation time span. Enter any number between 1 and
   12.
   6.14.2. BO-ST DA / IND displays 3 fields. The first field is the wartime base order and shipping time
   days for month one of the OWRM computation. Enter any valid number up to 3 digits. The second
   field is the wartime base order and shipping time days for month two – 12 of the OWRM computation.
   Enter any valid number up to 3 digits. The third field is a one-position source reference code that can-
   not be file maintained. It is “E” for file maintained, ‘P” for peacetime values displayed, or “S” for
   peacetime default values displayed. (See paragraph 21.7.1.).
   6.14.3. RPR INTRAN DA /IND displays 3 fields. The first field is the wartime reparable intransit
   days for month 1 of the OWRM computation. Enter any valid number up to 3 digits. The second field
   is the wartime reparable intransit days for month 2 – 12 of the OWRM computation. Enter any valid
   number up to 3 digits. The third field is a one-position source reference code that cannot be file main-
156                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      tained. It is “E” for file maintained, ‘P” for peacetime values displayed, or “S” for peacetime default
      values displayed. (See paragraph 21.7.7.).
      6.14.4. BASE PROC DA displays the war base processing days. Enter any valid number up to 3 dig-
      its. (See paragraph 21.7.6.).
      6.14.5. BRC DA displays the war base repair cycle days. Enter any valid number up to 3 digits. (See
      paragraph 21.7.5.).
      6.14.6. PRGM PCT displays two fields. The first field is the percent of the first quarter’s OIM war-
      time program that will be used for the first month’s OIM wartime program in the OWRM computa-
      tion. It takes into consideration the wartime surge. Enter any valid number up to 3 digits. The second
      field is the percent of the first quarter’s OIM wartime program that will be used for the second month’s
      OIM wartime program. Enter any valid number between 0 and 100, up to 3 digits. (See paragraph
      21.2.2.).
      6.14.7. TRAP ITM BP CD displays the two-position budget program code for all TRAP items.
      6.14.8. SOR ID displays the column headings for 5 ALCs and the default (DE) column for those
      items whose source of repair is not one of the ALCs. SM is listed, but is not used.
      6.14.9. SHOP FLO DA PCT displays 6 values (per SOR ID) for war shop flow days percent. Enter
      any valid number from zero to 100, up to 3 digits. (See paragraph 21.7.10.).
      6.14.10. SUPL TO MAINT DA displays 6 values (per SOR ID) for war supply to maintenance days.
      Enter any valid number up to 3 digits. (See paragraph 21.7.9.).

6.15. Pipeline Adjustment Factors Table. The PAFT table (Figure 6.15.) is used in the Aircraft Avail-
ability computation.
      6.15.1. The HQ AFMC SIRS OPR provides the list of Upper Unit Price Forecast ranges in the column
      U-P FCST RANGE, Upper Not Reparable This Station (NRTS) Ranges in the column NRTS
      RANGE, and all Pipeline Adjustment Factors. SIRS computes the Lower NRTS Range and the Lower
      U-P-FCST-RANGE values, based on the Upper limit values. The first Lower NRTS Range is zero.
      Each successive Lower NRTS Range is the previous Upper NRTS Range plus 1. The first Lower
      U-P-FCST-RANGE is 0.01. Each succeeding Lower U-P-FCST-RANGE is the previous Upper
      U-P-FCST-RANGE plus + .0.1. SIRS creates an Upper NRTS FCST-RNGE of 100, and an Upper
      U-P-FCST-RNGE of 99999.99. The maximum Upper U-P-FCST-RNGE is displayed as “AND UP”
      on the screen. The Upper NRTS-RNGE of 100 and the Upper U-P-FCST_RNGE of “AND UP” can-
      not be overtyped. The user has up to 10 ranges of input for the NRTS RANGE. If there are fewer than
      10 NRTS RANGES, space is provided to enter new NRTS ranges.
      6.15.2. Pipeline Adjustment Factor columns are processed from left to right with each column pro-
      cessed from top to bottom. Rows are processed after all columns have been processed. Each row is
      processed from right to left. When more U-P-FCST-RANGE exist than can fit on the screen, the user
      can use the scroll commands to access the data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            157


Figure 6.15. PAFT P-L Adjustment Factors Table.




   6.15.3. Only function codes “C” and “V” are allowed on the file maintenance screen. To add, change
   or delete data, type “C” in the function field and press ENTER. Then enter data as follows:
      6.15.3.1. For U-P-FCST-RANGE, the user must enter five digits, the decimal point, and 2 digits.
      For NRTS RANGE, enter any valid number from zero to 100. The Pipeline Adjustment Factors
      are typed in the main body of the screen. The user must enter one digit, the decimal point, and 2
      digits.
      6.15.3.2. To add a new NRTS RANGE, type the NRTS RANGE in a blank Upper NRTS RANGE
      column field. Enter any Pipeline Adjustment Factors in the main body of the screen, and press
      ENTER. Any Pipeline Adjustment Factors in the new NRTS RANGE column that are not visible
      on the screen are entered into the database as zero. They can be changed by scrolling and changing
      the values. The new NRTS RANGE is sorted into the correct sequence and then SIRS displays the
      screen with the message UPDATE SUCCESSFUL.
      6.15.3.3. To add a new U-P-FCST-RANGE, scroll forward if necessary, to display a screen that
      has lines with blank Upper U-P-FCST-RANGE. Type the U-P-FCST-RANGE in a blank Upper
      U-P-FCST-RANGE column field. Enter any Pipeline Adjustment Factors in the main body of the
      screen, and press ENTER. Any Pipeline Adjustment Factors in the new U-P-FCST-RANGE col-
      umn that are not visible on the screen are entered into the database as zero. They can be changed
158                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


       by scrolling and changing the values. The new U-P-FCST-RANGE is sorted into the correct
       sequence and then SIRS displays the screen with the message UPDATE SUCCESSFUL.
       6.15.3.4. To delete data, type zero in the Upper NRTS RANGE or Upper U-P-FCST-RANGE
       field and press ENTER.
       6.15.3.5. To change existing data, type over the values and press ENTER. When the NRTS
       RANGE or U-P-FCST-RANGE is changed, SIRS deletes the records with the original NRTS
       RANGE for that column or U-P-FCST-RANGE for that row, and then adds a new set of records
       with the new upper range. The pipeline adjustment factors that were already in the database are
       assigned to the new upper range. The lower NRTS RANGE or U-P-FCST-RANGE are adjusted on
       the screen.

6.16. PRELOG Error Level Conversion Table. The PECT table (Figure 6.16.) displays the Confi-
dence Level Range percentages associated with each of the PRELOG Error level cutoff number (1.5
through 9.0). To view historical data on the display screen, type a valid date in the AS OF field. Valid
function codes for the file maintenance table are “V” and “C”. The HQ AFMC SIRS OPR can change the
Minimum (MIN) and Maximum Confidence Level (MAX) for any Error Level (ERR LVL). Enter one or
two digits, the decimal point, and one digit. Valid numbers are 0.1 through 99.9. The Minimum and Max-
imum Confidence Level of an Error Level cutoff must be greater than or equal to the Minimum and Max-
imum Confidence Levels of the preceding Error Level cutoff.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            159


Figure 6.16. PECT PRELOG Error Level Conversion Table.




6.17. Standard Data Table. The SDT table (Figure 6.17.) displays the default values (or standards) used
in the absence of actual or file maintained data. It also displays numeric data, used by SIRS to perform
calculations that can be file maintained by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. The only function codes allowed on
the file maintenance screen are “C” and “V”. To change data, type over the existing value and press
ENTER.
   6.17.1. Acquisition Method Code Dollar Control Value (AMC DOL CTL VAL). This 6-digit
   whole number field establishes the extent of screening and internal management procedures for deter-
   mining future procurement processing. Currently not used by SIRS.
   6.17.2. Destination Transportation Cost (FIRST DET TRANS COST). This is a dollar value.
   Enter 2 digits, the decimal point, and 2 digits. Currently not used by SIRS.
   6.17.3. Numeric Stockage Objective Non Job Routed Replacement Percent Minimum ( N S O
   NJR REPL PCT MIN). In the NSO computation, this is the minimum NSO NJR replacement per-
   cent allowed. Enter up to 3 digits. Value can be 1 through 100.
160                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      6.17.4. Numeric Stockage Objective Total Organizational Intermediate Maintenance Demand
      Rate Minimum (NSO TOIMDR MIN). In the NSO computation, this is the minimum TOIMDR
      allowed. Enter 1 digit, the decimal point, and 4 digits.
      6.17.5. Production Lead-time Days Added To Contractor Quote (PLT DA ADD CONTR
      QUOT). The number of days that SIRS adds to the contractor quoted production lead-time days
      received from the Requirements Item Identification Data (RIID) system. Enter a valid number of up to
      3 digits.
      6.17.6. Threshold Cost Ratio (THRS CST RATIO). Enter a valid number of 2 digits, the decimal
      point, and 9 digits.

Figure 6.17. SDT Standard Data Table.




      6.17.7. Uneconomical Excess Value (UNECON EXCESS VALUE). Enter a valid whole dollar
      number up to 6 digits. This is used in the computation of the Select Retention Level (see paragraph
      9.13.4.4.). When the excess dollar value calculated for the item, is less than the Uneconomic Excess
      Value, then the Excess Quantity is added to the Select Retention Level and the Excess Quantity is
      reduced to zero.
      6.17.8. Investment Level Indicator (INVST LVL IND). Enter “MAX” for maximum.
      6.17.9. (USE-HI). Enter a 3-digit number.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                161


  6.17.10. Variance To Mean Ratio Constant A (VTM RATIO CONST A). Used as a multiplier in
  the Variable Safety Level (VSL) variance-to-mean-ration formula. Enter a valid number of 1 or 2 dig-
  its, the decimal point, and 7 digits.
  6.17.11. Variance To Mean Ratio Constant B (VTM RATIO CONST B). Used as a multiplier in
  the Variable Safety Level (VSL) variance-to-mean-ration formula. Enter a valid number of 1 or 2 dig-
  its, the decimal point, and 7 digits.
  6.17.12. Variance To Mean Lower Limit (VTM RATIO LOWER LIMIT). Used in the Variable
  Safety Level computation. Enter a valid number of 1 or 2 digits, the decimal point, and 7 digits.
  6.17.13. Variance To Mean Upper Limit (VTM RATIO UPPER LIMIT). Used in the Variable
  Safety Level computation. Enter a valid number of 1 or 2 digits, the decimal point, and 7 digits.
  6.17.14. Insurance Default Retention Level (INS DEFAULT RETN LVL). This is the default
  retention level used for insurance items. (See Chapter 31). Enter 2 digits, the decimal point, and 2
  digits.
  6.17.15. Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO) Retention Level (NSO DEFAULT RETN LVL).
  This is the default retention level used for NSO items. (See Chapter 31). Enter 2 digits, the decimal
  point, and 2 digits.
  6.17.16. Retention Level Months. This is the default value used by the retention level computation.
  Enter 2 digits.
  6.17.17. Repair Cost Default (REPAIR COST DEFAULT). Is percentage times the unit price, that
  is used by SIRS to calculate the default repair cost for an item that is not an AF SICA NIMSC 5 item.
  Enter a valid number of one digit, the decimal point, and 2 digits.
  6.17.18. Repair Cost Default (NIMSC5). Is this percentage times the unit price that is used by SIRS
  to calculate the default repair cost for an AF SICA NISMC 5 item. Enter a valid number of one digit,
  the decimal point, and 2 digits.
  6.17.19. Exponential Smoothing Coefficient Forecast (EXPON SMOOTH COEFF FCST).
  There are 5 values. For each value, enter one or 2 digits, the decimal point, and 3 digits.
  6.17.20. PRELOG Smoothing Constant (PRELOG SMOOTH CONST). Enter one or 2 digits,
  the decimal point, and 3 digits. (See Chapter 19).
  6.17.21. PRELOG Exponential (PRELOG EXPON). There are nine fields based on the PRELOG
  position code. Enter a valid number between -1.50 and +1.00 but excluding zero. If negative, enter a
  dash followed by the one digit, the decimal point, and two digits. The fields should show increasing
  numbers from left to right. The default values are -1.00, -0.80, -0.65, -0.50, -0.35, -0.20, -0.10, +0.10,
  +0.50. (See Chapter 19).
  6.17.22. Maximum Number of Standard Deviation (MAX NR OF STD DEV). If negative, enter
  a dash followed by one digit, the decimal point, and two digits.
  6.17.23. Maximum Component Availability (MAX CMPNT AVAL). This field has one digit, the
  decimal point, and six digits. Used in the Aircraft Availability Model.
  6.17.24. Maximum Standard Deviation Safety Level Stock (MAX STD DEV SFTY STK). T h i s
  field has one digit, the decimal point, and two digits.
162                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      6.17.25. Maximum Repair Lead-time Days (MAX RLT DAYS). This is the maximum repair
      lead-time days allowed in SIRS. When the total of the supply to maintenance days plus shop flow
      days plus serviceable turn-in days exceeds this value, SIRS used this default value instead of the
      actual days. Maximum of 4 digits can be file maintained.
      6.17.26. Maximum Depot Repair Cycle Days (MAX DRC DAYS). This is the maximum depot
      repair cycle days allowed in SIRS. When the total of the base processing days, plus reparable intransit
      days, plus supply to maintenance days plus shop flow days plus serviceable turn-in days exceeds this
      value, SIRS used this default value instead of the actual days. Maximum of 4 digits can be file main-
      tained.
      6.17.27. Minimum Backorder Level (MIN BO LEVEL). This field has one digit, the decimal
      point, then 4 digits.
      6.17.28. Minimum Log Normal First Term (MIN LN FIRST TERM). If negative, enter a dash
      followed by two digits.
      6.17.29. Minimum Pipeline Normal Distribution (MIN PL NORM DISTR). T h i s f i e l d h a s 2
      whole numbers.
      6.17.30. Minimum Repair Lead-time Days (MIN RLT DAYS). T h i s i s t h e m i n i m u m r e p a i r
      lead-time days allowed in SIRS. When the total of the supply to maintenance days plus shop flow
      days plus serviceable turn-in days is less than this value, SIRS uses this default value instead of the
      actual days. Maximum of 4 digits can be file maintained.
      6.17.31. Minimum Standard Deviation Safety Level Stock (MIN STD DEV SFTY STK). If neg-
      ative, enter a dash followed by one digit, the decimal point, and two digits. Used in SIRS ?
      6.17.32. Standard Deviation For Fixed Safety Level (STD DEV FOR FXD SL). This field has
      one digit, the decimal point, then 2 digits.
      6.17.33. Adjusted Factor For Maximum Stock Level (ADJ FAC FOR MAX SL). This field has
      one digit, the decimal point, then 2 digits.
      6.17.34. Variable Safety Level Maximum Constraint (SFTY LVL MAX CNSTR). This is used
      to determine the lowest expected back orders that will be computed on the VSL algorithms. It is the
      point where additional stock will not provide sufficient return to justify the cost.
      6.17.35. Safety Level NRTS Percent Maximum (SFTY LVL NRTS PCT MAX). This is the max-
      imum value allowed in the variable safety level computation for the base Not Reparable This Station
      (NRTS) percent. Enter a valid number between 1 and 100.
      6.17.36. Standard Component Cutoff (CO CMPNT AVAL). Enter one digit, the decimal point,
      and 3 digits. Used in the Aircraft Availability Model (see paragraph 29.2.11.2.).
      6.17.37. PCTM Asset Code (PCTM ASSET CD). Only values are “SOME”, “ALL” or “NONE”.
      6.17.38. PRELOG Factor (PRELOG COR FAC). Enter one digit, the decimal point, and 3 digits.

6.18. Standard Data Table By ALC. The SDTA (Figure 6.18.) table contains data by ALC used by the
Predictive Logistics (PRELOG) computation (see Chapter 19). The data can be file maintained by the
HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. Valid ALC codes are “OC”, “OO”, “SA”, and “WR”. “SM” is no longer used. If
the user types an invalid key, SIRS displays the message “Failed discrete check, invalid key”. The file
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             163


maintenance screen allows function codes “C” and “V”. Type a valid ALC code and press ENTER. Type
over the existing values, and press ENTER.
   6.18.1. PRELOG CONFIDENCE LEVEL Enter a valid number of 75.0 through 99.0, with 2 dig-
   its, the decimal point, and one digit. The default value is 95.0.
   6.18.2. PRELOG DAMPENING FCTOR. Enter a “Y” for Yes, and a “N” for No. The default value
   is Y.
   6.18.3. PRELOG ERROR LEVEL CUTOFF. Enter a valid number between 15 and 90, with 1 dig-
   its, the decimal point, and one digit. The default value is 3.1 for Confidence Level 95.0. The default
   value is 3.0 for Confidence Level 75.0 through 92.5. The default value is 3.2 for Confidence Level
   99.0.
   6.18.4. PRELOG MIN NUMBER PAST TOIMDR. Enter a valid number between 1 and 12. The
   default value is 3.

Figure 6.18. SDTA Standard Data Table by ALC.




6.19. Standard Data Table By ERRC. SIRS uses the default days in the SDTE table (Figure 6.19.)
when actual days or file maintained days are not available for the item. The few items with ERRC = “C”
have a separate column for their default days. All other items have ERRC “T”, “N” or “P”: The file main-
164                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


tenance screen allows function codes “C” and “V”. To change data, type a valid number of up to the num-
ber of digits listed for the field.
       Base processing days (3 digits).
       Depot processing days (3 digits).
       Base order and shipping time days (2 digits)
       base repair cycle days (3 digits).
       NJR stock level days (2 digits).
       JR stock level days (2 digits).
       RDE repair intransit days (3 digits).
       Repair intransit days (3 digits).
       Depot intransit days (3 digits).
       Shop flow days (4 digits).
       Supply to maintenance days (3 digits).
       Serviceable turn-in days (3 digits).
       Administrative lead-time days (4 digit).
       Production lead-time months (4 digits).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          165


Figure 6.19. SDTE Standard Data Table by ERRC.




6.20. Establishment of System Management Codes. The System Management Codes needed by SIRS,
have to first be file maintained in the BP-SMC table in API. This is done by the HQ AFMC API OPR. On
the File Maintenance Main Menu select Programs. On the Programs Menu, select SMC. Add, Delete and
View are the only functions allowed. To add another BP-SMC combination, type “B” on any line under
FUNC. API will display the screen with a blank line (Figure 6.20.). Type the BP and SMC and definition
and press ENTER. The update is done, and API will sort the BP-SMC table. To delete an existing
BP-SMC combination, type that combination on the top line and press ENTER. The screen containing
that BP-SMC combination will display. Type “D” under FUNC on that line for the BP-SMC to delete, and
press ENTER. Anytime the BP-SMC table in API is updated, the corresponding data in the SIRS
BP-SMC tables are also updated.
166                              AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 6.20. API BP-SMC Table.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 167


                                                Chapter 7

                                         QUALITY REVIEWS

7.1. General.
   7.1.1. These procedures apply to personnel responsible for developing, adjusting and reviewing SIRS
   requirements data. ALC management will ensure adherence to these procedures and take action as
   deemed necessary in response to quality review team’s reports and recommendations.
   7.1.2. ALC SIRS quality review teams will, as an on-going process:
      7.1.2.1. Review all items with over a million-dollar buy, repair or term before any budget submis-
      sion.
      7.1.2.2. Review a number of items twice a year to include buy, termination, excess, repair,
      deferred disposal codes, modification, and other items of interest such as items with estimated/
      median factors. Items may be selected from the Index of Action listings, CSIS or ABCS.
      7.1.2.3. Use the quality review checklist, shown in Table 7.1. through 7.11 for reviewing items
      and reporting errors.
      7.1.2.4. Involve the item management team (IMS, equipment specialist and production manage-
      ment specialist) in the review process. When necessary, personnel from other functions, e.g., engi-
      neering, contracting and manufacturing, etc., should be involved.
      7.1.2.5. Report review findings in writing to first line supervisors. Keep some kind of item review
      documentation for at least one year. Take corrective action as appropriate. Summarize review
      results and present to ALC management. Indicate error trends, recurring errors, type (data ele-
      ment) errors, or any other error category that can be used as a baseline for improving the effective-
      ness of the SIRS system. Refer deficiencies of the SIRS system and/or SIRS users manual to the
      HQ AFMC SIRS OPR.
   7.1.3. The item management specialists or material managers, equipment specialists, and production
   management specialists will make available to the SIRS quality review team, on an item basis, all data
   necessary for review, analysis and evaluation. The documentation should contain a detailed audit trail
   of all actions affecting an item’s position. Upon request, participate in reviews. Correct reported errors
   as soon as possible. Comply with this manual regarding retention and retirement of documentation.
168                                                              AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 7.1. IMS Quality Review Checklist – For Items With ERRC = C or T.
                    NSN                   IMS            Comp      Impacting    Non-Impacting
                                                         Cycle     Errors       Errors
Reason for Review                         ERRC           Item     $Value        Recomputation
Buy    Repair             Term   Other                   Category Impact        Required?

       Element            OK     Error    Nature of Error                       Comments/
                                                                                Recommended
                                                                                Corrective
                                                                                Action
1.     Budget Code                        A. Budget Code does not reflect
                                          correct Budget Program.
                                          B. Budget Code does not reflect
                                          applicable weapon system(s).
2.     Unit Price                         A. Latest price not used.
                                          B. Price is not documented by
                                          AFMC Form 318 or 339.
                                          C. Estimated price is not
                                          documented.
3.     DOLP                               A. AFMC Form 318 or 339 does not
                                          verify DOLP.
                                          B. DOLP does not match unit price
                                          contract award date.
                                          C. No documentation for not using
                                          latest AF contract award date.
4.     ALT                                A. ALT should come from AFMC
                                          Form 318 or 339 and equal time from
                                          initiation of latest PR to contract
                                          award plus 7 days.
                                          B. No documentation for using
                                          default or file maintained data.
                                          C. Should have used actual or
                                          default.
                                          D. Code 65 awaiting funds delay not
                                          deducted.
                                          E. In error.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                           169


5.    PLT                  A. Actual PLT should come from
                           AFMC Form 318 or 339 and equal
                           time from contract line item award to
                           10% delivery. RIID adds 15 days for
                           items that have not obtained 10%
                           delivery.
                           B. No documentation for using
                           default or file maintained data.
                           C. In error.
7.    OWRM EXCL            No Documentation for use of this
                           code.
8.    SFTY LVL             No Documentation for use of this
      EXCL IND             code.
                           *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
9.    Item Category        A. Item has too many demands to
      Code                 remain NSO.
                           B. NSO code not correctly used for
                           low demand item.
                           C. Life of Type “L” code incorrect.
                           D. Demand pattern indicates “I”
                           incorrect, should be changed via
                           cataloging action
10.   Activity Code        Not representative of item’s
                           demands.
11.   ICS/RIW              A. Not coded / correct in D200A.
                           B. Not coded / correct in ABCS.
12.   ICS/RIW              A. Not present with ICS/RIW
      EXPIR DATE           Indicator.
                           B. Not correct.
13.   Deferred             Documentation to support IMS
      Disposal Code/       assigned deferred disposal code of F,
      Level                G, M or R inadequate or missing.
14.   Order &              A. No explanation for file
      Shipping Time        maintained data.
      Days                 *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
170                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


15.   Overhaul Stock    A. Blank.
      Level JR/NJR      B. No documentation for using other
                        than defaults.
                        *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
16.   Base Repair       A. Using other than actual or default
      Cycle Days        without documentation. No
                        explanation for file maintained data.
                        *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
17.   Base Processing   A. No explanation for file
      days              maintained data.
                        *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
18.   Reparable         A.No explanation for file maintained
      Intransit days    data.
                        *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
19.   Supply to         A. Supply to Maintenance – other
      Maintenance       than default value without
      days              documentation.
      Shop Flow days    B. Shop Flow Days -
      Serviceable         (1)Weighted average incorrect due
                        to errors contained in the
      Turn-in Days
                        Report – MISTR Repair and Repair
                        Data.
                              (a) Actual shop flow days
                        incorrect on production number or
                        CLIN level.
                              (b) Production incorrect.
                           (2) Incorrectly used default when
                        actual data available.
                           (3) Did not use default when no
                        actual data was available.
                        C. Serviceable Turn-in - Other than
                        1 day used without documentation.
                        *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                             171


20.   Time phased          When changing from organic to
      Days                 contract or vice versa time phased
                           depot repair cycle times/date were
      DRC Effective
                           not used.
      Date
                           *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
21.   Unit Repair          A. Not correct for CSIS/Customer
      Cost/LRC             Pricing/MCR development.
                             (1) Weighted average incorrect due
                           to errors contained in the REPORT –
                           MISTR Repair and Repair Data.
                              (a) Actual unit repair cost in error
                           on production number or CLIN level.
                              (b) Production incorrect.
                             (2) Incorrectly used default when
                           actual data available.
                             (3) No justification for using other
                           than actual or default.
                           B. Does not match ABCS weighted
                           price due to file maintenance
                           difference between D200A and
                           ABCS.
22.   On order Assets      A. On Order quantities do not
                           concur with AF Forms 339.
                           B. PR Funded not correct
                           C. PR Unfunded not correct.
                           D. Inadequate documentation of on
                           order assets.
23.   Due-In Assets        A. In error IAW supporting
                           documentation.
                           B. Not documented properly.
172                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


24.   On Hand          A. No documentation for why
      Assets/Asset     reported assets were adjusted.
      Reconciliation   B. Inadequate documentation for
                       adjustments to starting position.
                       C. Incorrect adjustment to starting
                       position.
                       D. Inadequate documentation for
                       losses/gains.
                       E. Losses/gains incorrect.
                       F. Condemnations on Asset
                       Reconciliation Report do not match
                       Factor Printout.
                       H. Variance greater than allowed
                       without research or correction.
                       I. 3rd Consecutive Variance not
                       taken or taken without adequate
                       justification/research.
25.   OIM/DLM          A. Application data present, but
      Program          OIM program missing.
                       B. Application data present, but
                       DLM program missing.
26.   Special Levels   A. No documentation/justification
                       for IMS file maintained information.
                       B. Adjusted Level Verification
                       Worksheet for the special level is
                       missing and/or supporting
                       documents are missing. (i.e.
                       Adjusted Stock Level Master
                       Summary, AF Form 1996, Adjusted
                       Stock Level, ISSL)
27    War Reserve      A. No documentation/justification
      Material         for IMS file maintained information.
                       B. D087 Prime Item Print to support
                       WRSK-BLSS (RSP) requirement is
                       missing.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                           173


28    Additives            A. No documentation/justification
                           for IMS file maintained information.
                           B. Additive is missing, incorrect, or
                           not following policy..
                           C. Copy of annual validation or
                           supporting documentation missing.
                           D. FMS “H” additive in error.
                           Backorders not documented or
                           attached.
                           E. No documentation when RDE
                           requirements do not match RDE
                           Gens
                           F. I&S Additive requirement passed
                           from sub NSN
                             (1) Computation not provided for
                           review.
                             (2) Errors in the sub computation
                           result in additive error.
                           G. DOTM in error.
29    Number of            A. Number of users do not match
      Users/Time           ISA screen.
      phased Users         B. There is no documentation for
                           any variance.
                           C. Time Phased users are missing or
                           incorrect.
                           No Adjusted Level Verification
                           Worksheet for users greater than ISA
                           screen.
                           ****N/A to INS/NSO****
30.   Lot Size             Documentation inadequate or
                           missing for IMS/MM file
                           maintenance of this code
174                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


31.   Computation     A. “What If” Recomputation
      Other           required, but it is missing.
                      B. All corrections not made during
                      file maintenance.
                      C. Manual corrections incomplete/
                      incorrect.
                      D. Change to factors on
                      recomputation not made to OWRM
                      computation.
32.   Signatures &    A. Signatures are not IAW policy.
      Documentation   B. Previous signature is not still
                      valid. (Good one year if $ threshold
                      is not breached.)
                      C. For Terms – (1)Term code and a
                      narrative explanation are not
                      annotated on the computation. (2)
                      No Term Model.
                      D For Unfunded PR/MIPRS -
                      Justification for not reducing/
                      canceling or note indicating date of
                      amendment to reduce/cancel is not
                      on the computation.
                      E. For Excess - Retention/Disposal
                      quantity with appropriate coding is
                      not annotated on the computation.
                      Disposal document number is not on
                      computation and Asset
                      Reconciliation Report.
                      For Repair-AY and/or BY repair $
                      not annotated on computation.
33.   Standard Buy    A. Is not filled out completely.
      Format          B. Deferrals are not scrubbed and /or
                      not documented.
                      C. With adequate F/M, not in buy.
                      D. Mathematical error in buy.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              175


34.        ABCS                                  A. ABCS does not match D200.A
                                                 Summary or “What If”
                                                 Recomputation.
                                                 B. ABCS changed without
                                                 documentation.
                                                 C. ABCS FUP is in error.
Additional Comments




Reviewer                                         Date
      7.1.4. The ALCs are not required to use the checklist in this chapter or conduct reviews on items on
      Performanced Based Logistic contracts on which the contractor is doing all the demand and supply
      planning for the items.
176                                                              AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 7.2. IMS Quality Review Checklist – For Items With ERRC = N or P.
                    NSN                   IMS            Comp      Impacting    Non-Impacting
                                                         Cycle     Errors       Errors
Reason for Review                         ERRC           Item     $Value        Recomputation
Buy    Repair             Term   Other                   Category Impact        Required?

       Element            OK     Error    Nature of Error                       Comments/
                                                                                Recommended
                                                                                Corrective
                                                                                Action
1.     Budget Code                        A. Budget Code does not reflect
                                          correct Budget Program.
                                          B. Budget Code does not reflect
                                          applicable weapon system(s).
2.     Unit Price                         A. Latest price not used.
                                          B. Price is not documented by
                                          AFMC Form 318 or 339.
                                          C. Estimated price is not
                                          documented.
3.     DOLP                               A. AFMC Form 318 or 339 does not
                                          verify DOLP.
                                          B. DOLP does not match unit price
                                          contract award date.
                                          C. No documentation for not using
                                          latest AF contract award date.
4.     ALT                                A. ALT should come from AFMC
                                          Form 318 or 339 and equal time from
                                          initiation of latest PR to contract
                                          award plus 7 days.
                                          B. No documentation for using
                                          default or file maintained data.
                                          C. Should have used actual or
                                          default.
                                          D..Code 65 awaiting funds delay not
                                          deducted.
                                          E. In error.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                           177


5.    PLT                  A. Actual PLT should come from
                           AFMC Form 318 or 339 and equal
                           time from contract line item award to
                           10% delivery. RIID adds 15 days for
                           items that have not obtained 10%
                           delivery.
                           B. No documentation for using
                           default or file maintained data.
                           C. In error.
7.    OWRM EXCL            No Documentation for use of this
                           code.
8.    SFTY LVL             No Documentation for use of this
      EXCL IND             code.
                           *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
9.    Item Category        A. Item has too many demands to
      Code                 remain NSO.
                           B. NSO code not correctly used for
                           low demand item.
                           C. Life of Type “L” code incorrect.
                           D. Demand pattern indicates “I”
                           incorrect, should be changed via
                           cataloging action
10.   Activity Code        Not representative of item’s
                           demands.
11.   ICS/RIW              A. Not coded / correct in D200A.
                           B. Not coded / correct in ABCS.
12.   Deferred             Documentation to support IMS
      Disposal Code/       assigned deferred disposal code of F,
      Level                G, M or R inadequate or missing.
13.   Order &              A. No explanation for file
      Shipping Time        maintained data.
      Days                 *****N/A to INS/NSO*****

14.   Overhaul Stock       A. Blank.
      Level JR/NJR         B. No documentation for using other
                           than defaults.
                           *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
178                                           AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


15.   Base Repair       A. Only applicable to ERRC P
      Cycle Days        NSNs.
                        B. Using other than actual or default
                        without documentation. No
                        explanation for file maintained data.
                        *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
16.   On order Assets   A. On Order quantities do not
                        concur with AF Forms 339.
                        B. PR Funded not correct
                        C. PR Unfunded not correct.
                        D. Inadequate documentation of on
                        order assets.
17.   Due-In Assets     A. In error IAW supporting
                        documentation.
                        B. Not documented properly.
18.   On Hand           A. No documentation for why
      Assets/ Asset     reported assets were adjusted.
      Reconciliation

                        B. Reps not sent to disposal or no
                        documentation for retaining
                        unserviceable assets.
19.   OIM/DLM           A. Application data present, but
      Program           OIM program missing.
                        B. Application data present, but
                        DLM program missing.
20.   Special Levels    A. No documentation/justification
                        for IMS file maintained information.
                        B. Adjusted Level Verification
                        Worksheet for the special level is
                        missing and/or supporting
                        documents are missing. (i.e.
                        Adjusted Stock Level Master
                        Summary, AF Form 1996, ISSL)
21.   Prepositioned     A. No documentation/justification
      Rqmt (RSP         for IMS file maintained information.
      Kits)             B. D087 Prime Item Print to support
                        WRSK-BLSS (RSP) requirement is
                        missing.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                           179


22.   Additives            A. No documentation/justification
                           for IMS file maintained information.
                           B. Additive is missing, incorrect, or
                           not following policy.
                           C. Copy of annual validation or
                           supporting documentation missing.
                           D. FMS “H” additive in error.
                           Backorders not documented or
                           attached.
                           E. W001 not provided for backup
                           F. I&S Additive requirement passed
                           from sub NSN
                             (1) Computation not provided for
                           review.
                             (2) Errors in the sub computation
                           result in additive error.
                           G. Unauthorized backorders used.
                           H. Backorders not documented or
                           attached.
23.   Number of            A. Number of users do not match
      Users/Time           ISA screen, or ISA data not provided
      phased Users         to verify.
                           B. There is no documentation for
                           any variance.
                           C. Time Phased users are missing or
                           incorrect.
                           D. No Adjusted Level Verification
                           Worksheet for users greater than ISA
                           screen.
                           ****N/A to INS/NSO****
180                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


24.   Signatures &    A. Signatures are not IAW policy.
      Documentation   B. Previous signature is not still
                      valid. (Good one year if $ threshold
                      is not breached.)
                      C. For Terms – (1)Term code and a
                      narrative explanation are not
                      annotated on the computation. (2)
                      No Term Model.
                      D. For Unfunded PR/MIPRS -
                      Justification for not reducing/
                      canceling or note indicating date of
                      amendment to reduce/cancel is not
                      on the computation.

                      E. For Excess - Retention/Disposal
                      quantity with appropriate coding is
                      not annotated on the computation.
                      Disposal document number is not on
                      computation and Asset
                      Reconciliation Report.
25.   Standard Buy    A. Is not filled out completely.
      Format          B. Deferrals are not scrubbed and /or
                      not documented.
                      C. With adequate F/M, not in buy.
                      D. Mathematical error in buy.
26.   ABCS            A. ABCS does not match D200.A
                      Summary or “What If”
                      Recomputation.
                      B. ABCS changed without
                      documentation.
                      C. ABCS FUP is in error.
27.   Budget          A. Not IAW computed deficits.
      Documentation   B. Not documented IAW policy.
                      C. Changes not justified.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                       181


28.    Other               A. Computes an erroneous MISTR
                           requirement for consumable item.
                           B. What If Recomputation is
                           required, but is missing.
                           C. manual corrections incomplete/
                           incorrect.
                           D. Changes to factors on
                           recomputation not made to OWRM
                           computation.
Additional Comments




Reviewer                   Date
182                                                            AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 7.3. AF SICA NIMSC 5 Checklist
                    NSN                  IMS         Comp            Impacting   Non-Impacting
                                                     Cycle           Errors      Errors
Reason for Review                        ERRC        Item     $Value             Recomputation
Buy    Repair             Term   Other               Category Impact             Required?

       Element            OK     Error   Nature of Error                         Comments/
                                                                                 Recommended
                                                                                 Corrective
                                                                                 Action
1.     Budget Code                       A. Does not have budget code
                                         NIM5.
                                         B. Air Force SICA, but NIMSC not
                                         5. Item should not have NIM5 in the
                                         budget code.
2.     Unit Price                        D043 price not used and backup
                                         documentation missing.
3.     DOLP                              Julian date is not 00000.
4.     SFTY LVL                          No documentation for use of this
       EXCL IND                          code.
                                         *****N/A to INS/NSO*****
5.     Number of                         A. Number of users does not match
       Users/ Time                       on ISA screen and there is no
       Phased Users                      documentation for the variance.
                                         B. Time Phased Users are missing or
                                         incorrect.
                                         C. No Adjusted Level Verification
                                         Worksheet for users greater than ISA
                                         screen.
                                         ****N/A to INS/NSO****
6.     Item Category                     A. Item has too many demands to
       Code                              remain NSO.
                                         B. NSO code not used for low
                                         demand item.
7.     Activity Code                     A. Code does not meet usage/dollar
                                         criteria.
                                         B. Code does not ensure that item
                                         will be reviewed as a minimum in the
                                         September cycle.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                           183


8.    Deferred             Documentation to support IMS
      Disposal code/       assigned deferred disposal code of F,
      Level                G, M or R inadequate or missing.
9.    Order &              A. Actual exceeds default by more
      Shipping Time        than 10 days without documentation.
      Days                 B. No explanation for file
                           maintained data.
10.   Overhaul Stock       JR values are not zero or NJR
      Level JR/NJR         missing. (Air Force depot repair is
      Days                 NOT authorized for AF SICA
                           NIMSC 5 items.)
11    Base Repair          A. Actual exceeds default by more
      Cycle Days           than 10 days without documentation.
                           B. Using other than actual or default
                           without documentation. No
                           explanation for file maintained data.
                           C. Days are not zero for 100%
                           NRTS items
12    Assets               A. Asset Reconciliation NOT
                           required.
                           B. Disposition instructions needed
                           for assets in computation
13    OIM/DLM              A. Application data present, but
      Program              OIM program missing
                           B. Application data present, but
                           DLM program missing.
14.   Special Levels       A. No documentation/justification
                           for IMS file maintained information.
                           B. Adjusted Level Verification
                           Worksheet for the special levels is
                           missing and/or supporting
                           documents are missing.(i.e. Special
                           Level Master Summary, AF Form
                           1996, ISSL)
15.   War Reserve          A. No documentation/justification
      Material             for IMS file maintained information.
                           B. D087 product to support
                           computation WRSK-BLSS (RSP)
                           requirement is missing.
184                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


16.   Additive        A. No documentation/justification
      Requirements    for IMS file maintained information.
                      A. Additive is missing or incorrect.
                      B. Copy of annual validation
                      missing.
17.   Signatures &    A. Signatures are not IAW policy.
      Documentation   B. Previous signature is not still
                      valid. (Good one year if $ threshold
                      of next signature level not breached.)
                      C. For Terms – (1) Term code and a
                      narrative explanation are not
                      annotated on the computation.
                                       (2)No Term Model.
                      D. For Unfunded PR/MIPRS -
                      Justification for not reducing/
                      canceling or note indicating date of
                      amendment to reduce/cancel is not
                      on computation.
                      E. For Excess - Retention/Disposal
                      quantity with appropriate coding is
                      not annotated on computation.
                      (Should NOT dispose of items on
                      which AF is SICA without written
                      direction or concurrence from the
                      PICA.) Disposal document number
                      should be annotated on the
                      computation.
18.   Standard Buy    A. Is not filled out completely.
      Format          B. Deferrals are not scrubbed and/or
                      documented.
19.   ABCS            A. ABCS in error.
                      B. ABCS does not match
                      computation.
20.   Computation     A. A Re-computation is needed, but
                      there is not one.
                      B. A “What If” Re-computation was
                      used on Sep cycle after the summary
                      computation, but no documentation
                      that PICA notified to amend
                      Requirements Data Exchange List.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008          185


Additional Comments




Reviewer                   Date
186                                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 7.4. Factors & Usage Quality Review Checklist- For Items With ERRC = C or T.
NSN                       ES      COMP            Non-            Impacting Errors
                                  CYCLE           Impacting
                                                  Errors
Factor Indicator Code     ERRC RTS                ECS/RIW         Item Category
                               Exclusion
                                                                  Comments/
      Element        OK   Error   Nature of Error                 Recommended
                                                                  Corrective Action
1.    Item Program                Not compatible with usage.
      Select Code
2.    Item Program                Is less than 2 years back and
      Begin Date                  usage has reported in quarter
                                  prior to the begin date.
3.    Application
      Data                        (1) Application is missing
       A.                         (2) Erroneous applications
      Application                 present
       B. PGM                     Active program missing from
      SEL                         PSC.
       D. PGM                     Field is other than blank not
      DEV                         documented.
       E. Program                 (1) Application is time
      Begin Date                  phased and skips quarters
                                  where application data is
                                  changing.
                                  (2) Other
       F. QPA                     QPA records not compatible
                                  with rest of application data
       G.                         Application % is incorrect.
      Application
      %
4.    Usage                       (1) File maintained usage
                                  inaccurate or not adequately
       A. Base
                                  documented.
      RTS
                                  (2) File maintenance actions
                                  inconsistent from quarter to
                                  quarter.
                                  (3) Other
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                   187


    B. Base                (1) File maintained usage
   NRTS                    inaccurate or not adequately
                           documented.
                           (2) File maintenance actions
                           inconsistent from quarter to
                           quarter.
                           (3) Other.
     C. Base                (1) Condemnations(s) are
   Condemnation             sporadic and should have
   s                        been moved to Base NRTS,
                            MISTR Condemnations &
                            Total Depot Condemnations.
                            (2) Condemnation(s) are of
                            non-recurring nature and
                            should have been removed.
                            (3) Other.
    D. Depot                (1) No DLM program
   Reparable                identified in PSC
   Generations              (2) PDM replacements for
                            cause, should have been
                            moved to Base NRTS.
                            (3) File maintained usage
                            inaccurate or not adequately
                            documented.
                            (4) File maintenance actions
                            inconsistent from quarter to
                            quarter.
                            (5) Other.
   E. MISTR                 (1) File maintained usage
   Repair                   inaccurate or not adequately
                            documented at production
                            number or Contract Line Item
                            Level (CLIN) on Report.
                            (2) File maintenance actions
                            inconsistent from quarter to
                            quarter..
                            (3) Other.
188                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        F. MISTR     (1) File maintained usage
      Condemnation   inaccurate or not adequately
      s              documented.
                     (2) File maintenance actions
                     inconsistent from quarter to
                     quarter.
                     (3) Other.
       G. Depot      (1) Less than MISTR
      Condemnation   Condemnations.
      Total          (2) Item is NJR DLM only
                     and Total CNDM not equal to
                     MISTR CNDM.
                     (3) File maintained usage
                     inaccurate or not adequately
                     documented.
                     (4) File maintenance actions
                     inconsistent from quarter to
                     quarter.
                     5) Other .
5     OIM Factors    (1) Trend in demand rate is
                     more than normal, but was
      A. Total OIM
                     considered/used.
      Demand Rate
                     (2) Current rate not reflective
                     current usage
                     (3) Estimated rates are
                     considerably higher or lower
                     than computed rates, are not
                     based on any segment of
                     recent past history, and are
                     straight-lined rather than time
                     phased.
                     (4) File maintained usage
                     was not considered in
                     estimated rates.
                     (5) Estimates not adequately
                     documented
                     (6) Other.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                    189


     B. NRTS%              (1) Does not match time
                           frame used for Total OIM
                           Demand Rate.
                           (2) Equal to zero, change of
                           ERRC not considered/
                           documented.
                           (3) File maintained usage
                           was not considered in
                           estimated rates.
                           (4) Estimates not adequately
                           documented.
     C. Base               (1) Not reflective of actual
     Condemnation          usage as should have been file
     %                     maintained IAW AFMCMAN
                           23-1, Chapter 17, see item
                           4C.
                           (2) File maintained usage
                           was not considered in
                           estimated rates.
                           (3) Estimates not adequately
                           documented.
     D. Base RTS           (1) Used but not documented
     Exclusion             (2) Used erroneously in lieu
                           of research into erroneous
                           reporting.
6.   MISTR                 A. 100% condemnation with
     Condemnation          no forecasted lower rate on
     %                     recoverable item without
                           change of ERRC
                           documentation provided
                           B. Estimates not adequately
                           documented
                           C. Estimate considerably
                           higher than past history,
                           indicating possible Item
                           Replacement without IIRP.
                           D. Other
7.   DLM Factors
190                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      A. PDM         (a) Invalid split of JR and
                     NJR for a single source of
       (1) JR
                     repair.
      Condemnation
      %              (b) Trend in depot usage is
                     more than nominal, but was
       (2) NJR
                     not considered/used.
      Replacement
      %              (c) Estimated rates are
                     considerably higher or lower
       (3) NJR
                     than computed rates, are not
      Program %
                     based on any segment of
                     recent past history, and are
                     straight-lined rather than time
                     phased.
                     (d) File maintained usage
                     was not considered in
                     estimated rates.
                     (e) Estimated rates are not
                     adequately documented.
                     (f) Rate over 100% not
                     documented.
      B. EOH         (a) Invalid split of JR and
                     NJR
                     (b) Trend in depot usage is
       (1) JR
                     more than nominal, but was
      Condemnation
                     not considered/used.
      %
                     (c) Estimated rates are
       (2) NJR
                     considerably higher or lower
      Replacement
                     than computed rates, are not
      %
                     based on any segment of
       (3) NJR       recent past history, and are
      Program %      straight-lined rather than time
                     phased.
                     (d) File maintained usage
                     was not considered in
                     estimated rates.
                     (e) Estimated rates are not
                     adequately documented.
                     (f) Rate over 100% not
                     documented.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                     191


     C. NHA                (a) Invalid split of JR and
     MISTR                 NJR for single source of
                           repair.
      (1) JR
     Condemnation          (b) Trend in depot usage was
     %                     not considered.
      (2) NJR              (c) Estimated rates are
     Replacement           considerably higher or lower
     %                     than computed rates, are not
                           based on any segment of
      (3) NJR
                           recent past history, and are
     Program %
                           straight-lined rather than time
                           phased.
                           (d) File maintained usage
                           was not considered in
                           estimated rates.
                           (e) Estimated rates are not
                           adequately documented.
                           (f) Rate over 100% not
                           documented.
8.   Signature             Printout has not been signed
                           by the ES
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS




REVIEWER                              DATE
192                                                             AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 7.5. Factors & Usage Quality Review Checklist- For Items With ERRC = N or P.
NSN                                       IMS          Comp        Impacting Non-Impacting
                                                       Cycle       Errors    Errors
Reason for Review                         ERRC         Item     $Value             Recomputation
Buy     Repair            Term   Other                 Category Impact             Required?

        Element           OK     Error    Nature of Error                          Comments/
                                                                                   Recommended
                                                                                   Corrective
                                                                                   Action
1.      Item Program                      Not compatible with usage
        Select Code
2.      Application                       (1) Application is missing
        Data                              (2) Erroneous applications present
        A. Application
        B. PGM SEL                        (1) Active program missing from
                                          PSC.
                                          (2) Erroneous PSC used.
                                          (3) No OIM program when OIM
                                          usage reported
                                          (4) No DLM program requested, yet
                                          DLM usage reported
        C. PGM DEV                        Field is other than blank not
                                          documented.
        D. Program                         (1)Application is time phased and
        Begin Date                        skips quarters where application data
                                          is changing.
                                          (2) Program begin date is too old,
                                          NSN or subs not cataloged at that
                                          time
                                          (3)Is less than 2 years back and usage
                                          has reported in quarter prior to the
                                          begin date.
         E. QPA                           QPA records not compatible with
                                          rest of application data
         F. Application                   Application % is incorrect.
        %
         G.                               Inadequate documentation/
        Documentation                     justification.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                           193


3.    Usage                (1) RTS on ERRC N not removed
       A. Base RTS         (2) File maintenance actions
                           inconsistent from quarter to quarter.
       B. Base NRTS        NRTS left in consumable item usage
                           history. No NRTS for authorized for
                           ERRC ‘N’or ‘P.
       C. Base             File maintenance changes not
      Condemnations        adequately documented
       D. Depot            (1) Do not match JR Condemnations
      Reparable            (2) Erroneous NJR Replacements
      Generations          not removed
       E. Depot            (1) Not Equal to Dep Rep Gens
      Condemnation         (2) File maintained usage inaccurate
      (NOTE: by            or not adequately documented.
      NSN)                 (3) File maintenance actions
                           inconsistent from quarter to quarter.
       F. MISTR            Erroneous reporting not researched
      Repair               or corrected. No MISTR repairs
                           allowed for ERRC ‘N’ or ‘P’
       G. MISTR            Erroneous reporting not researched
      Condemnations        or corrected
       H. Depot            Not equal to Dep Rep Gens.
      Condemnation
      Total
       I. Factor           (1)Does the Factor Indicator Code
      Indicator Code       show the consideration of usage data
                           trends e.g., 4 Qtr vs 8 Qtr.
                           (2)Documentation is incorrect/
                           incomplete.
194                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


4.    OIM Factors     (1) Trend in demand rate is more
                      than normal, but was considered/
       A. Total OIM
                      used/documented.
      Demand Rate
                      (2) Current rate not reflective
                      current usage
                      (3) Estimated rates are considerably
                      higher or lower than computed rates,
                      are not based on any segment of
                      recent past history, and are
                      straight-lined rather than time
                      phased.
                      (4) File maintained usage was not
                      considered in estimated rates.
                      (5) Estimates not adequately
                      documented
      B. NRTS%        Other than 0, not corrected by ES
                      (correct usage or change ERRC)
      C. Base         (1) Not reflective of actual
      Condemnation    (2) File maintained usage was not
      %               considered in estimated rates.
                      (3) Estimates not adequately
                      documented.
                      (4) Other than 100%
                      condemnations for ERRC “N”
                      (5) Higher than 100% without
                      justification.
                      (6) File maintenance actions
                      inconsistent from quarter to quarter.
      D. Base RTS     Should not be used for ERRCS ‘N’
      Exclusion       & ‘P’
5.    MISTR           (1) Other than 100% (ERRC “N”
      Condemnation    (2) Other than 100% without
      %               justification (ERRC”P”)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                          195


6.    DLM Factors          (a) NJR Program or Replacement %
                           other than 0.
      A. PDM
                           (b) Trend in depot usage is more
       (1)JR
                           than nominal, but was not
      Condemnation
                           considered/used.
      %
                           I Estimated rates are considerably
       (2)NJR
                           higher or lower than computed rates,
      Replacement %
                           are not based on any segment of
       (3)NJR              recent past history, and are
      Program %            straight-lined rather than time
                           phased.
                           (d) File maintained usage was not
                           considered in estimated rates.
                           (e) Estimated rates are not
                           adequately documented.
                           (f) Rate over 100% not documented
                           (g)JR condemnation % other than
                           100 (ERRC “N”
                           (h)JR condemnation % less than 100
                           % for ERRC “P” without
                           justification.
                           (i)Inadequate documentation (N)
                           (j)Other
196                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      B. EOH          (a) NJR Program or Replacement %
                      other than 0.
       (1)JR
      Condemnation    (b) Trend in depot usage is more
      %               than nominal, but was not
                      considered/used.
       (2)NJR
      Replacement %   I Estimated rates are considerably
                      higher or lower than computed rates,
       (3)NJR
                      are not based on any segment of
      Program %
                      recent past history, and are
                      straight-lined rather than time
                      phased.
                      (d) File maintained usage was not
                      considered in estimated rates.
                      (e) Estimated rates are not
                      adequately documented.
                      (f) Rate over 100% not documented
                      (g)JR condemnation % other than
                      100 (ERRC “N”
                      (h)JR condemnation % less than 100
                      % for ERRC “P” without
                      justification.
                      (i)Inadequate documentation (N)
                      (j)Other
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                          197


      C. NHA MISTR         (a) NJR Program or Replacement %
                           other than 0.
       (1)JR
      Condemnation         (b) Trend in depot usage is more
      %                    than nominal, but was not
                           considered/used.
       (2)NJR
      Replacement %        (c) Estimated rates are considerably
                           higher or lower than computed rates,
       (3)NJR
                           are not based on any segment of
      Program %
                           recent past history, and are
                           straight-lined rather than time
                           phased.
                           (d) File maintained usage was not
                           considered in estimated rates.
                           (e) Estimated rates are not
                           adequately documented.
                           (f) Rate over 100% not documented
                           (g)JR condemnation % other than
                           100 (ERRC “N”
                           (h)JR condemnation % less than 100
                           % for ERRC “P” without
                           justification.
                           (i)Inadequate documentation (N)
                           (j)Other
      Factor Indicator     A. Does the FIC indicate the
      Code                 consideration of usage trends e.g. 4
                           qtr vs 8 qtr?(N)
                           B. Documentation is incorrect/
                           incomplete
7     Signature            Printout has not been signed by the
                           ES
198                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Additional Comments




Reviewer              Date
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                               199


Table 7.6. Repair Quality Checklist.
SGMNSN:                                     IMS ALC                                    HQ
AFMC
                                            Impacting
Impacting
                                            Nonimpacting
Nonimpacting
URC: _________________          PMS: __________________            ES: ____________
                 ALC HQ                                          Comment/Recommended
Element          OK OK Nature of Error                           Corrective Action
1. PMS Code                  If organic repair, no buyer PMS
                             code assigned
                             B. If contract repair, no seller/
                             buyer PMS code assigned.
                             C. If dual organic/contract, both
                             buyer/seller PMS not assigned
2. SOR/PCN                   PCN not assigned to current
                             SOR
                             B. SOR on B21 which is not
                             doing repair of item
                             C. PCN Assigned is incorrect
                             D. D200A,G019C/G072D
                             Contractor Visibility List do not
                             all agree
3. Repair Cost               A. URC incorrect (weighted
                             improperly or in error)
                             B. URC changed but no
                             documentation
                             C. URC is > 75% of FUP w/o
                             justification
                             D. Does not agree with ABCS
                             E. Does not agree with Factor
                             Printout
                             F. Does not agree with G019C/
                             G072D/G009
4. ABCS URC                  A. URC incorrect
SOR 1 ______%                B. URC changed but no
                             documentation
200                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


SOR 2 ______%       C. URC is 75% of FUP w/o
                    justification
SOR 3 ______%       D. If unweighted, does not
                    agree with D200A
SOR 4 ______%       E. If unweighted, does not agree
                    with FPO
                    F. Does not agree with G019C/
                    G072D/G009
5. Family           A. Changes not per
Stratified Repair   Re-Computation or other
Requirement -       supporting documentation
Input               B. Changes not documented on
                    MISTR lines of computation
                    C. Wrong/No Adjustment
                    Reason Code for change
                    D. Does not agree with ABCS
                    E. Error in calculating lump
                    sum adjustment
6. Family           A. Changes not per
Stratified Repair   Re-Computation or other
                    supporting documentation
Requirement -
Output              B. Changes not documented on
                    MISTR lines of computation
                    C. Errors on Computation/FPO
                    caused erroneous rqmt
                    D Changes not on a
                    "one-for-one" basis with input
                    E. Error in calculating lump
                    sum adjustment
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                               201


7. Family            A. Not updated with Contract/
Repair Update -      ICS update sheet or other
Input                documentation
                     B. Not accurately manually
                     updated
                     C. Form 804 not documented/
                     processed
                     D. Current negotiation changed,
                     not justified
                     E. Contract carryover in error/
                     missing
8. Family            A. Not updated with Contract/
Repair Update -      ICS update sheet or other
Output               documentation
                     B. Not accurately manually
                     updated
                     C. Current negotiation changed,
                     not justified
                     D. Form 206 repairs should be
                     used in updating
9. Budget            AY Budget not documented on
Documentation        computation
Signatures           AY Budget documentation
                     incorrect
                     C. Repair included in both
                     Column C & I
                     D. Not signed by IMS
202                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


10. Lump Sum      YBQ or YBG backorder
Adjustment       requisition # not documented on
                 B21.
                 B. H-Coded backorder
                 requisition # received after asset
                 cutoff not documented/error on
                 B21 computation.
                 C. Contingency vs. Buy RSP
                 requirement not documented or
                 in error on B21/computation.
                 D. Exceeds Total Available for
                 Repair.
                 E. Reason for Re-Computation
                 not documented.
                 F. OWO/DIOH adjustment
                 incorrect/not made.
                 G. Adjustment Reason Code
                 missing or in error
                 H. WISSA adjustment in error/
                 not made on B-21
11. PMS          A. Leveled requirement
Negotiation      B. Over-negotiated requirement
                 C. Under-negotiated
                 requirement without sufficient
                 justification
                 D. Insufficient documentation
                 of what was negotiated
                 E. Did not move unnegotiated
                 requirement to next quarter
12. Over/Under   A. Over-Induction used in
Induction        ABCS not authorized
                 B. Under-Induction used in
                 ABCS not authorized
                 C. Over/under induction should
                 have been in ABCS
13. Impact to    A. Over-budgeted
SMBA Budget      B. Under-budgeted
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                           203


14. Possible         A. Over-budgeted
Impact to            B. Under-budgeted
DMBA
                     C. G072E does not agree
15. Using LLRS       Not accurately displaying
or EXPRESS           EXPRESS requirement
16. Signatures       A. No IMS/Supervisor
                     signature/title on B-21
                     B. No PMS signature on B-21

ADDITIONAL COMMENTS:
204                                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 7.7. Termination Review Checklist.
SGM NSN                  NOUN                                            COMP DATE

Original Quantity        Original Dollars for Review                     Correct    Correct
For Review                                                               Quantity   Dollars
ES                       IMS           Repeat Termination                Yes        No
Item     Element         Correct Or    Reason For Error And              HQ         Comments
No.                      N/A           Remarks (Circle letter if
                                       error and/or write
                                       comments.)
1        Termination                   a. With accurate file
         Status                        maintenance, item would not
                                       have been in termination.
2        Termination                   a. Not worked in 10 days of
         Processing                    print of computation.
                                       b. Failure to work termination.
3        Signatures                    a. Not obtained in timely
                                       manner.
                                       b. Not signed by appropriate
                                       level.
4        Termination                   a. Not used when applicable.
         Model
                                       b. Used incorrectly
                                       c. Recommendations not
                                       followed.
                                       d. Not completed within 10
                                       days of print of computation.
                                       e. Termination costs input
                                       when there was no written
                                       documentation from PK.
5        Termination                   a. Term Code not assigned.
         Coding
                                       b. Code Incorrect
                                       c. Back-up documentation
                                       doesn’t substantiate term code.
                                       d. Management decision code
                                       shouldn’t have been used.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                           205


6.         AF Form 3056     a. Not initiated
           or PR
           Cancellation/
           Reduction
                            b. Not submitted to PK within
                            10 days of print of
                            computation.
                            c. Excessive delays from PK,
                            not followed –up by IMS.
7          Termination      a. Termination Logbook not
           Log Book (RIR)   maintained.
Comments
Reviewer                                                    Date
206                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 7.8. MPRP Review Checklist.
SGM NSN:          Comp Cycle    Non-impacting errors                   Impacting Errors
Noun              PMS PMS ES:                                          IMS/MM:
                  Buyer: Seller
D200A Weighted Values:
Repair Cost:                    Shop Flow:                             SVC Turn in
                  ALC     HQ                                           Comment/Recommended
Element           OK      OK    Nature of Error                        Corrective Action
1. SOR                          1. SOR percent not against record(s)
                                indicative of future
PERCENT
                                2. Iterative List not considered
                                3. Minor/Major repair not considered
                                4. Dual repair not considered
                                5. SOR % on “T” number with MISTR
                                and/or contract record
                                6. Inadequate or missing
                                documentation/Notepad
                                Documentation
                                7. Other (See Comments)
2. REPAIR COST                  1. Valid Price is not against record with
                                SOR %
                                2. Iterative List not considered
                                3. Price not indicative of future
                                4. Organic price not IAW upcoming FY
                                DMAG spreadsheet.
                                5. Dual repair not considered
                                6. Management fees (data etc.) not
                                considered for contract repair where
                                applicable and/or not spread across all
                                items.
                                7. Minor/Major repair not considered
                                8. Contract/DMISA does not
                                substantiate cost used.
                                9. Inadequate or missing
                                documentation.
                                10. Other (See Comments)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                             207


3. Repair                  1. Repair History contains invalid
                           repair data (inspection, packaging
History
                           condition check, FMS etc.)
                           2. Production does not match G019C/
                           G072D/I and or “T” job list and no
                           documentation
                           3. Contractor production reports do not
                           support repair history on MRPR.
                           4. Documentation not adequate or
                           missing
                           5. Other (See Comments)
4. Shop Flow               Valid SFD not against record with SOR
                           %
                           2. Not indicative of future
                           3. Not IAW latest G019C/G072D/I and
                           no documentation to support.
                           4. Contract/DMISA does not support
                           days used
                           5. Major/Minor not considered
                           5. Documentation not adequate or
                           missing
                           6. Other (See Comments)
5. SVC T-I                 1. Valid data not against record with
                           SOR %
                           NOTE: Organic use 1 day, Contract
                           use 1 day or negotiated CREP days in
                           Contract. DMISA use 15 days
6. SOR                     1. SOR not indicative of Future
                           2. Time phased data was not furnished
                           to the IM/MM
                           3. Documentation not adequate or
                           missing
                           4.Other(SeeComments)
208                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


7. Contract            1. G072D/I L30 Condemnations (by
Condemns               quarter)not annotated on MRPR
                       2. Condemnations do not match
                       contractor reports
                       3. Other(SeeComments)
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS:
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                              209


Table 7.9. HQ AFMC Review Summary.
NSN                                           Comp Cycle
IMS               ES          PMS             Buy          Repair     Term   Excess
IMS submitted buy       AY$                   BY$                     EY$
budget

AFMC validated buy      AY$                   BY$                     EY$
budget

Buy Budget Difference   AY$                   BY$                     EY$


IMS submitted repair    AY$                   BY$                     EY$
budget

AFMC validated repair   AY$                   BY$                     EY$
budget

Repair Budget           AY$                   BY$                     EY$
Difference

IMS submitted term      $                     IMS submitted           $
                                              excess

AFMC validated term     $                     AFMC validated          $
                                              excess

Difference term         $                     Difference excess       $


Comments/Recommendations




Name                          Office Symbol                    Date
210                                                               AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 7.10. ALC Review Team Summary.
NSN                                        Comp Cycle
IMS             ES         PMS             Buy       Repair       Term   Excess
IMS submitted buy    AY$                   BY$                    EY$
budget

ALC validated buy    AY$                   BY$                    EY$
budget

Buy Budget           AY$                   BY$                    EY$
Difference

IMS submitted repair AY$                   BY$                    EY$
budget

ALC validated repair AY$                   BY$                    EY$
budget

Repair Budget        AY$                   BY$                    EY$
Difference

IMS submitted term   $                     IMS submitted          $
                                           excess

ALC validated term   $                     ALC validated excess $


Difference term      $                     Difference excess      $


Comments/Recommendations




Name                       Office Symbol                   Date
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             211


REVIEW PACKAGE
                                DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
                                                  REVIEW
NSN__________________________                    IMS_________
Folders prepared for the Budget Requirement Review (BRR) review must contain all documentation nec-
essary to support the recommended action. As a minimum, the following documents must be included (if
applicable) in the review folder. Attach this cover sheet to each folder and indicate which documents are
included by marking the form with an “X”.
                                               Enclosed            Not Applicable
1. Summary D200A Computation                   ______              __________
2. What If Recomputation                       ______              __________
3. Consolidated Assets and Requirements
   (include Initial for consumable items)      ______              __________
4. All AFMC/ AFMC Form 318 or copies of all
   AFMC Form 339s and other documentation to
   support assets, ALT, PLT and unit prices ______                 __________
5. AFMC Form 339, for any due-in assets        ______              __________
6. Asset Reconciliations (2 years)             ______              __________
7. SRAN Assets and Usage Reports               ______              __________
8. D087H products for RSP, HPMSK               ______              __________
9. Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet       ______              __________
10. D035E Special Levels Master Summary ______                     __________
11. RDE backup                                 ______              __________
12. Copies of justification for all additives (such as):
    End of Quarter backorder listing            ______             __________
    CLSSA listing                              ______              __________
    FMS Retention listing                      ______              __________
13. G019C.-23 as of cutoff Sep and Dec         ______              __________
14. RAMP products that validate pipelines ______                   __________
15. B-21 (PMS copy with negotiated qty)        ______              __________
16. If contract repair, G072D L31 & L37
    print of all contracts and requirements    ______              __________
17. Backup for out-year unit repair cost
    changes in ABCS                            ______              __________
212                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


18. Summary MISTR Repair and Repair
    Data                                   ______   __________
19. Summary Factor Printout (include
    sub items if usage moved)              ______   __________
20. All documentation to support ES
    file maintenance and estimated rates   ______   __________
21. S01 for buys, excess, terms            ______   __________
22. INS/NSO Item Status Listing            ______   __________
23. Documentation for Deferred Disposal
    Codes (except C and P) and Levels      ______   __________
24. ABCS item interrogation buys, terms    ______   __________
25. Print of D043 summary screen           ______   __________
26. Print of BMD screen for INS/NSO items ______    __________
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               213


                                                Chapter 8

               BATCH VALIDATION REPORTS FOR THE HQ AFMC SIRS OPR

8.1. Introduction. This chapter explains the reports that are automatically generated for the HQ AFMC
SIRS OPR as a result of the quarterly batch validation process. Each file received from an interfacing sys-
tem is edited by SIRS, to produce a Batch Load Data Summary Statistics Report, and if the file contains
invalid data, a Batch Load Error Report. There are also reports for the ALC SIRS OPRs that can be
requested using the Output Products Input System Product Selection menu (see paragraph 5.4.).
   8.1.1. Figure 8.1. is the ISID Interface System Input Dates display screen that has the dates when
   each interfacing system file was received. From the RDB Main menu (Figure 2.1.) select FOE. From
   the FOE main menu (Figure 2.7.) select Display. From the Display main menu (Figure 2.8.) select
   SIRS. From the SIRS menu (Figure 2.9.) select Miscellaneous or DIS SIRS MISC ISID. There are 2
   files received from D087H, and one file received from M024B and W001. The other systems send a
   file from each ALC to SIRS. D035A may transmit a second file containing additional data that is
   listed on the ISID screen as D035A-2. There is no file from D034A to SIRS.

Figure 8.1. ISID Interface System Input Dates Display Screen.




   8.1.2. Once the file is received, SIRS performs the batch load validation process and generates a
   Batch Load Data Summary Statistics Report, and if the file contains invalid data, a Batch Load Error
214                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      Report. These reports should be reviewed by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. If the report indicates that the
      file is "okay", then that file can be loaded onto the database to be processed during the SIRS initial
      computation (see paragraph 8.1.3.). If the file is not okay, then the OPR should take appropriate
      action to obtain another file from that interfacing system. The most common problem is that a file
      from last quarter has been processed for the current quarter. The Batch Load Data Summary Statistics
      reports have the same basic format, so the descriptions are listed once, in paragraph 8.2. Examples of
      these reports are displayed in Figure 8.2. through Figure 8.11. If an input file contains invalid data,
      then SIRS will produce a second page titled Data Error report (Figure 8.12.) listing stock number
      records with invalid data, and what the errors are. If the percentage of errors from the input file
      exceeds the rejection limit, then only the Data Error report is generated.
      8.1.3. The ISID screen allows the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR to selectively load the data from each inter-
      facing system onto the database, once the OPR has reviewed the batch load validation report and
      determined that the file is good. Type an "X" in the JOB field next to the input system name and press
      ENTER. This initiates the load job of any ALC files for that system, that have valid dates, but will not
      load any file with dates of zeroes or any ALC file with a "D" in the corresponding IND field. If the
      dates for a particular file are zeroes, the file has not been received. SIRS puts an "I" in the IND field
      to indicate that the load job has been initiated. SIRS puts a "C" in the IND field when the load job has
      completed and the database has been loaded with that data. If the IND field contains an "I" for an
      unusual length of time, the surveillance programmer should be contacted. An "R" is typed in the IND
      field before SIRS will accept a retransmission of that file. Type an "X" in the JOB field and a "D" in
      the IND field to omit the load of that data. SIRS performs the batch load validation of all D002A,
      D035A and D035A-2 files at the same time. Therefore, there is only one block by D035A under JOB
      to load all that data at the same time. SIRS performs the batch load validation of all G004L, G019C
      and G072D files at the same time.

8.2. Basic Format Of Data Summary Statistics Reports. A one-page report is produced displaying
various counts for this quarter and for past quarters. Four past quarters of each input file are held as his-
tory on the database and compared to the corresponding data from the current quarter’s file for each
report. After the report is produced, the current quarter’s data is added to the history database and the old-
est quarter’s data is dropped.
      8.2.1. The top of this page displays totals for all the records on the file in these categories.
         8.2.1.1. Total Record Count, Current Quarter. Total number of records for this file. This number
         should be similar, but not the same, as the Total Record Count Last Quarter. If the numbers are the
         same, then this file is probably the file from last quarter, and therefore, should not be used as input
         to SIRS.
         8.2.1.2. Total Record Count, Last Quarter. Total number of records for this file from last quarter.
         8.2.1.3. NSN Counts, Current Quarter. The total number of unique items, by National Stock Num-
         ber (NSN), for the current quarter. Should match the Total Record Count, Current Quarter. (The
         exception is the D035C-C file, which can contain two records per NSN).
         8.2.1.4. NSN Counts, Last Quarter. The total number of unique items (NSN) for the previous
         (last) quarter. Should match the Total Record Count, Last Quarter. (The exception is the D035C-C
         file which can contain two records per NSN).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                215


     8.2.1.5. NSN Counts, Last 4 Quarters Average. The average number of unique items for the last 4
     quarters. This number should be similar, but not the same, as the NSN Counts Current Quarter.
     8.2.1.6. Non-Recoverable Records. Number of records with a NSN that is not a recoverable or
     consumable item (ERRC = C, T, N or P). This number should be zero. If this is a large number,
     then the interfacing system has passed the wrong data.
     8.2.1.7. Duplicate NSN Count. The number of duplicate NSNs is displayed. This number could be
     zero. If this is a large number, then there is a problem with this file.
     8.2.1.8. Total Records In Error. The number of error records is displayed. This number could be
     zero. If this is a large number, then there is a problem with this file.
     8.2.1.9. Total Records Processed. This is the number of records that passed all the edits and can be
     processed by the SIRS computation. If this number is quite a bit less than the Total Record Count,
     Current Quarter, then this file should not be input to the SIRS computation.
  8.2.2. Do NSN and Record Counts Indicate The Re-use Of Previous File: Should say No - OK.
  8.2.3. The next section displays a line for each type of data element that is a quantity that can be aver-
  aged. All counts and averages are based on the appropriate NSN counts, and exclude records with zero
  quantities.
     8.2.3.1. Displayed under NSN Counts are: the number of NSN records for the Current Quarter,
     and the average of the last four quarters’ number of NSNs. These numbers should be similar but
     not identical.
     8.2.3.2. Displayed under Average Value Per NSN are: the current quarter’s average quantity per
     NSN, and the average value of the last four previous quarters’ quantity per NSN.
     8.2.3.3. Displayed under Total Values are: the accumulated quantities for the current quarter’s
     records and the average of the last four quarters’ accumulated quantities.
216                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 8.2. D002A Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.3. D002A Report. Report ADD200.ABMAC8EH (Figure 8.2.) displays summary statistics for the
D002A input. There is a report for each ALC's data. The D002A file contains a number of data elements.
Thirteen of the quantity fields are averaged for this report. The Average Value Per NSN for the Current
Quarter should be the same or similar to the average for the Last 4 Quarters, with the exception of any
condemnations which should be different values. Because these quantities are usage and assets, the Total
Values Current Quarter can be quite different than the corresponding Total Value Last 4 Quarter Average.
(For details of this input data see paragraph 3.2.).

8.4. D035A Report. Report ADD200.ABCAC83L (Figure 8.3.) displays summary statistics for the
D035A input. There is a report for each ALC. Because this file contains 9 different types of records, the
Total Records Processed will be less than the Total Record Count Current Quarter. The D035A file con-
tains a number of data elements. Twenty-five of the quantity fields are averaged for this report. The Aver-
age Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter should be the same or similar to the average for the Last 4
Quarters, with the exception of condemnations and shipments to accounts, which can be quite different.
Because these quantities are usage and assets, the Total Values Current Quarter can be quite different than
the corresponding Total Value Last 4 Quarter Average. (For details of this input data see paragraph 3.3.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           217


Figure 8.3. D035A Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.5. D035B Report. Report ADD200.ABCAC83L (Figure 8.4.) displays summary statistics for the
D035B input. There is a report for each ALC. This file contains Recurring Foreign Military Sales (FMS)
Demands for each service, and the FMS H-Coded Backorders. There is likely to be a non-zero number
under Non-Recoverable Records, since this data comes from other services, and therefore can contain
stock numbers that are not recoverable or consumable items. Since the values are "Demands", the average
demands listed under "Average Value Per NSN", may or may not be identical or even similar. Also, the
Total Values Current Quarter can be quite different than the corresponding Total Value Last 4 Quarter
Average. (For details of this input data see paragraph 3.4.).
218                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 8.4. D035B Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.6. D035C Reports. D035C provides 2 files to SIRS. (For details of this input data see paragraph 3.5.).
      8.6.1. Report AD200.ABEAC85G (Figure 8.5.) displays summary statistics for the D035C-C input
      containing Reparable Intransit Days and Base Order & Shipping Time Days. There is a report for each
      ALC. This file can contain two records per NSN. Therefore the NSN Counts, Current Quarter can be
      quite a bit less than the Total Record Count, Current Quarter. Also the NSN Counts, Last Quarter can
      be quite a bit less than the Total Record Count, Last Quarter. Since these are pipeline days, the Aver-
      age Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter should be the same or similar to the average for the Last 4
      Quarters.
      8.6.2. Report AD200.ABDAC84G (Figure 8.6.) displays summary statistics for the D035C-A input
      containing Base Repair Cycle Days and Base Processing Days. There is a report for each ALC. Since
      there are pipeline days, the Average Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter should be the same or sim-
      ilar to the average for the Last 4 Quarters.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             219


Figure 8.5. D035C-C Data Summary Statistics Report.




Figure 8.6. D035C-A Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.7. RBL (D035E) Report. Report AD200.ABKAC8BG (Figure 8.7.) displays summary statistics for
the RBL (D035E) input. There is a report for each ALC's data. The RBL (D035E) file contains a number
of data elements. Only the quantities Stock Record Account Number (SRAN) Demand Level and SRAN
Base Level Authorized are averaged for this report. The Average Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter
should be the same or similar to the average for the Last 4 Quarters. (For details of this input data see
paragraph 3.6.).
220                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 8.7. D035E Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.8. D087H Report. Report AD200.ABMAD8CO displays summary statistics for the D087H input.
There is only one report, since D087H does not process data by ALC. The 38 quarters of additive require-
ments are averaged for this report. The Average Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter should be the
same or similar to the average for the Last 4 Quarters. (For details of this input data see paragraph 3.7.).

8.9. G004L Report. Report AD200.ABFAC86G (Figure 8.8.) displays summary statistics for the
G004L input for each ALC's data. The G004L file contains a number of data elements. Only the quantities
Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) Repair and MISTR Condemned, and the repair cost are
averaged for this report. It is possible to have data for Field Engine Exchangeable Management System
(FEEMS) items on this file, but it is more likely that all items are not FEEMS. For MISTR repaired, the
Average Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter should be the same or similar to the average for the Last
4 Quarters. For MISTR condemned, the Average Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter is likely to be
quite different than the average for the Last 4 Quarters. (For details of this input data see paragraph
3.10.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              221


Figure 8.8. D004L Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.10. G019C Report. Report AD200.ABHAC80L (Figure 8.9.) displays summary statistics for the
G019C input. There is a report for each ALC's data. The data is by source of repair for “OC”, “OO”,
“SA”, “SM” or “WR”. Data for SM should be zero. All counts and averages are based on the appropriate
NSN counts, and exclude records with zero quantities. Displayed under NSN Counts are the number of
NSN records for the Current Quarter, for the Last Quarter, and the average of the last four quarters’ num-
ber of NSNs. These numbers should be similar but not identical. There are four quantities that are aver-
aged for this report. They are On Work Order (OWO) balance quantity, Unit Repair Cost, Shop Flow
Days and Unit Repaired Manhours. Displayed under Average Value Per NSN are the current quarter’s
average quantity per record, and the average value of four previous quarters’ quantities. These numbers
should be the same or similar. (For details of this input data see paragraph 3.11.).
222                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 8.9. G019C Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.11. G072D Report. Report AD200.ABGAC87G (Figure 8.10.) displays summary statistics for the
G072D input for each ALC's data. The G072d file contains a number of data elements. Only the shop flow
days, MISTR Repair quantities and MISTR Condemned quantities, and the repair cost are averaged for
this report. For Shop Flow Days and for MISTR Repaired, the Average Value Per NSN for the Current
Quarter should be the same or similar to the average for the Last 4 Quarters. For MISTR condemned, the
Average Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter is likely to be quite different than the average for the Last
4 Quarters. (For details of this input data see paragraph 3.12.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               223


Figure 8.10. G072D Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.12. J018R Report. There is a Summary Statistics report for each ALC's J018R data. The quantities for
the Purchase Request (PR) and the 24 quarterly quantities of Due In Assets are averaged for this report.
The Average Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter should be the same or similar to the average for the
Last 4 Quarters. (For details of this input data see paragraph 3.13.).

8.13. M024B Report. This can be a weekly statistical report by ALC displaying averages for the
Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) received from other services. 20 quarters of RDE recurring require-
ments (RDE RECUR), 20 quarters of unserviceable returns (RDE RP RET) and 20 quarters of RDE
non-recurring requirements (FDE NON-RECUR) can be displayed. This data can vary a lot. (For details
of this input data see Chapter 27)

8.14. W001 Report. Report AD200.ABJAC8AO (See paragraph 3.14. and Figure 8.11.) displays sum-
mary statistics for the W001 input. Since this file contains Foreign Military sales Requirements by current
stock number, the total record counts could vary from quarter to quarter. There will probably be some
Non-Recoverable records. The Average Value Per NSN for the Current Quarter is likely to be different
than the average for the Last 4 Quarters. (See paragraph 3.15.).
224                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 8.11. W001 Data Summary Statistics Report.




8.15. Batch Data Error Report. When a Batch Load Data Error report (Figure 8.12.) is generated, the
Input Key, the Field Name, the Input Value and Reason the input key is invalid are displayed. For interfac-
ing systems that have provide files for each ALC, the data is displayed in sequence by ALC, by Division,
and by either IMS code or ES code.

Figure 8.12. Example of Batch Data Error Report.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             225


                                               Chapter 9

                                REQUIREMENTS COMPUTATION

9.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the basic methodology used to compute replenishment spares
requirements. This chapter also provides guidance on buys and excess. Repair and Termination policy are
addressed in Chapter 15 and Chapter 33 respectively. Types of items and time periods are described in
Chapter 1. For each item, SIRS computes factors by dividing the actual usage by the past programs. The
factors times the future programs determine the projected usage. Added to the projected usage are stock
levels, Readiness Spares Packages (RSP) requirements, and additive requirements to determine the gross
requirements. Then assets are subtracted in three increments from the gross requirements to determine the
net requirements for the item. Management products are prepared during each requirements computation
process for review by the Inventory Management Specialist (IMS), the Equipment Specialist (ES) and
higher levels of management. The requirements appear on these 3 different documents that can be viewed
online, and are usually printed after each SIRS computation.
The SGM Computation Worksheet Requirements (the SMCW screens)
The SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet (the SOCW screens, see Chapter 21)
The INS/NSO Item Status Listing (the INIS screen, see Chapter 31)

Figure 9.1. Display CW Comp Worksheet Selection Screen.
226                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


9.2. The SGM Computation Worksheet.
      9.2.1. The paper copy of the SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (Figure 9.21. and Figure 9.23.)
      will be used by the IMS as the signature, review, and approval document for computing items. (See
      paragraph 1.4.1.)
      9.2.2. This computation worksheet provides the computational results for computing items by SGM
      (Subgroup Master stock number. The SGM computation is printed automatically for the Initial, Final,
      and Summary computation runs. The printed copy displays all the same data as the online screens,
      plus 38 quarters of computation data and Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) lines plus
      data at the selected “pick-off” points, and information from the Notepads. On the display screens, the
      SGM Computation provides only computation data and MISTR lines for selected "pick-off" points.
      The SGM Computation can be viewed online with the command FOE DIS SIRS CW SMCW. The
      SMCW display screen has the following 15 pages.
         - Page 1 - Basic Data (Figure 9.2.)
         - Page 2 - Pipelines and Usage (Figure 9.3.)
         - Page 3 - Rates and Percents (Figure 9.4.)
         - Page 4 - Assets (Figure 9.5.)
         - Page 5 – Additives (Figure 9.6.)
         - Page 6 – Computational Lines (Figure 9.7.)
         - Page 7 - Total MISTR Requirements (Figure 9.15.)
       - Page 8 - MISTR Input and Output Requirement broken out by POS, W-B, OWRM
(Figure 9.16.)
         - Page 9 - Buy Operating Level Summary – Full (Figure 9.17.)
         - Page 10 - Buy Operating Level Summary – Limited
         - Page 11 - Summary and Levels (Figure 9.18.)
         - Page 12 - I & S Family Grouping
         - Page 13 - Application Data (Figure 9.19.)
         - Page 14 – Breakout of Buy Requirement (Figure 27.2.)
         - Page 15 – Coding of Actions and Approval Signatures (not used)
      9.2.3. The pick-off points are defined as follows.
         1st Quarter. The immediate quarter following the Asset Cutoff Date.
         PCLT. The future quarter that is Procurement Lead Time (PCLT) beyond the Asset Cutoff Date.
         CY PD. The future quarter that is PCLT beyond the end of the Current Year (CY).
         AY PD. The future quarter that is PCLT beyond the end of the Apportionment Year (AY).
         BY PD. The future quarter that is PCLT beyond the end of the Budget Year (BY).
         EY PD. The future quarter that is PCLT beyond the end of the Extended Year (EY).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               227


       RETN. The Retention segment of the computation.
   9.2.4. Each page displays the page number, ALC and division item management specialist code,
   product title “SGM COMPUTATION WORKSHEET Reqmts” and product control number,
   AD200.AI0108ZP. Also displayed on the right is the Current Date ( DD MMM YY, plus the time the
   report was printed), and the As of Date, DD MMM YY along with a two-digit cycle indicator. The
   first position of the cycle indicator will be either “I” for Initial computation, “F” for Final computa-
   tion, or “S” for Summary computation. The second position of the cycle indicator is a numeric to indi-
   cate the number of times that the computation has been re-ran. Each page displays the SGM (subgroup
   master stock number) the two-digit Air Logistics Center that manages the item (OC, OO, SA, or WR),
   the IMS (three-digit code of the Inventory Management Specialist responsible for management of the
   item) and the ES (three-digit code of the Equipment Specialist responsible for the applications and the
   rates and percents used in the computation).

9.3. Page 1 Basic Data. The data elements on page 1 (Figure 9.2.) are arranged here in the order they
appear on the display screen. The same data elements are displayed on page 1 of the printed product.
   9.3.1. Item Name. The name of the item comes from the Requirements Item Identification Data
   (RIID) D200E system, and can be file maintained using the Basic Management Data (BMD) screen
   (see paragraph 14.7.)
   9.3.2. Prgm Sel. The four-digit Item Program Select Code (IPSC) is an informational field only, that
   identifies an aggregate of all of the two-digit Application Program Select Codes (APSC) file main-
   tained by the ES through the Application Program Indenture (API) D200F system. (See paragraph
   18.27.).
   9.3.3. Budget Code. This code is used to categorize items for purposes of funding, budgeting, and
   safety level budget support objective assignment. It is made up of a 2-position budget program (BP)
   code plus a 4 position System Management code (SMC), plus a 4-position materiel program code. The
   BP code identifies which funding area should be assigned to the item. The SMC field identifies the
   major end item on which the NSN is installed and for which support is provided. The materiel pro-
   gram code represents the type of materiel being acquired. Can be file maintained in SIRS using the
   BMD screen (see paragraph 14.2.).
228                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.2. Display SMCW Page 1 Basic Data.




      9.3.4. Unit Prices. The Actual, Forecast, and Repair prices are displayed in dollars and cents. The
      value of the Source Reference Code (SRC) identifies the source of the price. "A" = price moved from
      D041 and has not been updated. "D"= the price originated from D043. "J" = the price has come from
      J018R via RIID. “C” = the forecast price or repair cost has been calculated by SIRS. "E" = the IMS
      has file maintained the price. (See paragraph 14.11.)
         9.3.4.1. Unit Price. The price from the latest procurement contract.
         9.3.4.2. FCST Price. The forecast unit price of the item is determined by multiplying the unit
         price times an inflation factor, based on the Date Of Last Procurement (DOLP). (See paragraph
         6.10. for the inflation table).
         9.3.4.3. Index Repair Cost. The repair cost is the average price that depot maintenance (organic or
         contractor) charges to fix an item. (See paragraph 15.9. for how the weighted repair cost is calcu-
         lated).
      9.3.5. DOLP. The Date Of Last Procurement is a Julian date YY DDD format (see paragraph
      14.12.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            229


  9.3.6. Recov I-S Ind. This is the Recoverable Interchangeability and Substitutability Indicator to
  reflect the I & S structure of the item. “B” - Bachelor Item, “S” - Sub Group Master, “M” - I & S Fam-
  ily Master. The I & S structure of the item is displayed on page 12 of the online SGM Computation
  Worksheet.
  9.3.7. MIEC. The 3-position item Mission Item Essentially Code (MIEC) for how essential the item
  is to the wartime mission of the weapon system. Must be file maintained in API (see paragraph
  18.28.).
  9.3.8. Act Code. The single position item activity code indicates the quarterly cycle that a review of
  the item is required and when products will be automatically printed. (See paragraph 14.5.)
  9.3.9. New Item. SIRS will put an "N" in this code upon receipt of a new item, and will change the
  code to blank two years after the oldest Program Begin Date shown for the item. The SRC of “C” is
  always displayed. This code cannot be file maintained. (See paragraph 14.14.9.)
  9.3.10. Item Cat. The item category code identifies the type of item being computed. See paragraph
  14.6. for how to file maintain this code. The item category codes are as follows:
     Blank - Active, computing item (L, if Weapon System Life Code greater than 0)
     I - Insurance item (Y, if Weapon System Life Code greater than 0)
     S - NSO item (Z, if Weapon System Life Code greater than 0)
  9.3.11. No Users. The Number of Users displayed here is the number of SRANs that show a demand
  level greater than zero. The computation uses the time-phased number of users displayed on page 6
  (see paragraph 9.8.86.).
  9.3.12. Procurement Lead-time Is Not Displayed. It is the sum of Administrative lead-time plus
  Production lead-time. A total of greater than 72 months may be shown but a maximum of 72 months
  is used in the computation. The buy point is calculated as the procurement lead-time beyond the end
  of the apportionment/operating year, except, for the March computations in which it is calculated
  beyond the end of the current year.
     9.3.12.1. ALT Days. The Administrative Lead Time (ALT) days come from RIID and can be file
     maintained. SIRS accepts 1 to 999 days. (See paragraph 22.2.).
     9.3.12.2. ALT MO. The ALT days converted into months.
     9.3.12.3. PLT Days. The Production Lead Time (PLT) comes from RIID and can be file main-
     tained. SIRS accepts 1 to 2980 days. (See paragraph 22.3.).
     9.3.12.4. PLT MO. The PLT Days are converted into months.
  9.3.13. ERRC. The Expendability, Recoverability, Repairability, Category (ERRC) code is a
  one-position code that represents the management technique and repair capability assigned to the
  NSN. The ERRC items computed by SIRS are "N" (XB3), "P" (XF3), "C" (XD1), and "T (XD2). The
  ERRC comes from RIID and cannot be file maintained in SIRS. When the unit price is less than unit
  repair cost, the item should be considered a “consumable” verses a “repairable” based on economic
  reasons of “throw away” verses “repair it”. If an item breaches the 75% threshold it is to be reviewed
  by the ES or Engineer for possible ERRC code change. For further information on cost to repair, see
  AFMC Manual 65-293 dated 29 June 1990, and for ERRC/SMR codes TO 00-25-195 dated 15 April
  2003.
230                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      9.3.14. U - I. The Unit of Issue is a 2 position alpha abbreviation that denotes the physical measure-
      ment or count of quantities of an item for acquisition, storage, and issue (each. dozen, gallon, pair,
      pound, etc.). The unit of issue comes from RIID. The code is for display only. It is not used in the
      SIRS computation. It cannot be file maintained in SIRS.
      9.3.15. ICS/RIW. This code indicates items that are being managed under Interim Contractor Sup-
      port (ICS) with a value of "C", or the Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW) program with a value
      of "W". The IMS file maintains this code. (See paragraph 14.4.).
      9.3.16. Expir Date. This is the expiration date of the ICS/RIW code in the format YY MM. When an
      ICS/RIW code is "C", there must be an entry in the expiration date. This date is optional with the RIW
      code of "W". (See paragraph 14.4.)
      9.3.17. Lot Size. The Lot Size Quantity is used whenever the repair organization will only accept a
      specified number of reparable items for repair in "a lot". The system defaults to a quantity of "1". Any
      number greater than 1 may be file maintained. (See paragraph 14.8.).
      9.3.18. Deferred Disposal Code. This code indicates the reason for deferring the disposal of an item.
      The deferred disposal codes and the OPR responsible for input are as follows. (See paragraph 14.3.).
         C - Common to a weapon system (HQ AFMC)
         P - Peculiar to a weapon system (HQ AFMC)
         M - Held for military contingency (IMS) (formerly Item Category Code ‘C’ for contingency in
D041)
      F - Weapon system being phased out of AF inventory and being offered to Foreign Military Sales
(FMS) or item is on the "FMS Retention Levels" product
         G - General requirement (one time) (IMS)
         R - IMS decision for all or part of assets to be retained (IMS) (formerly Item Category Code ‘R’ in
D041)
      9.3.19. Deferred Level. Deferred level is an asset level for the deferred disposal codes listed above.
      The deferred level is file maintained by the IMS. (See paragraph 14.3.2.).
      9.3.20. OWRM Excl. The OWRM Exclusion code is file maintained as "X" to suppress the compu-
      tation of Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM) requirements (formerly the Prestocked Requirement).
      Otherwise, this code is blank. (See paragraph 14.9.).
      9.3.21. Sfty Lvl Excl Ind. The Safety Level Exclusion Indicator provides the capability to suppress
      the computation of safety levels. When the indicator is an "X", SIRS does not compute either a fixed,
      Aircraft Availability Model (AAM), or Variable Safety Level (VSL) safety level for base and depot.
      The IMS file maintains this code on the BMD screen. (See paragraph 14.10.).
      9.3.22. Base RTS Excl Ind. The Base RTS Exclusion indicator provides the capability to suppress
      the use of reported and file maintained Base Repaired This Station (RTS) and Base Condemnations in
      the computation of Organizational Intermediate Maintenance (OIM) rates and percents. The ES file
      maintains this code on the Factors FACD screen. (See paragraph 17.25.).
      9.3.23. PICA and SICA Codes. These are the Primary Inventory Activity Code (PICA) and Second-
      ary Inventory Activity Code (SICA) received from RIID. They cannot be file maintained in SIRS.
      These codes indicate that the item is managed by another service or is managed by the Air Force but
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            231


   used by another service. (See Chapter 27). The 3 position PICA/SICA military routing identifiers,
   which may appear, are:
       OC-ALC - FHZ
       OO-ALC - FGZ FG5
       SA-ALC - FPD FPK FPH FPZ
       WR-ALC - FL6 FLZ
       Army - A12 A35 AKZ AP5
       FAA (carried under Army) - B14 B16 B17 B46 B56 B64
       Coast Guard - ZIC ZNC ZQB ZQC
       Marine - MPB
       National Weather Service - G13
       Navy - N21 N23 N24 N25 N32 N35 N39
       Navy - N44 N45 N47 N77 N79 N84 NCB
       Naval Facilities Engineering Command - R41.
(SIRS cannot display G13, G69 or Coast Guard routing identifiers.)
       9.3.23.1. PICA. The alphanumeric routing identifier code of the military service that is the Pri-
       mary Inventory Control Activity (PICA) for managing this subgroup master stock number and all
       its two-way interchangeable stock numbers.
       9.3.23.2. NIMSC. Following each PICA and SICA code is the Non-consumable Item Materiel
       Support Code (NIMSC) that identifies the support relationship between the PICA and SICA.
       Alpha NIMSC codes apply only to PICA records and identify the PICA source(s) for accomplish-
       ment of depot maintenance. Numeric NIMSC codes apply only to the SICA records and identify
       the wholesale logistics functions, which are to be performed by the PICA in support of the SICA.
       9.3.23.3. SICA Codes are:
              1 = Exception item; end item equipment; SICA retains repair responsibility.
            2= Exception item; depot reparable component or SICA managed consumable; PICA and
   SICA have different repair or management concepts; all procurement made through PICA.
              3 = End item of equipment; PICA provides repair for SICA by DMISA.
               4 = Depot reparable component (temporary code assignment); SICA manages own whole-
   sale stock; depot maintenance provided through DMISA; all procurement made through PICA.
              5 = Depot reparable component; PICA provides total support including wholesale supply,
   depot repair and procurement.
             6 = Requisitioning activity funded items; usually managed as a consumable by the SICA
   and SICA activities authorized by their parent service to submit requisitions directly to the PICA.
              7 = JCAP cognizance.
              8 = Depot reparable component; same as “4” but permanent code assignment.
232                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                 9 = Exception item/depot maintenance review not completed.
                 0 = DLSC file conversion code.
         9.3.23.4. PICA codes:
                 A = An activity within the Army providing depot maintenance support.
                 B = Multi-service organic repair.
                 D = DLA/DGSC provides depot maintenance support.
                 E = Excess overflow that is contracted by the PICA.
                 F = An activity within the Air Force is providing depot maintenance support.
                 G = A GSA activity is providing depot maintenance support.
                 J = JCAP cognizance.
                 M = An activity within the Marine Corps is providing depot maintenance support.
                 P = Total depot maintenance is being done by commercial contract.
                 S = Organic overflow to another service possessing organic capability.
                 T = A Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) activity is providing depot maintenance
      support.
                 U = Unassigned.
                 V = An activity within the Navy is providing depot maintenance support.
                 W = A National Weather Service Activity is providing depot maintenance support.
                 X = All other conditions.
         9.3.23.5. EFFECTIVE DATE. The effective year and day when the PICA/SICA had been
         assigned to the subgroup master stock number.
         9.3.23.6. ARMY SICA. The alphanumeric routing identifier code of the Army activity (SICA)
         when the Air Force is the PICA.
         9.3.23.7. AF SICA. The alphanumeric routing identifier code of the Air Force activity that is the
         SICA when another military service is the PICA. When an Air Force activity is a SICA, only this
         SICA will be shown since knowledge of other SICAs is not required for the IMS to manage the
         item.
         9.3.23.8. MARINE SICA. The alphanumeric routing identifier code of the Marine Corps activity
         that is the SICA when the Air Force is the PICA.
         9.3.23.9. NAVY SICA. The alphanumeric routing identifier code of the Navy activity that is the
         SICA when the Air Force is the PICA.
      9.3.24. FEEMS. The "X" indicator comes from G004L & identifies a Field Engine Management
      Systems (FEEMS) item. The code is for display only. It is not used in the SIRS computation. It cannot
      be file maintained in SIRS.
      9.3.25. PMIC. The Precious Metal Indicator Code comes from RIID and identifies the precious
      metal content of the item (AFMAN 23-110, Volume II, Part Two, Attachment 27M-3). The code is for
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               233


   display only. It is not used in the SIRS computation. It cannot be file maintained in SIRS. The types of
   precious metals are as follows.
       A - Item does not contain precious metal
       C - Item contains combination silver and/or gold and/or platinum
       G - Item contains Gold
       P - Platinum family metal (platinum, palladium, iridium, osmium, ruthenium).
       S - Item contains Silver
       U - Precious metal type is unknown
       V - Precious metal type varies between manufacturers
   9.3.26. AMC. The Acquisition Method Code (formerly the procurement method code) is a 2-position
   code that are received from RIID. RIID gets the AMC from D043. The code is for display only. It is
   not used in the SIRS computation. It cannot be file maintained in SIRS. This code identifies the extent
   of screening and internal management procedures for determining future procurement processing.

9.4. Page 2 Pipelines and Usage. The data elements on page 2 (Figure 9.3.) are arranged here in the
order they appear on the display screen. The same data elements are displayed on page 1 of the printed
product.
   9.4.1. Stock Level Days.
       9.4.1.1. O/ST Days. The base Order & Shipping Time days are the time that elapses between the
       initiation of a request for a serviceable item and its receipt by the requesting activity. O&ST days
       are used in the computation to determine the O&ST requirement. Received from D035C and can
       be file maintained. (See paragraph 23.4.).
       9.4.1.2. NJR Stock Level Days. The Non Job Routed (NJR) Stock Level Days are the authorized
       number of days worth of stock that has been approved to be in the inventory at the organic or con-
       tractor overhaul facility to support Depot Level Maintenance (DLM). File maintained in SIRS.
       (See paragraph 23.5.).
       9.4.1.3. JR Stock Level Days. The Job Routed (JR) Stock Level Days are the number of days
       worth of stock, which is approved to be on hand to support the overhaul facility to replace items,
       which are condemned during job, routed repair. (See paragraph 23.6.).
       9.4.1.4. Base R/C Days. Base Repair Cycle Days are the number of days from the time an unser-
       viceable item is removed from use until the time it is made serviceable in base maintenance and
       ready for issue, not including time awaiting parts. Received from D035C and can be file main-
       tained in SIRS (See paragraph 23.7.).
234                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.3. Display SMCW Page 2 Pipeline Days and Usage.




      9.4.2. Depot Repair Cycle Data.
         9.4.2.1. B-Proc. The Base Processing Days covers the time from when an item is removed from
         the weapon system or Next Higher Assembly (NHA), bench checked, processed through base sup-
         ply, and is ready for shipment. Received from D035C and can be file maintained in SIRS (See
         paragraph 23.9.). The NJR processing days displayed are the depot processing days (see para-
         graph 9.8.70.).
         9.4.2.2. Rep-Int. The Reparable Intransit Days covers the time from the shipment by base supply
         to the receipt of the item in supply at the Source of Repair (SOR). Received from D035C and can
         be file maintained in SIRS (See paragraph 23.10.). The NJR rep-int displayed are the depot rep-
         arable intransit day (see paragraph 9.8.70.).
         9.4.2.3. Sup-Ma. The Supply To Maintenance Days covers the time from maintenance’s request
         for an unserviceable asset for repair to the receipt of the unserviceable in maintenance. Can be file
         maintained in SIRS. See paragraph 23.11.). Displayed here are the weighted days computed by
         SIRS. (See paragraph 15.9.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            235


     9.4.2.4. S-Flow. The Shop Flow Days covers the period of time from the induction of an item for
     repair until the item is made serviceable. Can be file maintained in SIRS. (See paragraph 23.12.).
     Displayed here are the weighted days computed by SIRS. (See paragraph 15.9.).
     9.4.2.5. Turn-In. The Serviceable Turn-In Days covers the intransit time, that applies to the pro-
     cessing of serviceable items from the SOR to supply. Can be file maintained in SIRS. (See para-
     graph 23.13.). Displayed here are the weighted days computed by SIRS. (See paragraph 15.9.).
     9.4.2.6. Tot-Dep. The Total Depot Repair Cycle Days are the sum of the five depot repair cycle
     segments defined above, and are always computed by SIRS. These days represent the time from
     the removal of an unserviceable item from the weapon system or NHA on which it was installed,
     until the item is made serviceable through repair by an organic or contractor overhaul facility and
     returned to depot stock.
     9.4.2.7. Repair L-T. Repair Lead Time (RLT) is the amount of time required to restore an unser-
     viceable item to serviceable condition. This data element cannot be file maintained. SIRS com-
     putes repair lead-time by adding together the supply to maintenance days, shop flow days, and
     serviceable turn-in days. (See paragraph 23.14.)
  9.4.3. Time-Phased Depot Repair Cycle Data. The Effective Date is the year and quarter (03, 06,
  09, or 12) in the format of YYMM that SIRS will start to use the Time-Phased Depot Repair Cycle
  Days in the requirements computation. The 5 segments of the Depot Repair Cycle Days may be
  changed to different values in future quarters of the computation. (See paragraph 23.15.)
  9.4.4. Base Period Data. SIRS gets the base condemnations, base NRTS, and base RTS from D002A
  and D035A, and gets depot reparable generations from D035A. For recoverable items, SIRS gets
  MISTR Condemnations (formerly called depot overhaul condemnations - this item MISTR) and
  MISTR Repairs (formerly called depot repaired quantities - this item MISTR) from G004L for
  organic repair and from G072D for contractor repair. The base period, not to exceed 12 past quarters,
  is determined by the oldest Program Begin Date (PBD) from the item's data in API. (See paragraph
  16.1.2.). The latest 8 quarters of past usage data are used to compute the OIM and DLM rates and per-
  cents and are displayed on the SMCW screen and on the SGM Computation Worksheet. Predictive
  Logistics (PRELOG) and Exponential Smoothing rates and percents use all 12 quarters of data. The
  Base RTS are not displayed but can be determined by adding up the base condemnations plus the Base
  NRTS, and then subtracting the result from the base reparable generations.
     9.4.4.1. PROGRAM. The past installed program is an accumulated total of all the item's applica-
     tions past installed programs which have been selected based upon the operating/OIM (first posi-
     tion) field of the program select code, and on the PBDs, and calculated as the program times the
     Quantity Per Application (QPA) times the application percent. This data is calculated by API dur-
     ing the "API snapshot" and given to SIRS for each initial, final and summary computation.
     9.4.4.2. BASE REP GEN. These base reparable generations are for OIM types only and are the
     sum of the base condemnations, base NRTS, and base RTS as computed within the base period of
     the factors computation. (See paragraph 16.4.).
     9.4.4.3. BASE NRTS. The base not reparable this station (NRTS) are those OIM reparable gener-
     ations, which the bases were unable to repair and were shipped to the depot for further processing.
     (See paragraph 16.6.).
236                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         9.4.4.4. BASE CNDMN. A base condemnations is a base reparable generation that the OIM shop
         condemned and placed a demand on base supply to replace the condemnation. (See paragraph
         16.7.).
         9.4.4.5. MISTR CNDMN. The MISTR condemnations are the reparables that have been con-
         demned during the MISTR repair process of the item by the depot (organic or contractor). (See
         paragraph 16.10.).
         9.4.4.6. MISTR REPAIRED. The depot MISTR Repairs are the reparables that have been made
         serviceable during the MISTR repair (organic or contractor) process of this item. (See paragraph
         16.9.).
         9.4.4.7. DEPOT CNDMN TOT. Depot Condemnations Total are a total of condemnations from
         all depot level repair, including MISTR condemnations. SIRS gets MISTR condemnations and
         depot repaired quantities from G004L for organic repair and from G072D for contractor repair.
         (See paragraph 16.11.)
         9.4.4.8. The Factors Indicator is file maintained by the ES to select the method to compute rates
         & factors. (See paragraph 17.26.). The values for the Factors Indicator are defined in Table 17.1.

9.5. Page 3 Rates and Percentages. The data elements on page 3 (Figure 9.4.) are arranged here in the
order they appear on the display screen. The same data elements are displayed on page 1 of the printed
product.
      9.5.1. Factors. The 16 types of factors (rates and percents) that are displayed on the Requirements
      Computation Worksheet are in 6 columns for the current and 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th forecast years.
      The ES can file maintain estimated factors except for OIM depot demand rate, OIM base repair rate
      and base processed percent. The alpha position displayed, just to the right of each factor, identifies the
      SRC: "C" for computed from eight quarters usage, "F" for computed from four quarters usage, "P" for
      PRELOG, "X" for Exponential Smoothing, and "E" for estimated/file maintained. Current factors are
      applied to the starting quarter of the computation. Interpolated factors are applied to the intermediate
      quarters of the computation (those other than the first quarter of each fiscal year). Interpolation takes
      place only between two successive fiscal years when the factors are of different values (increasing or
      decreasing). The fifth fiscal forecast factors are applied to all the remaining quarters and retention
      period. (See paragraph 17.5.). The appropriate factors are used to compute the various projected
      quarterly requirements on a non-accumulated basis, and the results (other than pipeline times) are then
      accumulated. This is necessary to take advantage of the factors interpolation. To do this, each quarter's
      program is multiplied by the appropriate interpolated factor to obtain the requirement for that quarter.
      The quarterly results are accumulated, half-adjusted, and then de-accumulated for subsequent pro-
      cessing. The adjusted accumulated requirements are retained for output. The following is an example
      of how factors are used.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             237


Table 9.1. Example of How Factors Used.
All example uses these abbreviations: DAC (de-accumulated ); AC (accumulated)
inpol=(interpolated)
Quarters            1           2             3             4             5             6
Program (DAC)       4105.       4105.         4105.         4094.         4093.         4093.
Factor (inpol)      .0400       .0410         .0420         .0430         .0440         .0450
Rqmt (DAC)          164.2000    168.3050      172.4100      176.0420      180.0920      184.1850
Rqmt (AC)           164.2000    332.5050      504.9150      680.9570      861.0490      1045.2340
Half Adjusted 1     164.        333.          505.          681.          861.          1045.
Rqmt (DAC) 1        164.        169.          172.          176.          180.          184.


1 Retained for subsequent processing. Current quarter is not display in this example.

   9.5.2. TOT OIM DMND RATE. The Total Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance Demand
   Rate (TOIMDR) is used to project the number of failures that occur at base level that will put a
   demand on the supply system. The current and five forecast TOIMDRs are applied to the item's OIM
   future program to compute the OIM operating requirements. When the computed rate is shown, it
   indicates that the base reparable generations (from 12 to 24 months) and the associated past installed
   program had been used to compute the rate. (See paragraph 17.9.).
   9.5.3. OIM DEP DMND RATE. The OIM Depot Demand Rate is the rate per OIM program at
   which base supply places demands upon the depot to replace base NRTS and base condemnations. No
   SRC is displayed. SIRS computes this rate equal to ((base processed percent times base condemnation
   percent) divided by the base NRTS percent) times TOIMDR. The current percents and rates are used
   to compute the OIM base O&ST requirement (part of the OIM base stock level) and the fixed OIM
   depot stock level. (See paragraph 17.11.).
   9.5.4. OIM BASE RPR RATE. The OIM Base Repair Rate is the rate per OIM program at which
   base level repair is done to replace base RTS. The current and five forecast OIM base repair rates are
   used to compute the OIM base repair cycle requirement portion of the total OIM base stock level. No
   SRC is displayed. SIRS computes these rates equal to the TOIMDR minus the OIM depot demand
   rate. (See paragraph 17.12.)
   9.5.5. BASE NRTS %. The current and five forecast Base NRTS Percents are used to compute the
   base processed percents and the OIM depot demand rates. When the SRC is "C", SIRS has computed
   the Base NRTS Percent equal to the base period Base NRTS divided by the (base period Base RTS
   plus Base NRTS plus Base condemnations). The Base NRTS Percents represent that percent of the
   OIM operating requirements that are projected to be shipped as unserviceable materiel to the SOR
   (organic/contractor). (See paragraph 17.6.)
238                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.4. Display SMCW Page 3 Rates and Percentages.




      9.5.6. BASE PROCESSED %. The Base Processed Percent is the ratio of reparables that were
      repaired and/or condemned (base processed quantity) in relation to the total base reparable genera-
      tions. After the base processed quantity is computed, the difference between OIM operating require-
      ment and the base processed quantity becomes the OIM reparable generations (NRTS) or generations
      into the depot segment of the requirements computation. The Base Processed Percent is also used to
      calculate the OIM Depot Demand Rate. The Base Processed Percent is always computed by SIRS and
      no SRC is displayed. The Base Processed Percent is equal to 100 percent minus the Base NRTS Per-
      cent. (See paragraph 17.13.).
      9.5.7. BASE CNDMN %. The Base Condemnation Percent is used to compute the portion of repairs
      at base level that will be condemned, or the base condemnation quantity. When the SRC is "C", SIRS
      has computed the Base Condemnation Percent equal to the base period reported base condemnations
      divided by the sum of the base condemnations plus base RTS. (See paragraph 17.7.).
      9.5.8. MISTR CNDMN %. The MISTR condemnation percent is the ratio of reparable assets con-
      demned in relation to the total attempted repairs during depot level (organic and contractor) repair of
      the item. (It does not include condemnations of the item during the repair of the engine or aircraft).
      SIRS computes the current MISTR Condemnation Percent equal to the base period reported MISTR
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          239


   condemnations divided by the sum of the base period MISTR condemnations plus the MISTR repairs.
   (See paragraph 17.8.).
   9.5.9. PDM JR CNDMN %, EOH JR CNDMN %, NHA MISTR JR CNDMN%. Used to com-
   pute the quantity of condemnations that should occur for a lower assembly component during the per-
   formance of the JR DLM overhaul program of an aircraft, engine, or NHA. SIRS computes these
   percentages by dividing the past Job Routed Condemnations by the past JR item installed program.
   (See paragraph 17.17.).
   9.5.10. PDM NJR REPL % EOH NJR REPL %, NHA MISTR NJR REPL %. A r e t h e p a s t
   NJR replacements divided by the past NJR item installed DLM program. NJR Replacement Percents
   are multiplied times the future NJR DLM program to compute the future NJR requirements that
   should occur for a lower assembly component during the performance of the NJR DLM overhaul of
   an aircraft, engine or NHA. (See paragraph 17.16.).
   9.5.11. PDM NJR PRGM % , EOH NJR PRGM % , and NHA MISTR NJR PRGM %. Are the
   percentages to be used in dividing the overhaul programs of Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM),
   Engine Overhaul (EOH) and NHA MISTR NJR into a JR and NJR program. SIRS divides the appli-
   cable DLM past NJR item program by the applicable total DLM past item installed program to com-
   pute the applicable NJR program percent. SIRS multiplies the applicable PDM, engine overhaul or
   NHA MISTR future installed program, times the applicable NJR program percent to compute the
   future NJR program. Then, SIRS subtracts the applicable NJR program from the basic DLM program
   to get the future JR program. (See paragraph 17.15.).

Figure 9.5. Display SMCW Page 4 Assets.
240                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


9.6. Page 4 Assets. The data elements on page 4 (Figure 9.5.) are arranged here in the order they appear
on the display screen. The same data elements are displayed on page 1 of the printed product.
      9.6.1. SERVICEABLE ASSETS. The 6 types of on-hand worldwide serviceable assets are dis-
      played. (See paragraph 26.5.). Base/Depot, WRM Base, OWRM Depot, Intransit, Contractor, and
      On Loan are added together to get the Total Non Time Phased Serviceable assts that are used in the
      computation. (See paragraph 9.8.43.).
      9.6.2. TOC ASSETS. Displayed here is the total of all Technical Order Compliance (TOC) assets
      reported by D035A (see paragraph 26.5.15.) which were on hand at the depots, as of the asset cutoff
      date of the computation. (See paragraph 9.8.58. for how TOC assets are used in the computation).
      9.6.3. UNSERVICEABLE ASSETS. The 7 types of unserviceable assets are displayed. (See para-
      graph 26.5.). Base, Depot, Intransit, OWO, Contractor Scheduled, Contractor Unscheduled and
      OWRM Depot are added together to get the Total Non Time Phased Unserviceable assets that are used
      in the computation. (See paragraph 9.8.59.)
      9.6.4. DUE IN SERVICEABLE. These are the serviceable assets that are excess property, usually
      from another service, which have not been delivered. They are not new assets from a manufacturer.
      (See paragraph 26.8.1.). The Reclamation, Termination, FMS and Other, which includes Interservice
      Supply Support Program (ISSP) assets, are added together to get the Total Serviceable Due In assets
      used in the computation. (See paragraph 9.8.44.).
      9.6.5. DUE IN UNSERVICEABLES. These are the unserviceable assets that are excess property,
      usually from another service, which have not been delivered. They are not new assets from a manufac-
      turer. (See paragraph 26.8.1.). The Reclamation Unserviceable, Reclamation TOC, Termination
      Unserviceable, Termination TOC, FMS Unserviceable, FMS TOC, Other Unserviceable and Other
      TOC are added together to get the Total Unserviceable Due-In assets. The Other assets include
      Interservice Supply Support Program (ISSP) assets. Requirement Data Exchange Unserviceable
      Returns are not included in Due-In Unserviceable. (See paragraph 9.8.77.).
      9.6.6. ON ORDER ASSETS. These are the procurement on orders that are due in from a manufac-
      turer that are provided by the J018R system. This quantity of on orders is broken down by Peacetime
      Operating Stock (POS), W-B and OWRM. W-B was formerly called Prepositioned, and stands for
      War Readiness Spares Kits (WRSK) and Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares (BLSS). (See paragraph
      26.8.). (PR unfunded assets have a ‘R’ in position 19 of the record sent from J018R and are not
      accepted from J018R as of April 2001). Total On Order assets equals the PR Funded assets plus the
      On Order Contractor assets. (PR funded assets have ‘C’ in position 19 of the record sent from J018R).
      See paragraph 9.8.45. for how these assets are used in the computation.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           241


Figure 9.6. Display SMCW Page 5 Additives.




9.7. Page 5 Additives. The following additives are displayed on page 5 (Figure 9.6.). They are selected
at the buy period of the computation. They are displayed on page 1 of the SGM Computation worksheet.
(See paragraph 9.8.37. for how additives are used in the computation).
   9.7.1. DOTM. This is the Due Out To Maintenance requirement from D035A. DOTM can be file
   maintained. (See paragraph 25.5.1.).
   9.7.2. FMS. The Foreign Military Sales (FMS) requirements come from W001 and may be file main-
   tained. (See paragraph 25.4.17.).
   9.7.3. HMPSK. This is the High Priority Mission Support Kit (HMPSK) requirement from D087H.
   The HPMSK may be file maintained. (See paragraph 25.4.18.)
   9.7.4. OTHER ADDITIVES. Sum of all additive requirements not including DOTM, FMS and
   HMPSK.
   9.7.5. TOTAL AF ADDITIVES. Display on the computation as Additive Rqmt Non-Recur.
242                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.7. Display SMCW Page 6 Computational Lines.




9.8. Page 6 Computational Lines. An example of page 6 is Figure 9.7. Page 6 may need multiple
screens to display all computational data for an item. The page 6 screen(s) displays selected computa-
tional lines at the 7 “pick-off points” of 1st QTR, PCLT, CY PD, AY PD, BY PD, EY PD, and RETN PD.
The 1st Quarter displays the requirements for the first quarter of the computation. The PCLT displays the
requirements from the cut-off date through the Procurement Lead Time (PCLT). The Current Year (CY)
period (PD) displays requirements for 2 quarters on a March cycle, and displays one quarter on a June
cycle. The CY PD will by the Buy PD on the March computation. The AY PD displays the requirements
for the Apportionment Year (AY) plus the PCLT. The AY PD displays the Buy PD, except on a March
computation cycle. The Budget Year (BY) PD displays the requirements for the BY plus the PCLT and is
the Termination Point for all 4 quarterly cycles. The Extended Year PD displays the requirements for the
EY plus the PCLT. The Retention PD is the point used to provide the minimum and gross retention period
requirements.
      9.8.1. Each period (PD) prorates the quarterly requirements when the PCLT is not in even increments
      of three. Figure 9.13. shows those requirements segments that are prorated and how the segments are
      prorated. (The same formula prorates the term quantities from the termination quarter and the quarter
      prior to the termination quarter). The last column, RETN, (Retention period) covers the total com-
      puted requirements from the start of the computation through the total program span. These require-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                243


   ments cover a maximum time span of 12 1/2 years (maximum of 38 quarters) plus a retention program
   segment equal to 3-years.
   9.8.2. There can be one to several pages of the printed SGM Computation Worksheet displaying all
   the computational lines that have non-zero data. SIRS has a maximum total of 87 lines of require-
   ments computation data that can be computed on an item. The printed SGM Computation Worksheet
   displays the 38 quarters of computed data and the pick-off points. There are also 20 MISTR Repair
   requirement lines that provide the first 10 consecutive quarters of data from the asset cutoff date. The
   requirement lines include projected programs, computed spares requirements, additives, applied
   assets, and overage/shortage results. Both Full and Limited computed values for the Safety Levels that
   are computed using the Aircraft Availability Model (AAM) and Variable Safety Level (VSL) are
   included in the 87 lines of computation data. The Full and Limited computed results are dependent on
   the funds constraints that are input to the AAM and VSL computations. The following are the expla-
   nation for the * lines that can be included in the SIRS requirements computation.
   9.8.3. OIM PROGRAM. The OIM program line represents the total OIM future installed program
   that has been computed for that item by API.
   9.8.4. OIM OPERATING Rqmt. This line represent a projection of failures that will become demands
   on the base supply system to replace base NRTS, base RTS, and base condemnations with serviceable
   assets. The OIM operating requirements are computed for each quarter of the computation and
   through the retention period by multiplying the de-accumulated future OIM installed program by the
   interpolated total OIM demand rate. The results are carried to six decimal places, accumulated and
   rounded to an integer.

Table 9.2. Example: OIM OP Rqmt.
Line                         Quarter                1               2              3              4
1. OIM Prog (DAC)                                 4105            4105           4105           4094
2. Total OIM Demand Rate (inpol)                 .040000        .041000        .042000         .043000
3. OIM Operating Rqmt                          164.200000     168.305000     172.410000      176.042000
(Line 1 x Line 2)
4. OIM OP Rqmt (AC)                               164.2          332.5           504.9          680.9
5. OIM OP Rqmt                                     164            333            505             681

   9.8.5. OIM BASE O/ST Rqmt. The OIM base Order & Shipping Time (O&ST) line represents that
   quantity of materiel required to be on hand at the base to support the operating program during requi-
   sitioning and receipt of serviceable assets from depot to replace base NRTS and base condemnations
   that occur during the number of days in the O&ST. The OIM base O&ST requirements are computed
   for each quarter of the computation through 38 quarters as follows:
       9.8.5.1. Divide the number of O&ST days by 90 to arrive at an O&ST factor. The results are car-
       ried to six decimal places.
       9.8.5.2. Multiply the de-accumulated future OIM installed program by O&ST factor. Round the
       results to the nearest whole number.
244                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         9.8.5.3. Multiply the results by the interpolated OIM depot demand rate. The results are carried to
         six decimal places. The integer portion is the O&ST requirement. The decimal portion is retained
         as part of the OIM base repair cycle requirement.
         9.8.5.4. If the base repair cycle days are zero, the O&ST requirement will be rounded using the
         decimal positions.

Table 9.3. Example: Base OIM Base O/ST Rqmt.
Base O&ST Days = 12-O&ST Factor = 12/90 = .133333
Line                     Quarter                1                2                 3                 4
1. OIM Prog (DAC)                                   4105             4105              4105              4094
2. O&ST Factor                                  .133333          .133333            .133333          .133333
3. O&ST Program (lines 1 x 2)               547.331965       547.331965         547.331965       545.865302
4. O&ST Program (rnd)                                547              547               547               546
5. OIM Depot Demand Rate                        .020000          .020500            .021000          .021500
   (inpol)
6. O&ST Prog x OIM Depot                     10.940000        11.213500          11.487000         11.739000
   Demand Rate (Lines 4 x 5)
7. OIM BASE O/ST Rqmt                                10                11                 11               11
8. Decimal Moved to OIM Base                    .940000          .213500            .487000          .739000
   Repair Cycle Rqmt

      9.8.6. OIM BASE R-C Rqmt. The OIM base repair cycle requirement line represents the quantity of
      material required to be on hand at the base to support the operating program during the repair of unser-
      viceable assets at the base level. The OIM base repair cycle requirements are computed for each quar-
      ter of the computation through 38 quarters as follows:
         9.8.6.1. Divide the number of base repair cycle days by 90 to arrive at a repair cycle factor. The
         results are carried to six decimal places.
         9.8.6.2. Multiply the de-accumulated future OIM-installed program by the repair cycle factor.
         Round the results to the nearest whole number.
         9.8.6.3. Multiply the results by the interpolated OIM base repair rate. The results are carried to six
         decimals.
         9.8.6.4. The decimal portion of the O&ST requirement is added and the results rounded normally.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               245


Table 9.4. Example: OIM Base R/C Rqmt.
Base R/C Days =6 Repair Cycle Factor = 6/90 = .066667
Line       Quarter                                  1               2              3              4
1. OIM Prog (DAC)                                 4105            4105           4105           4094
2. Repair Cycle Factor                           .066667        .066667        .066667         .066667
3. Repair Cycle Program                        273.668035     273.668035     273.668035      272.934698
   (lines 1 x 2)
4. Repair Cycle Program (rnd)                      274            274             274            273
5. OIM Base Repair Rate (inpol)                  .020000        .020500        .021000         .021500
6. Repair Cycle Program X OIM                   5.480000       5.617000        5.754000       5.869500
   Base Repair (Lines 4 x 5)
7. Decimal from O&ST                             .940000        .213500        .487000         .739000
8. Total Base R/C Rqmt (not rnd)                6.420000       5.830500        6.241000       6.608500
   (Lines 6 + 7)
9. OIM BASE R-C Rqmt                                6               6              6              7

   9.8.7. BASE SFTY LVL-2 (FULL). This OIM base safety level line represents the quantity SIRS
   computes using either the Aircraft Availability Model (AAM) or Variable Safety Level (VSL) compu-
   tations. This is the base safety level result without any budget constraints being applied to the safety
   level computations. The marginal analysis concept is applied to the OIM base O&ST requirement, the
   OIM base repair cycle requirement, and that portion of the depot repair cycle requirement, which
   relates to the OIM NRTS quantities. This is done by using a probability distribution based on the
   expected demands for these segments to determine the stock level which will minimize expected back
   orders across a range of items subject to various economic or effectiveness constraints. The optimum
   stock level is then compared with the pipeline requirements and if the optimum is greater the differ-
   ence is incorporated as the safety level. This quantity is allocated between the base and depot to pro-
   vide the best support (that is, the lowest total backorder position). When a "Base Sfty Lvl-1" is
   displayed, a "fixed" OIM safety level is computed for items with ERRC = C only. The quantity is
   computed quarterly by taking the sum of the base O&ST and repair cycle requirement, divided by the
   number of users. Multiply the answer by 2.3 and carry to five decimal positions. Next, take the square
   root of the results extended to four decimal positions. Finally, multiply this answer by the number of
   users and round to the nearest whole number.
246                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.5. Example: Base Sfty Lvl-1 Number of Users = 5
Line                                Quarter             1             2              3              4
1. Base O&ST                                            10         12               13             15
2. Base Repair Cycle                                    4             6              5              5
3. (O&ST + BRC)/Number of users                   2.800000      3.600000       3.600000          4.000000
   (Line 1 + 2)/Users)
4. 2.3 x Line 3                                    6.44000      8.28000           8.28000        9.20000
5. Sq Root (Line 4)                                 2.5377       2.8775            2.8775         3.0332
6. Line 5 x Users                                  12.6885      14.3875           14.3875        15.1660
7. BASE SFTY LVL-1                                      13         14               14             15

      9.8.8. BASE SFTY LVL-2 (LTD). This is the Base Safety Level result with budget constraints being
      applied to the safety level computations for limited funding. When a "Base Sfty Lvl-1" is displayed, a
      "fixed" OIM safety level is computed for ERRC = "C" items only.
      9.8.9. SPECIAL LEVELS. This line displays any adjusted stock levels for the item. (See Chapter
      24).
      9.8.10. TOT BASE STK LVL (FULL). For each pick-off point, the Total Base Stock Level is the sum
      of the OIM base O&ST requirement plus the OIM base repair cycle requirement plus the OIM base
      safety level (either the Lvl-2, or Lvl-1) plus the Special levels.

Table 9.6. Example: Tot Base Stk Lvl (Full).
Line                                          Quarter             1           2             3           4
1. OIM Base O&ST Rqmt                                             10          11            11          11
2. OIM Base R/C Rqmt                                              6           6             6           7
3. Base Sfty Lvl                                                  24          28            26          32
4. Special Levels                                                 8           7             9           8
5. Tot Base Stk Lvl (FULL) (Lines 1 + 2 + 3 + 4)                  48          52            52          58

      9.8.11. TOT BASE STK LVL (LTD). The same as the TOT BASE STK LVL (FULL), except this is
      from the Limited computation to reflect any budget constraints applied to the AAM and VSL compu-
      tations.
      9.8.12. DEPOT SAFETY LVL (FULL). This line represents the depot safety level when no budget
      constraints have been applied to the AAM or VSL computations. The marginal analysis concept is
      also applied to the base condemnation, depot condemnation, JR condemnations, and that portion of
      the depot repair cycle requirement that relates to the NJR NRTS quantities. The safety level computed
      for those four segments becomes the depot safety level. The OIM segment consists of both base and
      depot safety levels. The OIM base and depot safety levels are determined by using marginal analysis,
      which finds the combinations of base, depot safety levels which provides maximum logistics support.
      The OIM depot safety level providing maximum logistic support is added to the depot safety level for
      the other four segments (base condemnations, depot condemnations, JR condemnations and that por-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             247


   tion of the depot repair cycle requirement that relates to the NJR NRTS quantities). No depot safety
   level quantity is computed for items with ERRC = "C".
   9.8.13. DEPOT SAFETY LVL (LTD). This is the Depot Safety Level when budget constraints are
   applied to the AAM and VSL computations for limited funding.
   9.8.14. PDM NJR Program. The PDM NJR program line represents the quarterly future installed
   PDM overhaul program that has been computed by API during the "API snapshot" and passed to
   SIRS. The quarterly PDM installed program for each application are totaled for the item, then multi-
   plied by the item's PDM NJR program percent to get the quarterly installed PDM NJR program.

Table 9.7. Example: PDM NJR Program.
Line                       Quarter                       1           2            3            4
  F015C aircraft
1. Qtrly PDM Prog (basic)(DAC)                          75          75            75           70
2. QPA (time-phased)                                     2           2            2            2
3. Results (line 1 x 2)                                 150         150          150          140
4. Appl % (time-phased)                                 .65         .65          .65           .65
5. Results (line 3 X 4)                                 98          98            98           91
    F015E aircraft
6. QTRLY PDM Prog (basic)(DAC)                          92          92            92           79
7. QPA (time-phased)                                     1           1            1            1
8. Results (line 6 x 7)                                 92          92            92           79
9. Appl % (time-phased)                                1.00        1.00          1.00         1.00
10. Results (line 8 X 9)                                92          92            92           79
11. PDM Prog (DAC) (line 5 + 10)                        190         190          190          170
12. PDM NJR Prog PCT                                    .53         .53          .53           .53
13. PDM NJR Prog (DAC) (Lines 11 x 12)                  100         100          100           90
14. PDM NJR Program                                     100         200          300          390

   9.8.15. PDM NJR Rqmt. This line represents the quantity of serviceable assets required to replace
   unserviceable assets removed and shipped to another repair facility during the depot overhaul of the
   aircraft or missile. The PDM NJR requirements are computed by taking each quarter and retention
   period's de-accumulated PDM NJR installed program and multiplying it by the item's interpolated
   PDM NJR replacement percent. The results are carried to six decimal places, then accumulated and
   rounded to an integer.
248                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.8. Example: PDM NJR Rqmt.
Line                                Quarter                1             2            3           4
1. PDM NJR Prog (DAC)                                    100            100          100          90
2. PDM NJR Replacement Percent (inpol)                 .050000         .060000      .070000     .080000
3. PDM NJR Rqmt (line 1 X 2)                           5.000000       6.000000     7.000000    7.200000
4. PDM NJR Rqmt (AC)                                   5.000000       11.000000    18.000000   25.200000
5. PDM NJR Rqmt                                            5             11           18          25

      9.8.16. EOH NJR Program. The engine NJR program line represents the quarterly future installed
      engine overhaul program that has been computed by API during the "API snapshot" and passed to
      SIRS. The quarterly engine overhaul installed program for each application are totaled for the item,
      then multiplied by the item's ENG NJR program percent to get the quarterly installed ENG NJR pro-
      gram.

Table 9.9. Example: EOH NJR Program.
Line                                Quarter                     1             2            3       4
  F100100 engine
1. Qtrly EOH Prog (basic) (DAC)                                50             50          50       27
2. QPA (time-phased)                                            4             4            4       5
3. Results (line 1 x 2)                                        200           200       200        135
4. Appl % (time-phased)                                        1.00       1.00         1.00       1.00
5. Results (line 3 X 4)                                        200           200       200        135
  F100200 engine
6. Qtrly EOH Prog (basic) (DAC)                                50             50          50       40
7. QPA (time-phased)                                            6             6            6       6
8. Results (line 6 x 7)                                        300           300       300        240
9. Appl % (time-phased)                                        1.00       1.00         1.00       1.00
10. Results (line 8 X 9)                                       300           300       300        240
11. EOH Prog (DAC) (Line 5 + 10)                               500           500       500        375
12. EOH NJR Prog %                                             .40           .40       .40        .40
13. EOH NJR Prog (DAC) (Lines 11 x 12)                         200           200       200        150
14. EOH NJR Program                                            200           400       600        750

      9.8.17. EOH NJR Rqmt. This line represents the quantity of serviceable assets required to replace
      unserviceable assets removed and shipped to another repair facility during the depot overhaul of the
      engine. The engine overhaul NJR requirements are computed by taking each quarter and retention
      period's de-accumulated EOH NJR installed program and multiplying it by the item's interpolated
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              249


   EOH NJR replacement percent. The results are carried to six decimal places, then accumulated and
   rounded to an integer.

Table 9.10. Example: EOH NJR Rqmt
Line                        Quarter             1               2              3              4
1. EOH NJR Prog (DAC)                          200             200            200            150
2. EOH NJR Replacement Percent               .300000         .290000        .280000        .270000
   (inpol)
3. EOH NJR Rqmt (Lines 1 x 2)               60.000000       58.000000      56.000000      40.500000
4. EOH NJR Rqmt (AC)                        60.000000       118.000000     174.000000     214.500000
5. EOH NJR Rqmt                                 60             118            174            215

   9.8.18. NHA MISTR NJR Program. The NHA MISTR NJR program line represents the quarterly
   future installed MISTR overhaul program for NHAs. The quarterly MISTR installed program for each
   application are totaled for the item, then multiplied by the item's MISTR NJR program percent to get
   the quarterly installed MISTR NJR program.

Table 9.11. Example: NHA MISTR NJR Program.
Line                              Quarter             1              2              3             4
1. Qtrly MISTR Prog (basic)(DAC)                     111            111            111        106
2. QPA (time-phased)                                  2              2              2             2
3. Results (line 1 x 2)                              222            222            222        212
4. Appl % (time-phased)                              1.00           1.00           1.00       1.00
5. NHA MISTR Prog (lines 3 X 4)                      222            222            222        212
6. NHA MISTR NJR Program %                           .49             .49           .49         49
7. NHA MISTR NJR Program (DAC) (lines 5              109            109            109        104
X 6)
8. NHA MISTR NJR Program                             109            218            327        431

   9.8.19. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt. This line represents the quantity of serviceable assets required to
   replace unserviceable assets removed and shipped to another repair facility during the depot overhaul
   repair of the NHA or end item. The NHA MISTR NJR requirements are computed by taking each
   quarter and retention period's de-accumulated NHA MISTR NJR installed program and multiplying it
   by the interpolated NHA MISTR NJR replacement percent. The results are carried to six decimal
   places, accumulated and rounded to an integer.
250                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.12. Example: NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt.
Line                             Quarter               1               2                3              4
1. NHA MISTR NJR Prog (DAC)                          109              109              109           104
2. NHA MISTR NJR Replacement Percent               .080000          .078500          .077000.       .075500
(inpol)
3. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt (Lines 1 x 2)                8.720000        8.556500          8.393000      7.852000
4. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt (AC)                         8.720000       17.276500         25.669500      33.521500
5. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt                                  9              17               26             34

      9.8.20. PDM JR Program. The PDM JR program line represents the quarterly future installed PDM
      overhaul program that has been computed by API during the "API snapshot" and passed to SIRS. This
      line is the compliment of the PDM NJR program when the PDM NJR program is less than 100 percent
      but greater than zero. When the PDM NJR program percent is zero, the total PDM program becomes
      the PDM JR program. When the PDM NJR program percent is 100, then the PDM JR program is zero.

Table 9.13. Example: PDM JR Program.
Line                            Quarter                       1               2               3            4
1. PDM Prog (DAC)                                             190             190            190       170
2. PDM Non JR Prog (DAC)                                      100             100            100        90
3. PDM JR Prog (DAC) (Line 1 - 2)                             90              90             90         80
4. PDM JR Program                                             90              180            270       350

      9.8.21. PDM JR Rqmt (CNDMN). This line represents the quantity of items projected to be con-
      demned during JR repair at the depot level repair facility. The PDM JR requirements are computed by
      taking each quarter and retention period's de-accumulated PDM JR installed program and multiplying
      it by the item's interpolated PDM JR condemnation percent. The results are carried to six decimal
      places, then accumulated and rounded to an integer.

Table 9.14. Example: PDM JR Rqmt (CNDMN).
Line                               Quarter             1              2                3              4
1. PDM JR Prog (DAC)                                  90              90               90             80
2. PDM JR Replacement PCT (inpol)                   040000          .042000          044000         .046000
3. PDM JR Rqmt (lines 1 x 2)                       3.600000        3.780000         3.960000       3.680000
4. PDM JR Rqmt (AC)                                3.600000        7.380000         11.340000      15.020000
5. PDM JR Rqmt (CNDMN)                                 4              7                11             15

      9.8.22. EOH JR Program. The engine overhaul JR program line represents the quarterly future
      installed engine overhaul program that has been computed by API during the "API snapshot" and
      passed to SIRS. This line is the complement of the engine overhaul NJR program when the engine
      overhaul NJR program is less than 100 percent but greater than zero. When the engine overhaul NJR
      program percent is zero, then the total engine overhaul program becomes the engine overhaul JR pro-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                    251


   gram. When the engine overhaul NJR program percent is 100, then the engine overhaul JR program is
   zero.

Table 9.15. Example: EOH JR Program.
Line                      Quarter                       1              2                 3           4
1. EOH Program (DAC)                                 500            500              500            500
2. EOH NJR Program (DAC)                             200            200              200            150
3. EOH JR Program (DAC) (Line 1 - 2)                 300            300              300            225
4. EOH JR Program                                    300            600              900            1125

   9.8.23. EOH JR Rqmt (CNDMN). This line represents the quantity of items projected to be con-
   demned during JR repair of engine overhauls at the depot level repair facility. The EOH JR require-
   ments are computed by taking each quarter and retention period's de-accumulated engine overhaul JR
   installed program and multiplying it by the item's interpolated engine overhaul JR condemnation per-
   cent. The results are carried to 6 decimal places, accumulated and rounded to an integer.

Table 9.16. Example: EOH JR Rqmt (CNDMN).
Line                             Quarter            1              2                3               4
1. EOH JR Prog (DAC                                300            300              300             225
2. EOH JR Condemnation Pct (inpol)               .020000        .025000           .030000         .035000
3. EOH JR Rqmt (CNDMN) (Lines 1 X 2)             6.000000       7.500000         9.000000        7.787500
4. EOH JR Rqmt (AC)                              6.000000    13.500000           22.500000       30.287500
5. EOH JR Rqmt (CNDMN)                              6             14                23              30

   9.8.24. NHA MISTR JR Program. The NHA MISTR JR program line represents the quarterly future
   installed NHA MISTR overhaul program for NHAs that has been developed for use in the computa-
   tion. This line is the complement of the NHA MISTR NJR program when the NHA MISTR NJR pro-
   gram is less than 100 percent but greater than zero. When the NHA MISTR NJR program is zero, the
   total MISTR program becomes the MISTR JR program. If the MISTR NJR program percent = 100,
   the MISTR JR program is zero.

Table 9.17. Example: NHA MISTR JR Program
Line                                   Quarter              1              2                 3          4
1. NHA MISTR Program (DAC)                                  222            222           222         212
2. NHA MISTR NJR Program (DAC)                              109            109           109         104
3. NHA MISTR JR Program (DAC) (Line 1 - 2)                  113            113           113         108
4. NHA MISTR JR Program                                     113            226           339         447

   9.8.25. NHA MISTR JR Rqmt (CNDMN). This line represents the quantity of items projected to be
   condemned during JR repair of NHAs at the depot level repair facility. The NHA MISTR JR require-
   ments are computed by taking each quarter and retention period's de-accumulated NHA MISTR JR
252                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      installed program and multiplying it by the interpolated MISTR JR condemnation percent. The results
      are carried to six decimal places, then accumulated, and rounded to an integer.

Table 9.18. Example: NHA MISTR JR Rqmt (CNDMN).
Line                              Quarter                   1              2             3           4
1. NHA MISTR JR Prog (DAC)                                  113            113          113         108
2. MISTR JR Replacement Percent (inpol)                 .040000       .040500          .041000     .041500
3. NHA MISTR JR Rqmt (Lines 1 x 2)                     4.520000       4.576500        4.633000    4.482000
4. NHA MISTR JR Rqmt (AC)                              4.520000       9.096500        13.729500   18.211500
5. NHA MISTR JR Rqmt                                        5              9             14          18

      9.8.26. TOTAL JR CNDMN. The Total Job Routed Condemnations are the quantity of items pro-
      jected to be condemned during JR repair of NHAs at the depot level repair facility. The total JR con-
      demnations are computed as the sum of the NHA MISTR JR Rqmt (CNDMN), PDM JR Rqmt
      (CNDMN), and EOH JR Rqmt (CNDMN) for each quarter and the retention period.

Table 9.19. Example: TOTAL JR CNDMN.
Line                                 Quarter            1         2    3         4
1. NHA MISTR JR Rqmt (CNDMN)                            5         9   14         18
2. PDM JR Rqmt (CNDMN)                                  4       17    11         15
3. EOH JR Rqmt (CNDMN)                                  6       14    12         30
4. TOTAL JR CNDMN                                      15       30    48         63

      9.8.27. NJR STK LVL. The Non Job Routed Stock Level is the quantity of material required to be on
      hand at the depot level overhaul facility, performing NJR repairs to provide continued support in case
      of fluctuations in demands. The NJR stock level requirements are computed for each quarter of the
      computation through 38 quarters by dividing the number of NJR stock level days by 90 to get a NJR
      factor. The results are carried to four decimal places. Determine the total quarterly de-accumulated
      NJR requirement by adding the de-accumulated NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt, PDM NJR Rqmt, and EOH
      NJR Rqmt. Multiply the total quarterly de-accumulated NJR requirement by the NJR factor, and
      round the answer to the nearest whole integer.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 253


Table 9.20. Example: NJR STK LVL-NJR Stock Level Days = 14; NJR Factor = 14/90 = .1556.
Line                              Quarter               1                 2             3           4
1. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt                                   9                17             26         34
2. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt (DAC)                             9                 8             9           8
3. PDM NJR Rqmt                                         5                11             18         25
4. PDM NJR Rqmt (DAC)                                   5                 6             7           7
5. EOH NJR Rqmt                                         60            118            174           215
6. EOH NJR Rqmt (DAC)                                   60               58             56         41
7. Total NJR Rqmt (DAC) (Lines 2 + 4 + 6)               74               72             72         56
8. NJR Factor                                         .1556          .1556          .1556         .1556
9. NJR Stk Lvl (Line 7 x 8)                          11.5144        11.2032        11.2032       8.7136
10. NJR STK LVL                                         12               11             11          9

   9.8.28. JR STK LVL. The Job Routed Stock Level is the quantity of material required to be on hand
   at the depot level overhaul facility, performing JR repairs to provide continued support in case of fluc-
   tuations in demands. The JR stock level requirements are computed for each quarter of the computa-
   tion through 38 quarters by dividing the number of JR stock level days by 90 to get a JR factor. The
   results are carried to four decimal places. Determine the total quarterly de-accumulated JR require-
   ment by adding the de-accumulated NHA MISTR JR Rqmt, PDM JR Rqmt, and EOH JR Rqmt. Mul-
   tiply the total quarterly de-accumulated JR requirement by the JR factor and round the answer to the
   nearest whole integer.

Table 9.21. Example: JR STK LVL-JR Stock Level Days = 14; JR Factor = 14/90 = .1556
Line                             Quarter                1            2              3              4
1. NHA MISTR JR Rqmt                                    5            9             14              18
2. NHA MISTR JR Rqmt (DAC)                              5            4              5              4
3. PDM JR Rqmt                                          4            7             11              15
4. PDM JR Rqmt (DAC)                                    4            3              4              4
5. EOH JR Rqmt                                          6            14            23              30
6. EOH JR Rqmt (DAC)                                    6            8              9              7
7. Total JR Rqmt (DAC) (Line 2 + 4 + 6)                15            15            18              15
8. JR Factor                                          .1556        .1556          .1556          .1556
9. JR Stock Level (Line 7 x 8)                       2.3340       2.3340         2.8008         2.3340
10. JR STK LVL                                          2            2              3              2

   9.8.29. TOTAL OVHL STK LVL. This line represents the quantity of material required to be on hand
   at the depot overhaul facility to provide continued support in case of fluctuations in demands. The
   stock level is computed for each quarter of the computation span and is the sum of NJR STK LVL and
   JR STK LVL.
254                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.22. Example: TOTAL OVHL STK LVL.
Line                   Quarter               1          2         3           4
1. NJR STK LVL                              12         11         11          9
2. JR STK LVL                                2          2         3           2
3. TOTAL OVHL STK LVL                       24         23         24         21

      9.8.30. WRSK/BLSS Rqmt. (Formerly the Prepositioned Requirement.)This line represents the War
      Readiness Spares Kits (WRSK) and Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares (BLSS) also called the Readi-
      ness Spares Packages (RSP). The W-B requirements are received from D087H, and can be file main-
      tained by the IMS (see paragraph 25.4.1.3.). When displayed, the W-B requirement is not
      accumulated.
      9.8.31. XXXXXXXXX W-B Rqmt (FULL). This is the National Item Identification (NIIN) of the
      lesser preferred SGM (indicated by the Xs) that is passing a buy deficit requirement up to the next
      level of the Interchangeability and Substitutability (I & S) family group. This is the RSP portion of the
      buy deficit from the lesser preferred SGM within the I & S family. This is the full requirement without
      any budget constraints being applied to the AAM and VSL computations.
      9.8.32. XXXXXXXXX W-B Rqmt (LTD). This is the NIIN of the lesser preferred SGM that is pass-
      ing a buy deficit requirement up to the next level of the I & S family group. This is the RSP portion of
      the buy deficit from the lesser preferred SGM (indicated by the Xs) within the I & S family. This is the
      limited requirement when budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations.
      9.8.33. OWRM Rqmt (FULL). (Formerly called the prestocked requirement). This line represents the
      single OWRM requirement developed in the SIRS OWRM computation. When displayed, the
      OWRM is a straight lined value. This is the full requirement without any budget constraints being
      applied to the AAM and VSL computations.
      9.8.34. XXXXXXXXX OWRM Rqmt (FULL). This is the NIIN of the lesser preferred SGM that is
      passing a buy deficit requirement up to the next level of the I & S family group. This is the lessor pre-
      ferred items' OWRM requirement when no budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and
      VSL computations.
      9.8.35. OWRM Rqmt (LTD). This line represents the OWRM requirement developed in the SIRS
      OWRM computation when budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations.
      9.8.36. XXXXXXXXX OWRM Rqmt (LTD). This is the NIIN of the lesser preferred SGM that is
      passing a buy deficit requirement up to the next level of the I & S family group. This is the lesser pre-
      ferred items' OWRM requirement when budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL
      computations.
      9.8.37. Additive Rqmt Non-Recur. This line reflects the total of all additive requirements (see para-
      graph 25.2.), which have been file maintained into the computation span by the IMS or received by
      interface from another system. These requirements are file maintained for each quarter and the quan-
      tities can be both increasing and decreasing. (The individual additives are displayed on the Consoli-
      dated Assets and Requirements).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               255


Table 9.23. Example: Additive Rqmt Non-Recur.
Line                  Quarter                                        1         2          3        4
1. Bench Mockup                                                      3         5          6        2
2. FMS Additive                                                     15         15         15      15
3. Mission Direct                                                    4         3          1        5
4. On Loan                                                          18         20         21      19
5. DOTM                                                              7         0          0        0
6. Additive Rqmt (Non-Recur) (Line 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5)               47         43         43      41

   9.8.38. XXXXXXXXX PCTM (FULL). This is the NIIN of the lesser preferred SGM that is passing
   a buy deficit requirement up to the next level of the I & S family group. This is the lesser preferred
   items' Additive Requirement Non-Recurring when budget constraints have not been applied.
   9.8.39. XXXXXXXXX PCTM (LTD). This is the NIIN of the lesser preferred SGM that is passing a
   buy deficit requirement up to the next level of the I & S family group. This is the lesser preferred
   items' Additive Requirement Non-Recurring when budget constraints have been applied.
   9.8.40. ADDITIVE Rqmt RECUR. This is the Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) recurring
   requirement provided by other services. (Formerly called the Wholesale Interservice Supply Support
   Agreement or WISSA).
   9.8.41. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (FULL). This is the sum of the previously computed requirements for
   each pick-off point of the computation. This is the full requirement when no budget constraints have
   been applied to the AAM and VSL computations. The Total Gross Rqmt (Full) includes the require-
   ments listed in the example:

Table 9.24. Example: Total Gross Rqmt (Full).
Line                            Quarter                 1                2           3            4
1. OIM OPERATING Rqmt                                 164                333        505         681
2. TOT BASE STK LVL (FULL)                              48               52         52           58
3. DEPOT SAFETY LVL (FULL)                              18               20         19           17
4. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt                                   9                17         26           34
5. PDM NJR Rqmt                                         5                11         18           25
6. EOH N JR Rqmt                                        60               118        174         215
7. TOTAL JR CNDMN                                       15               30         48           63
8. TOTAL OVHL STK LVL                                   24               23         24           21
9. WRSK/BLSS Rqmt (FULL)                                8                 8          8            8
10 XXXXXXXXX W-B Rqmt (FULL)                            1                 1          1            1
11. OWRM Rqmt (FULL)                                    11               11         11           11
12 XXXXXXXXX OWRM Rqmt (FULL)                           1                 1          1            1
256                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Line                               Quarter                  1              2              3            4
13. ADDITIVE Rqmt NON-RECUR                                 26             29            38           43
14. XXXXXXXXX PCTM (FULL)                                   10             10            10           10
15. ADDITIVE Rqmt RECUR                                     10             10            10           10
16. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (FULL)                                 410           674           945          1198
      9.8.42. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (LTD). This is the sum of the previously computed requirements for
      each pick-off point of the computation. This is the limited requirement when budget constraints have
      been applied to the AAM and VSL computations. The Total Gross Rqmt (LTD) includes the require-
      ments listed in the example:

Table 9.25. Example: Total Gross Rqmt (LTD).
Line                                Quarter             1          2             3       4
1. OIM OPERATING Rqmt                                 164         333           505     681
2. TOT BASE STK LVL (LTD)                              48          52           52       58
3. DEPOT SAFETY LVL (LTD)                              18          20           19       17
4. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt                                   9          17           26       34
5. PDM NJR Rqmt                                         5          11           18       25
6. EOH N JR Rqmt                                       60         118           174     215
7. TOTAL JR CNDMN                                      15          30           48       63
8. TOTAL OVHL STK LVL                                  24          23           24       21
9. WRSK/BLSS Rqmt (LTD)                                 8          8             8       8
10 XXXXXXXXX W-B Rqmt (LTD)                             1          1             1       1
11. OWRM Rqmt (LTD)                                    11          11           11       11
12 XXXXXXXXX OWRM Rqmt (LTD)                            1          1             1       1
13. ADDITIVE Rqmt NON-RECUR                            26          29           38       43
14. XXXXXXXXX PCTM (LTD)                               10          10           10       10
15. ADDITIVE Rqmt RECUR                                10          10           10       10
16. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (LTD)                            410         674           945    1198

      9.8.43. SVC ASSETS. The total serviceable assets (as described in paragraph 9.6.1.) are a single
      entry entered into the first quarter of the computation span and straight-lined into each of the other
      quarters and the retention period. These serviceable assets cannot be entered as a time-phased input.
      Obsolete assets are not included.
      9.8.44. SVC DUE IN. This line represents the serviceable due in assets as reported through the J018R
      system. The assets that are input are projected on a quarterly time-phased basis through the span of the
      computation and consist of the sum of the serviceable reclamation, termination contracts, FMS and
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              257


   Other excess assets. All serviceable due-in assets, which fall beyond the buy point, are brought back
   to the buy point (see line 6 in example below).

Table 9.26. Example: Svc Due In - Procurement Lead time = 15 months
                                                                       BUY
                             CY AY                                     PT
Line Quarter                 1     2     3    4    5    6   7     8    9       10    11 12      13 14
1. SVC Other (DAC)           1     3     0    2    3    1   1     4    0       0     0    4     3    2
2. SVC Reclamation           0     0     0    5    2    3   0     1    1       2     4    0     0    0
(DAC)
3. SVC Termination (DAC) 0         2     1    0    4    3   1     2    0       3     4    2     1    3
4. SVC FMS Program           0     0     3    4    5    4   3     2    1       3     5    4     2    3
Excess (DAC)
5. Tot SVC Due In            1     5     4    11 14 11 5          9    2       8     13 10      6    8
6. Tot Projected Beyond                                                              37 Å------------/
Buy Pt
7. SVC DUE IN                1     6     10 21 35 46 51           60 62        107

   9.8.45. SVC ON ORDER. This line represents the on order assets from J018R. This will include the
   Peacetime Operating Stock (POS), WRSK/BLSS, and OWRM quantities for the PR Funded, and
   Contract on order categories. The assets that are input are projected on a quarterly time-phased basis
   through the span of the computation. SIRS takes those on order contract quantities that are projected
   for delivery beyond the buy period and uses them at the buy period to ensure correct buy quantities are
   computed and correct termination quantities are developed. The accumulated quantities are shown on
   the computation.
258                                                                                             AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.27. Example: On Order - Procurement Lead time = 15 months
Line                 Quarter        1   2       3       4        5       6        7       8     9       10   11 12       13      14
1. POS PR Funded (DAC)              2   2       3       4        1       1        2       1     3       4    2    2      1       1
2. W-B PR Funded (DAC)              1   1       2       1        1       1        1       1     2       2    1    1      1       1
3. OWRM PR Funded (DAC) 0               0       0       2        3       2        1       4     3       1    2    2      1       2
4. POS On Order Contract            0   0       0       1        1       1        1       2     2       1    2    2      2       2
(DAC)
5. W-B On Order Contract            0   0       0       0        0       0        0       0     0       0    0    0      0       0
(DAC)
6. OWRM On Order Contract 0             0       0       0        0       0        0       0     0       0    0    0      0       0
(DAC)
7. Tot On Order (DAC)               3   3       5       8        6       5        5       8     10 8         7    7      5        6
8. On Order Projected Beyond                                                                            25   Å---------------------/
Buy Point
9. ON ORDER                         3   6       11 19 25 30 35 43 53 86

      9.8.46. TOTAL SVC. The Total Serviceable line on the computation displays each quarterly total of
      the accumulated serviceable assets (serviceable assets plus serviceable due in assets plus on order
      assets) for each pick-off point of the computation span.

Table 9.28. Example: Total Svc
Line              Quarter       1           2               3                4
1. SVC ASSETS                   53          53              53               53
2. SVC DUE IN                   1           6               10               21
3. SVC ON ORDER                 3           6               11               19
4. TOT SVC                      57          65              74               93

      9.8.47. 1ST OVER (FULL). The first over position equals the difference between the total service-
      able assets and the total gross requirement, when the assets exceed the requirement. This is the 1st
      Over position when no budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations. The
      following is an example of what would occur if this condition appeared during an item computation.

Table 9.29. Example: 1st Over (Full).
Line                         Quarter                1                2                3             4
1. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (FULL)                          125              130                  135       140
2. TOTAL SVC                                        165              165                  165       165
3. 1ST OVER (FULL)                                      40               35                30           25

      9.8.48. 1ST OVER (LTD). The first over position equals the difference between the total serviceable
      assets and the total gross requirement, when the assets exceed the requirement. This is the 1st Over
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              259


   position when budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations. The follow-
   ing is an example of what would occur if this condition appeared during an item computation.

Table 9.30. Example:1st Over (Ltd).
Line                        Quarter         1         2         3        4
1. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (LTD)                  125      130       135       140
2. TOTAL SVC                               165      165       165       165
3. 1ST OVER (LTD)                           40       35        30       25

   9.8.49. 1ST SHORT (FULL). The first short position equals the difference between the total service-
   able assets and total gross requirement, when the requirement exceeds the assets. This is the 1st Short
   position when no budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations. The fol-
   lowing is an example of what would occur if this condition appeared during an item computation.

Table 9.31. Example: 1st Short (Full).
Line                        Quarter         1         2         3        4
1. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (FULL)                 389      654       927      1182
2. TOTAL SVC                                53       53        53       53
3. 1ST SHORT (FULL)                        336      601       874      1129

   9.8.50. 1ST SHORT (LTD). The first short position equals the difference between the total service-
   able assets and total gross requirement, when the requirement exceeds the assets. This is the 1st Short
   position when budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations. The follow-
   ing is an example of what would occur if this condition appeared during an item computation.

Table 9.32. Example: 1st Short (Ltd).
Line                       Quarter          1         2         3        4
1. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (LTD)                  389      654       927      1182
2. TOTAL SVC                                53       53        53       53
3. 1ST SHORT (LTD)                         336      601       874      1129

   9.8.51. Base Processed. The Base Processed is that portion of the projected failures, which will be
   processed at base level. These represent the assets that will be either repaired or condemned at the
   base level. The base processed are computed by taking each quarter and retention period's de-accumu-
   lated OIM operating requirement and multiplying it by the interpolated base-processed percent. The
   results are carried to six decimal places, accumulated and rounded to an integer.
260                                                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.33. Example: Base Processed.
Line                          Quarter               1                  2               3                4
1. OIM OPERATING Rqmt (DAC)                       164              169                172              176
2. Base Processed Pct (inpol)                    .160000          .160000          .160000          .160000
3. Base Rep Gens (line 1 x 2)                26.240000 27.040000 27.520000                         28.160000
4. Base Rep Gens (AC)                        26.240000 53.280000 80.800000 108.960000
5. BASE PROCESSED                                  26                  53              81              109

      9.8.52. BASE CNDMN. The Base Condemnations are that portion of the projected base reparable
      generations that are anticipated to be condemned during base level repair of the item. The base con-
      demnations are computed by taking each quarter and retention period's de-accumulated base pro-
      cessed quantity and multiplying it by the interpolated base condemnation percent. The results are
      carried to six decimal places, accumulated and rounded to an integer.

Table 9.34. Example: Base CNDMN.
Line                      Quarter           1                2                 3               4
1. Base Processed (DAC)                    26                27               28              28
2. Base Cndmn Pct (inpol)                .300000         .300000            .300000         .300000
3. Base Cndmn (line 1 x 2)               7.800000       8.100000            8.400000        8.400000
4. Base Cndmn (AC)                       7.800000 15.900000 24.300000 32.700000
5. BASE CNDMN                               8                16               24              33

      9.8.53. BASE REPAIR. The Base Repair is that portion of the projected base reparable generations
      that are anticipated to be returned to serviceable condition during base level repair of the item. The
      base repairs are computed for each quarter of the computation and retention by subtracting the accu-
      mulated base condemnations from the accumulated base processed quantity.

Table 9.35. Example: Base Repair.
Line                   Quarter      1       2           3          4
1. BASE PROCESSED                   26      53          81        109
2. BASE CNDMN                       8       16          24        33
3. BASE REPAIR                      18      37          57        76

      9.8.54. 2ND OVER (FULL). The second over position equals the difference between the sum of the
      total serviceable assets plus base repair assets and the total gross requirement, when the assets exceed
      the requirement. This is the over position when no budget constraints have been applied to the AAM
      and VSL computations. The following is an example of what would occur if this condition appeared
      during an item computation.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               261


Table 9.36. Example: 2nd Over (Full).
Line                               Quarter           1           2         3              4
1. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (FULL)                          150        160          170          180
2. TOT SVC                                          165         165         165          165
3. 1ST OVER (FULL) (Line 2 - 1)                     15          5              -          -
4. 1ST SHORT (FULL) (Line 1 - 2)                     -           -             5          15
5. BASE REPAIR                                      25          30             35         40
6. 2ND OVER (FULL) (Line 2 + 5 - 1)                 40          35             30         25

   9.8.55. 2ND OVER (LTD). The second over position equals the difference between the sum of the
   total serviceable assets plus base repair assets and the total gross requirement, when the assets exceed
   the requirement. This is the over position when budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and
   VSL computations. The following is an example of what would occur if this condition appeared dur-
   ing an item computation.

Table 9.37. Example: 2nd Over (Ltd).
Line                             Quarter        1          2           3            4
1. TOTAL GROSS Rqmt (LTD)                      150        160         170           180
2. TOT SVC                                     165        165         165           165
3. 1ST OVER (LTD) (Line 2 - 1)                 15         5            -             -
4. 1ST SHORT (LTD) (Line 1 - 2)                 -          -           5            15
5. BASE REPAIR                                 25         30          35            40
6. 2ND OVER (LTD) (Line 2 + 5 - 1)             40         35          30            25

   9.8.56. 2ND Short (FULL). The second short position equals the difference between the sum of the
   total serviceable assets plus base repair assets and the total gross requirement, when the requirement
   exceeds the assets. This is the short position when no budget constraints have been applied to the
   AAM and VSL computations. The following is an example of what would occur if this condition
   appeared during an item computation.
262                                                                            AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.38. Example 2nd Short (Full).
Line                                     Quarter        1        2     3         4
1. TOT GROSS Rqmt (FULL)                               150      160   170         180
2. TOT SVC                                             110      110   110         110
3. 1ST OVER (FULL) (Line 2-1)                               -    -         -          -
4. 1ST SHORT (FULL) (Line 1 - 2)                        40      50     60            70
5. BASE REPAIR                                          25      30     35            40
6. 2ND OVER (FULL) (Line 2 + 5 - 1)                         -    -         -          -
7. 2ND SHORT (FULL) (Line 1 - (2 + 5)                   15      20     25            30

      9.8.57. 2ND SHORT (LTD). The second short position equals the difference between the sum of the
      total serviceable assets plus base repair assets and the total gross requirement, when the requirement
      exceeds the assets. This is the short position when budget constraints have been applied to the AAM
      and VSL computations. The following is an example of what would occur if this condition appeared
      during an item computation.

Table 9.39. Example: 2nd Short (Ltd).
Line                                   Quarter          1       2     3           4
1. TOT GROSS Rqmt (LTD)                                150      160   170        180
2. TOT SVC                                             110      110   110        110
3. 1ST OVER (LTD) (Line 2 – 1                           -        -     -          -
4. 1ST SHORT (LTD)(Line 1 - 2)                         40       50    60         70
5. BASE REPAIR                                         25       30    35         40
6. 2ND OVER (LTD) (Line 2 + 5 - 1)                      -        -     -          -
7. 2ND SHORT (LTD) (Line 1 - (2 + 5)                   15       20    25         30

      9.8.58. TOC ASSETS. The Technical Order Compliance assets (see paragraph 9.6.2.) are a single
      quantity put in each quarter of the computation. (See paragraph 9.8.81.).

Table 9.40. Example:TOC Assets.
Line             Quarter      1    2      3      4
1. TOC Assets                35    -      -        -
2. TOC                       35    35     35     35

      9.8.59. DEPOT UNSVC ASSETS. This is the total depot unserviceable assets as described in para-
      graph 9.6.3.
      9.8.60. DEPOT CNDMN. The Depot Condemnations represents the total condemnations against the
      depot unserviceable assets. This is determined by multiplying the depot unserviceable assets by the
      current MISTR condemnation percent. The answer is rounded.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          263


Example: DEPOT CNDMN
Line                                                Quantity
1. Dep Unsvc Assets                                   24
2. MISTR Cndmn Pct                                    .17
3. Depot Condemnations (Line 1 x 2)                  4.08
4. DEPOT CNDMN (rnd)                                    4
   9.8.61. NET DEPOT UNSVC ASSETS. The Net Depot Unserviceable Assets is determined by sub-
   tracting the depot condemnations from the depot unserviceable assets. Used to determine the Total
   Available From Depot Repair. (See paragraph 9.8.81.)
Example: NET DEPOT UNSVC ASSETS
Line                                                Quantity
1. Dep Unsvc Assets                                   24
2. Dep Cndmn                                            4
3. NET DEPOT UNSVC (Line 1 - 2)                       20
   9.8.62. OIM REP GENS. These represent the portion of the OIM operating requirement that is not
   reparable this station (NRTS) and must be forwarded to the depot for processing. This is determined
   by subtracting the base processed quantity from the OIM operating requirement.

Table 9.41. Example:OIM Rep Gens.
Line                     Quarter       1       2            3    4
1. OIM OPERATING Rqmt                 164     333       505     681
2. BASE PROCESSED                     26      53        81      109
3. OIM REP GENS                       138     280       424     572

   9.8.63. OIM REP GENS CNDMN. This quantity represents the condemnations against the OIM rep-
   arable generations. This element is computed by multiplying the quarterly Total Rep Gens (DAC)
   times the interpolated MISTR condemnation percent. This element is computed to six decimal posi-
   tions, accumulated, and rounded to an integer.
264                                                                           AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.42. Example:OIM Rep Gen Cndmn MISTR Condemnation % = 17 (Current & Forecast).
Line                                 Quarter             1               2              3              4
1. Tot Rep Gens(AC)                                     138              280           424            572
2. Tot Rep Gens (DAC)                                   138              142           144            148
3. MISTR Cndmn Pct (inpol)                             .170000       .170000        .170000         .170000
4. OIM Rep Gen Condemnations (Line 2 x 3)             23.460000     24.140000      24.480000      25.160000
5. OIM Rep Gen Cndmn (AC)                             23.460000     47.600000      72.080000      97.240000
6. OIM REP GEN CNDMN (rnd)                               24              48            72              97

      9.8.64. NET OIM REP GENS. This line represents that portion of the OIM reparable generations that
      are anticipated to be returned to serviceable condition during depot level repair of the item. The net
      OIM reparable generations are computed for each quarter of the computation and retention by sub-
      tracting the accumulated OIM reparable generation condemnations from the accumulated Total repa-
      rable generations.

Table 9.43. Example: Net OIM Rep Gens.
Line                     Quarter        1        2           3      4
1. TOT REP GENS (AC)                   138      280       424      572
2. OIM REP GEN CNDMN                   24        48       72        97
3. NET OIM REP GENS                    114      232       352      475

      9.8.65. OIM GENS AVAIL FROM RPR. The OIM Generations Available From Repair represents the
      Net OIM reparable generations that will be available from output as serviceable. This quantity is
      determined by slipping the Net OIM reparable generations forward the length of depot repair cycle.
      (Formerly called the Net Slipped OIM Gens).
      Step 1. If the depot repair cycle is less than 90 days, subtract the depot repair cycle days from 90; then
      divide the answer by 90. Carry this depot repair cycle factor to six decimal positions, and go to Step 3.
      This portion of the Net OIM reparables generating during the quarter, will be output within the quar-
      ter. The balance will slip forward one quarter. Example: Subtract the 15 day depot repair cycle from
      90 days, which equals 75. Divide 75 by 90 to get the0.833333 depot repair cycle factor.
      Step 2. If the depot repair cycle exceeds 90 days, divide the depot repair cycle days by 90. Subtract
      the remainder from 90; then divide the answer by 90. Carry the answer to six decimals. This portion
      of the Net OIM reparables generating during a quarter, will be slipped forward the number of whole
      quarters in the depot repair cycle. The balance will be slipped forward one additional quarter. Exam-
      ple: divide the 190 day depot repair cycle by 90 to get 2 + 10 days remainder. Then subtract the
      remainder 10 from 90 to get 80 days, which is divided by 90 to get the .888888 depot repair cycle fac-
      tor.
      Step 3. Multiply the quarterly Net OIM reparable generations by the depot repair cycle factor. Carry
      the answer, without rounding to six decimals. Round the answer to an integer based on the first deci-
      mal place.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 265


   Step 4. If the depot repair cycle is less than 90 days, this quantity remains in the quarter where it gen-
   erated. If the depot repair cycle is greater than 90, the quantity is slipped forward the number of whole
   quarters in the depot repair cycle.
   Step 5. Subtract the number obtained in step 4 from the quarterly Net OIM reparable generations.
   This answer is slipped one quarter forward if the depot repair cycle is less than 90 days or one quarter
   beyond the number of whole quarters in the depot repair cycle if it is over 90 days.
   Step 6. The quarterly results obtained in steps 4 & 5 are added and shown on the computation as OIM
   Generations Available From Repair.

Figure 9.8. Example #1: OIM Gens Avail From Rpr.
266                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.9. Example #2: OIM GENS AVAIL FROM RPR-Depot Repair Cycle days = 190 (190/90 =
2 quarters + 10 days remainder) and (90 - 10 = 80) and (80/90 = .888888 DRC factor)




      9.8.66. OIM DEP RPR CYCLE. The OIM Depot Repair Cycle is the quarterly quantity of OIM depot
      reparable assets anticipated to be in the depot repair cycle pipeline. It is determined by subtracting
      OIM Generations Available From Repair from the net OIM reparable generations.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 267


Table 9.44. Example: OIM Dep Rpr Cycle.
Line                          Quarter         1            2         3      4
1. NET OIM REP GENS                          114         232        352    475
2. OIM GENS AVAIL FROM RPR                    95         212        332    454
3. OIM DEP RPR CYCLE                          19          20         20    21

   9.8.67. NJR REP GENS. The Non Job Routed Rep Gens is the quantity of reparables anticipated to
   generate as a result of depot level repair of the next higher assembly. It is equal to the sum of the PDM,
   NHA MISTR, and engine overhaul NJR requirements.

Table 9.45. Example: NJR Rep Gens.
Line                    Quarter       1      2        3         4
1. NHA MISTR NJR Rqmt                 9      17       26       34
2. PDM NJR Rqmt                       5      11       18       25
3. EOH NJR Rqmt                      60     118      174       215
4. NJR REP GENS                      74     146      218       274

   9.8.68. NJR REP GENS CNDMN. This quantity represents the condemnations against the NJR repa-
   rable generations. It is computed by multiplying the quarterly NJR reparable generations (DAC) times
   the interpolated MISTR condemnation percent, computed to 6 decimal positions, accumulated and
   rounded to an integer.

Table 9.46. Example: NJR Rep Gens Cndmn.
MISTR Cndmn % = 17 (Current & Forecast)
Line                          Quarter                1                2            3           4
1. NJR REP GENS (AC)                                 74              146          218         274
2. NJR Rep Gens (DAC)                                74              72            72          56
3. MISTR Cndmn Pct (inpol)                         .170000      .170000          .170000     .170000
4. NJR Rep Gen Condemnations                      12.580000    12.240000    12.2400009      9.520000
(Line 2 x 3)
5. NJR Rep Gen Cndmn (AC)                         12.580000 24.820000           37.060000   46.580000
6. NJR REP GENS CNDMN (rnd)                          13              25            37          47

   9.8.69. NET NJR REP GENS. This line represents that portion of the NJR reparable generations that
   are anticipated to be returned to serviceable condition during repair of the item. The net NJR reparable
   generations are computed for each quarter of the computation and retention by subtracting the accu-
   mulated NJR reparable generation condemnations from the NJR reparable generations.
268                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.47. Example: Net NJR Rep Gens.
Line                       Quarter        1          2           3          4
1. NJR REP GENS                          74         146        218         274
2. NJR REP GENS CNDMN                    13          25         37         47
3. NET NJR REP GENS                      61         121        181         227

      9.8.70. NJR GENS AVAIL FROM RPR. The NJR Generations Available From Repair is determined
      by slipping the net NJR reparable generations forward the length of the depot repair cycle using the
      technique described in paragraph 9.8.65. above. The formula for calculating the depot repair cycle
      for this process is the total of the depot processing days plus the depot reparable intransit days, plus
      the shop flow days, plus the supply to maintenance days, plus the turn in days.

Figure 9.10. Example No 1: NJR GENS AVAIL FROM RPR Depot Repair Cycle days = 15, 90- 15
= 75/90 = .833333 depot repair cycle factor.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              269


Figure 9.11. Example No 2: NJR GENS AVAIL FROM RPR Depot Repair Cycle days = 190 190/
90=2 quarters+10 days remainder 90-10=80 80/90=.888888 depot repair cycle factor.




   9.8.71. NJR DEP REPR CYCLE Rqmt. The NJR Depot Repair Cycle requirement is the quarterly
   quantity of NJR reparable assets anticipated to be in the depot repair cycle pipeline. It is determined
   by subtracting the NJR gens avail from repair from the net NJR reparable generations
270                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.48. Example: NJR Dep Repr Cycle Rqmt.
Line                               Quarter           1         2           3              4
1. NJR REP GENS                                   114         232         352         475
2. NJR GENS AVAIL FROM RPR                        95          212         332         454
3. NJR DEP REPR CYCLE R                           19          20          20              21

      9.8.72. RDE REP GENS. This quantity is the projected other services’ unserviceable returns as
      received from other services (see paragraph 27.3.2.).
      9.8.73. RDE REP GENS CNDMN. This quantity represents the condemnations against the Require-
      ments Data Exchange (RDE) reparable generations. It is computed by multiplying the quarterly RDE
      reparable generations (DAC) times the interpolated MISTR condemnation percent, computed to 6
      decimal positions, accumulated and rounded to an integer.
      9.8.74. NET RDE REP GENS. This line represents that portion of the RDE reparable generations that
      are anticipated to be returned to serviceable condition during repair of the item. The net RDE repara-
      ble generations are computed for each quarter of the computation and retention by subtracting the
      accumulated RDE reparable generation condemnations from the RDE reparable generations.
      9.8.75. RDE GENS AVAIL FROM RPR. The RDE Generations Available From Repair is the RDE
      reparable generations that will be available from output as serviceable. This quantity is determined by
      slipping the net RDE reparable generations forward the length of the depot repair cycle using the tech-
      nique described in paragraph 9.8.65. above.
      9.8.76. RDE DEP RPR CYCLE Rqmt. The RDE Depot Repair Cycle requirement is the quarterly
      quantity of RDE reparable assets anticipated to be in the depot repair cycle pipeline. It is determined
      by subtracting the RDE gens avail from repair from the net RDE reparable generations.
      9.8.77. UNSVC/TOC DUE IN. The Unserviceable Due Ins are the total of all the due in unservice-
      able and due in unserviceable TOC assets (reclamation, termination, FMS program and other) as
      described in paragraph 9.8.65.

Table 9.49. Example: UNSVC/TOC Due In.
Line      Quarter         1      2       3       4       5     6      7         8     9        10    11    12
1. Unsvc/TOC             11      6       9      15       15    14    18        20    13        18    19    0
   Due/In
   (DAC)
2. Unsvc                 11      17      26     41       56    70    88        108   121       139   158   158
    Due/In
   (AC)

      9.8.78. DUE IN CNDMN. The Due In Unserviceable Condemnations is computed using the tech-
      nique described in paragraph 9.8.63. above, applied against the total due in unserviceable and TOC
      assets in paragraph 9.8.77.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              271


Table 9.50. Example: Due In Unserviceable Condemnation Percent = 17 (Current & Forecast).
Line       Quarter        1      2      3      4       5      6     7       8      9     10     11   12
1. Unsvc Due In (AC)     11     17     26     41      56     70     88     108    121    139   158 158
2. Unsvc Due In          11      6      9     15      15     14     18    20       13    18     19    0
   (DAC)
3. MISTR Cndm %          .17    .17    .17    .17     .17    .17    .17    .17    .17    .17   .17   .17
   (Interpolated)
4. Unsvc Due In      1.87 1.02 1.53          2.55    2.55 2.38 3.06        3.4    2.21 3.06 3.23      0
   Cdms (6 decimals)
   (lines 2 x 3)
5. Unsvc Due In          1.9    2.9    4.4     7      9.6    12    15.1 18.5 20.7 23.8          27   27
   Cdm (AC)
6. Due In Cdm (rnd)       2      3      4      7      10     12     15     19      21    24     27   27

   9.8.79. NET DUE IN. The Net Due Ins are computed by subtracting the accumulated due in condem-
   nations (from paragraph 9.8.78.) from the accumulated unserviceable and TOC due in assets.(para-
   graph 9.8.77.).


LINE QUARTER               1      2     3    4      5       6       7      8      9     10      11   12
1. Unsvc/TOC Due In       11     17    26    41     56      70     88     108    121    139    158   158
2. Due In Cndmn            2      3     4    7      10      12     15     19     21     24     27    27
3. Net Due In              9     14    22    34     46      58     73      89    100    115    131   131

   9.8.80. Due In Avail From RPR. The net unserviceable and TOC due in assets are slipped forward the
   length of the repair lead time (LT) using the techniques described in paragraph 9.8.65. After being
   slipped, all net unserviceable and TOC due in assets that fall beyond the buy point are brought back to
   the buy point. The assets are then accumulated before application in the computation. The net slipped
   due-in accumulated is the Due In Available From Repair.
272                                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.12. Example: Due In Avail from RPR Factor




      9.8.81. TOT AVAIL FROM DEP RPR. This entry represents the total unserviceable assets available
      for output within the quarter. It will be the quarterly sum of the TOC assets (see paragraph 9.8.58.),
      the net depot unserviceable (see paragraph 9.8.61.), the OIM Generations Available From Repair
      (see paragraph 9.8.65.), the RDE Generations Available from Repair (see paragraph 9.8.75.), the
      NJR Generations Available From Repair (see paragraph 9.8.78.), and Due In Available From Repair
      assets (line 9 in the example in paragraph 9.8.80.).

Table 9.51. Example: Tot Avail From Dep Rpr.
Line                            Quarter            1                2              3              4
1. Net Dep Unsvc                                   20              20              20            20
2. OIM Gens Avail From RPR                         95             212             332            454
3. NJR Gens Avail From RPR                         51             111             171            219
4. Due In Avail From RPR                           6               12              19            30
5. Tot Avail Dep Rpr                              172             355             542            723

      9.8.82. 3RD OVER (FULL). The third over position equals the difference between the sum of the
      total serviceable assets, base repairs, and total available depot repair assets, and the total gross require-
      ment, when the assets exceed the requirements. This is the over position when no budget constraints
      have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                   273


Table 9.52. Example: 3rd Over (Full).
Line                                    Quarter            1            2           3          4
1. TOT GROSS Rqmt (FULL)                                   150         160         170         180
2. TOT SVC                                                 155         168         162         165
3. 1ST OVER (FULL) (Line 2 - 1)                            5            2           -           -
4. 1ST SHORT (FULL) (Line 1 - 2)                            -           -           8          15
5. BASE REPAIR                                              2           5           7           9
6. 2ND OVER (FULL)(Line 2 + 5 - 1)                         7            7           -           -
7. 2ND SHORT (FULL) (Line 1 - 2 - 5)                        -           -           1          6
8. TOT AVAIL DEP REPR                                      25          30          35          40
9. 3RD OVER (FULL) (Line 2 + 5 + 8 - 1)                    32          37          34          34

   9.8.83. 3RD OVER (LTD). The third over position equals the difference between the sum of the total
   serviceable assets, base repairs, and total available depot repair assets, and the total gross requirement,
   when the assets exceed the requirements. This is the over position when budget constraints have been
   applied to the AAM and VSL computations.

Table 9.53. Example:3rd Over (Ltd).
Line                                   Quarter         1          2           3           4
1. TOT GROSS Rqmt (LTD)                              150         160         170         180
2. TOT SVC                                           155         168         162         165
3. 1ST OVER (LTD) (Line 2 - 1)                        5           2           -           -
4. 1ST SHORT (LTD) (Line 1 - 2)                        -          -           8          15
5. BASE REPAIR                                         2          5           7           9
6. 2ND OVER (LTD)(Line 2 + 5 - 1)                     7           7           -           -
7. 2ND SHORT (LTD) (Line 1 - 2 - 5)                    -          -           1           6
8. TOT AVAIL DEP REPR                                 25         30          35          40
9. 3RD OVER (LTD) (Line 2 + 5 + 8 - 1)                32         37          34          34

   9.8.84. 3RD SHORT (FULL). The third short position equals the difference between the sum of the
   total serviceable assets, base repairs, and total available depot repair assets, and the total gross require-
   ment, when the gross requirement exceed the assets. This is the short position when no budget con-
   straints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations.
274                                                                             AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.54. Example: 3rd Short (Full).
Line                                        Quarter            1          2            3         4
1. TOT GROSS Rqmt (FULL)                                      150         160      170       180
2. TOT SVC                                                    15          20       30        35
3. 1ST OVER (FULL) (Line 2 - 1)                                -           -           -         -
4. 1ST SHORT (FULL) (Line 1 - 2)                              135         140      140       145
5. BASE REPAIR                                                40          45       50        55
6. 2ND OVER (FULL) (Line 2 + 5 - 1)                            -           -           -         -
7. 2ND SHORT (FULL) (Line 1 - 2 - 5)                          95          95       90        90
8. TOT AVAIL DEP REPR                                         35          40       50        60
9. 3RD OVER (FULL) (Line 2 + 5 + 8 - 1)                       60          55       40        30

      9.8.85. 3RD SHORT (LTD). The third short position equals the difference between the sum of the
      total serviceable assets, base repairs, and total available depot repair assets, and the total gross require-
      ment, when the gross requirement exceed the assets. This is the short position when budget constraints
      have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations.

Table 9.55. Example: 3rd Short (Ltd).
Line                                     Quarter          1           2           3         4
1. TOT GROSS Rqmt (LTD)                                 150         160           170      180
2. TOT SVC                                               15          20           30        35
3. 1ST OVER (LTD) (Line 2 - 1)                            -           -            -         -
4. 1ST SHORT (LTD) (Line 1 - 2)                         135         140           140      145
5. BASE REPAIR                                           40          45           50        55
6. 2ND OVER (LTD) (Line 2 + 5 - 1)                        -           -            -         -
7. 2ND SHORT (LTD) (Line 1 - 2 - 5)                      95          95           90        90
8. TOT AVAIL DEP REPR                                    35          40           50        60
9. 3RD OVER (LTD) (Line 2 + 5 + 8 - 1)                   60          55           40        30

      9.8.86. TIME PHASED USERS. The Time Phased number of Users is derived by SIRS from data
      provided by RBL (D035E) (see paragraph 24.5.13.). The number of users is used in the AAM and
      VSL computations to compute safety levels (see paragraph 9.8.7.).
      9.8.87. SICA Requirements. When the Air Force is a SICA NIMSC 5, SIRS computes Projected
      Recurring Demands, Projected Non-Recurring Demands, and Projected Unserviceable Returns,
      which are sent to the PICA (see paragraph 27.2.). This data is only displayed on the RDEO screen
      (Figure 27.1.).
          9.8.87.1. Projected Non-Recurring Demands. For each quarter, the total OIM base stock level, the
          total overhaul stock level, all the additive requirements and the W-B requirement is totaled to get
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 275


       the gross non-recurring requirement. This is de-accumulated by comparing each quarter's gross
       non-recurring requirement to the total of all previous quarters' de-accumulated non-recurring
       requirements, and any increase becomes that quarter's de-accumulated non-recurring requirement.
       Subtract the total serviceable assets to get the de-accumulated Non-Recurring Demands (D-AC
       NON-RECUR DMDS). (For example see paragraph 27.2.5.).
       9.8.87.2. Projected Recurring Demands. For each quarter, list the computed 3rd short as a positive
       number, subtract the computed 3rd over and subtract the accumulated OWRM requirement. (For
       any quarter, the item may have a computed 3rd short quantity or a computed 3rd over quantity, but
       not both). Any negative result is set to zero. De-accumulate this adjusted requirement. Subtract the
       de-accumulated Non-Recurring Demands from the de-accumulated adjusted requirement to get
       the de-accumulated Recurring Demands. Any negative result is set to zero. (For example, see
       paragraph 27.2.6.).
       9.8.87.3. Projected Unserviceable Returns. This quantity represents the number of reparable gen-
       erations forecasted to be returned to the PICA for depot level repair. SIRS computes this de-accu-
       mulated quarterly projection (D-AC UNSVC RTNS) as the de-accumulated OIM operating
       requirement minus the de-accumulated base processed quantity rounded, plus the de-accumulated
       total DLM (PDM plus Engine overhaul plus MISTR) non-job routed requirement. (For example
       see paragraph 27.2.7.)

9.9. MISTR Output Requirements. The MISTR Output AC and the MISTR output DAC are used for
the OWRM computation. To compute the MISTR output requirements, SIRS calculates seven prelimi-
nary elements, which are described below.
   9.9.1. The Balance W-B Requirement is calculated for each quarter of the computation through
   Repair Lead Time (RLT) beyond the budget year as equal to the W-B Requirement minus the total
   WRM assets (WRM base serviceable assets + OWRM depot serviceable assets + W-B on order con-
   tract + W-B on order PR funded). If the total WRM assets exceed the W-B Requirement, the Balance
   W-B Requirement will equal zero, and those assets exceeding the requirement are considered OWRM
   assets.

Table 9.56. Example: Balance W-B Requirement Rlt Qtr.
Line             Quarter           1         2       3     4     5     6      7      8      9       10
1. W-B Rqmt                        50       105     85    50     15    50    50     50      50      50
2. WRM Base Serv                   5         5       5     5     5     5      5      5      5        5
3. WRM Depot Serv                  5         5       5     5     5     5      5      5      5        5
4. WRM Contr                       5         5       5     5     5     5      5      5      5        5
5. WRM PR Funded                   5         5       5     5     5     5      5      5      5        5
6. Bal W-B Rqmt                    30        85     65    30     0     30    30     30      30      30
7. OWRM Assets                                                   5

   9.9.2. The Balance OWRM Requirement is calculated for each quarter of the computation through
   the Repair Lead Time (RLT) beyond the budget year as equal to the OWRM Requirement minus any
276                                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      OWRM assets. If the OWRM assets exceed the OWRM requirement, the Balance OWRM Require-
      ment will be zero.

Table 9.57. Example: Balance OWRM Requirements.
                                                                                                                      RLT
                                                                                                                      QTR
Line             Quarter             1        2          3         4          5         6         7       8     9      10
1. OWRM Rqmt                         25       25        25         25         25        25        25      25    25     25
2. OWRM Assets                       0        0          0         0          5         0         0       0     0      0
3. Bal OWRM Rqmt                     25       25        25        25          20        25        25      25    25     25

      9.9.3. An Adjusted Peacetime 2nd Short Position is equal to the 2nd Short Position minus the Balance
      W-B Requirement minus the Balance OWRM Requirement. The Balance W-B Requirements and Bal-
      ance OWRM Requirements are zero for the quarters following repair lead-time beyond the budget.

Table 9.58. Example: Adjusted 2nd Short Position.
                                                                                                                      RLT
                                                                                                                      QTR
Line                       Quarter        1        2         3          4          5         6        7   8     9      10
1. 2nd Short                              100      100       110        115       125       125   130     140   140   145
2. Bal W-R Rqmt                           30       85        65         30         0         30    30     30    30     30
3. Bal OWRM Rqmt                          25       25        25         25         20        25    25     25    25     25
4. Peacetime 2nd Short                    45        0        20         60        105        70    75     85    85     90
5. Peacetime 2nd Short (neg)                       10

      9.9.4. If the computation of the Adjusted 2nd Short Position results in a negative number, the
      Adjusted Peacetime 2nd Short Requirement will equal zero, and the absolute value of the negative
      number will be subtracted from the Balance W-B Requirement for that quarter. The answer will be the
      W-B 2nd Short Requirement for that quarter. If the answer is negative, the W-B 2nd Short Require-
      ment will be zero and the absolute value of the negative number will be subtracted from the Balance
      OWRM Requirement for that quarter. The answer will be the OWRM 2nd Short Requirement. If the
      answer is negative, the OWRM 2nd Short Requirement for the quarter will equal zero.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                                   277


Table 9.59. Example:OWRM 2nd Short Requirement.
                                                                                                                                     RLT
                                                                                                                                     QTR
Line                      Quarter             1            2           3        4        5            6        7         8     9      10
1. Bal W-B Rqmt                              30        85          65          30        0         30          30        30    30     30
2. Peacetime 2nd Short (neg)                  0        10              0        0        0            0        0         0     0      0
3. W-B 2nd Short Rqmt                        30        75          65          30        0         30          30        30    30     30
4. OWRM 2nd Short                             0            0           0        0        0            0        0         0     0      0

   9.9.5. The Assets Available For WRM Repair are calculated at the Repair Lead Time quarter beyond
   the budget year by comparing the peacetime 2ND Short Position to the Total Available Depot Repair
   Assets. If the peacetime 2ND Short Position is greater than or equal to the Total Available Depot
   Repair Assets, there will be no assets available for WRM Repair. If the peacetime 2ND Short Position
   is less than the Total Available Depot Repair Assets, the difference between the two will be the Assets
   Available For WRM Repair.

Table 9.60. Example: Assets Available For WRM Repair.
                                                                                                                                      RLT
                                                                                                                                      QTR
Line                Quarter        1         2         3           4           5             6            7          8         9      10
1. Tot Avail Dep Rep               190       200       210         225         230           245          250        270       275    280
2. Peacetime 2nd Short             45        0         20          60          105           70           75         85        85     90
3. Assets Avail WRM Rep                                                                                                               190

   9.9.6. The Maximum W-B Repair Requirement will be the lesser of, the W-B 2nd Short Requirement
   in the Repair Lead Time quarter beyond the budget year or the Assets Available For WRM Repair. If
   the Assets Available For WRM Repair exceed the W-B 2nd Short Requirement, the difference will be
   considered as Assets Available For OWRM Repair.

Table 9.61. Example: Maximum W-B Repair Requirement.
                                                                                                                                      RLT
                                                                                                                                      QTR
Line                     Quarter         1         2           3           4         5            6            7         8      9     10
1. W-B 2nd Short Rqmt                    30        75          65          30        0            30           30        30     30    30
2. Assets Avail For WRM Repair           190       190         190         190       190          190          190       190    190   190
3. Max W-B Repair Rqmt                                                                                                                30
4. Asset Avail OWRM Repair                                                                                                            160

   9.9.7. The Maximum OWRM Requirement will be the lesser of, the Adjusted OWRM Requirement,
   at the budget year repair lead-time quarter, or the Assets Available For OWRM Repair.
278                                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.62. Example: Maximum OWRM Repair Requirement
                                                                                                               RLTQ
                                                                                                               TR
Line                     Quarter 1         2          3         4          5          6        7     8    9    10
1. Adjust OWRM Rqmt                 25     25         25        25         20         25       25    25   25   25
2. Assets Avail OWRM Repair 160            160        160       160        160        160      160   160 160   160
3. Max OWRM Repair Rqmt                                                                                        25

      9.9.8. The MISTR output requirement lines are computed first because they will be used to develop
      the MISTR input requirements. The MISTR output lines are computed in the following sequence:
      POS MISTR output, W-B MISTR output, OWRM MISTR output and Total MISTR output. The
      Peacetime MISTR output is computed by comparing the peacetime 2ND short position to the total
      available depot repair assets for each quarter of the computation. The lesser of the two will equal the
      quarterly peacetime MISTR output. This line is then leveled. No decrease is allowed to this entry. It
      must be level or increasing. The leveled requirements will equal the POS MISTR output accumulated.

Table 9.63. Example: POS MISTR OUTPUT
                                                                                                               RLT
                                                                                                               QTR
Line                         Quarter       1      2         3         4         5         6    7     8    9    10
1. Peacetime Adj 2nd Short                 45     0         20        60        105       70   75    85   85   90
2. Tot Avail Dep Rep                       190    200 210             225 230             245 250    270 275   280
3. POS MISTR Out                           45     0         20        60        105       70   75    85   85   90
4. POS MISTR OUT AC                        45    45         45        60        105       105 105    105 105   105
5. POS MISTR OUT DAC                       45    0          0         15        45        0    0     0    0    0

      9.9.9. Subtract the accumulated POS MISTR output from the total available depot repair assets. Com-
      pare the answer to the W-B 2nd short requirement. The lesser of the two will equal the W-B MISTR
      Output. This quantity may never exceed the maximum W-B MISTR output.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  279


Table 9.64. Example: W-B MISTR Output.
                                                                                                     RLT
                                                                                                     QTR
Line                   Quarter          1      2     3      4      5     6      7      8      9      10
1. Tot Avail Dep Rep                    190    200   210    225    230   245    250    270    275    280
2. POS MISTR OUT AC                     45     45    45     60     105   105    105    105    105    105
3. Avail Prep Rep                       45     155   165    165    125   140    145    165    170    175
4. W-B 2nd Short Rqmt                   30     75    65     30     0     30     30     30     30     30
5. W-B MISTR Out                        0      75    65     30     0     30     30     30     30     30

   9.9.10. Subtract the W-B MISTR output and accumulated POS MISTR output from the total available
   depot repair assets. Compare the answer to the OWRM 2nd short requirement. The lesser of the two
   will equal the OWRM MISTR output. This quantity may never exceed the maximum OWRM repair
   requirement.

Table 9.65. Example: OWRM MISTR Output.
                                                                                                     RLT
                                                                                                     QTR
Line                   Quarter          1      2     3      4      5      6      7     8      9      10
1. Tot Avail Dep Rep                    190    200   210    225    230    245    250   270    275    280
2. POS MISTR OUT AC                     45     45    45     60     105    105    105   105    105    105
3. W-B MISTR Out                        0      75    65     30     0      30     30    30     30     30
4. Avail OWRM Rep                       145    80    100    135    125    110    115   135    140    145
5. OWRM Rqmt 2nd Short                  25     25    25     25     20     25     25    25     25     25
6. OWRM MISTR Out                       0      25    25     25     20     25     25    25     25     25

   9.9.11. Before the W-B MISTR Output and OWRM MISTR Output requirements are printed on the
   SGM Computation Worksheet, they are adjusted. The adjusted quantity is displayed as the accumu-
   lated MISTR output. The adjustment is accomplished quarter by quarter starting with the budget year
   repair lead-time quarter and moving backward using the following process: if the quarter being
   adjusted is greater than the subsequent quarter, replace it with the subsequent quarter quantity. If the
   quarter being adjusted is equal to the subsequent quarter, no adjustment is made. If the quarter being
   adjusted is less than the subsequent quarter, the lesser quantity will be held and used in the adjustment.
280                                                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 9.66. Example: W-B/OWRM MISTR Output.
                                                                                                                      RLT
                                                                                                                      QTR
Line                     Quarter        1       2        3        4       5         6        7       8        9       10
1. W-B MISTR Out                                75       65       30      0         30       30      30       30      30
2. W-B MISTR OUT AC                             0        0        0       0         30       30      30       30      30
3. W-B MISTR OUT DAC                            0        0        0       0         30       0       0        0       0
4. OWRM MISTR Out                               25       25       25      20        25       25      25       25      25
5. OWRM MISTR OUT AC                            20       20       20      25        25       25      25       25      25
6. OWRM MISTR OUT DAC                           20       0        0       0         5        0       0        0       0

      9.9.12. The Total MISTR Output will be the sum of the POS MISTR output, the W-B MISTR output,
      and the OWRM MISTR output.

Table 9.67. Example: Total MISTR Output.
                                                                                                                      RLT
                                                                                                                      QTR
Line                     Quarter            1       2        3        4       5         6        7       8        9       10
1. W-B MISTR OUT AC                      45         45       45   60      105       105      105     105      105         105
2. W-B MISTR OUT AC                         0       0        0        0       30        30   30          30   30          30
3. OWRM MISTR OUT AC                     01         20       20   20          20        25   25          25   25          25
4. MISTR OUTPUT AC                       45         65       65   80      125       160      160     160      160         160
5. MISTR OUTPUT DAC                      45         20       0    15          45        35       0       0        0        0

9.10. MISTR Input Requirements. The accumulated MISTR output requirements form the basis for
the MISTR input determinations. Also, to calculate the MISTR input, SIRS has to determine what portion
of the on hand unserviceable assets have already been input to repair. These assets are referred to as unser-
viceable scheduled and equal the unserviceable on work order plus the unserviceable contractor sched-
uled assets.
      9.10.1. The POS MISTR input is calculated first, as the quarterly accumulated POS output plus the
      POS MISTR output for repair lead-time beyond the quarter. Second, the unserviceable scheduled
      assets are then compared to the accumulated MISTR input at the end of the budget year. If the unser-
      viceable scheduled assets are less than the accumulated POS MISTR input at the end of the budget
      year, the unserviceable scheduled assets will be subtracted from each of the quarterly accumulated
      POS MISTR input requirements (for quarters 1 through 38). If the unserviceable scheduled assets are
      greater than the accumulated POS MISTR input at the end of the budget year, all quarterly POS
      MISTR input requirements through the budget year will be zero. The accumulated POS MISTR input
      requirements at the last quarter of the budget year will be subtracted from all subsequent quarterly
      accumulated POS MISTR inputs. Any unserviceable scheduled asset exceeding the accumulated POS
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                         281


   MISTR input in the last quarter of the budget year will be applied to the W-B MISTR input require-
   ment.
   9.10.2. The W-B MISTR input requirement and the OWRM MISTR input requirement follow the
   same logic as the peacetime computation. The exception is that no W-B MISTR or OWRM MISTR
   are developed for the first quarter of the computation.
   9.10.3. The MISTR input requirement will be the sum of the POS, W-B, and OWRM input require-
   ments.

Figure 9.13. Example: POS MISTR Input.
282                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.14. Example: W-B MISTR Input.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                283


Figure 9.15. Example: OWRM MISTR Input.




Table 9.68. Example: MISTR Input.
Line                  Quarter          1         2         3          4          5         6
1. POS MISTR INP (AC)                 20        20         25        50         80         80
2. W-B MISTR INP (AC)                  0         0         0          0         10        30
3. OWRM MISTR INP (AC)                 7        20         20        20         22         25
4. MISTR INPUT (AC)                   27        40         45        70        112        135
5. MISTR INPUT (DAC)                  27        13         5         25         42        23
             All of the above entries appear on the SGM Computation Worksheet.

9.11. Pages 7 & 8MISTR Screens. Page 7 (Figure 9.8.) and page 8 (Figure 9.9.) consist of a left screen
displaying MISTR requirements for three fiscal years, and a right screen displaying MISTR requirements
for fiscal years 4 and 5. The printed product displays the first four fiscal years by quarter, followed by a
yearly total for 6 more years. Select the “bottom” button of the MISTR screens to go to the MISTR
screens displaying the “Lot Size” MISTR requirements.
   9.11.1. TOTAL MISTR INPUT (ACC). This is the accumulated quantity per quarter that has been
   inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the total requirements being pro-
   jected in the Total MISTR Output line. Input must occur repair lead-time prior to the requirement. The
   repair is considered funded when the item to be repaired is input.
284                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      9.11.2. TOTAL MISTR INPUT (D-ACC). This is the deaccumulated quantity per quarter that has
      been inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the total requirements being
      projected in the Total MISTR Output line. Input has to occur repair lead-time prior to the requirement.

Figure 9.16. Display SMCW Page 7 Total MISTR Requirements.




      9.11.3. TOTAL MISTR OUTPUT (ACC). This is the total accumulated repair requirement per
      quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available for repair.
      9.11.4. TOTAL MISTR OUTPUT (D-ACC). This is the total deaccumulated repair requirement
      per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available for repair.
      9.11.5. POS MISTR INPUT (D-ACC). This is the deaccumulated quantity per quarter that has been
      inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the total peacetime operating spares
      (POS) requirements being projected in the POS MISTR Output line. Input has to occur repair
      lead-time prior to the requirement.
      9.11.6. POS MISTR OUTPUT (D-ACC). This is the total deaccumulated POS repair requirement
      per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available for repair.
      9.11.7. W-B MISTR INPUT (D-ACC). This is the deaccumulated quantity per quarter that has been
      inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the total war reserve requirements
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             285


  being projected in the W-B MISTR Output line. Input has to occur repair lead-time prior to the
  requirement.
  9.11.8. W-B MISTR OUTPUT (D-ACC). This is the total deaccumulated war reserve repair
  requirement per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available for repair.

Figure 9.17. Display SMCW page 8 MISTR POS W-B OWRM Requirements.




  9.11.9. OWRM MISTR INPUT (D-ACC). This is the deaccumulated quantity per quarter that has
  been inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the total other war reserve
  requirements being projected in the OWRM MISTR Output line. Input has to occur Repair Lead Time
  prior to the requirement.
  9.11.10. OWRM MISTR OUTPUT (D-ACC). This is the total deaccumulated other war reserve
  repair requirement per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available for repair.
  9.11.11. For items with a Lot Size Quantity greater than the default of 1, MISTR requirements are
  computed using that value. A lot size is a quantity of items that must be input at the same time for
  repair. For example if the facility doing the repair will only accept groups of five items at a time, a
  group of five would then be considered a lot. Lot Size Quantity is file maintained on the BMD screen
  (see paragraph 14.8.).
286                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


       9.11.11.1. TOTAL LOT SIZE MISTR INPUT (ACC). This is the accumulated quantity of lots per
       quarter that has been inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the total
       requirements being projected in the Total Lot Size MISTR Output accumulated line. Input must
       occur repair lead-time prior to the requirement.
       9.11.11.2. TOTAL LOT SIZE MISTR INPUT (D-ACC). This is the deaccumulated quantity of
       lots per quarter that has been inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the
       total requirements being projected in the Total Lot Size MISTR Output deaccumulated line. Input
       must occur repair lead-time prior to the requirement.
       9.11.11.3. TOTAL LOT SIZE MISTR OUTPUT (ACC). This is the total accumulated lot size
       MISTR repair requirement per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available
       for repair.
       9.11.11.4. TOTAL LOT SIZE MISTR OUTPUT (D-ACC). This is the total deaccumulated lot
       size repair requirement per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available for
       repair.
       9.11.11.5. POS LOT SZ INPUT (D-ACC). This is the deaccumulated quantity of lots per quarter
       that has been inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the POS require-
       ments being projected in the POS Lot Size MISTR Output deaccumulated line. Input must occur
       Repair Lead Time prior to the requirement.
       9.11.11.6. POS LOT SZ OUTPUT (D-ACC). This is the total POS deaccumulated lot size repair
       requirement per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available for repair.
       9.11.11.7. W-B LOT SZ INPUT (D-ACC). This is the deaccumulated quantity of lots per quarter
       that has been inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the war reserve
       requirements being projected in the W-R Lot Size MISTR Output deaccumulated line. Input must
       occur Repair Lead Time prior to the requirement.
       9.11.11.8. W-B LOT SZ OUTPUT (D-ACC). This is the total deaccumulated war reserve lot size
       repair requirement per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be available for repair.
       9.11.11.9. OWRM LOT SZ INPUT (D-ACC). This is the deaccumulated quantity of lots per
       quarter that has been inducted for repair or that needs to be inducted to repair to satisfy the other
       war reserve requirements being projected in the OWRM Lot Size MISTR Output deaccumulated
       line. Input must occur Repair Lead Time prior to the requirement.
       9.11.11.10. OWRM LOT SZ OUTPUT (D-ACC). This is the total other war reserve deaccumu-
       lated lot size repair requirement per quarter that has been adjusted to what is projected to be avail-
       able for repair.

9.12. Pages 9 & 10 - Buy Operating Level Summary. Page 9 (Figure 9.18.) displays the Buy Operat-
ing Level Summary for Full Funding. Page 10 displays the Buy Operating Level Summary for Limited
Funding. The Full Funding page is included in the printed copy of the SGM Computation Worksheet.
These pages displays the values, by pick-off point, for the maximum data elements (if applicable) of the
Buy Operating Level, the applied assets, and the Net Over or Net Under position. The possible data ele-
ments, applied assets, and computational results that that can be displayed on the Buy Operating Level
screens are as follows.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             287


Table 9.69. Possible Data Elements, Applied Assets and Computational Results.
Total Base Stk Lvl                   Depot Safety Lvl                Total Ovhl Stk Lvl
Total JR Cndmn                       Base Cndmn                      OIM Rep Gens Cndmn
NJR Rep Gens Cndmn                   RDE Rep Gens Cndmn              OIM Dep Rpr Cycle
NJR Dep Rpr Cycle                    RDE Dep Rpr Cycle               Add Rqmt Non-Recur
XXXXXXX PCTM Dfct                    Add Rqmt Recur                  WRSK-BLSS Rqmt
XXX WRSK-BLSS Dfct                   OWRM Rqmt                       XXXXXXXXX OWRM Dfct
Total Buy Oper Lvl                   Svc Assets                      Svc Due In
Svc On Order                         TOC Assets                      Net Depot Unsvc Assets
Net Due In Unsvc                     Net Over Position               Net Short Position

Figure 9.18. Display SMCW page 9 Buy Operating Level Full Funding.




9.13. Page 11 Computation Status. Page 11 is the Computation Status page (Figure 9.11.) that provides
the following informational results from the requirements computation of the individual item. This infor-
mation is also included in the printed copy of the SGM Computation Worksheet.
   9.13.1. Buy Quantity and Dollar Value (Full). The buy quantity is the 3RD Short Position (para-
   graph 9.8.84.) at the buy point or at the term point, whichever is less. This is the Full Buy deficit
288                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      where no budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations. The buy quantity
      is multiplied by the forecast unit price to obtain the dollar value.
      9.13.2. Buy Quantity and Dollar Value (LTD). The buy quantity is the 3RD Short Position (para-
      graph 9.8.85.) at the buy point or at the term point, whichever is less. This is the Limited Buy deficit
      where budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations. The buy quantity is
      multiplied by the forecast unit price to obtain the dollar value.

Figure 9.19. Display SMCW page 11 Computation Status.




      9.13.3. Termination Quantity and Dollar Value.
         9.13.3.1. If the Buy Quantity is greater than zero, the Termination Quantity is zero.
         9.13.3.2. If the Buy Quantity is zero and the total on order assets (paragraph 9.8.45.) is zero, the
         Termination Quantity is zero.
         9.13.3.3. Else, SIRS calculates a Total Assets selecting each of the following quantities at the term
         point and adds together: serviceable assets (paragraph 9.8.43.), on order assets (paragraph
         9.8.45.), net depot unserviceable assets (paragraph 9.8.61.), TOC assets (paragraph 9.8.58.),
         due-in serviceable assets (paragraph 9.8.44.) net due-in unserviceable assets (paragraph
         9.8.79.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                289


         9.13.3.3.1. If the worldwide Termination Level (paragraph 9.13.8.) is greater than or equal to
         the Total Assets, the Termination Quantity is zero.
         9.13.3.3.2. Else, the Termination Quantity is equal to the Total Assets minus the Termination
         Level. Next the Termination Quantity is compared to the total on order assets (paragraph
         9.8.45.). When the total on order assets are greater than the Termination Quantity, the IMS
         should terminate only those on order assets equal to the Termination Quantity. When the total
         on order assets are less than the Termination Quantity, SIRS reduces the Termination Quantity
         to equal the total on order assets. The Termination Quantity is multiplied by the unit price to
         get the dollar value. (See Chapter 33 for termination policy and instructions.)
  9.13.4. Excess Quantity and Dollar Value. If the computed 3rd Over Quantity (paragraph 9.8.82.)
  at retention is zero, then the Excess Quantity is zero. Else, SIRS computes the Excess Quantity by
  comparing the 3rd Over Quantity at retention with the Select Retention Level (paragraph 9.13.11.),
  along with the serviceable assets at the term point (paragraph 9.8.43.), the due-in serviceable assets
  at the term point (paragraph 9.8.44.), the total unserviceable assets at the term point (paragraph
  9.8.59.), the TOC assets at the term point (paragraph 9.8.58.), and total due in unserviceable assets at
  the term point (paragraph 9.8.77.).
     9.13.4.1. If the Select Retention Level is equal to serviceable assets plus the due-in serviceable
     assets, then the total of the unserviceable assets, the TOC assets and the due in unserviceable
     assets is the Excess Quantity.
     9.13.4.2. If the Select Retention Level is less than serviceable assets plus the due-in serviceable
     assets, then the serviceable assets plus the due-in serviceable assets plus the unserviceable assets,
     plus the TOC assets plus the due in unserviceable assets minus the Selection Retention Level is the
     Excess Quantity.
     9.13.4.3. If the Select Retention Level is greater than the serviceable assets plus the due-in ser-
     viceable assets, the SIRS compares the Select Retention Level to the total of the serviceable assets
     plus the due-in serviceable assets plus the TOC assets.
         9.13.4.3.1. If the total of the serviceable assets plus the due-in serviceable assets plus the TOC
         assets is equal to the Select Retention Level, then the sum of the total unserviceable assets and
         total due in unserviceable assets is the Excess Quantity.
         9.13.4.3.2. If the total of the serviceable assets plus the due-in serviceable assets plus the TOC
         assets is greater than the Select Retention Level, then the serviceable assets plus the due-in ser-
         viceable assets plus the unserviceable assets, plus the TOC assets, plus the due in unservice-
         able assets minus the Selection Retention Level is the Excess Quantity.
         9.13.4.3.3. Else, if the Select Retention Level is equal to or greater than the sum of the ser-
         viceable assets, the due in serviceable assets, the TOC assets, the netted unserviceable assets at
         the term point (paragraph 9.8.61.) and the netted due-in unserviceable assets at the term point
         (paragraph 9.8.79.), then the Excess Quantity is zero. Otherwise, the Excess Quantity is
         equal to the sum of the serviceable assets plus the due in serviceable assets plus the TOC
         assets, plus the netted unserviceable assets at the term point and the netted due-in unservice-
         able assets at the term point minus the Select Retention Level.
     9.13.4.4. The Excess Quantity is multiplied by the unit price to obtain the excess dollar value. If
     the excess dollar value is less than the Uneconomic Excess Value on the Standard Data Table (see
290                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         Figure 6.17.), then the Excess Quantity is added to the Select Retention Level and the Excess
         Quantity is reduced to zero.
      9.13.5. Repair. The Repair Quantity is the total repair requirement computed MISTR INPUT
      ACCUM at the end of the AY of the computation. The repair quantity is multiplied by the unit repair
      cost to obtain the repair dollar value.
      9.13.6. Worldwide Buy Operating Level (Full). The buy operating level is an information entry
      and consists of the requirements of an item reduced to replacements, condemnations, or non-recurring
      (additive) data. This level contains both Air Force and FMS program requirements picked off at the
      buy period. This level is also used to display the total gross number of inventory spares required to
      support the item. The following elements are selected at the buy period and added together: total base
      stock level, depot safety level, total overhaul stock level, W-B requirement, OWRM requirement,
      Additive requirements non-recurring, OIM depot repair cycle requirement, NJR depot repair cycle
      requirement, and RDE depot repair cycle requirement. To this subtotal are added the following data
      elements each accumulated through the buy period: Total JR condemnations, Base condemnations,
      OIM Rep Gen condemnations, NJR Rep Gen condemnations, and RDE Rep Gen condemnations. The
      Full buy operating level is the requirement computed where no budget constraints have been applied
      to the AAM and VSL computations.
      9.13.7. Worldwide Buy Operating Level (LTD). The buy operating level is an information entry
      and consists of all the requirements of an item reduced to replacements, condemnations, or non-recur-
      ring (additive) data. This level contains both Air Force and FMS program requirements picked off at
      the buy period. This level is also used to display the total gross number of inventory spares required to
      support the item. The following elements are selected at the buy period or term period, whichever is
      less, and added together: total base stock level, depot safety level, total overhaul stock level, W-B
      requirements, OWRM requirements, additives requirements non-recurring, OIM depot repair cycle
      requirements, NJR depot repair cycle requirements, and RDE depot repair cycle requirements. To this
      subtotal are added the following data elements each accumulated through the buy period: total JR con-
      demnations, base condemnations, OIM Rep Gens condemnations, NJR Rep Gens condemnations, and
      RDE Rep Gens condemnations The Limited buy operating level is the requirement computed where
      budget constraints have been applied to the AAM and VSL computations.
      9.13.8. Worldwide Termination Level. The termination level is similar to the buy operating level in
      that it consists of all the requirements of an item reduced to replacements, condemnations, or
      non-recurring (additive) data. This level contains both Air Force and FMS program requirements
      picked off at a point 12 months beyond the buy operating period. On order contract and PR/MIPR
      assets excess to this level will be shown as a termination quantity. On order contract assets can be
      retained to this level, whereas, quantities in the process of acquisition (PR/MIPRs) must be reduced to
      the buy operating level, Figure 27.2. This level is also used to determine releasable assets to other
      DOD agencies on a non-reimbursable basis, or returned to production. The following data are each
      selected at the term point or AY buy point, whichever is greater: total base stock level, depot safety
      level, total overhaul stock level, W-B requirements, OWRM requirements, additives requirements
      non-recurring, OIM depot repair cycle requirements, NJR depot repair cycle requirements, and RDE
      depot repair cycle requirements. To this subtotal are added the following data elements each accumu-
      lated through the buy period: total JR condemnations, base condemnations, OIM Rep Gens condem-
      nations, NJR Rep Gens condemnations, and RDE Rep Gens condemnations. If the worldwide
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 291


  termination level is less than the worldwide buy operating level, the worldwide termination level is
  increased to equal the worldwide buy operating level.
  9.13.9. Worldwide Minimum Retention Level. The minimum retention level consists of the peak
  stock levels and repair cycle at the peak demand rate, the balance computed requirements reduced to
  condemnations and additives. Peak refers to the largest quarterly requirement during the 39 quarter
  computation span (38 quarters plus retention). This level contains both Air Force and FMS program
  requirements, and is used to determine on hand assets to be retained. To compute minimum retention
  level, add the following elements at the peak quarter: total base stock level, depot safety level, total
  overhaul stock level, W-B requirements, OWRM requirements, additives requirements non-recurring,
  OIM depot repair cycle requirements, NJR depot repair cycle requirements, and RDE depot repair
  cycle requirements. Then add the following data elements each accumulated through the buy period:
  Total JR condemnations, Base condemnations, OIM Rep Gen condemnations, NJR Rep Gen condem-
  nations, and RDE Rep Gen condemnations. This computed minimum retention level is adjusted using
  the Risk Factor, Base Reduction Factor and Condemnation Factor for the item on the RLAF table
  (Figure 6.11.). Calculate the Accumulated Total Condemnations as the total of the following data ele-
  ments accumulated through retention: Total JR condemnations, Base condemnations, OIM Rep Gen
  condemnations, NJR Rep Gen condemnations, and RDE Rep Gen condemnations. From the com-
  puted minimum retention level, subtract the Total Condemnations and subtract the additive require-
  ments non-recurring at the peak. Take this result times the Risk Factor, and add in the result from
  multiplying the Accumulated Total Condemnations times the Risk Factor times the Condemnation
  Factor. Finally, add the additive requirements non-recurring at the peak, and round the result to get the
  Adjusted Minimum Retention Level.
  9.13.10. The Worldwide Gross Retention Level. Is not displayed anywhere, but it is used to adjust
  other levels. The gross retention level consists of the authorized retention program span computed at
  the demand rate plus additives. This level contains both Air Force and FMS program requirements,
  and is used to determine on hand assets to be retained. The Total Net Repair Gens is computed as the
  OIM Generations Available From Repair, the NJR Generations Available From Repair, and the RDE
  Generations Available From Repair, each accumulated through retention. Calculate the Accumulated
  Total Condemnations as the total of the following data elements accumulated through retention: Total
  JR condemnations, Base condemnations, OIM Rep Gen condemnations, NJR Rep Gen condemna-
  tions, and RDE Rep Gen condemnations. If the repair cost is less than the unit price, the Reduce Fac-
  tor is the repair cost divided by the unit price rounded to 3 decimal places. Else the Reduce Factor is
  equal to 1. The gross retention level is determined using the Risk Factor, Base Reduction Factor and
  Condemnation Factor for the item on the RLAF table (Figure 6.11.). The Adjusted Minimum Reten-
  tion Level (paragraph 9.13.9.) is added to the Total Net Repair Gens times the Reduce Factor. That
  total is added to the product of the OIM base repair cycle requirement times the Reduce Factor times
  the Base Reduction Factor to get the gross retention level. From the gross retention level, subtract the
  Accumulated Total Condemnations and subtract the additive requirements non-recurring at the peak.
  Multiply this reduced gross retention level times the Risk Factor. To the resulting gross retention level,
  add the product of multiplying the Accumulated Total Condemnations times the Risk Factor times the
  Condemnation Factor. Finally, add the additive requirements non-recurring at the peak, and round the
  result to get the adjusted Gross Retention Level.
  9.13.11. Worldwide Select Retention Level. The select retention level is determined by comparing
  total serviceable assets to the worldwide minimum retention level and the worldwide gross retention
  level. If the serviceable assets equal or exceed the gross retention level, then the select retention level
292                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      is made equal to the gross retention level. If the serviceable assets are less than the gross retention
      level but greater than the minimum retention level, then the select retention level is made equal to the
      serviceable assets. If the serviceable assets are equal to or less than the minimum retention level, the
      select retention level is made equal to the minimum retention level. This select retention level is used
      to determine excess assets (see paragraph 9.13.4.).
      9.13.12. Distribution Levels. These levels are computed for output to D035A.
         9.13.12.1. CONTROL. The control level quantity is the same as the worldwide termination level
         quantity. It is used to determine whether or not to release assets against unprogrammed requisi-
         tions (requirements for those customers who have not been included in the SIRS computation).
         9.13.12.2. SUPPORT. The support level quantity is equal to 1 quarter's worth of the control level
         quantity. This is calculated by counting the number of months between the start of the computa-
         tion and the termination period and dividing the result into the control level quantity, rounding to
         an integer. It is used as a limit for the release of priority programmed requisitions (requirements
         for those customers who have been included in the SIRS computation).
         9.13.12.3. ROUTED RPR REPL. The Routed Repair Replacement Quantity (RRRQ) represents
         the number of serviceable assets excess to the total gross requirement. This quantity is selected at
         the 2ND OVER position for those items containing an overage quantity in every quarter from the
         start point through the buy period. The RRRQ is the smallest overage quantity appearing in any of
         the appropriate quarters. The source of repair uses these assets to prevent line-generated job repair.
         A line-generated item is an item generating as reparable while performance of PDM on an aircraft,
         engine overhaul, or repair of an NHA. This data can be viewed online FOE DIS SIRS RPR.
      9.13.13. SOURCES OF REPAIR AND PERCENTS. All sources (organic and contractor), which
      accomplish repair on the item, are displayed with the percent of repair accomplished at each source.
      The percents of repair always total to 100%. Form 206 repairs are recorded as OT. The sources of
      repair are as follows.

Table 9.70. Sources of Repair.
OC - OC-ALC             OO - OO-ALC                 SA – CPSG at San Antonio
WR - WR-ALC             CT - CONTRACTOR             OT - OTHER                       UN - UNKNOWN
DM – DMISA (Depot Maintenance Interservice Support Agreement)

      9.13.14. Delivery Schedule. This entry provides the IMS with a guide for peacetime procurement
      action on the item. It is based on the CSIS buy simulation. The following data elements are shown:
         9.13.14.1. PT BUY INIT DATE. The year and month in which procurement action should be
         started. The computation calculates the Peacetime Buy Initiation Date by taking the first quarter
         where the third short occurs, then backing up the number of months of procurement lead-time. The
         default is the month after the assets cutoff date. So if the asset cutoff is March, then the default
         date is April of that year.
         9.13.14.2. PT BUY QTY. The peacetime buy quantity, which should be placed on order.
         9.13.14.3. DEL BEGIN DATE. The simulated year and month when procurement deliveries will
         begin.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                293


       9.13.14.4. PHASED DELIVERY QUANTITY. The simulated phased deliveries of the on order
       quantity through the buy period. Quarter 5 will represent the buy period quarters. Quarters 1
       through 4 represent the four quarters prior to the buy period quantity.

9.14. Page 12 I & S FAMILY GROUP. Page 12 displays the entire Interchangeability and Substitut-
ability(I & S) family group, including the order of use code. The middle digit of the order of use code des-
ignates the Subgroup. The highest middle digit is the most preferred and I & S family master. Additional
members of a Subgroup are offset under the Sub Group Master (SGM). This information is printed as a
separate page. It is possible to change the order of use using the I&S Structure file maintenance screen
(see paragraph 14.15.).

Figure 9.20. Display SMCW page 13 Application Data.




9.15. Page 13 APPLICATION DATA. Page 13 (Figure 9.20.) displays all of the applications for the
item that were input by the ES through the API (D200F), along with the associated data for that applica-
tion as used on that item. The data elements that are displayed are as follows.
 Application Designator (the Standard Program Designator in API)
 Two-digit Application Program Select Code (APSC)
294                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


 Application Mission Item Essentiality Code
 Program development code
 Program begin date
 Quantity per application
 Application percent

9.16. Page 14 DEFERRALS PAGE. Displays any deferrals or adjustments to the computed require-
ment.
      9.16.1. Page 1 of the SMCW file maintenance screen (Figure 27.2.) looks like page 14 of the Display
      SMCW screen. The IMS can file maintain the FMS Rqmt and FMS PR QTY. Enter the SGM or NIIN.
      Enter a valid number for the quantity or type over the existing number. Documentation must be typed
      into the notepad. The selection "PUSH RDE TO PICA" is selected when the IMS wants to send
      revised Projected Recurring Demands to the PICA from the March, June or December cycles (see
      paragraph 27.2.2.).
      9.16.2. This is part of the Buy Breakout & Signature page on the printed computation. The IMS
      should complete the paper copy of the page in the SGM Computation Worksheet when the item is in a
      buy. Itemized deferrals and total dollars requiring approval will be shown. . Deferrals due to no actual
      experience might be listed here as a memo entry. If the deferrals were not taken, enter the total
      deferred quantity for the first replenishment requirements for DEFERRALS and subtract the DEFER-
      RALS from the AF POS Rqmt to get the scrubbed AF POS buy requirement, which is entered as AF
      POS Rqmt. On the September cycle, the IMS should use the quantities from the AY and WRM col-
      umns to initiate the PR. If on the following March cycle, the CY requirement (that portion of the
      requirement that represents 31 Mar to 30 Sep) is decreased, the IMS may protect the initiated PR
      quantity up to the remaining CY requirement plus the AY requirement. Any requirements, which
      exceed the AY requirement, must be reduced out of the PR. Additional CY requirements may be initi-
      ated from the March cycle; however, no BY requirements may be initiated from the March cycle.

9.17. Page 15 Coding and Approval. Page 15 displays the action codes and approval levels. This screen
should not be used. This is part of the Buy Breakout & Signature page on the printed computation. The
IMS should complete the paper copy of this page in the SGM Computation Worksheet.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008            295


Figure 9.21. Proration Technique.
296                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.22. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 1).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                 297


Figure 9.23. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 2).
298                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.24. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 3).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                 299


Figure 9.25. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 4).
300                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.26. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 5).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                 301


Figure 9.27. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 6).




Figure 9.28. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 7).
302                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.29. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 8).




Figure 9.30. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 9).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                  303


Figure 9.31. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 10).




Figure 9.32. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 11).
304                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 9.33. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 12).




Figure 9.34. SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (page 13).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            305


                                              Chapter 10

                                    ITEM RECOMPUTATIONS

10.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the procedures for the two types of item recomputations.
From the RMS main menu, select File Maintenance, then select Recoverables. Then, on the File Mainte-
nance Recoverable menu, there is a selection for FRIR and a selection for WTIR. The "For Real" Item
Recomputation (FRIR) is used to initiate a computation on an individual item, using file maintained data
element values to update the computation results that can be viewed online in the SIRS. The "What If
Item" Recomputation (WTIR) is used to temporarily change data elements on a "simulation" database and
produce results that can only be seen on a hard copy product. Neither recomputation updates data sent to
interfacing systems including Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS). Only data resulting from a
SIRS computation (initial, final and summary) are used to update CSIS.

Figure 10.1. File Maintenance FRIR For Real Item Recomp Screen.




10.2. "For Real" Item Recomputation.
   10.2.1. Any OPR, IMS, or ES that has a valid SIRS file maintenance password/ID can initiate “For
   Real” item recomputations. This recomputation uses the data on the SIRS database, including any
   data that was just file maintained. A recomputation, just like file maintenance, can only be done
   between the initial and final computations, and between the final and summary computations. File
306                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      maintenance and the recomputation cannot be done between the summary computation, and the next
      cycle's initial computation.
      10.2.2. After the user has completed file maintenance, access the FRIR screen (Figure 10.1.), FOE
      FM SIRS FRIR. Type the SGM. Selection of any of the output products is optional. By typing an "X"
      (non-GUI) or a clicking on the box (GUI) by the product, the user may select the SGM Computation
      Worksheet, the SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet or the Factors/Usage Printout. Press ENTER.
      The message "START RECOMP? CONFIRM Y/N" will appear. Enter "Y" and press ENTER. The
      message "RECOMPUTE SAFETY LEVELS? (Y/N)" will appear. Enter either "Y" or "N" and press
      ENTER. If the user responds "Y" for Yes, safety levels are recomputed; else if the user responds "N"
      for No, the previously computed safety levels are used in the re-computation. If an output product was
      requested, the message "JOB (number) HAS BEEN REQUESTED". Item re-computations are pro-
      cessed as required with SIRS output products provided to the requester within 30 minutes. If an output
      product was not requested, the message "ITEM RECOMP COMPLETED" will appear. Either mes-
      sage is an indication that the request for a “For Real” item recomputation was successful and the SIRS
      data base now reflects the use of file maintained data element values in the computed results. The
      results of the “For Real” item re-computation are available for online viewing upon the successful
      completion of the re-computation request.
      10.2.3. An item with a no-compute code of N or an obsolete item cannot be changed through the SIRS
      process to a demand-based, insurance, Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO), or military contingency
      item. An insurance item or an NSO item cannot be changed to computing.
      10.2.4. When a "For Real" re-computation is performed, a message is displayed on the ES Review
      List (see paragraph 12.2.8.12.) of all of the immediate next lower assemblies notifying the ESs that
      their Next Higher Assembly (NHA) Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) programs may
      have changed.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               307


Figure 10.2. File Maintenance WTIR What If Item Recomp Screen.




10.3. "What If" Item Recomputation.
   10.3.1. The "What If" item recomputation is a simulated computation and does not permanently
   change any SIRS data element, nor is the data used to update CSIS. When an error is not corrected
   during the file maintenance process prior to the SIRS summary computation or when the IMS or ES
   wants to see the impact of a management decision on the item, the IMS or ES can request a “What If”
   recomputation to simulate the computational results with the corrected or projected data elements.
   10.3.2. An item with a no-compute code of N or an obsolete item cannot be changed through the SIRS
   process to a demand-based, insurance, Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO), or military contingency
   item. An insurance item or an NSO item cannot be changed to computing. The user can explore these
   possibilities, in a simulation mode only, by using a similar item that already is computing and then
   changing all the necessary data. Great care must be taken to ensure that all the data is corrected espe-
   cially future programs, rates/percents, etc.
   10.3.3. Any OPR, IMS, or ES that has a valid file maintenance password/ID can initiate “What If”
   recomputations. From the File Maintenance Recoverables menu, select WTIR, FOE FM SIRS WTIR.
   Then on the WTIR screen (Figure 10.2.) type the SGM and select at least one output product, and
   press ENTER. The user can get the SGM Computation Worksheet, the SGM OWRM Computation
   Worksheet, the Factors/Usage Printout, the Budget CSIS, and the Repair CSIS. The Budget and
308                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      Repair CSIS products are available only between the Final and Summary computations. The “What
      If” recomputation results are not displayed online.
      10.3.4. The IRFM menu (Figure 10.3.) is displayed, listing all the “What If" Simulation Screens. The
      simulation screens are images of the regular file maintenance screens, but reflect an "S" in the front
      part of the screen designator to indicate simulation. For example, the SADR screen includes the same
      data elements as the ADRQ file maintenance screen. The "S" causes SIRS to only use the changed
      data to produce the “What If” results and does not result in a permanent change to any SIRS data ele-
      ment. The ten “What If” simulation screens available for simulated changes are described in para-
      graphs 10.4. through 10.13. Select the simulation screen, type the changed data, and press ENTER.
      Select DONE, to go back to the IRFM menu.

Figure 10.3. File Maintenance IRFM Item Recomp Menu.




      10.3.5. After file maintaining all the data on the simulation screens, go back to the IRFM menu and
      select "STR" START ITEM RECOMP. The WTIF screen (Figure 10.2.) is displayed again. The mes-
      sage "START RECOMP? CONFIRM Y/N" will appear. Enter "Y" and press ENTER. The message
      "RECOMPUTE SAFETY LEVELS? (Y/N)" will appear. Enter either "Y" or "N" and press ENTER.
      If the user responds "Y" for Yes, safety levels are recomputed; else if the user responds "N" for No, the
      previously computed safety levels are used in the re-computation. The message "JOB (number) HAS
      BEEN REQUESTED" will be displayed. SIRS does the recomputation, and provides the output prod-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                309


   ucts displaying the results. If the user changes the SGM before submitting the recomputation, SIRS
   asks the user to choose whether to discard the previous file maintenance or continue. The user cannot
   start a new recomputation until the previous one is processed or discarded. If the user leave the SIRS
   system before submitting the recomputation, all file maintenance is discarded.
   10.3.6. “What If” item recomputations must not be used as a substitute for timely file maintenance.
   The use of “What If” computations in lieu of the SIRS summary computation must be documented on
   the SIRS “What If” Item Recomputation. The SIRS notepad is not available from the WTIR screen
   nor is this notepad available after the summary computation is run. “What If” Item Recomputations
   can be initiated any time, but should not be run at the same time as a SIRS computation is running.

Figure 10.4. File Maintenance SADR Simulation Additives Screen.




10.4. Simulation Additives. The SADR screen (Figure 10.4.) provides the capability to update any of
the additive requirements that can be file maintained in the SIRS. The Due Out To Maintenance (DOTM)
is updated on the Non Time Phased Asset screen. The user can make multiple selections on the SADR
screen. SIRS will display each screen, left to right, top to bottom. As the user updates the screen, and
presses ENTER, SIRS displays the next screen that was selected. . The same file maintenance rules for
phasing and straightlining quarterly entries also apply to the data on this simulation screen. Type over the
existing value. The file maintained value is straightlined into all subsequent quarters where the values
310                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


were equal to the original value prior to file maintenance. The first value that is different stops the
straightlining. To change selected quarters but not all quarters with the same value, file maintenance of the
new value must be done in the first quarter to be changed and the original value must be entered in the
quarter that is to remain unchanged, to stop the straight-lining at that quarter (see paragraph 25.3.6.). The
additive requirements that can be simulated are as follows:

Table 10.1. Additives Requirements.
Mission Directed                                             Test Stands
W-B Requirements (Readiness Spares Packages)                 Mobile Training Units
War Consumable Distribution Objective (WCDO)                 OWRM Requirements
Retrofit-Modification                                        Bench Mock-Up
Special Program Requirements                                 Foreign Military Sales (FMS) H-Coded
                                                             Backorders
GFAE/GFM/GFP                                                 Special Projects
FMS Requirements                                             Initial Installations
Support Equipment                                            CAD/PAD
High Priority Mission Support Kits (HPMSK)                   TASK
RDE Recurring Requirements
Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) Non-Recurring
Requirements
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             311


Figure 10.5. File Maintenance SALV Simulation Adjusted Levels Screen.




10.5. Simulation Adjusted Levels. The SALV screen (Figure 10.5.) provides the capability to change
any of the adjusted levels by SRAN. The same file maintenance rules for adjusted levels also apply to the
data on this simulation screen (see paragraph 24.5.).

10.6. Simulation Basic Management Data. The SBMD screen (Figure 10.6.) provides the capability to
change selected data elements on the basic management data screen. If an item is changed to a Life of
Type Buy item, the Life of Type additive is computed and added into the non-recurring additive require-
ment. If an items is changed from a Life of Type Buy item to a regular item, the Life of Type Buy addi-
tives are deleted and removed from the total non recurring additive requirement. The same rules for file
maintenance of each of the following data elements also apply to the simulation screen (see Chapter 14).
Item name                            Budget code, including SMC and MPC
Item category                        Activity code
Actual unit price                    Date of last procurement (DOLP)
ICS/RIW code                         ICS/RIW expiration date
312                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Deferred disposal code          Deferred disposal level
OWRM exclusion indicator
Lot size quantity

Figure 10.6. File Maintenance SBMD (Simulation Basic Management Data Screen).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                313


Figure 10.7. File Maintenance SFAD Simulation Factor Data Screen.




10.7. Simulation Factors. The SFAD screen (Figure 10.7.) provides the capability to change the factors
data. The rates and percents can be simulated for any or all of the current or 1st through 5th forecasts, by
typing over the existing value. For the Total Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance Demand Rate
(TOIMDR), all positions of the field must be filled, including the decimal ( 0.0500 or 1.1200). The factor
indicator code must be compatible with the file maintenance. Enter Y's in any current through fifth fore-
cast factor to revert that field to the value indicated by the corresponding Factor Indicator code position
(see paragraph 17.26.). If any element in any year is file maintained, the field is updated and the SRCs
of all following element/forecast year combinations are updated to "E". If the user file maintains a Factor
Indicator code that overrides estimates, the corresponding fields (all forecast years) on the screen are
changed in accordance with the factor indicator. If the Factor Indicator is file maintained at the same time
as the corresponding element and the selected Factor Indicator does not allow for estimate values, an error
message is displayed. If the user inputs a Factor Indicator of "P' and the corresponding element file main-
tenance does not exceed the 8 quarter Moving Averaged History (MAH) value, SIRS defaults to the 8
quarter MAH value. If the Base RTS Exclusion Indicator is changed to an "X" the Base NRTS % field is
set to 100, and Base Condemnations % is set to zero for all forecast years. If the Base RTS Exclusion Indi-
cator is changed to from a "X" to a blank, SIRS computes values for the Base NRTS % and Base Condem-
314                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


nations % fields. If the Base RTS Exclusion Indicator is "X" and the user file maintains those fields, an
error message is displayed.

Figure 10.8. File Maintenance SIPD Simulation Item Program Data Screen.




10.8. Simulation Item Programs. The SIPD screen (Figure 10.8.) provides the capability to change
future peacetime and war program data. Past programs cannot be changed. Select "P" or "W" and type the
standard program designator (application), program type (1 - Flying Hours, 3 - Inventory Months, 4 - Pro-
grammed Depot Maintenance (PDM), 5 - Sorties, 7 - Drones, 8 - Ammo Expenditures and 9 - MISTR,
and service code (A for Air Force) and press ENTER. The program data screen is displayed. If data is not
found, zeros are displayed. Both peace and war programs are displayed by quarters. When updating war
data, enter 3 months worth of program data into the field for the quarter. Type over the existing program
data, and press ENTER. SIRS will compute the item installed programs needed for the computation. The
Quantity Per Application (QPA), application percent, and program begin date for the application cannot
be changed.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                      315


Figure 10.9. File Maintenance SNTP Simulation Non Time Phased Assets Screen.




10.9. Simulation Non Time Phased Assets. The SNTP screen (Figure 10.9.) provides the capability to
change the serviceable, unserviceable and Technical Order Compliance (TOC) assets for purpose code
0A, and to change the Due Out To Maintenance (DOTM) requirements. Type over the existing values.
Press ENTER when all changes have been made. If the user updates the On Loan assets, SIRS computes
the On Load additive as equal to the On Loan assets.
316                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 10.2. Screen
Serviceable assets.       Unserviceable assets.         Other
Base/Depot                Base                          Technical Order Compliance (TOC)
WRSK/BLSS                 Depot                         DOTM requirements
OWRM                      OWRM
Contractor                Contractor
On loan                   On work order (OWO)
Intransit                 Intransit

10.10. Simulation Pipeline Data Screen. The SPLD screen (Figure 10.10.) provides the capability to
change simulate pipeline data and lead time days. The administrative and production lead-time months,
the total depot repair cycle days and the repair lead-time days, both regular and time-phased, cannot be
simulated, as they are derived data elements. If the base repair cycle days are entered and the current base
NRTS % is equal to 100, a message is displayed that the base repair cycle days should be zero. If the time
phased depot repair cycle effective date is changed to zero, then all time phased fields are set to zero. If
the time phased depot repair cycle date is zero and the user enters values in any of the time phased fields,
a message is displayed that the date must be entered. The date must not be before the asset cutoff date, and
must end in 03, 06 09 or 12. All the rules for file maintenance also apply to the data elements on this sim-
ulation screen (see Chapter 23). Enter "Ys" to change the file maintained values to the actual values from
the interfacing systems. Enter "Zs" to change to the default values. A warning messages is displayed when
the file maintained value exceeds the corresponding data element in the Standard Data Table (see Figure
6.19.). A warning message is displayed when the file maintained value for base O&ST days, base repair
cycle days, and base processing days, exceeds the corresponding default value by 10 days, and base repair
cycle days exceeds the corresponding default value by 10 days, and base repair processing days, exceeds
the corresponding default value by 3 days.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                               317


Figure 10.10. File Maintenance SPLD Simulation Pipeline Data Screen.
318                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 10.11. File Maintenance STPA Simulation Time Phased Assets Screen.




10.11. Simulation Time Phased Assets. The STPA screen (Figure 10.11.) provides the capability to
update any of the time phased due in and on order assets that can be file maintained in the SIRS. The user
can make multiple selections on the STPA screen. SIRS will display each screen, left to right, top to bot-
tom. As the user updates the screen, and presses ENTER, SIRS displays the next screen that was selected.
Type over the existing values. The fields can be a valid number of "Ys" to revert to the actual data input
from the interfacing system. On order PR funded and PR unfunded fields are only file maintainable in the
last quarter. For more information about the time phased assets, see paragraphs 26.8. and 26.9.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                319


Figure 10.12. File Maintenance SUSD Simulation Usage Data Screen.




10.12. Simulation Usage. The SUSD screen (Figure 10.12.) provides the capability to update any of the
usage that can be file maintained in the SIRS. The user can make multiple selections on the SUSD screen.
SIRS will display each screen, left to right, top to bottom. Type over the existing values. When all changes
to that screen have been made, press ENTER. SIRS displays the next screen that was selected. Any or all
of the eight quarters for each type of usage can be changed. The simulation of usage will cause SIRS to
recompute the rates and percents before using them in the “What If” item recomputation. The past pro-
gram resident in the SIRS will be used in conjunction with the simulated past usage to develop the simu-
lated rates and percents, but the past program cannot be simulated. The rules for file maintenance also
apply to the following data elements on this simulation screen (see paragraph 15.6. and paragraph
16.12.).
       Base condemnations
       Base NRTS
       Base RTS
       MISTR condemnations
320                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


       Depot condemnations (total)
       Depot reparable generations
       MISTR repairs (total for the SGM)

Figure 10.13. File Maintenance SWD Simulation War Data Screen.




10.13. Simulation War Data. The SWD screen (Figure 10.13.) provides the capability to change the
war rates and percents, war pipeline days, war adjustment factor, work unit code, floating stock level, and
number of users used in the Other War Reserve Material (OWRM) computation. The rules for file main-
tenance also apply to the data elements on this simulation screen (see Chapter 21). File maintained val-
ues are validated against the OWRM Table (see Figure 6.14.). If the updated values exceed those
standards, a warning message is displayed. SIRS will not allow the updated values to exceed the peace
time values, and when this occurs, SIRS assigns the peacetime value. The user can enter "Zs" to revert to
a default value. If the file maintained value is a factor other than the TOIMDR, file "Zs" replace the value
with the peacetime value form the EY time period.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                321


                                               Chapter 11

                                  INDEX OF ACTIONS PRODUCTS

11.1. Introduction. SIRS produces 15 Index of Actions reports. The Index of Actions products list, by
subgroup master stock number, items, which should be considered for acquisition, termination/PR reduc-
tion, disposal, repair negotiations, rescheduling of on order assets, or expediting deliveries of on order
quantities. The hard copy products are pushed to the ALC OPRs from the initial, final and summary com-
putation cycles. Displayed on the hard copy, is the two position cycle indicator, after the AS OF date. The
first position is an "I", "F" or "S" to identify the computation cycle (Initial, Final or Summary). The sec-
ond field is a number representing the number of times that item has been recomputed, with 0 meaning the
item has not been re-computed

11.2. The Buy, Termination & Excess I/A Products. Listed below are the 9 buy, termination, and
excess Index of Actions reports.
   11.2.1. Index Of Action Net Buy by NSN (AD200.AF0A#8A4) (Figure 11.4.). This product pro-
   vides the computed buy quantities and dollars by National Stock Number (NSN).
   11.2.2. Index Of Action Net Buy by MMAC/FSC (AD200.AE8A#8A4) (Figure 11.5.). This prod-
   uct provides the computed buy quantities and dollars by Material Management Aggregation Coded
   (MMAC) and Federal Stock Class (FSC).
   11.2.3. Index Of Action Net Buy by BP/SMC (AD200.AFWA#8A4) (Figure 11.6.). This product
   provides the computed buy quantities and dollars by Budget Program (BP) and System Management
   Code (SMC).
   11.2.4. Index Of Action Termination by NSN (AD200.AF1A#8A4) (Figure 11.7.). This product
   provides the computed termination quantities and dollars by NSN.
   11.2.5. Index Of Action Termination by MMAC/FSC (AD200.AFXA#8A4) (Figure 11.8.). T h i s
   product provides the computed termination and dollars by MMAC and FSC.
   11.2.6. Index Of Action Termination by BP/SMC (AD200.AFYA#8A4) (Figure 11.9.). T h i s
   product provides the computed termination and dollars by BP/SMC.
   11.2.7. Index Of Action Excess by NSN (AD200.AF2A#8A4) (Figure 11.10.). This product pro-
   vides the computed excess quantities and dollars by NSN.
   11.2.8. Index Of Action Excess by MMAC/FSC (AD200.AG1A#8A4) (Figure 11.11.). This prod-
   uct provides the computed excess quantities and dollars by MMAC/FSC.
   11.2.9. Index Of Action Excess by BP/SMC (AD200.AGYA#8A4) (Figure 11.12.). This product
   provides the computed excess quantities and dollars by BP/SMC.

11.3. The Repair I/A Products. Listed below are the six Repair Index of Actions reports.
   11.3.1. Index Of Action Repair by MMAC/FSC by AY (D200.AJHA#87I) (Figure 11.13.). T h i s
   product provides the computed repair input quantities and dollars by MMAC/FSC for the Apportion-
   ment Year (AY).
322                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      11.3.2. Index Of Action Repair by BP/SMC by AY (AD200.AJIA87I) (Figure 11.14.). This prod-
      uct provides the computed repair input quantities and dollars by BP/SMC for the AY.
      11.3.3. Index Of Action Repair by IMS by AY (AD200.AJKA#87I) (Figure 11.15.). T h i s p r o d -
      uct provides the computed repair input quantities and dollars by Inventory Management Specialist
      (IMS) code by AY.
      11.3.4. Index Of Action Repair by Division by AY (AD200.AJLA#87I) (Figure 11.16.). T h i s
      product provides the computed repair input quantities and dollars by Division code by AY.
      11.3.5. Index Of Action Repair by ES by AY (AD200.AJMA#87I) (Figure 11.17.). This product
      provides the computed repair input quantities and dollars by Equipment Specialist code by AY.
      11.3.6. Index Of Action Repair by Division by SGM (AD200.AJNA#87I) (Figure 11.18.). T h i s
      product provides the computed repair input quantities and dollars by Division code by Sub Group
      Master (SGM).

11.4. Product Format for the Buy, Termination, and Excess I/A Reports. The top line displays the
ALC. On some reports the MMAC & FSC or the BP & SMC are identified.
      11.4.1. NSN SGM. This entry represents the I&S subgroup master/bachelor stock number that has
      been computed. These stock numbers are sequenced in descending order based upon the highest to
      lowest extended dollar value of the product.
      11.4.2. BP. This is the two-digit Budget Program that is a part of the 10-digit Budget Code assigned
      to the item. (See paragraph 14.2.1.).
      11.4.3. SMC. This is the four-digit System Management Code that is a part of the 10-digit Budget
      Code assigned to the item. (See paragraph 14.2.2.).
      11.4.4. IMS. The three-digit Item Management Specialist code.
      11.4.5. ES. The three-digit Equipment Specialist code.
      11.4.6. PMS. The three-digit Production Management Specialist code.
      11.4.7. ITM DFR CDE. The Item Deferred Disposal code can be C (common application), P (pecu-
      liar application), M (military contingency), F (FMS), G (general requirement), R (IMS decision), or
      blank. (See paragraph 14.3.1.).
      11.4.8. Itm Ctg Cde. The Item Category Code can be an "I" (insurance), "S" (numerical stockage
      objective), or blank (active item), or "L", "Y" or "Z" (Life Of Type Buy) item. (See paragraph 14.6.).
      11.4.9. AMC. The Acquisition Method Code and suffix code as received from RIID. It identifies the
      extent of screening and internal management procedures for determining future procurement process-
      ing.
      11.4.10. ERRC Code. The one position Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability, Category Code
      applicable to the I&S subgroup master/bachelor stock number. The code can be “C”, “T”, “N” or “P”.
      (See paragraph 1.2.4.).
      11.4.11. U-P FCST. The Forecast Unit Price is the result of multiplying the unit price by the appro-
      priate inflation factor as determined by the Date Of Last Procurement (DOLP). (See paragraph
      14.11.2.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                323


  11.4.12. U-P Comp. The actual Unit Price. (See paragraph 14.11.1.)
  11.4.13. The Index of Action Products for Net Buy. Will list the Buy Qty and Buy Dollars in the
  last two columns.
     11.4.13.1. Buy Qty. The total net buy requirement that has been computed in the computation.
     The quantity is that figure which is displayed on the 3rd short position at the Buy Period column
     and also on the results page of the SGM Computation Worksheet. When an * is displayed, the buy
     quantity is less than or equal to 5% of the worldwide buy operating level.
     11.4.13.2. Buy Dollars. The extended value in dollars and cents of the net buy quantity, obtained
     by multiplying the quantity by the forecast unit price. This is the dollar value by which the buy
     item indices are sequenced. Buy items are listed in descending order starting with the highest net
     buy value.
  11.4.14. The Index of Action products for Net Term. Will list the Term Qty and Term Dollars in
  the last two columns.
     11.4.14.1. Term Qty. The total on order quantity (sum of on order purchase request funded and on
     order contract), which is excess to the worldwide termination level. The excess on order quantity
     is determined by comparing worldwide assets, including the on order quantities, to the worldwide
     termination level developed in the requirements computation. The terminable quantity developed
     this way could be different than that which is shown on the 3rd over position at the Termination
     Period column of the requirements computation worksheet. The termination quantity to be consid-
     ered for action is that which is shown on the results page of the requirements computation work-
     sheet.
     11.4.14.2. Term Dollars. The extended value in dollars and cents of the contract termination quan-
     tity, obtained by multiplying the quantity by the unit price. This is the dollar value by which the
     termination item indices are sequenced. Termination items are listed in descending order, starting
     with the highest contract termination value.
  11.4.15. The Index of Action products for Net Excess. Will list the Excess Qty and Excess Dollars
  in the last two columns.
     11.4.15.1. Excess Qty. The total excess quantity of assets (sum of serviceable, unserviceable,
     TOC, and due-in assets), which are excess to the worldwide select retention level. The excess
     quantity is determined by comparing the total non-obsolete assets to the worldwide select reten-
     tion level. Added to that excess quantity are the obsolete assets reported for the I&S subgroup
     master/bachelor stock number. Items that carry a deferred disposal code will have their excess
     quantities included. The excess quantity to be considered for action is that which is shown on the
     results page of the requirements computation worksheet.
     11.4.15.2. Excess Dollars. The extended value in dollars and cents of the excess quantity,
     obtained by multiplying the quantity by the actual unit price. This is the dollar value by which the
     excess item indices are sequenced. Excess items are listed in descending order starting with the
     highest excess value.
  11.4.16. Value Sub Total. If displayed, this is the total dollar value of all of the items listed, for the
  category displayed at the top of the page.
324                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      11.4.17. Items Sub Total. If displayed, this is the total number of items, for the category displayed at
      the top of the page.
      11.4.18. Value Grand Total. The total dollar value of all of the items listed on the applicable Index
      of Action product.
      11.4.19. Items Grand Total. The total number of items listed on the applicable Index of Action
      product.

11.5. Product Format for the Repair I/A Reports. The item will be displayed only if it computes a
repair requirement in the AY.
      11.5.1. NSN SGM. This entry represents the I&S subgroup master/bachelor stock number that has
      been computed. These stock numbers are sequenced in descending order based upon the highest to
      lowest extended dollar value of repair in the apportionment year. This applies to all the indices except
      D200.AJNA#87I (Division, Master Stock Number), which is in stock number sequence.
      11.5.2. Unit Repair Man-Hr. The unit repair man-hours is the maintenance standard direct product
      hours that it will take to repair the stock number.
      11.5.3. Unit Rpr Cost/FCST Unit Price. The Unit Weighted Repair Cost computed by SIRS. (See
      paragraph 15.7.13.). The Forecast Unit Price computed by SIRS. (See paragraph 14.11.2.).
      11.5.4. FY. The first fiscal year column represents the Apportionment Year (AY) in the requirements
      computation, also called the operating year. It will represent 4 quarters for the 30 June and 30 Septem-
      ber cycles, 3 quarters for the 31 December cycle and 2 quarters for the 31 March cycle. The second
      column is the Budget Year (BY). The third column is the Extended Year (EY).
      11.5.5. Input Qty. Represents the net MISTR input quantity computed for the AY. The net MISTR
      input combines the peacetime, WRSK/BLSS, and OWRM quantities.
      11.5.6. Dollar Value. The dollar value is determined by the repair cost times the input quantity devel-
      oped for this fiscal year. This is the dollar value by which the repair item indices are sequenced.
      Repair items are listed in descending order starting with the highest repair value.
      11.5.7. Total Man-Hr. The total man-hours, which are determined by multiplying the unit repair
      man-hours times, the input quantity developed for the AY.
      11.5.8. MIEC. The 3 position Mission Item Essentially Code defines how essential the item is to the
      wartime mission of the weapon system. (See paragraph 18.28.).
      11.5.9. Itm Cat. The Item Category Code can be an "I" (insurance), "S" (numerical stockage objec-
      tive), or blank (active item), or "L", "Y" or "Z" (Life Of Type Buy) item. (See paragraph 14.6.).
      11.5.10. ICS RIW. The Interim Contract Support/Reliability Improvement Warranty code is a “C” to
      identify ICS items and a “W” to identify RIW items. (See paragraph 14.4.)
      11.5.11. ICS RIW Exp Dt. This is the expiration date (YYMM) of the ICS or RIW code. (See para-
      graph 14.4.).
      11.5.12. SOR/PCT. Five Source Of Repair Percentages can be displayed. (See paragraph 15.7.14.).
      11.5.13. Sub Total Items. The sub-total items (master stock numbers) are printed under each appli-
      cable fiscal year column.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               325


   11.5.14. Sub Total Units. The sub-total units (net MISTR input quantity) are printed under each
   applicable Fiscal Year (FY) column.
   11.5.15. Sub Total M-Hrs. The sub-total man-hours are printed under each applicable fiscal year
   column.
   11.5.16. Sub Total Value. The sub-total dollar value (input quantity times unit repair cost) for all
   items with extended dollar values are printed under each applicable FY column.
   11.5.17. Grand Total Items. The total items (master stock numbers) are printed under each applica-
   ble fiscal year column.
   11.5.18. Grand Total Units. The total units (net MISTR input quantity) are printed under each appli-
   cable Fiscal Year (FY) column.
   11.5.19. Grand Total M-Hrs. The total man-hours are printed under each applicable fiscal year col-
   umn.
   11.5.20. Grand Total Value. The total dollar value (input quantity times unit repair cost) for all items
   with extended dollar values are printed under each applicable FY column.

11.6. Display Index Of Actions Screens.
   11.6.1. These products are also displayed online. From the Display SIRS menu, select INDX, which
   will bring up the only screen, the IOA screen (Figure 11.1.), DIS SIRS INDX IOA. Place an "X" by
   the selection and press ENTER. Only one type of Index, and one sort criteria can be selected at a time.
   Some sort criteria are marked as "repair only" meaning that selection is only valid for the Repair Index
   of Action.
326                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 11.1. Display IOA Index Of Actions Selection Screen.




      11.6.2. View additional data by using the scrolling commands (FORW, BACK). Only current cycle
      data can be viewed. After the AS OF date is an "I", "F" or "S" to identify the computation cycle (Ini-
      tial, Final or Summary). The second field is a number representing the number of times that item has
      been recomputed, with 0 meaning the item has not been re-computed.
      11.6.3. Figure 11.2. is an example of a Net Buy display screen. See paragraph 11.4. for explanations
      of the data elements displayed. The Buy screen displays SGMs in descending dollar value based on
      the computed dollar value of the buy quantity. The Termination screen displays SGMs in descending
      dollar value based on the computed dollar value of the termination quantity. The Excess screen dis-
      plays SGMs in descending dollar value based on the computed dollar value of the excess quantity. If
      there are two equal dollar values, the data is displayed in ascending SGM order. Grand Total Value is
      the total dollar value. Grand Total Items is the total number of SGMs.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              327


Figure 11.2. Display IOA Index Of Actions Buy Screen.




   11.6.4. There are two screens for the Repair Index (Figure 11.3.). Use the paging commands to view
   both screens (RIGH, LEFT) and the scrolling commands to view additional data. The first (left) screen
   displays SGMs in descending dollar value based on the computed dollar value of the repair quantity
   for the Apportionment Year (AY). If there are two equal dollar values, the data is displayed in ascend-
   ing SGM order. If the user selected ALC, DIV and NSN sequence, then the report is displayed sorted
   by SGM only, not dollar value. After the AY data, the Budget Year (BY) and Extended Year (EY) data
   is displayed for each item. The following four totals are displayed in 3 columns for each fiscal year
   (AY, BY and EY). Total Items is the total number of SGMS. Total Units is the number of units. Total
   M-Hrs is the total number of man-hours. Total Value is the total dollar value. The second (right)
   screen displays additional data. See paragraph 11.5. for explanations of the data elements displayed
   on both Repair screens.
328                                                             AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 11.3. Display IOA Index Of Actions Repair Screen Left.




Figure 11.4. Index of Actions Net Buy (By NSN).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                329


Figure 11.5. Index of Actions Net Buy (By MMAC/FSC)




Figure 11.6. Index of Actions – Net Buy (By BP/SMC).




Figure 11.7. Index of Actions – Termination (By NSN).
330                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 11.8. Index of Actions – Termination (By MMAC/FSC).




Figure 11.9. Index of Actions – Termination (By BP/SMC).




Figure 11.10. Index of Actions – Excess (By NSN).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                             331


Figure 11.11. Index of Actions – Excess (By MMAC/FSC).




Figure 11.12. Index of Actions – Excess (By BP/SMC).




Figure 11.13. Index of Action Repair MMAC XX FSC XXXX By Apportionment Year Value.
332                                                            AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 11.14. Index of Action Repair BP XX SMC XXXX By Apportionment Year Value.




Figure 11.15. Index of Action Repair IMS XXX By Apportionment Year Value.




Figure 11.16. Index of Action Repair Division x Apportionment Year Value.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                           333


Figure 11.17. Index of Action Repair ES By Apportionment Year Value.




Figure 11.18. Index of Action Repair Division x By Subgroup Master Stock Number.
334                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                Chapter 12

                         EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST REVIEW PRODUCTS

12.1. Introduction. SIRS produces output products that provide information for Equipment Specialist
(ES) review of the stock numbers that the ES is responsible for. The ES Review List and the Old Stock
Number Usage products are described in this chapter, along with the Output Products Equipment Special-
ist selection screen (Figure 12.3.). Also in this chapter are the explanations of other terms related to items
failures, and the ES Checklist. When the unit price is less than unit repair cost, the item should be consid-
ered a “consumable” verses a “repairable” based on economic reasons of “throw away” verses “repair it”.
If an item breaches the 75% threshold it is to be reviewed by the ES or Engineer for possible ERRC code
change. For further information on cost to repair, see AFMCI 23-112 and for ERRC/SMR codes TO
00-25-195.

12.2. ES Review List. The hard copy ES Review List (Figure 12.4.) is pushed to the ES when the initial,
final and summary SIRS computation products are printed. This list for each ES, contains all items, which
require action or review for the cycle. This product provides, by ES code, the buy, repair, termination, and
excess quantities and dollars for each of the items within an ES code. Also, the product provides messages
to indicate potential discrepancies, reflected on the items assigned to the ES code. The ES should use this
product to help them in their review of their items.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               335


Figure 12.1. Display IRL IMS/ES Review List Screen.




The IMS/ES Review List can also be viewed at DIS SIRS PFI IRL. (Figure 12.1.). The IRL screen dis-
plays data that should be reviewed. The menu allows the user to sort stock numbers by ALC, division,
IMS code, and ES code. The user must select no computes, terminations, buys, excesses, or repairs. For
Figure 12.1., the ALC code and IMS code have been typed, then ENTER was pressed. To see additional
data for this IMS, type FOR at the command line. Some items will also have messages listed to identify
possible discrepancies in the data elements resident on the SIRS database (see paragraph 12.2.8.). Any
one with access to SIRS can access the IRL screen. Typing any letter or number in the block to the left of
a message, and pressing ENTER, will cause SIRS to put the last 3 positions of that user's id into that
block. The purpose of the block to the left of the message is to let a user annotate that the condition has
been reviewed and /or fixed.
   12.2.1. NSN SGM/NSN CSN. Listed under NSN SGM is the sub group master NSN for the assigned
   item. If there are substitute items (NSN CSN) within the sub group, they will be offset underneath the
   NSN SGM.
   12.2.2. ITEM CATEGORY. Displays the item category of the item, either "I" (insurance), "S"
   (numeric stockage objective), or blank (active item), or "L", "Y" or "Z" (Life Of Type Buy) item. (See
   paragraph 14.6.).
   12.2.3. CONDITION. Displays either "Buy", "Repair", "Termination", or "Excess".
336                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      12.2.4. DOLLARS. The total dollars projected for the quantity of the condition displayed.
      12.2.5. QUANTITY. The quantity projected for the condition displayed.
      12.2.6. ES. The equipment specialist assigned to the sub group master.
      12.2.7. PMS. The production management specialist assigned to the sub group master.
      12.2.8. Messages. (xxxxx means that various data elements could be identified with this message).
         12.2.8.1. "COMP xxxxx JR CNDMN PCT > 100". The xxxxx job routed condemnation percent
         used in the computation is greater than 100%. Check for the data element for validity. (See para-
         graph 17.17.).
         12.2.8.2. "xxxxx > STD DEV CHK". This means that the current computed percent is very differ-
         ent from the average. The ES should check the data that was used to compute this percent. SIRS
         computes an average or mean from the computed percentages for the past 7 quarters and compares
         that number to the current computed percent. The variance is compared to the value MAX NR OF
         STD DEV on the Standard Data Table (see Figure 6.17.).
         12.2.8.3. "xxxxx > STANDARD". The data element has been compared to the corresponding
         default value on the Standard Data Table-ERRC (Figure 6.19.). Check the data element for valid-
         ity.
         12.2.8.4. "xxxxx EXCEEDS STD". Same as paragraph 12.2.8.3. above.
         12.2.8.5. "xxxxx EXC STD DEV". Same as paragraph 12.2.8.2. above.
         12.2.8.6. "DEMAND DATA NOT FOUND" Item has no usage. (See Chapter 16).
         12.2.8.7. "DEP REP GENS W/PRM SEL CD -000". This item has depot reparable generations
         but the program select code indicates no depot level maintenance program that is an error.
         Research and file maintain either the correct depot reparable generations in SIRS or the correct
         depot program in Application Program Indenture (API) system, or D200F (see paragraph 16.8.).
         12.2.8.8. "DEPOT CNDMN ARE < NRTS-JR CNDMN". The depot condemnations are less
         than the MISTR condemnations. Research and file maintain the correct values. (See paragraph
         17.17.).
         12.2.8.9. "FORECAST xxxxx PCT". This identifies which percent was file maintained instead of
         being computed by SIRS. Check for validity. (See Chapter 17).
         12.2.8.10. "INPUT PROPER APPL PRGM SEL CODE (APSC)". When the item program select
         code is all zeroes, and the item is not a container (has a Federal Stock Class = 8145), this message
         is produced. Research and file maintain the correct application program select code in API. (See
         paragraph 18.27.).
         12.2.8.11. "ITEM SHOULD BE REVWED FOR CATG CHG". Item is coded insurance or
         Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO), but should be coded active, based on the item's computed
         factors, which are not being used in the computation. Review usage and computed factors for
         validity and consider changing item category code. (See paragraph 14.6. and Chapter 16 and
         Chapter 17).
         12.2.8.12. "MISTR CHANGED FROM HIGHER ASSEMBLY". This is a warning message that
         the item’s Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) program may have changed because
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              337


       a "for real" re-computation was run for this item’s next higher assembly. Therefore, this item's
       requirements may have changed.
       12.2.8.13. "USE FACTORS DID NOT SUM TO ONE". The equipment specialist can ignore this
       message. This is a warning message that the Aircraft Availability analyst at HQ AFMC should
       research.
       12.2.8.14. “TOTAL DEP REP GENS LESS THAN JR CNDMN". The total depot reparable gen-
       erations are less than the job routed condemnations. Research and file maintain the correct values.
       (See paragraph 16.8.)
       12.2.8.15. “MDS MISSING WITH MAJCOM USAGE.” Standard Base Supply System shows
       demands for an item identified to a particular weapon system but that application has not been file
       maintained for the item. Or the base misidentified the weapon system from which the part was
       remove. Research and file maintain the correct application.

12.3. Old Stock Number Usage (AD200.AENAB89D) (Figure 12.5.). This product is automatically
pushed to the ES. This product is produced from the Requirements Item Identification Data (RIID) update
prior to the Initial SIRS computation. Stock numbers cannot be manually added or deleted in SIRS. The
SIRS database is updated by data from RIID that is updated from the D043 catalog management system.
When a current stock number is replaced with another current stock number, the ES should review the
stock number usage data that was transferred and file maintain corrections in SIRS to the recorded data.
   12.3.1. ALC. The Air Logistics Center responsible for the management of the NSN.
   12.3.2. DIV. The Division at the ALC responsible for the management of the NSN.
   12.3.3. ES. The Equipment Specialist at the ALC responsible for the management of some data for
   the NSN.
   12.3.4. OLD STOCK NUMBER. The former current stock number that this usage data was
   recorded for.
   12.3.5. CURRENT STOCK NUMBER. The new current stock number that this usage is now
   recorded for.
   12.3.6. CURRENT/QTR. The last quarter of data, as of the asset cutoff date.
   12.3.7. BASE NRTS. The Base Not Reparable This Station (NRTS) for the last 12 quarters.
   12.3.8. BASE RTS. The Base Reparable This Station (RTS) for the last 12 quarters.
   12.3.9. DEP RPR GEN. The Depot Reparable Generations for the last 12 quarters.
   12.3.10. MISTR CNDMN. The MISTR Condemnations for the last 12 quarters.
   12.3.11. BASE CNDMN. The Base Condemnations for the last 12 quarters.
   12.3.12. DEP CNDMN. The Depot Condemnations for the last 12 quarters.
   12.3.13. MISTR RPR. The MISTR Repairs for the last 12 quarters.

12.4. Output Products Equipment Specialist Selection Screen. Hard copy products are "pushed" to
the equipment specialists after each SIRS computation for stock numbers that require action or review. It
338                                                               AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


is possible to get a product for any stock number by using the Output Products Select screen (Figure
12.2.)OP SJR SIRS. Select EPPS and press ENTER to get the EPSS screen (Figure 12.3.).

Figure 12.2. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 339


Figure 12.3. Display EPSS Equipment Specialist Selection Screen.




To get a product from a previous cycle, change the AS OF date. Type either the SGM or the part number
and select the product to get a product for that stock number. Leave the SGM and part number blank and
type the ALC and DIV and ES code and select the product, to get that product for all NSNS for that ES.
Press ENTER. The screen will display a message XXXXXXX job number has been requested. Use pro-
cedures for CA-DISPATCH at your location to get your printed product. The product should be printed at
the printer designated as your RDB printer. The Factors/Usage Printout is described in paragraph 16.13.
The PRELOG Equations and PRELOG Plots are described in Chapter 19. The MISTR RPR and Repair
Data product is described in paragraph 15.7.. The SRAN usage report is described in paragraph 16.1.5.
See paragraph 2.12.9. for output product generation schedule.

12.5. Terms Relating To Failures Of Items.
   12.5.1. A number of terms are used to measure performance or reliability of hardware and to deter-
   mine the frequency or rate of failure, removal, or replacement as it affects spare requirements. This
   rate or factor is divided into or multiplied by a future program in order to predict the number of actions
   or events that might occur.
   12.5.2. In group I are the Mean Time To Failure (MTTF) related terms. The related terms are service
   life, life expectancy and Time Before Overhaul (TBO). Service Life is the amount of time normally
   expressed in terms of operating hours, missile months, equipment months, etc, which will elapse
340                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      before a newly installed item will require removal and replacement, regardless of whether the item is
      repaired at base or depot level. TBO is the average time before overhaul, or the maximum time
      (replacement interval) before overhaul. All these terms indicate how long we expect something to last
      before replacement or retirement from use. To compute these factors we must know for each item
      failed or removed, how long the part was operated or was used, in hours, months, miles, etc. The for-
      mula for MTTF is the total operations accumulated at time of removal divided by the number of
      removals. For example: Six batteries failed at 2, 10, 8, 12, 15, 12 months of operations. The MTTF
      (average life) is equal to 9.8 months calculated by taking the sum of the ages for the six batteries,
      which is equal to 59 months, divided by the 6 failures. This is the usual way to determine service life
      or average time before overhaul. With the advent of the actuarial methodology of computing life
      expectancy, the MTTF method has several short comings. True life expectancy can be determined
      only be using the actuarial computation. For items having a maximum time or replacement interval,
      the computed MTTF service life, or life expectancy never exceeds the prescribed overhaul time; it is
      normally less due to premature failures.
      12.5.3. In group II are the Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF) Related Terms. The related terms
      are Mean Time between Maintenance Actions (MTMA), Mean Time between Demands (MTBD), and
      issue interval. MTBF and MTBD are similar terms where MTMA refers to mean time between main-
      tenance actions and MTBD refers to demand intervals or true failures.
      12.5.4. Operating hours. This parameter, used in computing Group II factors (and rates), has several
      variations.
         12.5.4.1. Aircraft (fleet) flying hours. This is the normal baseline used to measure past operating
         experiences and to express future flying hours (program).
         12.5.4.2. Unit operating hours. Generally based on aircraft flying hours but with corrections
         applied to obtain more refined results. These corrections (as used in the factor printout) are the
         Quantity Per Application (QPA) and percent application shown in this example:
         Given: Pump Assembly, NSN 1650002037877
         Applications - all C-135
         QPA = 2 per aircraft
         Percent application = 80 percent (another pump used on 20 % of fleet)
         Flying hours (all C-135) = 206000 (past 24 months)
         Computed: 206000 X 2 (QPA) = 412000 (pump program)
         412000 X 80% = 369600 (pump 1650002037877)
         Past program, factor printout = 3696 (X 100)
         12.5.4.3. Unit operating hours (ETI). This is a more refined version of the paragraph above. In
         this case, an item is operated with an Elapsed Time Indicator (ETI) or event counter installed. Pro-
         vision is made for recording actual unit operating time in hours at the time of failure or removal.
         Also, total installed ETI time can be collected at the end of prescribed periods (monthly or quar-
         terly) and fed back to the manager to produce actuarial products for more exact reliability analysis
         than otherwise available. It is anticipated this kind of data will be increasingly available on newer
         weapon systems. Such data may be corrected to be compatible with aircraft flying hours as shown
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 341


        above. ETI time normally depicts actual usage including ground or test time and that portion of
        aircraft flight time during which the unit is actually energized. The correction factor K is simply
        the ratio of total ETI time to flying time; for example: F-16C, selected bases, for 2 months:

Table 12.1. Operating Hours.
                  Total ETI      Flying
(Hours)           Time           Time         K-Factor
Base A            600            200          3:1 (or 3)
Base B            1064           380          2.8:1 (or 2.8)
Base C            644            280          2.3:1 (or 2.3)
Total             2308           860          2.7:1 or (2.7) Mean

This factor is used to convert fleet flying hours to unit operating time for computing MTBF (reliability):
F-16C fleet flying hours for 1 month                  = 1200
Total item failures for fleet                         =6
K-Factor                                              = 2.7
1200 X 2.7                                            = 3240 unit operating hrs monthly
(3240)/6                                              = 540 hours MTBF
This factor is used to convert unit operating hours (ETI) to aircraft hours for establishing demand interval:
Total ETI time (F-106 fleet)                          = 3240 hours
Total demands (same period)                           =6
Correction Factor K                                   = 2.7
(3240)/(2.7)                                          = 1200 flying hours
(1200)/6                                              = 200 flying hours per demand
As explained below, this value can be converted to the Total Organizational and Intermediate Mainte-
nance Demand Rate (TOIMDR) as used in SIRS. (The above ETI data normally do not need correction
for QPA or percent application if they are based on installed units by NSN).
    12.5.5. Rates may be computed using one of the above Group II factors, or directly from the basic
    data as follows:
        12.5.5.1. Given a MTBF of 800 hours: Failure rate per hour = 1/800 = .00125 failure rate per hour.
        Failure rate per 100 hours = 100/800 = .1250 failure rate per 100 hours. Failure rate per 1000 hours
        = 1000/800 = 1.250 failure rate per 1000 hours.
        12.5.5.2. Given: OIM demand interval of 1200 hours: Total OIM demand rate per hour = 1/1200
        = .0008 demand rate per hour. Total OIM demand rate per 100 hours = 100/1200 = .0833 demand
        rate per 100 hours.
        12.5.5.3. The TOIMDR is computed by dividing the base reparable generations by past program:
                Given: Base reparable generations              = 26
342                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                  Past program (100 hours)                      = 3296 (corrected by QPA and appl %)
                  Total OIM demand rate                         = 26/3296 = .0079 (per 100 hours)
By visual examination, this can be expressed as .00008 per hour or .0790 per 1000 hours (moving the dec-
imal point).
      12.5.6. Group II Relationships. Failures are a discrete kind of event of significance in reliability anal-
      ysis (MTBF) but not necessarily compatible with the determination of spares. The following example
      indicates these relationships:
         Given:          Base Period = 12 months
                         Base period program = 48,000 hours
                     Number of Maintenance actions (1) = 120 (which includes repair in place, Remove
and replace, Bench checked and repaired, Bench check - serviceable, Bench check - NRTS, and Condem-
nations).
                      Number of failures (2) = 100 (Normally less than the total maintenance actions -
excludes items replaced due to expiration of time and those found serviceable at time of bench check -
must be repaired or condemned).
                     Number of demands (3) = 80 (Remove and replace actions (recurring) for which
maintenance requests a serviceable spare from supply).
Computation:                     MTMA                    = 48000/120            = 400 hours
                                 Rate                    = 120/48000            = .2500 (Rate/100)
                                 MTBF                    = 48000/100            = 480 hours
                                 Rate                    = 100/48000            = .2080 (Rate/100)
                                 MTBD                    = 48000/80             = 600 hours
                                 Rate                    = 80/48000             = .1667 (Rate/100)
Note that the same base period program is used (dividend) but the different kind of event (divisor) directly
determines the value of the factor in each case. While a rate per 100 hours can be computed in each case,
only the demand interval (and corresponding rate) is directly applicable to requirements computations.
Thus, a TOIMDR developed from MTMA or MTBF is correct only when the number of maintenance
actions or failures equate to the number of demands. Otherwise, the rate is an estimate.
      12.5.7. Summary. Service life or life expectancy for an item is computed differently than the demand
      interval of MTBF; therefore, they should not be used interchangeably because they are not the same
      parameter. For items having a maximum time for replacement time, the serviceable life is normally
      less than prescribed time due to premature failures. The MTBF or demand interval frequently exceeds
      the replacement time (when prescribed) due to the method of computation. If the item's program
      selection code has the first position a 1, the OIM demand rate is computed in terms of "per 100 hours,"
      and the past program shown for the item is in terms of "installed hundred hours." A TOIMDR esti-
      mated by the ES for insertion in the factor/usage printout must be stated in the same terms as above to
      avoid erroneous results. ETI time on components may be used to develop a TOIMDR through use of
      a correction factor (ratio of ETI time to flying time from a field sample) under conditions outlined
      above. An understanding of the variations which may occur in a rate (such as TOIMDR) during total
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 343


   life span of an item enhances the prediction capability for future hardware if the trend is charted and
   analyzed. The Factor/Usage Printout makes this procedure feasible by showing the computer rate each
   quarter.

12.6. Equipment Specialist Responsibilities. The ES reviews the items' usage and factors for accuracy
and completeness and file maintains any changes. Prior to file maintaining any estimated factors, the
methodology and formulas used in calculating them and the reasons for using them including key assump-
tions, facts, specific details, decision makers’ names and signatures, and dates of decisions will be thor-
oughly documented and retained in accordance with paragraph 1.13.11. The ES provides initial values
for factors for new items. The ES also is responsible for applications and programs that are input through
the API (D200F) system. The ES assists the IMS with validation of the ERRC, item activity code, item
category code, base repair cycle and depot repair cycle days.
   12.6.1. The ES should adjust past usage when actions have occurred which are not expected to recur
   in the future, and the usage history is distorted. Usage data will not be adjusted to preclude the need
   for estimating factors. Some examples of possible adjustments are:
       12.6.1.1. Base condemnations that are not expected to recur at base level are file maintained to
       depot condemnations with a corresponding increase in base NRTS.
       12.6.1.2. Base NRTS that have occurred due to conditions which have been corrected may be
       removed. For example, if five items were sent NRTS due to a one-time shortage of parts, the ES
       may delete those NRTS and add them to the corresponding period of RTS.
       12.6.1.3. During periods of greatly reduced program due to grounding of aircraft or other circum-
       stances, the TOIMDR may be distorted due to continued usage. The ES may reduce usage to the
       level experienced prior to the extreme reduction usage.
       12.6.1.4. Correct erroneous usage. When MISTR condemnations exceed depot condemnations
       total, one or both are incorrect.
       12.6.1.5. Depot reparable generations may include JR condemnations, NJR replacements, or
       depot NRTS which occur from transient aircraft or during modification programs. If no overhaul
       program applies, or if the ES has knowledge of valid depot NRTS, that part of the depot reparable
       generations may be file maintained to base NRTS.
       12.6.1.6. Usage for one-way substitutable items with equivalent reliability may be consolidated.
       But usage should not be moved to the preferred item when a modification was done to increase
       reliability.
       12.6.1.7. The ES provides usage history data (if converted from a part number).
   12.6.2. Factors. The ES reviews, adjusts, or forecasts the factors based on total maintenance knowl-
   edge of the item. This includes, but is not limited to:
       12.6.2.1. Extent of, or planned extension of, the base self sufficiency program on the item. Any
       extension reduces the percentage of items reported as base NRTS and increases the percentage
       repaired at base level. Failure of bases to accomplish repair in the past period due to lack of facil-
       ities or parts must be considered in adjusting current percentages. Changes to restricting base level
       repair should also be considered.
344                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         12.6.2.2. Any changes to items on which a mandatory time change has been established. An
         increase in the specified time change (for example, from 500 hours to 600 hours) decreases the
         number of reparable generations occurring at the bases. Conversely, a decrease in the specified
         time change (for example, from 500 hours to 400 hours) increases the number of reparable gener-
         ations occurring at the bases. Consider changes occurring during the past period which may affect
         the current rates or percents.
         12.6.2.3. Planned materiel improvements or extent of compliance on modifications already autho-
         rized. Reliability changes affect the frequency of failure and thus the rate at which the base gener-
         ates reparables. Engineering changes which affect maintainability or ease of base maintenance
         may influence the forecasted base NRTS percent.
         12.6.2.4. Planned operational life of the item in the Air Force inventory. A pending or forecasted
         phase out or phase in of the item may affect all percentages projected for the future fiscal years.
         12.6.2.5. Planned changes in mission requirements. For example, transfer of a weapon system
         from the Air Force to the Navy introduces a new learning curve. The same applies for transfers
         from a combat mission to a training mission, or more severe operation with an increase in the fail-
         ure rate. These affect the rate of reparable generations and possibly the condemnation or NRTS
         percents.
         12.6.2.6. Change in repair procedures that could change condemnation percents.
         12.6.2.7. While SIRS computes straight-line forecast factors based on past usage, the ES should
         adjust these maintenance factors to show current and future conditions. The current factor must
         represent present reliability and maintenance conditions, so projections of repair workloads are
         accurate and readiness may be assessed. The first, second, third, fourth, and fifth year forecasts
         must represent expected changes so that purchasing, budgeting, and maintenance planning may be
         as accurate as possible.
         12.6.2.8. SIRS does not contain data concerning the age of items, repair procedures, work speci-
         fications, modifications, nor the effect that these might have on future factors. The ES should fore-
         cast the effect these conditions have or will have upon factors. When a forecast factor is input, the
         current rate should also be reviewed for accuracy and adjusted to represent current conditions.
      12.6.3. Coordination on Technical Changes Affecting Requirements. The ES should notify the
      expense item's item management specialist of known changes in configuration, added or deleted
      applications, superseded items, time change or shelf life intervals, or other factors which might effect
      future consumption or application of consumable items.
      12.6.4. Interim Contractor Support (ICS). When an item is first brought into SIRS through a provi-
      sioning process, the decision may be made to handle the item under an ICS concept. Under this man-
      agement concept, the contractor should perform all the repair of the item at the activity where the end
      item or weapon system is deployed. The contractor should then provide (if stated in the contract) all of
      the necessary information to the maintenance systems to provide the proper data (base reparable gen-
      erations and depot reparable generations) to SIRS. The data should be sent to the proper computer sys-
      tems so that when the ICS concept is terminated, the item can still be supported in SIRS without an
      interruption in service. While the item is managed under the ICS concept, the ICS/RIW code should
      contain a C, which is file maintained by the IMS. When a weapon system is determined to be handled
      initially under the ICS concept, it is the responsibility of the ES and engineers to identify all of the
      necessary data that needs to be reported on each item. The method of reporting these data, may vary
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              345


  from entering the data into the maintenance systems to having a manual record provided to the ES for
  file maintenance into SIRS.
  12.6.5. Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW). RIW provisions affect SIRS items. Contractor
  achievement must be measured for each affected factor and reflected in SIRS if the Air Force is to
  realize RIW guaranteed benefits. Increased surveillance must be exercised to make sure requirements
  determinations are accurate. The ES should phase in the application data in the correct time frame of
  the computation time span, for the RIW item and the item it is replacing, if applicable. The ES must
  review and update the factors while the RIW item replacement program is being performed. This
  adjustment must continue until the RIW item contract has been completed and the data reported to
  SIRS are considered realistic, for both the RIW item and the item being replaced, if applicable. When
  the unit price is less than unit repair cost, the item should be considered a “consumable” verses a
  “repairable” based on economic reasons of “throw away” verses “repair it”. If an item breaches the
  75% threshold it is to be reviewed by the ES or Engineer for possible ERRC code change. For further
  information on cost to repair, see AFMCI 23-112 and for ERRC/SMR codes TO 00-25-195.
  12.6.6. Analysis of Critical Items. Critical item conditions can result from the following:
     12.6.6.1. Increase in actual operations (unprogrammed) or an increase in deployment (changes in
     pipelines, number of bases).
     12.6.6.2. Insufficient stock levels to provide flexibility of spares support for fluctuating demands:
     frequently dictated by budget limitations, inadequate safety levels or no past usage; therefore, no
     stock authorized.
     12.6.6.3. Unbalanced ratio of serviceable to reparable assets created by failure to move reparables
     through the depot repair cycle in a timely manner under prescribed standards for any one of the
     five segments. Includes excessive shop flow time due to maintenance delays or lack of spare parts
     (material support).
     12.6.6.4. Lack of contractor performance in meeting firm spares delivery dates.
     12.6.6.5. Changes in mission or operating concept (for example, increase in instrument wear out
     due to ADC aircraft alert concept).
     12.6.6.6. Maintenance repair practice (repair level) not in agreement with the source and repair
     codes used in provisioning or computation of spares.
     12.6.6.7. Decrease in item reliability (or failure to attain predicted reliability). Created by
     over-optimistic prediction of reliability, maintenance degradation (learning curve, etc), changes in
     operating environment or mission, changes in acquisition source, changes in overhaul activity,
     increased wear out due to increased age of the installed population for items with this characteris-
     tic (predictable), and failure of parts due to engineering or materiel deficiencies (unpredictable).
  12.6.7. Correction of a Critical Item Situation (in order): First, determine which of the above factors
  is (are) responsible for the critical item condition. Second, take action to resolve the basic problem.
  Third, use temporary selective management methods to relieve the situation. (For example: expedite
  delivery schedules, relax Technical Order (TO) tolerances where noncritical causes of condemnations
  are a primary factor, and/or increase maintenance effort with priority repair or additional sources of
  repair). Fourth, as a last resort, increase the spares buy.
  12.6.8. Prevention of Critical Items.
346                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         12.6.8.1. Consider the range of factors above, which cause critical items. Prevention, analysis,
         and correction require a data base concerning the management areas mentioned both timely and
         accurate. Prevention requires continuous management attention to all elements of this data base
         and initiation of prevention measures upon detection of adverse trends (operations, program,
         assets, and usage). For example, a definite decreasing trend in the ratio of serviceable to reparable
         assets (for an item not in long supply) or a steady increase in the length of the depot repair cycle
         already in excess of the standard. Watch for increases in cannibalization, as a forerunner of
         increased mission capability (MICAP) rate and critical items.
         12.6.8.2. Not all factors creating a critical item are controllable or predictable and thus prevent-
         able. For example, effect on higher level policy or action.
         12.6.8.3. Historically, when an acquisition source or overhaul agency for an item is changed, there
         is a good chance the product reliability should change, occasionally worse. When a computed
         requirement is reduced, by management review for example, due to budget constraints, the risk of
         stock out or critical item condition increases. For these situations, prevention is limited to reduc-
         ing to a minimum those policies which increase the risk of an item reliability degradation or a
         stock out. Unprogrammed deployments create risk of critical item conditions are not usually fore-
         seeable.
         12.6.8.4. Product performance data are provided to monitor maintenance requirements and per-
         formance for reparable items. The Factor/Usage Printout, must be watched for changes in trends
         which could lead to critical items. When such trends are detected, the ES should advise the IMS so
         that joint analysis and corrective action can be started, if needed. Early response to these data is
         beneficial in some cases. However, in any area where a tight spares situation already exists, a crit-
         ical situation can be created with little or no warning through review of statistics. Major fluctua-
         tions may occur month to month in NRTS and condemnation rates (for example, from 2 percent to
         100 percent, due to a difference of three transactions) for items having a low usage rate, which
         precludes use of such rates as a sound basis for control and prevention.
         12.6.8.5. Several programs may provide prediction feasibility and thus additional prevention
         insight. These include the engine analyzer program, spectrometric oil analysis, and structural
         integrity.
         12.6.8.6. When a summation of all the data available combined with technical and engineering
         judgment, indicates future degradation of the reliability of an item, with increased demands on
         supply, the ES should predict such changes in the forecasted rates used in computing spares, thus
         increasing the spares required for that critical period.
      12.6.9. Estimating Requirements for Life Limited Items. Certain components of aircraft engines, due
      to safety considerations, must be limited to the amount of time they may be installed and in use. When
      these life limits are reached, the parts must be removed and replaced. The requirements for replacing
      life limited parts may be expressed with either a factor or an additive. If the item does not have a con-
      demnation percent, then develop a factor. If the item does have a condemnation percent, are some or
      all of the condemnations the result of life limited removals? If not, develop a factor based on antici-
      pated removal and repair of life limited assets. Otherwise, will all life limited removal result in con-
      demnations? If "Yes", then develop an additive based on anticipated condemnations. If "No" then
      develop an additive based on anticipated condemnations and consider anticipated removals and
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 347


   repairs when developing factors. Additive development should be a joint IMS/ES effort. A mission
   direct should be used in cases where an additive is considered appropriate see (Chapter 25).

12.7. Validation Of Usage, Factors and Application Data.
   12.7.1. Item Application. What is it used on? How recently has this been validated? If unable to val-
   idate, why? What is the next higher assembly? How many are installed in each higher assembly
   (QPA)? If unable to establish this, why? Is the application data, i.e., applications, application percents
   , program begin dates, application time-phasing, QPA, and 2-digit program select codes reflected in
   API (D200F) current and correct?
   12.7.2. Can other similar items be modified to satisfy this requirement?
   12.7.3. Specifications. Are the current specifications essential to item reliability? How recently has
   this been reassessed for eliminating gold plating? If this has not been done, should it? When will this
   be done, if recommended?
   12.7.4. History of Product Improvements. Past performance problems, solutions, status of comple-
   tion. Past and pending Engineering Change Proposals (ECP) and completion date. Anticipated ECPs
   and completion dates. Previous modifications and date completed. (Anticipated modifications and
   completion date and percent of completion as of program date). What effect do these engineering
   changes have on service life? Should usage factors be adjusted on the basis of such changes?
   12.7.5. Level of Repair. Can base repair be increased and thereby reduce depot repair of the Next
   Higher Assembly (NHA)? Should this be recommended? If not, why? How recently has level of
   repair been reassessed?
   12.7.6. New Items. Have factors from a functionally similar item been used? If so, identify item and
   its application. If not, what is the estimated TOIMDR based on? What is percent of base repair based
   on? What is percent of depot repair based on? What is base condemnation percent based on? What is
   the MISTR condemnation percent based on? What is base repair cycle based on? What is depot repair
   cycle based on? What is the Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM), Engine Overhaul (EOH) and/or
   NHA MISTR NJR program percent based on? What is the PDM, EOH and/or NHA MISTR NJR
   replacement percent based What is the PDM, EOH and/or NHA MISTR JR condemnation percent
   based on? Be specific about what has been used in arriving at estimated factors.
   12.7.7. Shelf Life. Does shelf life apply to this item? What is shelf life? Has this been recently reeval-
   uated? Can it be extended? Can it be eliminated through past or anticipated engineering changes?
   12.7.8. Time Change Item. What is mandatory replacement interval, if applicable? Is this still essen-
   tial to system reliability? Can it be extended? If so, when will this be done? Can it be eliminated
   entirely? If so, when will this be done? How recently has this been reassessed? Has it been changed
   recently? If so, when? How long has the same replacement time applied? Have all approved changes
   been published? If not, why? If not, when will this be done? Are actual or anticipated changes built
   into usage factors used in current computation?
   12.7.9. Item Usage and Item Replacements Are Caused Primarily By. Operating during flying
   hours? The period it is installed and in use, in aircraft, missile, or equipment? Failures discovered in
   PDM or Engine Overhaul or NHA MISTR? Other causes of replacements?
   12.7.10. Other Product Analysis. What products were analyzed? List them. Are these data avail-
   able? Are they adequate and realistic? What do they show? What actions have we taken as result of
348                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      analyzing these data? What actions are planned? When will they be taken? What are primary causes
      of failure? Can failures be decreased? If so, how? If so, when? Planned improvements. Past issue
      trend. What are primary causes of NRTS? Do they seem compatible with planned level of repair? Can
      NRTS be decreased? If not, why? If so, how? If so, when will we do so? Planned improvements.
      12.7.11. Past Usage. Has item usage significantly fluctuated during the past? What are causes? Are
      such trends expected to continue? Should peaks be leveled and factors adjusted proportionately? If
      not, why?
      12.7.12. Back Orders. Are current back orders (where there's a significant number) valid require-
      ments when considered in relation to assigned mission of requesting organizations?
      12.7.13. Stock Level. Considering item application and usage, would it be feasible to reduce or elim-
      inate base levels on the item and stock at centralized points? Would base mission suffer as result of
      this?
      12.7.14. War Requirements. Considering item characteristics and function, would it be used during
      war?
      12.7.15. Reclamation. Would it be feasible and economical to satisfy the requirement from reclama-
      tion? Is this recommended? If not, why?
      12.7.16. Kits and Kit Items. It is known that many types of kits are bought with inadequate efforts to
      determine whether the items in them are already available in the system. One ALC stocked both a
      field repair kit and a depot kit for generators. The same items that are in the field repair kit, plus some
      extra ones, are included in the depot repair kit. Even though the field repair kits were far into long sup-
      ply, the ALC bought, in effect, all of the depot repair kits. Does this condition exist on this item? Has
      use of kit components been assessed for elimination of kit items which are not being used? Is this item
      included in a kit? Are components stock listed as logical spares and also included in kits? Is this a
      duplication of stockage?
      12.7.17. Total OIM Demand Rate. Have trends been identified and analyzed? Does the current
      TOIMDR represent current conditions? Can item reliability be increased? Are trends accurately fore-
      casted?
      12.7.18. Base NRTS Percent. Have trends been identified and analyzed? Can NRTS percent be
      reduced? Are forecasts accurate and consistent with trend? Does the source maintenance recoverabil-
      ity code allow NRTS?
      12.7.19. Base Condemnation Percent. What is the base condemnation percent? Are the condemna-
      tions the result of "fair wear and tear" or unusual circumstances? Can the base condemnation percent
      be decreased? If not, why? Does the SMR code allow base condemnations?
      12.7.20. MISTR Condemnation Percent. Have trends been identified and analyzed? Are the con-
      demnations the result of "fair wear and tear" or unusual circumstances? Are current and forecast fac-
      tors accurate? Does this item have a NHA MISTR organic or contractor repair program?
      12.7.21. Program Select Codes. Are there base reparable generations? Is the first position of the
      application program select code a zero? If so, is this correct? Are there depot reparable generations?
      Does the second position of the application program select code indicate the correct Depot Level
      Maintenance (DLM) program ?
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                         349


   12.7.22. Depot Level Maintenance Factors. Are the DLM factors consistent with the application
   program select code? Are the DLM factors consistent with the usage data that have been reported?
   Are the usage data consistent with actual shop data?
   12.7.23. Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW). Have factors been adjusted to compensate for
   RIW-type items? Are factors phased out on an old item and phased in on replacing an RIW item?
   Have application data been revised or adjusted?
   12.7.24. Life Cycle Costing. Have factors been adjusted to compensate for LCC-type items? Are
   factors phased out on an old item and phased in on replacing an LCC item? Have application data
   been revised or adjusted
   12.7.25. Modifications. Have factors been adjusted due to modifications? Have the application data
   been time phased to compensate for modifications?
   12.7.26. Is the Factor Indicator Code correct?
   12.7.27. Base RTS Exclusion Indicator. Is there justification for using the Base RTS Exclusion
   Indicator?

Figure 12.4. ES Review List.
350                                           AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 12.5. Old Stock Number Usage Report.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              351


                                              Chapter 13

                   ITEM MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST REVIEW PRODUCTS

13.1. Introduction. SIRS produces output products that provide information for Item Management Spe-
cialist (IMS)review of the stock numbers that the IMS is responsible for. The IMS Review List, Old Stock
Number Additives, and Stock Number Identity Cross Reference products are described in this chapter,
along with the Output Products Item Managers selection screen (Figure 13.4.). The Equipment Specialist
(ES) Review List and the Old Stock Number Usage products are described in Chapter 12, along with the
Output Products Equipment Specialist selection screen. The Index of Action reports are described in
Chapter 11.

13.2. IMS Review List (AD200.AKBA#8DS) (Figure 13.5.) is the hard copy pushed to the IMS when
the initial, final and summary SIRS computation products are printed. This list for each IMS, contains all
items which require action or review for the cycle. This product provides, by IMS code, the buy, repair,
termination, and excess quantities and dollars for each of the items within an IMS code. Also, the product
provides messages to indicate potential discrepancies, reflected on the items assigned to the IMS code.
The IMS should use this product to help them in their review of their items.
352                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 13.1. Display IRL IMS/ES Review List Screen.




The IMS/ES Review List can also be viewed at DIS SIRS PFI IRL. (Figure 13.1.). The IRL screen dis-
plays data that should be reviewed. The menu allows the user to sort stock numbers by ALC, division,
IMS code, and ES code. The user must select no computes, terminations, buys, excesses, or repairs. For
Figure 13.1., the ALC code and IMS code have been typed, and BUY has been checked, then ENTER
was pressed. To see additional data for this IMS, type FOR at the command line. Some items will also
have messages listed to identify possible discrepancies in the data elements resident on the SIRS database
(see paragraph 13.2.8.). Any one with access to SIRS can access the IRL screen. Typing any letter or
number in the block to the left of a message, and pressing ENTER, will cause SIRS to put the last 3 posi-
tions of that user's id into that block. The purpose of the block to the left of the message is to let a user
annotate that the condition has been reviewed and /or fixed.
      13.2.1. NSN SGM/NSN CSN. Listed under NSN SGM is the sub group master NSN for the assigned
      item. If there are substitute items (NSN CSN) within the sub group, they will be offset underneath the
      NSN SGM.
      13.2.2. Item Category. Displays the item category of the item, either "I" (insurance), "S" (numeric
      stockage objective), or blank (active item), or "L", "Y" or "Z" (Life Of Type Buy) item. (See para-
      graph 14.6.).
      13.2.3. Condition. Displays either "Buy", "Repair", "Termination", or "Excess".
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             353


  13.2.4. Dollars. The total dollars projected for the quantity of the condition displayed.
  13.2.5. Quantity. The quantity projected for the condition displayed.
  13.2.6. ES. The equipment specialist assigned to the sub group master.
  13.2.7. PMS. The production management specialist assigned to the sub group master.
  13.2.8. Messages. (xxxxx means that various data elements could be identified with this message).
     13.2.8.1. "Schedule Review Based On Item ACTV CD". The item should be reviewed this cycle
     according to the item activity code (see paragraph 14.5.).
     13.2.8.2. "Date Of Last Purchase Is Blank". Check to see if the item should have a date of last pro-
     curement and if so, file maintain it. (See paragraph 14.12.).
     13.2.8.3. "D035C-A Base Processing Days > Default + 3". The value for the base processing days
     is greater than the default value on the "Standard Data Table - ERRC" (See paragraph 6.19.) plus
     10 days. Check the base processing days for validity. (See paragraph 23.9.).
     13.2.8.4. "D035C-A Base Rpr Cycle Days > Default + 10". The value for the base repair cycle
     days is greater than the default value on the "Standard Data Table - ERRC" (see paragraph 6.19.)
     plus 10 days. Check the base repair cycle days for validity. (See paragraph 23.7.).
     13.2.8.5. "D035C-A Base O&St Days > Default + 10". The value for the base order and shipping
     time days is greater than the default value on the "Standard Data Table - ERRC (see paragraph
     6.19.) plus 10 days. Check the base order and shipping time days for validity. (see paragraph
     23.4.).
     13.2.8.6. "xxxxx Exceeds Std". The data element has been compared to the default value on the
     "Standard Data Table" (see paragraph 6.17.) or the "Standard Data Table - ERRC" (see para-
     graph 6.19.). Check the data element for validity.
     13.2.8.7. "Item Contains An Invalid Item Ctgy Code". If the item is a NIMSC 5 item, it cannot
     also be coded NSO. Research and correct. (See paragraph 14.6.).
     13.2.8.8. " Item Should Be Reviewed For Catg Chg". Item is coded insurance or NSO, but should
     be coded active, based on the item's computed factors. This message is also output to ES, who
     should review usage & computed factors for validity and consider changing item category code.
     (See paragraph 14.6.).
     13.2.8.9. "NIMSC 5 And Item Category Code 'I' Are Incompatible". An item cannot be coded
     insurance and also be a Nonconsumable Item Materiel Support Code (NIMSC) 5 item. Research
     and correct. (See paragraph 14.6.).
     13.2.8.10. "Non-Recurring Rqmt Data Rcvd For xxxxx". Non Recurring requirements have been
     received from another service (army, navy, etc). Check for validity. (See Chapter 27).
     13.2.8.11. "OWO Not Used, OWO>DIOH". If the reported Due In from Overhaul (DIOH) from
     D035A is less than the reported On Work Order (OWO)from G019C, OWO will be reduced to the
     number of reported DIOH assets (see paragraph 28.9.8.). Check for validity.
     13.2.8.12. "Recommend IAC - 1, 2, 3, OR 4". Item is low demand. Check Item Activity Code
     (IAC) for validity. (See paragraph 14.5.).
354                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         13.2.8.13. "Recommend IAC = 5 OR 6”. Item is new or has average demands but is being
         reviewed only once a year, or every quarter. Check Item Activity Code (IAC) for validity. (See
         paragraph 14.5.).
         13.2.8.14. "Requirement Data Not Found". Ignore this message.
         13.2.8.15. "SICA Data Not Rcvd From xxxxx". Requirements Exchange Data (RDE) should have
         been received from another service (army, navy, etc.). Contact the other service, and if the data is
         still needed, get the updated data and file maintain the data into SIRS. (See paragraph 27.3.1.).
         13.2.8.16. "Use Factors Did Not Sum To One". Ignore this message.
         13.2.8.17. "Excessive A-R Variance - Research Assets": When the computed asset variance per-
         cent for the SGM exceeds the variance threshold value (currently hard-coded as .05 ), this message
         will be displayed (See paragraph 28.4.9.).
         13.2.8.18. "Failed range check, Spcl Lvl Just Must Not Be Space". Base Level Authorized quan-
         tity from RBL (D035E)is greater than zero but the RBL (D035E) justification phrase text is blank.
         IMS should research and if the Base Level Authorized quantity is valid, file maintain the Special
         Level Justification text. Also produced when the ASL is file maintained and the Special Level Jus-
         tification field is left blank. (See paragraph 24.2.5. and paragraph 24.5.11.).
         13.2.8.19. RDE Recur Rqmt < > ACTL Past Dmnds. The Requirement Data Exchange (RDE)
         recurring requirements are less than or greater than the actual past demands. Check for validity.
         (See Chapter 27).
         13.2.8.20. Review/Validate Plt Days. Check the production lead-time days (see paragraph 22.3.)

13.3. Old Stock Number Additives (AD200.AEPAB89D) (Figure 13.6.). This product is automati-
cally pushed to the IMS. This product is produced from the Requirements Item Identification Data (RIID)
system, D200E, update prior to the initial SIRS computation. Stock numbers cannot be manually added or
deleted in SIRS. The SIRS database is updated by data from RIID which is updated from the D043 catalog
management system. When a current stock number is replaced with another current stock number, the
IMS should review the stock number additive data that was transferred and file maintain corrections in
SIRS to the recorded data.
      13.3.1. ALC. The Air Logistics Center responsible for the management of the item.
      13.3.2. DIV. The Division at the ALC responsible for the management of the item.
      13.3.3. IMS. The individual Inventory Management Specialist responsible for the management of the
      item.
      13.3.4. Old Stock Number. The old current stock number that the additive data was recorded for.
      13.3.5. Current Stock Number. The new current stock number that the additive data has been trans-
      ferred under.
      13.3.6. Quarters. The name of the additive is listed on the left column. 38 quarters of additives can
      be displayed.

13.4. Stock Number Identity Cross Reference Report.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           355


   13.4.1. The hard copy report, AD200.AETAB8AB (Figure 13.7.) is automatically pushed from the
   Requirements Item Identification Data (RIID) D200E update prior to the initial SIRS computation.
   This product lists the items that have been transferred between Air Logistics Centers (ALC), changes
   in the Federal Stock Class (FSC), Materiel Management Aggregation Codes (MMAC), Expendability,
   Recoverability, Reparability Category (ERRC) or manager code, and the changes that have been made
   to the stock number when a stock number is replaced or consolidated with another stock number.
   When a stock number is consolidated with another stock number already in the SIRS database, the
   IMS should review the stock number data deleted from SIRS to determine the applicability of these
   data to the stock number remaining in the file. When the interchangeable stock number is moved from
   a master group and established as a master stock number, the data from D043 and D035, plus any
   reported actual stock number usage data and actual stock number additive requirements associated
   with this interchangeable stock number, are assigned to the master stock number being established.
   Again, the IMS should review all data and file maintain corrections to the recorded data.

Figure 13.2. Display SNIC Stock Number ID Cross Reference Screen.




   13.4.2. The Stock Number Identity Cross Reference report can also be viewed at DIS RCVS SND
   SNIC. (Figure 13.2.). Type in the ALC code and press ENTER. To display page 2, type P2, on the
   command line. Page 1 displays the "ALC GAINS and CHANGES" for stock numbers where the FSC,
   MMAC, National Item Identity Number (NIIN) of SGM, AF manager, or ERRC have changed. Page
356                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      2 displays the LOSING data for items that have been replaced by or consolidated with another stock
      number, showing the Old Stock Number and Current Stock Number.
      13.4.3. The report has the following data elements:
         13.4.3.1. Index Stk Nr. This identity represents the losing stock number when there is a stock
         number change action and will be present only when the current stock number has changed.
         13.4.3.2. Old sgm stk nr. This identity represents the losing subgroup stock number when there is
         a stock number change action and will be present only when the current stock number has
         changed.
         13.4.3.3. Cur Stk Nr. This identity represented the D043 current stock number and is present on
         all line entries.
         13.4.3.4. Cur Sgm Stk Nr. This identity represents the D043 current subgroup master stock num-
         ber and is present on all line entries.
         13.4.3.5. OBS CD. The obsolete code is either a blank for a non-obsolete item or an "O" for an
         item that was coded as obsolete in D043A.
         13.4.3.6. ERRC. The expendability, recoverability, repairability, category (ERRC) code as
         recorded in D043 (see paragraph 1.9.1.).
         13.4.3.7. IMS. The code of the inventory management specialist (IMS) who is responsible for the
         item as recorded in D043 (see paragraph 1.9.4.).
         13.4.3.8. ES. The code of the equipment specialist (ES) who is responsible for the item as
         recorded in D043 (see paragraph 1.9.4.).
         13.4.3.9. AF Mgr. This area reflects the transfer of item management responsibility from one
         activity to another. It shows both LOSING and CURRENT activity as recorded in RIID.

13.5. Output Products Item Manager Selection Screen.
      13.5.1. Hard copy products are "pushed" to the IMSs after each SIRS computation for stock numbers
      that require action or review. It is possible to get a product for any stock number by using the Output
      Products Select screen (Figure 13.3.) OP SJR SIRS. Select PPS and press ENTER to get the PSS
      screen (Figure 13.4.). See paragraph 2.12.9. for output product generation schedule.
      13.5.2. To get a product from a previous cycle, change the AS OF date. Type the SGM and select the
      product to get a product for that stock number. Leave the SGM blank and type the ALC and DIV and
      IMS code and select the product, to get that product for all NSNS for that IMS. Press ENTER. The
      screen will display a message XXXXXX job number has been requested. Use procedures for
      CA-DISPATCH at your location to get your printed product. The product should be printed at the
      printer designated as your RDB printer. The Asset Reconciliation product is described in Chapter 28.
      The SGM Computation Worksheet is described in Chapter 9. The SGM OWRM Computation Work-
      sheet is described in Chapter 21. The Consolidated Assets product is described in Chapter 26. The
      Factors/Usage Printout is described in Chapter 16. The Adjusted Level Verification product is
      described in Chapter 24. The MISTR RPR and Repair Data product is described in Chapter 15. The
      INS/NSO Status Listing is described in Chapter 31. The SRAN assets report is described in Chapter
      26. The SRAN usage report is described in Chapter 16.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                         357


   13.5.3. Item Program Data products are available from the IPD screen which is described in Chapter
   18. The other product selections on the OP SJR SIRS screen are for the SIRS OPRs and are described
   in Chapter 5.

Figure 13.3. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu.
358                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 13.4. Output Products PSS Item Manager Selection Screen.




Figure 13.5. IMS Review List.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                    359


Figure 13.6. Old Stock Number Additives Report.




Figure 13.7. Stock Number Identity Cross-Reference (Gains/Changes/Loses).
360                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                 Chapter 14

                                     BASIC MANAGEMENT DATA

14.1. Introduction. This chapter provides the details for the Item Management Specialist (IMS) to file
maintain the data elements on the Basic Management Data (BMD) screen (Figure 14.1.) FM SIRS SND
BMD. The Interchangeability and Substitutability (I and S) Structure screen (Figure 14.2.) is described in
paragraph 14.15.
      14.1.1. The data elements that are displayed on the BMD screen, but cannot be file maintained, are
      described in paragraph 14.14. Some basic management data comes from the Requirements Item
      Identification Data (RIID) system, D200E, and some data comes from the Application Program
      Indenture (API) system, D200F. The display BMD screen can be accessed with DIS SIRS SND BMD.

Figure 14.1. File Maintenance BMD Basic Management Data Screen.




      14.1.2. The BMD screen can be accessed by Current Stock Number (CSN) or by Sub Group Master
      stock number (SGM). When the CSN is input, the SGM is displayed adjacent to the CSN. If the CSN
      is not the SGM, the Safety Level Exclusion Indicator, the Other War Reserve Material (OWRM)
      Exclusion Code and the Lot Size Quantity fields are blank and cannot be file maintained. File mainte-
      nance should be done during the file maintenance cycle (about 4 weeks), which starts after the initial
      computation is completed and ends with the start of the final computation. There may be a few days
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               361


   for file maintenance after the final computation is completed and before the start of the summary com-
   putation. The SIRS on line data base is maintained real time and reflects the latest data from interfac-
   ing systems or file maintained data, whichever was input last. After the summary computation, neither
   the SIRS database nor the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) can be updated for that quar-
   ter. The SIRS file maintenance screens are closed from the start of the summary computation until
   after the next cycle's initial computation is completed. Data is changed by entering the new data and
   pressing the ENTER key. If the new data failed the edits, an error message will appear on the screen.
   When the new data passes the edits, the notepad will appear. Documentation is required to explain the
   reason for changing the data element. After entering the documentation, press ENTER, and the file
   maintained screen will re-appear with the notification "update successful" indicating that the data base
   has been changed to the entered values.

14.2. Budget Code. The BUDGET CD is a ten-position code that is divided into 3 fields on the screen
for file maintenance. Positions 1-2 are the Budget Program (BP), which identifies the specific funds group
within the budget. Positions 3-6 are the System Management Code (SMC), which represents the weapon
system application. Positions 7-10 are the Material Program Code (MPC). There are Source Reference
Codes displayed to the right of the BP and SMC fields.
   14.2.1. Budget Program (BP). The two-position BP identifies the specific funds group within the
   budget. The BPs for stock funded recoverable items are:
       15 = aircraft replenishment spares
       25 = missile replenishment spares
       82 = vehicle replenishment spares
       84 = other base maintenance and support equipment replenishment spares
       8M = electronic and telecommunication equipment
       P1 = aircraft replenishment spares under Performance Based Logistics (PBL) contract*
       P2 = missile replenishment spares under PBL contract*
       P3 = vehicle replenishment spares under PBL contract*
       P4 = other base maintenance and support equipment replenishment spares under PBL contract*
       P5 = electronic and telecommunication equipment under PBL contract*
The BPs for stock funded consumable items are:
        AS = aircraft spares;
        AM = missile spares;
        AO (alpha O) = other base maintenance and support equipment spares
        P7 = aircraft spares under Performance Based Logistics (PBL) contract*
        P8 = missile spares under PBL contract*
        P9 = other base maintenance and support equipment spares under PBL contract*
The BPs for non-stock funded recoverable items are:
362                                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      16 = aircraft spares managed under Contractor Supported Weapon System (CSWS), formerly
Reformed Supply Support Program (RSSP), by contractor Inventory Control Point (ICP)
       17 = aircraft war consumables
       26 = missile spares managed under CSWS by contractor ICP
       35 = munitions
       66 = nuclear ordinance
       81 = munitions
       83 = communications security spares (use instead of budget program 86)
       86 = non-aircraft, non-missile spares managed under SCWS by contractor ICP
       89 = D023 munitions items
       1E = aircraft spares
       2E = missile spares
       8E= electronic and telecommunication equipment
       FY = SIGNIT (AFIC uses their own funds)
       PQ = aircraft war consumables under Performance Based Logistics (PBL) contract*
       PR = munitions under PBL contract*
       PS = nuclear ordinance under PBL contract*
       PT = communications security spares under PBL contract*
       PU = D023 munitions items under PBL contract*
       PV = aircraft spares under PBL contract*
       PW = missile spares under PBL contract*
       PX = electronic and telecommunication equipment under PBL contract*
       PY = SIGNIT (AFIC uses their own funds) under PBL contract*
The BPs for non-stock funded consumable items are:
       A6 = aircraft spares managed under CSWS by contractor ICP
       M6 = missile spares managed under CSWS by contractor ICP
       NA = aircraft spares
       NM = missile spares
       NO (alpha O) = other spares
       O6 (alpha O) = non-aircraft, non-missile managed under CSWS by contractor ICP
       PF = aircraft spares under Performance Based Logistics (PBL) contract*
       PG = missile spares under PBL contract*
       PH = other spares under PBL contract*
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           363


*Use the PBL BP if the PBL contractor is doing the demand and supply planning on the item including
calculation of requirements.
The table below is a cross reference that shows the two digit BP code (specific funds group within the
budget) assigned by D200E, Requirements Item Identification (RIID) system based on the ERRC code,
single digit Budget Code provided to RIID from D043 and MMAC code assigned to the item:

Table 14.1. Budget Code/Budget Program Code Cross Reference.
           Budget Code                                                        D200A Budget
ERRC       Provided to RIID                                                   Program (BP) Code
Code       from D043            MMAC                                          Assigned by RIID
C, T       8                                                                  15, 25, 82, 84, 8M
N, P       8                                                                  AS, AM, AO
N, P       *                                                                  84
C, T       B                                                                  17
N, P       B                                                                  NA
C, T       H                                                                  35, 81, 89, 2E
N, P       H                                                                  NO, NM
C, T       I                                                                  66
N, P       I                                                                  66
C, T       K                                                                  83
N, P       K                                                                  NO
C, T       K                    CE, CI, CS, ZG                                FY
N, P       K                    CI                                            FY
C, T       L                    CQ, DG, EN, GM, JA, KQ, SG, SH, SZ, UF,       86
                                UR, WI
N, P       L                    CQ, DG, EN, GM, JA, KQ, SG, SH, SZ, UF,       O6
                                UR, WI
C, T       O                                                                  83
N, P       O                                                                  NO
C, T       O                    CQ, DG, EN, GM, JA, KQ, SG, SH, SZ, UF,       86
                                UR, WI
N, P       O                    CQ, DG, EN, GM, JA, KQ, SG, SH, SZ, UF,       O6
                                UR, WI
C, T       O                                                                  FY
C, T       S                    BQ, BV, DI, DN, FR, RF, RG, SY, TJ, TL, UF, 16
                                UK, UV, VC, VM, WH, XS
C, T       S                                                                  1E
364                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


             Budget Code                                                     D200A Budget
ERRC         Provided to RIID                                                Program (BP) Code
Code         from D043           MMAC                                        Assigned by RIID
C, T         S                   BA, BE                                      1E
N, P         S                   BQ, BV, DI, DN, FR, RF, RG, SY, TJ, TL, UF, A6
                                 UK, UV, VC, VM, WH, XS
N, P         S                                                               NA
N, P         S                   BA, BE                                      NA
C, T         T                                                               26, 81, 2E
N, P         T                                                               M6, NM
C, T         U                                                               81, 89
N, P         U                                                               NO
C, T         V                                                               8E
N, P         V                                                               NO
C, T         W                                                               8E
N, P         W                                                               NO
C, T         X                                                               8E
N, P         X                                                               NO
C, T         Z                                                               8E
N, P         Z                                                               NO
      14.2.2. System Management Code (SMC). The SMC identifies the application(s) on which the item
      is used. The SMC is developed and assigned by 401 SCMS/GUMD. All requests for assignment of a
      SMC will be sent to the 401 SCMS/GUMD Applications, Programs, and Indentures (API) D200F
      functional OPR. The BP and SMC combinations are file maintained into D200F by the 401 SCMS/
      GUMD API functional OPR. After the combinations have been assigned in D200A, the IMS/MM can
      file maintain them in D200A against particular NSNs. The IMS/MM will receive an error message
      when attempting to file maintain a BP/SMC combination if a BP/SMC combination is not on the BP/
      SMC table in D200F. The SMC will be determined as follows:
         14.2.2.1. For items with only one Model, Design, Series (MDS) application, only one Type,
         Model, Series (TMS) application, or one other System Program Designator (SPD) use the 4-digit
         SMC shown on the “SMC & BP Code Listing to Weapon System” application cross reference pro-
         vided on the D200A web site.
         14.2.2.2. For items with multiple and Mission Design (MD) and/or Type Model applications,
         make the SMC 999B for bomber aircraft, 999C for cargo aircraft, 999E for engines, 999F for
         fighter aircraft or 9999 for anything else. Example: An item with both the F0101102 (B01B
         engine) and TF0033005 (TC135S engine) application would be 999E. An item with both the
         UH001N helicopter and the E003C aircraft applications would be 9999.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           365


      14.2.2.3. For items with multiple SPD end item applications that are not MD and/or TM applica-
      tions, make the SMC 8888.
      14.2.2.4. For items with multiple MDS applications within one MD or multiple TMS applications
      within one TM select the “common” SMC within the MD or TM. Example: An item with both
      F015A and F015E application, and not other application, the item would reflect an SMC of 328Z.
      14.2.2.5. For items with multiple SPD end item applications that are different models or versions
      of the same equipment and that are not MDS an/or TMS applications use the SMC ending in Z that
      applies to them if there is one.
   14.2.3. Material Program Code (MPC). The MPC is used to distinguish between stock funded and
   non-stock funded items. File maintain “1N00” for stock funded items and “2200” for non-stock
   funded items.
   14.2.4. File Maintenance. When a new stock number is passed to SIRS, this 10 position field is
   blank. The IMS should file maintain the 10 position budget code. Failure to input the budget code on
   a new stock number will cause SIRS to assign a ”B” for the Compute Code and no computation will
   be done for that item. Once the budget code has been entered, it may be changed but blanks cannot be
   input to the field.
   14.2.5. Edits of the BP and SMC. The combination of the BP and SMC allow the item's data to be
   properly summarized on the CSIS products by type of item and weapon system/end item. The
   BP-SMC combination must match an entry in the SIRS BP-SMC table (Figure 6.2.), or SIRS will
   reject what the IMS has file maintained. The valid combinations of BP and SMCs along with their
   definitions are displayed on the HQ AFMC/A4Y D200A WEB page. This table is updated as required
   by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. The new BP-SMC combination has to be file maintained on the SMC
   table in API. API automatically updates the appropriate BP-SMC tables in SIRS. SIRS will not allow
   the input of an SMC of "NIM5" unless the item already has the Secondary Item Control Activity
   (SICA) AF Nonconsumable Item Materiel Support Code (NIMSC) code of 5. (See paragraph 9.3.22.
   and Figure 9.2.).
   14.2.6. Assignment of new BP-SMC combinations. A request for the establishment or deletion of any
   BP-SMC combination is sent to the ALC level D200A budget and requirements analysts. Approved
   requests are sent to the SIRS OPR at Wright-Patterson AFB (currently 401 SCMS/GUMD). A request
   for a new SMC will include the consumable and recoverable BP codes to be used with the new SMC.
   The budget program code establishes whether the items used within the system are MSD or
   non-MSD. The request will also list the name of the system for which the SMC is being established
   and the reason for needing a new SMC. The request will not include the actual SMC, which will be
   assigned by the 401 SCMS/GUMD SIRS OPR. A request to delete an SMC will contain the reason for
   deleting the SMC. The 401 SCMS/GUMD SIRS OPR will coordinate the request to delete an SMC
   with other offices. 401 SCMS/GUMD will file maintain the SMCs in API, publish a list of SMCs by
   budget program on the D200A web page, and inform the 401 SCMS/GUMD budget OPRs of addi-
   tions and deletions.

14.3. Deferred Disposal Data.
   14.3.1. Defer Disposal Code. The Deferred Disposal Code identifies deferred disposal coded items.
      14.3.1.1. If it has been determined that some or all of the assets identified as excess will be
      retained in Air Force inventory the Item Management Specialist must ensure that a defer disposal
366                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      code is assigned to that item along with a disposal defer level, if appropriate. This will ensure that
      the required assets are properly identified as contingency retention in the D200N Central Second-
      ary Item Stratification and prevent them from being identified as excess materiel to the Reutiliza-
      tion and Disposal System, D035G. All excess materiel not identified for retention by use of a
      disposal defer code must be sent to disposal. The following paragraphs describe the various types
      of defer disposal codes and when they should be used..
      14.3.1.2. Application Level Deferred Disposal Codes. Requests for a system wide retention
      (deferred disposal code) will be submitted by the system program manager or program group
      manager and signed by the Supply Chain Management Group (SCMG) commander. The SCMG
      commander signed request will be forwarded to 401 SCMS/GUMD, and 401 SCMS/GUMD will
      submit the request to AF/A4RM for approval/disapproval. When AF/A4RM notifies 401 SCMS/
      GUMD of approval, a deferred disposal code of “C” or “P” will be input into D200F Applications,
      Program and Indentures (API) to retain the assets. This code is displayed on the BMD screen. It is
      file maintained in D200F API, and cannot be file maintained in SIRS. . For Air Force policy on
      retention of assets and assigning an application level Deferred Disposal Code see AFMAN
      23-110, Volume III, Part One Chapter 9, Section D. A system level Deferred Disposal Code is
      either "C," or "P". “"C" on an application indicates that the deferred disposal applies to depot level
      assets of all items (common or peculiar) that are used on that application, even if the item is also
      used on other applications. "P" on an application indicates that the deferred disposal applies only
      to depot level assets of "peculiar" items or items that have that application as the only application.
      When a ‘C’ or ‘P’ code is input into D200F API on the Standard Program Designator screen, API
      assigns this code on all components of the application and passes the data to SIRS. If any applica-
      tion has code “C,” code “C” is assigned to the component. If any application has code “P” and
      other applications have blank codes, no code is assigned to the component. If all of a component’s
      applications have the same code, that code is assigned to the component. The assignment of the
      "C"or "P" deferred disposal code does not affect the computation of the items requirements in
      SIRS, but any excess assets are not passed toD035G. Assets for these items are displayed in their
      own column on the CSIS.
      14.3.1.3. Item Level IMS File Maintained Deferred Disposal Codes. To change an "F", "G", "M"
      or "R" to a blank, enter a “B”. A "B" cannot be entered if this field contains a "C" or "P". An "M"
      cannot be entered is this field contains a "C" or "P". An "F" cannot be entered is this field contains
      a "C" or "M" or "P". An "G" cannot be entered if this field contains a "F" or "C" or "M" or "P". An
      "R" can be entered only if this field is blank and only if the Defer Disposal Level is greater than
      zero. Deferred Disposal Codes “J”, “Q” and “S” are no longer valid codes since they are not used
      by the D200A system.
         14.3.1.3.1. Deferred Disposal Code “M”. Use of the deferred disposal code “M” requires a let-
         ter signed by the SCMG commander unless HQ Air Force, Department of Defense, Congress
         or the President has downward directed the retention in written correspondence. A new letter
         will be obtained annually from the SCMG commander to continue use of the code.
             14.3.1.3.1.1. "M" is used when an item is classified as Military Contingency retention.
             This is done when a higher headquarters has directed retention of quantities for which no
             programmed requirement exists and would normally be stratified as potential DoD excess
             or declared service excess. A directive of this type indicates a potential future need for an
             item. Contingency items are those items for which the AF no longer has a current require-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            367


          ment for, but wants to retain the assets for future contingency plans. These items are man-
          aged using the Deferred Level unless the direction is to retain all assets in which case the
          deferred level should be Z’ed.. No repair is authorized for an item while it remains as a
          contingency item and SIRS is programmed to ensure that no procurement quantities can be
          developed. These items are to be reviewed at least once a year to determine whether the
          item is to remain as a contingency item and to validate the Deferred Level. Once plans are
          finalized, the IMS should remove the "M" by file maintaining a "B" to convert the deferred
          disposal code to a blank.
          14.3.1.3.1.2. The “M” is also used for NSNs having no assets, for which the IMS is not
          going to buy any assets, and acquisition advise code does not indicate that the item is not
          stocked, but the product directorate wants to retain the item in the stocklist rather than
          deleting the NSN. A consolidated set of rationale for the ALC (list each basic rationale and
          number of items in each product directorate using that rationale) will be provided to 401
          SCMS/GUMD.
       14.3.1.3.2. R - IMS Decision. This code permits all or part of the total assets to fall into the
       contingency retention segment of the CSIS. If there are exceptional situations such as the need
       to retain parts on an older weapon system, an “R” code may be used. (If there is no known pro-
       curement source, use deferred disposal code G). Requests for use of the “R” retention
       (deferred disposal code) will be submitted by the system program manager or program group
       manager and signed by the SCMG commander. The required written justification to “R” code
       an item, or a block of items must be filed and readily available. This justification will specify
       the individual NSN(s) to be kept, why, the items need to be retained, how many assets for each
       NSN need to be retained and methodology and calculation used to determine that, unit price of
       the item, extended value of the items, how many cubic feet an item occupies, extended cubic
       footage for retained assets of a NSN, projected yearly cost for storage of the items in the ware-
       houses, how many items are condemned or are projected to be condemned per year, years of
       supply (requested deferred disposal level divided by condemnations per year) and for how
       long the items need to be retained. The list sent forward for approval will be sorted so that
       those items having the most years of supply will appear at the top of the list. Signed SCMG
       commander approval must be retained for historical and audit purposes. After the letter has
       been signed by the SCMG commander, the IMS will file maintain the “R” code and the
       deferred level that is on the letter into D200A. The code and deferred level on the letter will
       remain in D200A for that cycle and the next three consecutive cycles or until the letter signed
       by the SCMG commander expires, the letter is superseded by another letter signed by the
       SCMG commander or until the justification for “R” code is no longer valid whichever is
       sooner. See paragraph 14.3.2.1. for exceptions. A new letter will be obtained annually from the
       SCMG commander to continue use of the code. Use of this code requires input of a Deferred
       Disposal Code Level (see below). Because AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, Part 1, Chapter 10,
       paragraph 10.303.6.6 requires containers in stock classes 8140 and 8145 to have a deferred
       disposal code SCMG commander signature is not required for them, but an annual review of
       containers by the item management team will be required to ensure the Air Force is only keep-
       ing enough containers to cover the spares and installs of the items shipped in the containers.
       14.3.1.3.3. F - Weapon system being phased out of AF inventory and being offered to FMS.
       This code can be used if the IMS has written documentation from a higher headquarters orga-
       nization. Use of the “F” requires a letter signed by the SCMG commander unless HQ Air
368                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


            Force, Department of Defense, Congress or the President has downward directed the retention
            in written correspondence. A new letter will be obtained annually from the SCMG commander
            to continue use of the code. Use of this code requires input of a Deferred Disposal Code Level
            (see below). Base the Deferred Disposal Level on the document from the higher headquarters
            organization. Do not file maintain the ‘F’ deferred disposal code or deferred level based on the
            FMS Retention Level on the W001 product as the W001 FMS Retention Level automatically
            overlays in D200A to the retention segment of the FMS additive.
            14.3.1.3.4. G - General contingency requirement. Use of the “G” requires a letter signed by
            the SCMG commander. A new letter will be obtained annually from the SCMG commander to
            continue use of the code. This code can be used when a one time buy has been made for an
            explicit reason. This code will also be used to designate items for which no known procure-
            ment source exists. This justification will specify the individual NSN(s) to be kept, why the
            items need to be retained, how many assets for each NSN need to be retained and methodology
            and calculation used to determine that, unit price of the item, extended value of the items, how
            many cubic feet an item occupies, extended cubic footage for retained assets of a NSN, pro-
            jected yearly cost for storage of the items in the warehouses, how many items are condemned
            or are projected to be condemned per year, years of supply (requested deferred disposal level
            divided by condemnations per year) and for how long the items need to be retained. The list
            sent forward for approval will be sorted so that those items having the most years of supply
            will appear at the top of the list. Use of this code requires input of a Deferred Disposal Code
            Level (see paragraph 14.3.2.). This code will also be applied to all items under Performanced
            Based Logistic (PBL) contracts on which the contractor is doing all the demand and supply
            planning including calculation of requirements for the items. Under these contracts, the PBL
            contractor will determine and recommend to the ALC which items are excess and the ALC
            will manually initiate the disposal action in D035G Reutilization and Disposition System if the
            ALC agrees with the contractor recommendation. SCMG commander signature is not required
            for PBL items.
      14.3.2. Deferred Disposal Code Level.
         14.3.2.1. On initial establishment of an item, SIRS inputs zeros to this field. The IMS file main-
         tains the required level for M, F, G, or R coded items. Base the deferred level for G and R coded
         items on the expected condemnation of the item over the expected life of the system(s) on which
         it is used plus a safety factor. If the condemnation rate of the item is not expected to change over
         the life of the system(s), running a what-if recomputation using the weapon system life code pro-
         vides an easy method for determining a deferred level. If using this method, use the select reten-
         tion quantity on the recomputation as the deferred level. If the condemnation rate is not expected
         to remain the same, documentation must be obtained from the engineer with the projection of con-
         demnations. The deferred level from the signed approval letter will be input into SIRS and remain
         in SIRS for that cycle and the next three consecutive cycles until the letter signed by the SCMG
         commander expires, the letter is superseded by another letter signed by the SCMG commander or
         until the justification for the code is no longer valid whichever is sooner. The deferred level may
         be reduced prior to expiration of the signed approval letter if the year the life of the weapon system
         expires has decreased, the item is being replaced or if the reliability of the item is dramatically
         increased creating a drastic decrease in condemnations or replacement percents. Changes will be
         thoroughly documented and justified. The deferred level will not be increased without a new
         signed approval letter. An entry must be numeric or ZZZZZ. A value of ZZZZZ is used to delete a
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 369


      previously established level. The deletion of a level results in SIRS input of zeros and a blank
      source reference code. When the IMS wants to remove the deferred disposal code, he should first
      remove the deferred level by file maintaining Zs in the deferred level, and then file maintaining a
      “B” in the deferred disposal code. A value cannot be entered when the Item Deferred Disposal
      Code is "C" or "P".
      14.3.2.2. Use of the Deferred Level for "M" military contingency items. The system program
      manager or program group manager provides the deferred level and the IMS file maintains that
      deferred level after the SCMG commander signs the letter. (See paragraph 14.3.1.3.1.). When the
      deferred level is zero, SIRS will compute the item to an optimum position with the requirement
      equaling the total assets on hand and on order. When the deferred level is greater than zero, and the
      assets exceed the deferred level, all assets on hand above the level are identified as excess and all
      assets on order are identified for termination. When the deferred level is greater than zero and
      greater than the number of assets, SIRS will not generate a buy requirement.
      14.3.2.3. Use of the Deferred Level for "R", "F" and "G" coded items. SIRS compares excess
      quantities to this level and does the following: (1) considers the assets as excess and treats the item
      as if no deferred disposal code exists when the level is zero and SRC is "blank". (2) defers disposal
      of all non-obsolete excess assets and considers the obsolete assets as excess when the level is zero
      and the SRC is "E". (3) retains the deferred disposal level over and above the retention level. The
      excess quantity is the sum of obsolete assets plus non-obsolete assets in excess of the sum of the
      select retention level plus the deferred disposal level.

14.4. Interim Contract Support/Reliability Improvement Warranty (ICS/RIW) Data.
   14.4.1. ICS/RIW CODE. The only source of input for this code is manual file maintenance. Enter “C”
   to identify ICS items. Enter “W” to identify RIW items. Enter “B” to delete a previously established
   code. Any valid input replaces a previously established code. The RIW code of "W" is used in repair.
   14.4.2. ICS/RIW Expiration Date (EXPIR DATE) is the expiration date for the ICS or RIW code. The
   Expiration Date is mandatory when there is a "C" in the ICS/RIW code. The Expiration Date is
   optional when there is a "W" in the ICS/RIW code. The Expiration date reverts to 0000 when the ICS/
   RIW Code is deleted (changed to a blank). The Expiration Date is a four position numeric field which
   is input as YYMM. For YY, enter the last 2 positions of the year. For 2001, enter 01. For MM enter the
   last month of the quarter that the transition will occur. For an item transiting in January, that quarter
   ends in March, so enter 03.
   14.4.3. Purpose of the ICS/RIW Code and Expiration Date.
      14.4.3.1. The ICS/RIW Code and Expiration Date are information only to the SIRS requirements
      computation. SIRS passes the ICS/RIW Code and Expiration Date to the Item Pricing System (via
      D200N) for use in the annual customer price development. D200N passes the ICS/RIW Code and
      Expiration Date to the Automated Budget Compilation System (ABCS) for Repair.
          14.4.3.1.1. When the ICS Code is present (= "C"), the repair cost is suppressed by D200N in
          the development of the exchange price. If the ICS transition date (ICS Expiration Date) is dur-
          ing the current year, then the repair price is pro-rated based upon the ICS Expiration Date in
          order to charge the customer the same price all year. If the date ends in 03, 75% of the repair
          price is used. If the date ends in 06, 50% of the repair price is used. If the date ends in 09, 25%
          of the repair price is used. If the date ends in the current calendar year with a 12, then 100% of
370                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


             the repair price is used. If the date is the next calendar year with a 12, 0% of the repair price is
             used.
             14.4.3.1.2. For example, an ICS expiration of January 2001 would be input to SIRS as 0103,
             indicating that repair would transition off of ICS at the beginning of the quarter ending in
             March 2001. The ICS was in place for the first quarter of the fiscal year, so 25% of the repair
             cost is suppressed and 75% of it is used in the development of the customer exchange price for
             FY01.
             14.4.3.1.3. Here is another example of how the repair price is developed for the 31 Mar 01
             computation.
ICS Expiration Date
         0112 - 100% of the repair price (MSD repair begins 1 Oct)
         0203 - 75% of the repair price (MSD repair begins 1 Jan)
         0206 - 50% of the repair price (MSD repair begins 1 Apr)
         0209 - 25% of the repair price (MSD repair begins 1 Jul)
         0212 - 0% of the repair price (MSD repair begins 1 Oct next fiscal year)

14.5. Item Activity Code. The ACT CODE is a one-position code used in SIRS to identify the cycle or
cycles that the item must be reviewed. On cycles where the item doesn't need to be reviewed, printed
products are suppressed.
      14.5.1. Code 0 is assigned by SIRS based upon input from RIID that the item is obsolete. Code 0 can-
      not be changed by file maintenance in SIRS. The IMS file maintains a code of 1 - 8 to each non-obso-
      lete item. Obtain first level supervisor approval/signature only when the IMS uses a code other than
      the recommended IAC from the IMS Review Listing. Documentation is kept on the notepad. Codes
      and the applicable review cycle are as follows:

Table 14.2. Codes and Applicable Review Cycle.
Code       Review Quarter                                                      Intensity of Management
1          31 December                                                         low
2          31 March                                                            low
3          30 June                                                             low
4          30 September                                                        low
5          31 December and 30 June                                             medium
6          31 March and 30 September                                           medium
7          31 December, 31 March, 30 June, and 30 September                    high
8          31 December, 31 March, 30 June, and 30 September                    very high
0          No Review Required

      14.5.2. Demands against the wholesale (depot) supply system should be used to determine how often
      to review the item. Air Force demands are defined as the total of the base Not Reparable This Station
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              371


   (NRTS), base condemnations and depot reparable generations that have occurred in the most recent
   past 8 quarters, times 4, then divided by the number of quarters in use (maximum 8). Other services'
   recurring demands and Foreign Military Sales (FMS) recurring demands (input to SIRS from D035B),
   during the most recent 4 quarters are added to the average AF annual demands to determine the aver-
   age annual demands. The average annual demands multiplied by the unit price equals the dollar value
   of demands.
   14.5.3. Code 7 is assigned to items with 24 or more average annual demands or to items with fewer
   than 24 demands but the value of demands is equal to or greater than $500,000. These items should be
   reviewed each quarter. An 8 should be assigned to items which have been assigned high priority based
   upon a management decision.
   14.5.4. Codes 5 and 6 are assigned to items with 13 to 23 average annual demands and the value of
   demands is less than $500,000. New items not coded insurance, NSO, or military contingency are nor-
   mally assigned 5 or 6. Since AF Secondary Item Control Activity (SICA) Nonconsumable Item Mate-
   riel Support Code (NIMSC) 5 items pass requirements to the Primary Inventory Control Activity
   (PICA) from the September cycle, and are budgeted for on the March cycle, these items should be
   coded 6.
   14.5.5. Codes 1, 2, 3, and 4 are assigned to items with 12 or fewer average annual demands and the
   dollar value of demands is less than $500,000. These codes are also assigned to items coded insur-
   ance, NSO and military contingency. The IMS should try to allocate the workload across the four
   computation cycles.

14.6. Item Category Code. The ITEM CAT can be blank, or "S", or "I", "L", "Y" or "Z". If the code is
blank, the item is an active computing item. "S" is an Numerical Stockage Objective (NSO) item or low
demand item (see Chapter 31). "S" can be file maintained in SIRS. Do not try to file maintain an "S" or
“Z” for an AF or other service SICA NIMSC 5 item, as D200A will automatically convert any item with
a SICA NIMSC 5 that has a “S” or “Z” item category code to a computing item when the batch computa-
tion is run and D200A will not permit AF SICA NIMSC 5 items to be changed to NSO on the BMD
screen (see paragraph 31.5.1.).. Enter a “B” to change the “S” to blank. RIID provides the code “I” for
an insurance item. SIRS will allow the “I” code to be changed to blank only for an item that already has a
SICA AF NIMSC code of 5. For other items, file maintenance has to be done in RIID to change the "I" to
blank and then RIID passes a blank code to SIRS. When the item category code is changed causing an
active item to become an insurance or NSO item, or causing an insurance or NSO item to become an
active item, the computation results prior to the change are deleted from the SIRS data base. When the
Weapon System Life Code (see paragraph 14.13.) is not equal to the default value of zero, SIRS changes
the item category code to "L" for computing items, "Y" for insurance items, and "Z" for NSO items.

14.7. Item name. Enter the item name from left to right. Unused positions can be left blank. Any combi-
nation of alphas and numeric’s are acceptable. It may be necessary to abbreviate if the actual item nomen-
clature is too long for the field size. Once the Item Name has been entered, it may be changed but cannot
be blanked out. When the Item Name has been file maintained, SIRS changes the SRC to "E" and will not
accept the item name from RIID.

14.8. Lot Size Quantity. This data element is used whenever the repair organization will only accept a
specified number of reparable items for repair. The system defaults to a quantity of "1". Any number
greater than 1 may be file maintained. An edit message appears on the IMS Review List if this quantity
372                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


changes from 0 or 1, to 2 or greater. Enter "Y's" to have the system revert to 1. The Lot Size Quantity
reflects a minimum lot size in SIRS. SIRS will not adjust in even multiples of the minimum number. It
just ensures the number will be at least as large as the minimum number. For example, if the lot size is 2,
SIRS will delay the input of assets until at least 2 can be input. If every quarter is 2 or more, odd numbers
can be computed. They just must be at least 2.

14.9. Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM) Exclusion Code. The valid codes for the OWRM EXCL
are “X” and blank. An "X" in this code will prevent the computation of OWRM requirements. Using the
GUI, "point and click" to the box beside the OWRM Exclusion Code, and when the "X" appears, press
”enter”. To delete the OWRM Exclusion Code, point and click to the box where the X is displayed and
when the “X” disappears, press “enter”.

14.10. Safety Level Exclusion Indicator. Per direction of AFMC/A4Y, IMS/MM may not input a
Safety Level Exclusion Indicator due to the negative impact it has on support. There are 2 codes for the
SFTY LVL EXCL IND, blank and “X”. An "X" is entered to prevent SIRS from computing base and
depot safety levels for the item. To delete a previously established code, point and click on the SFTY LVL
EXCL IND block where the X is displayed, and the X will disappear; then press ENTER. Safety levels are
computed for aircraft items using the Aircraft Availability Model in the peacetime computation, and a
Variable Safety Level (VSL) in the OWRM computation. A VSL is computed for non-aircraft items and
all consumable items in both the peacetime and OWRM computations.

14.11. Unit Prices. Actual price and DOLP can be file maintained on this screen. The repair cost
(REPAIR) is computed by SIRS and explained in Chapter 15. Forecasted Price is explained in para-
graph 14.11.2. The IMS is required to document the pricing change rationale for each NSN on the item
computation the AFMC Form 318, Item Contracting History Record or another paper or a compact disc
and maintain it in a location readily available for audits/inspections. If the IMS chooses not to record the
unit price on an AFMC Form 318, the IMS will retain the AFMC Form 339s showing the award of the
contract and unit price as a permanent record for the life of the item.
      14.11.1. Actual Unit Price (ACTUAL) is passed from RIID to SIRS each initial cycle for all new
      items and for all established items except AF SICA NIMSC 5 items. AF SICA NIMSC 5-item unit
      prices are passed from RIID for the September cycle only. RIID receives its unit price updates from
      J018R for stock fund items and from D043 for non stock fund items and for AF SICA NIMSC 5 items.
      The Source Reference Code (SRC) is displayed with a value of "D" for received from RIID via D043,
      or "J" or “M” for received from J018R via RIID or "E" for file maintained. A few items have "A" for
      a price that came from D041 and has not been updated.
         14.11.1.1. Changing the Actual Unit Price. The IMS should review the unit price and file maintain
         corrections to the unit price into SIRS. At the same time the unit price is file maintained, the IMS
         should also file maintain the DOLP, unless the item is an AF SICA NIMSC 5 item. File mainte-
         nance entries must be numeric only and in dollars and cents. Once a unit price has been estab-
         lished, it cannot be changed to zero. Enter “Y”s to revert to the actual price from RIID. Do not use
         the 1.3334 factor to convert the weighted unit repair cost into a unit price. Only use actual unit
         prices, quoted/estimated prices or RIID (D043) prices for the Actual Unit Price in SIRS.
         14.11.1.2. Contractor Quotes/Estimates. If a new contractor quote or estimate is received, the IMS
         should file maintain it into SIRS if the current Forecasted Unit Price (FUP) will not accurately
         reflect funding needs (See paragraph 34.8.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  373


       14.11.1.3. Actual Unit Price for AF SICA NIMSC 5 Items. There is only one price for an item in
       the Federal Catalog and this is the Standard Price maintained by the PICA, which is passed to
       SIRS from RIID during the September cycle as outlined above. Any file maintenance corrections
       should be input during the September file maintenance cycles and unit prices should not normally
       be changed for the balance of the year. Changes should be coordinated with the PICA item man-
       agement specialist. The Date of Last Procurement should not be file maintained for any AF SICA
       NIMSC 5 item.
   14.11.2. Forecasted Unit Price (FUP) is displayed on the BMD screen as FORECAST. The FUP was
   developed to be used in Variable Safety Level (VSL) processing and Central Secondary Item Stratifi-
   cation (CSIS) buy budget projections. SIRS computes the FUP by multiplying the appropriate infla-
   tion factor by the unit price. Inflation factors are determined by converting the DOLP to a fiscal year,
   then comparing the fiscal year to a table in SIRS which contains an inflation factor for each fiscal year
   (see paragraph 6.10.). This inflation factor is then used to calculate the FUP. Inflation tables are
   updated annually for the June cycle (and any other quarter that the inflation data changes), by the HQ
   AFMC SIRS OPR from inflation factors provided by the HQ AFMC/FM budget organization. When
   a more current contractor’s quote/estimate is received, the IMS should file maintain the DOLP into
   SIRS. The DOLP is passed to SIRS from RIID as a result of new procurement.

14.12. Date of Last Procurement (DOLP). Passed from RIID to SIRS each initial cycle for all stock
fund items except AF SICA NIMSC 5 items. There is no mechanized posting of DOLP for non stock fund
items, so it must be file maintained by the IMS. DOLP is not required for military contingency (item cat-
egory code = M), obsolete or AF SICA NIMSC 5 items. The DOLP should NOT be file maintained for
any AF SICA NIMSC 5 item. Except as mentioned previously the DOLP should be the Julian date of the
contract award that corresponds to the unit price. This can be found in the contract award date block on
the contract or amendment to the contract or on the AFMC Form 339 card. The date in the contract award
date block on the contract or amendment takes precedence if there is a discrepancy between the dates on
the contractual document and the AFMC Form 339. For Provisioned Item Orders (PIOs), the date of the
contract award of the Delivery Order or the Julian date established on the AFMC Form 339 card should
be input for the DOLP as that is the date that the NSN was added as a line item to the contract. The date
of contract award of the Delivery Order takes precedence if there is a difference between it and the date
established on the AFMC Form 339. The DOLP is input as a five position Julian date (YYDDD) and must
not be greater than the asset cutoff date plus 90 days. SIRS will not accept ZZZZZs, spaces or all zeroes.
Enter “Y”s to revert to the actual DOLP from RIID for stock fund items. The Source Reference Code of
"A" for received from RIID or "E" for file maintained, is displayed. All adjustments to DOLP must be
properly documented on the D200A notepad and AFMC Form 318, Item Contracting History Record or
another paper or a compact disc and maintain it in a location readily available for audits/inspections. If the
IMS chooses not to record the DOLP on an AFMC Form 318, the IMS will retain the AFMC Form 339s
showing the award of the contract as a permanent record for the life of the item.

14.13. Weapon System Life Code. A 3 position numeric field is used for life of type buys. The IMS
must submit the request for a life of type buy item according to paragraph 1.11. When the ALC/CD
approves the request (see paragraph 1.11.3.3.), then the IMS can file maintain this field. Calculate the
value to file maintain by multiplying the expected remaining years the weapon system will remain in the
Air Force inventory by four and then subtract 38 in the Mar cycle, 37 in the Jun cycle, 36 in the Sep cycle
or 35 in the Dec cycle. The result is the expected number of quarters beyond the requirement computation
time span the weapon system is expected to remain in operation. The IMS/MM will file maintain this
374                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


value on the BMD screen in the Weapon system Life field. Once the field is file maintained SIRS will
automatically decrement the value in the field by one in each subsequent quarterly computation cycle.
When the weapon system life code is not equal to the default value of zero, SIRS changes the item cate-
gory code to "L" for computing items, "Y" for insurance items, and "Z" for NSO items. Based on the aver-
age quarterly condemnations within the normal span of the requirements computation, SIRS will compute
the additional amount of spares necessary to replace condemnations projected through the weapon system
life and adjust the computed buy requirement accordingly.

14.14. Other Data Elements On The BMD Screen. The following data elements are displayed but can-
not be file maintained on the BMD screen.
      14.14.1. AAM VSL is derived by SIRS and is not file maintainable. It will be "A" indicating that the
      item's safety levels are computed by the Aircraft Availability Model (AAM). It will be "V" indicating
      that the item's safety levels are computed by the Variable Safety Level model (VSL). All consumable
      items will have "V" displayed.
      14.14.2. ALC is the two-digit Air Logistics Center that manages the item, either OC, OO, SA, SM, or
      WR. ALC comes from RIID and is not file maintainable in SIRS.
      14.14.3. COMP CODE is generated by SIRS and cannot be file maintained. All subgroup master
      items in SIRS will be assigned one of the SIX codes. A "Y" tells SIRS to perform the computation.
      The other codes “B”, “N", "P”, “R”, and “X” tell SIRS not to perform a computation. The codes are
      explained in the order SIRS checks the data. SIRS assigns compute code of blank to the current stock
      numbers under a subgroup master NSN.
         14.14.3.1. When RIID has an acquisition advice code of "Y" or "T", the item is obsolete and SIRS
         will assign a compute code of "N".
         14.14.3.2. When there is no actual unit price, SIRS will assign a compute code of “P”. The IMS
         can file maintain the actual unit price (see paragraph 14.11.) into SIRS.
         14.14.3.3. When there is a blank budget code, SIRS will assign a compute code of “B”. The IMS
         can file maintain the budget code (see paragraph 14.2.) into SIRS.
         14.14.3.4. When there are no applications, SIRS will assign a compute code of “R”. Application
         data cannot be file maintained into SIRS. The equipment specialist will have to file maintain valid
         application data into API (see Chapter 18). SIRS will compute requirements for insurance and
         NSO items that have an "R" code, since program data is not needed.
         14.14.3.5. “X” indicates that the item is not being computed. The item is in D200A so that it can
         be passed on to D200N Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) for the DD1000 report.
         14.14.3.6. If none of the above conditions apply, then SIRS assigns a Compute Code of "Y" which
         indicates a computation will be performed.
      14.14.4. Depot Floating Stock Level. Manually file maintained CE Depot Floor additives should be
      removed from D200A. D200A will automatically take in the CE Depot Floor requirements for both
      NSO and computing CE Depot Floor items. For the computing items, the CE Depot Floor will appear
      as a new line on the printed requirements computation. The CE Depot Floor will be viewable on the
      BMD screen in D200A.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             375


  14.14.5. ERRC. The Expendability, Recoverability, Repairability, Category (ERRC) code is a one
  position code that represents the management technique and repair capability assigned to the NSN.
  Items with ERRC equal to "N" (XB3) or "P" (XF3) are called "consumable" items. Items with ERRC
  equal to "C" (XD1) or "T (XD2) are called "recoverable" items. The ERRC comes from RIID and is
  not file maintainable in SIRS. (See paragraph 1.9.).
  14.14.6. ES is the three-digit code of the Equipment Specialist responsible for the rates and percents
  used in the computation. ES comes from RIID and is not file maintainable in SIRS.
  14.14.7. IMS is the three-digit code of the Inventory Management Specialist responsible for manage-
  ment of the item. IMS comes from RIID and is not file maintainable in SIRS.
  14.14.8. MIEC. The 3 position Mission Item Essentially Code defines how essential the item is to the
  wartime mission of the weapon system. (See paragraph 18.28.). The MIEC comes from API and is
  not file maintainable in SIRS
  14.14.9. New Item code is derived by SIRS and is not file maintainable. An "N" means the NSN is a
  new item. SIRS will assign this "N" upon receipt of a new item, and will remove the N code 2 years
  after the oldest program begin date for the item (see paragraph 18.30.). A new item code of blank
  means the item is not new. The Source Reference Code of "C" is displayed.
  14.14.10. PMS Buyer Seller display codes to identify the production management specialists. The
  codes come from RIID and are not file maintainable in SIRS.
  14.14.11. PRGM Sel. Program Select Code is derived by SIRS and cannot be file maintained in SIRS.
  The four-digit Item Program Select Code (IPSC) displayed on the BMD screen is an informational
  field only, that identifies an aggregate of all of the two-digit Application Program Select Codes
  (APSC) file maintained by the ES in API. Each APSC directs SIRS to select the application type pro-
  gram that will be used in the item computation. The first position identifies the type of OIM program.
  The first position can be 1 (flying or operating hours), 3 (inventory or equipment months), 5 (sorties)
  7 (drone recoveries), or 8 (ammunition expenditures). An item can use only one type of OIM program
  because the OIM programs for each application are added together to calculate the item's require-
  ments. Therefore, the first position of the APSC must be the same for all applications the item is used
  on. The exception is that an application can have a "0" which indicates that the OIM program for that
  application will not be used. Each APSC can have only one DLM program (either 4, 6, or 9). The last
  3 positions of the IPSC each contain either an "X" to use that DLM program for the item computation
  or a "0" to not use that DLM program. The second position of the IPSC is the PDM program (program
  type 4), the third position is the engine overhaul program (program type 6), and the fourth position is
  the NHA MISTR program (program type 9). (See paragraph 18.27.).
  14.14.12. SF CR IND is the Stock Fund Credit Indicator that comes from RIID and is not file main-
  tainable in SIRS.
376                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 14.2. File Maintenance ISS I and S Structure Data.




14.15. I and S Structure File Maintenance Screen.
      14.15.1. SIRS obtains the Interchangeability and Substitutability (I and S) data from RIID. It is based
      on the current data in the cataloging systems. If the IMS or ES believes that the existing I and S struc-
      ture in those systems do not properly reflect how SIRS should compute the forecasted spares require-
      ment they may request a change, following local policy, from their local ALC SIRS OPR. The request
      should contain complete justification for the change, both a “before” and “after” picture of the I and S
      relationships involved in the change, and a statement on whether or not the cataloging systems will be
      updated to reflect these changes.
      14.15.2. The ISS screen (Figure 14.2.) is accessed from the SND file maintenance menu FM RCVS
      SND ISS. The I and S data is displayed on other screens, such as the page 12 screen of the SGM Com-
      putation Worksheet Requirements (the SMCW screens, see paragraph 9.14.). The middle digit of the
      order of use code designates the Sub Group. The highest middle digit is the most preferred and the I
      and S family master. Additional members of a Sub Group are offset under the Sub Group Master . To
      add a stock number, use function code "A". To delete a stock number, use function code "D". To
      change the order of use, use function code "C".
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                        377


                                                         Chapter 15

                        REPAIR POLICY AND MISTR REPAIR DATA SCREENS

15.1. Introduction. This chapter contains policy and procedures for the Equipment Specialist (ES),
Inventory Management Specialist (IMS) and Production Management Specialist (PMS) for validation of
the repair data for SIRS items. All items will have a record on the SIRS data base. If repair data is not pro-
vided from an interfacing system (G004L, G019C, CAV AF, or G072D), SIRS will assign a generic pro-
duction record of 999999 with default values for all pipelines segments and the Repair Cost. If another
record is added, by file maintenance or from an interfacing system, SIRS automatically deletes the generic
record. Repair data can be viewed using the MRPR screens, DIS SIRS FUD MRPR (see paragraph
15.6.). This data can also be viewed on the reports "MISTR Repair and Repair Data Sorted By ES" and
"MISTR Repair and Repair Data Sorted By IMS" (see paragraph 15.7.). Repair data can be file main-
tained using the MRPR screen, FM SIRS SND MRPR (see paragraph 15.5.).

15.2. Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) Procedures.
   15.2.1. The Automated Budget Compilation System (ABCS) Repair portion of D075 forms the
   bridge between the computed repair requirement in SIRS and the budgetary requirements in ABCS as
   well as providing a tool to be used in negotiating the requirements of an end item. Actual production/
   induction and negotiation data of an end item is used to update the repair requirements passed from
   SIRS to D075 (see paragraph 4.8.2.). During the processing of this requirements data, D075 makes
   available the F/M PT/PREP MISTR DAC screen and the A-D075.ABCS-REP-P-B21 Quarterly Pro-
   jection Worksheet for re-validation of the computed repair requirements. SIRS directly overlays to
   D075 the quarterly total MISTR peacetime and WRSK/BLSS input and output requirements through
   the computation time span of 38 quarters. These requirements are displayed on the F/M PT/PREP
   MISTR DAC screen as PTandPREP IN/OT DAC and on the A-D075.ABCS-REP-P-B21 worksheet
   a s t h e F a m i l y A d j u s t e d R e q u i r e m e n t , I n p u t a n d O u t p u t . T h e re q u i r e m e n t s o n t h e
   A-D075.ABCS-REP-P-B21 are displayed as 8 quarters for the first 2 years and yearly totals by fiscal
   year for the last 6 years.
   15.2.2. Adjustments can be made by the IMS when it is determined that more current data is available
   that may increase or decrease the repair requirement. The PMS will not adjust the requirements; how-
   ever, adjustments may need to be made due to availability of unserviceable assets or contract stipula-
   tions. When the review is completed, the requirements for the upcoming quarter are negotiated with
   maintenance for repair. A complete description of the biweekly drive is contained in AFMCI 23-112.
   15.2.3. Repair adjustments may be made to compensate for increases in demands as a result of unex-
   pected failure rates or a sudden surge in usage, unprogrammed requirements in support of special
   projects or mission directives and Materiel Repair Requirements List (MRRL) requisitions received
   after the cutoff date (see paragraph 32.7.). Repair adjustments may also be required due to the devel-
   opment of new repair procedures for items previously condemned.
   15.2.4. Any repair requirement adjustment made must not duplicate a requirement already considered
   in SIRS and sufficient reparable assets must be available to support the adjustment.
   15.2.5. The IMS and ES or PMS should consider contract repair when no organic repair is available.
378                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      15.2.6. Every effort should be made to bring on-hand Technical Order Compliance (TOC) assets up
      to compliance prior to negotiating repair requirements.
      15.2.7. Insufficient Repair Requirements. SIRS permits input of all requirements that must be
      replaced, plus additives for those requirements that can not be computed based on the application of
      factors to programs. Additives to cover normal backorders are not authorized. When normal backo-
      rders exist on items with unserviceable assets which are not being driven to repair, this is an indication
      of data/usage problems within SIRS. The ES should check if usage data is being correctly reported or
      if demands are increasing and/or demand rates are too low. The ES should also check that the item has
      all the correct applications and that all these applications have programs. The PMS/ES should ensure
      the number of repairs and condemnations are correctluy recorded. The IMS and PMS should check all
      repair pipeline times and repair prices. There may be occasions when SIRS is forecasting repair too
      late, such as future quarters in the same fiscal year. This situation may also be indicative of seasonal
      requirements or requirements trends. These situations can be corrected as required through negotia-
      tion/re-negotiation action or by moving the repair to the current quarter if reparable assets are avail-
      able. When moving repair to the current quarter, the item management specialist must ensure that an
      equal decrease is taken and that the decrease is in the same fiscal year as the current quarter. Moving
      repair requirements between fiscal years causes budgetary inconsistencies.
      15.2.8. Delayed Discrepancy Backorders are requisitions for items that cannot be removed from the
      end item until a serviceable replacement has been received. SIRS does not have the capability to
      project or forecast this pipeline requirement. Delayed discrepancy backorders are identified by "BQ"
      in columns 46-47 of the requisition, and are also called BQ backorders. Requisitions having YBG in
      the first three digits of the supplementary address are also considered to be delayed discrepancy back-
      orders For ERRC C and T items, the quantity on delayed discrepancy backorders when the B-21 is
      worked may be added to the quantity on the B21 up to the available reparables. Documentation will
      include the requisition numbers and quantities of the delayed discrepancy backorders. ALCs may
      implement this policy with additional limitations if there appears (on a given item) to be invalid
      delayed discrepancy backorders.
      15.2.9. If, after the summary SIRS computation, it is determined that a special need exists, other than
      normal backorders, which cannot be met with available serviceable assets, an additional repair
      requirement can be inserted into D075/ABCS via the F/M PT/PREP MISTR DAC screen. AFMCM
      65-293 provides the applicable adjustment reason codes and the procedures to be used to accomplish
      this action. The IMS should run a SIRS "What If" item re-computation using the FM WTIR screen
      (see paragraph 10.3.). Documentation of repair requirement changes will need to be documented on
      the B21 as the SIRS notepad is not available from the WTIR screen nor is it available after the sum-
      mary computation is run. If applicable, file maintenance should also be made to SIRS for the next
      cycle when the file maintenance window opens. If it was not possible to run a “What If” recomputa-
      tion, the correct repair requirement should be annotated on the applicable lines of the SIRS computa-
      tion worksheet. The B21 repair requirement quantities and the SIRS computation line repair
      requirements should match. Changed repair requirements must be input into the ABCS repair budget.

15.3. Use of Temporary Work Request AF Form 206 Repair.
      15.3.1. Use of Temporary Work Request repair for items with MISTR production numbers and estab-
      lished repair procedures is not authorized. The Temporary Work Request should be used to initially
      develop organic repair procedures and establish the MISTR production number. The Temporary Work
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              379


   Request may be used for NSNs experiencing three or less assets being repaired per year and for unpro-
   grammed requirements. A MISTR production number will be established for all organically repaired
   items experiencing four or more assets non-job routed organic repair actions of the item per year, with
   future forecasted demands. A MISTR production number may also be established for items experienc-
   ing less than four non-job routed organic repair actions of the item.
   15.3.2. In rare cases, when the Production Management Specialist (PMS) decides to use AF Form 206
   repair, the repair action will be mechanically input into SIRS if it is repaired under RGC “J”, “K” or
   “L” and is a “A” or “C” job designator. IMSs and ESs must then determine if these repairs were based
   on a SIRS computation and whether the item made serviceable will be sold under stock funding. If the
   item is to be sold under stock funding, then the AF Form 206 repair should remain in SIRS. In some
   cases, repair actions performed for RGC “L” items may not belong in SIRS. If this is the case, action
   must be taken by the PMS and/or ES (responsibility assigned by ALC policy) to delete the production
   number and production quantities from SIRS using the MRPR screen, FM SIRS SND MRPR (Figure
   15.1.).
   15.3.3. If the repair action is to remain in SIRS, the IMS/PMS should verify the repair cost, enter the
   shop days, supply to maintenance days, and serviceable turn-in time (if known, otherwise use the
   default days). The Equipment Specialist or Production Management Specialist (responsibility
   assigned by ALC policy) should verify the production and condemnations quantities.
   15.3.4. If it is found that an AF Form 206 repair action was not passed to SIRS but should be in SIRS,
   action must be taken by the PMS or ES and/or IMS to file maintain that information as an add into
   SIRS using the MRPR screen giving the production number of the AF Form 206 action. Condemna-
   tions can be added using the FM SIRS SND USGD screen (see paragraph 16.12.).
   15.3.5. The IMS ensures that the production data from the 206s is input to ABCS-Repair on the F/M
   PT/PREP MISTR DAC screen in order to update the repair requirement (third quarter). The IMS
   ensures that the outstanding 206s are used in the second quarter of the B21 update section in order to
   update the adjusted quarterly requirement (third quarter). The IMS also ensures that the 206 repair is
   not duplicated. The ALC Repair OPR ensures that any quarterly negotiation quantities (third quarter)
   and out-quarter requirements that are planned to be worked on 206 are only reflected in column I, the
   unprogrammed requirement/non-recurring requirement, within the Repair Budget.

15.4. Depot Floating Stock and Rotatable Spares.
   15.4.1. Depot Floating Stock can be defined as a level established in D035K for the support of an
   organic overhaul activity of the next higher assembly on a job-routed basis. Since this level is owned
   by and paid for by maintenance, the biannual review should be done by maintenance. The IMS should
   get a copy of the AFMC Form 100 from the maintenance facility. The IMS should keep the AFMC
   Form 100, or other documentation for this level in the item folder for 2 years as backup for the losses
   on the Asset Reconciliation. The approval authority for all floating stock/spare authorizations is the
   requesting activity commander of his/her designated representative. These assets are owned and paid
   for by DMBA and are not IMS accountable assets. Therefore, the IMS’s review and approval/disap-
   proval of the AFMC Form 100, Floating Stocks/Spares Requirement and Justification is not required.
   15.4.2. A Rotatable Spare can be defined as materiel furnished a contractor which serves the same
   purpose as depot floating stock levels do for organic maintenance. When a repair contract requires the
   contractor to repair XD components of a Next Higher Assembly (NHA), the Government may furnish
380                                                                           AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      a minimum quantity of these serviceable components (rotatable spares) to provide immediate replace-
      ment while the removed item is being repaired. The contractor, in coordination, with the Administra-
      tive Contracting Officer, establishes these levels. Because the NHA is being repaired, these items and
      quantities (rotatable spares) will not be duplicated for other purposes on the contract. These items are
      identified in Appendix B of the repair contract. Policy guidance for setting up and maintaining these
      stock levels for the contractor repair facilities is in AFMCI 21-113. The production manager will pro-
      vide a copy of Appendix B to the repair contract to the IMS for documentation. Justification for these
      levels is reviewed by maintenance on an annual basis since these repair contracts must be re-negoti-
      ated each year. These assets are owned and paid for by DMBA and are not IMS accountable assets.
      15.4.3. Depot Floating Stock and Rotatable Spares are not input into the SIRS computation for estab-
      lished levels. AFMAN 23-110 V3, Pt 2 Section 6C has the guidance on Floating Stock procedures.
      Establishment of a new Depot Floating Stock level by DMAG will result in an asset loss to the IMS
      when the assets are delivered from the 09 account to maintenance. The asset loss may drive the
      replacement requirement and generate a buy or a repair requirement. If serviceable assets are not
      available to fill the new Depot Floating Stock level, the IMS may take action to repair any long supply
      reparable assets to fill the Depot Floating Stock. File maintain a one-time TASK additive (see para-
      graph 25.4.13.) into SIRS, to drive the repair requirement in the computation. If the summary SIRS
      file maintenance period is over, then the requirement may be added to the ABCS B-21. If no assets are
      available to repair, purchase of these items is acceptable as the new Depot Floating Stock level
      requirement represents a sale of these assets upon delivery to maintenance. File maintain a TASK
      additive into SIRS, to generate the buy requirement in the computation. Assets procured for Depot
      Floating Stock level should not be direct shipped from the contractor to maintenance because stock
      funding would not make the sale and collect the overhead cost recoveries. The TASK additive input to
      drive repair or a buy for the Depot Floating Stock must be deleted after the assets are delivered to
      maintenance. If depot maintenance reduces the depot floating stock level requirement and turns in the
      excess assets, they will be allowed credit for the item if it is in a buy position, i.e., if the credit indica-
      tor is on the item record. Otherwise, no credit will be given.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           381


Figure 15.1. File Maintenance MRPR MISTR RPR and Repair Selection Screen.




15.5. File Maintenance of the MISTR Repair Data (MRPR).
   15.5.1. From the SND Stock Number Selection screen, select MRPR. When the MRPR screen
   appears, type a valid SGM and press ENTER. The MRPR Selection screen will appear which displays
   all the repair records by CSN (see Figure 15.1.). The MRPR screen can be file maintained by both the
   IMS and the ES/PMS (responsibility assigned by ALC policy). The MRPR screen is accessed by
   SGM, however, each production/contract number is displayed by the associated current stock number
   (CSN) where the repair was accomplished. Valid Source Of Repair (SOR) codes are OC (OC-ALC),
   OO (OO-ALC), SA (CPSG), WR (WR-ALC), CT (contract), DM (DMISA), UN (unknown), and OT
   (other). All temporary work orders (Form 206) are recorded as OT.
   15.5.2. To delete an existing record, type a "D" in the block by the side of the CSN, and press
   ENTER. The message "Do you want to delete the data Y/N?" will appear. Enter "Y" and press
   ENTER. The message "update successful" will appear and the record will no longer appear on the
   MRPR screen. Only the ES/PMS (responsibility assigned by ALC policy) can delete a record. The ES/
   PMS will not delete a production number or contract number/contract line item number with repair
   production in the last 12 quarters as the repair information is used in the factors/usage printout.
382                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      15.5.3. To add a new repair record, type an "A" in the left box of the first blank line. Type the CSN,
      SOR, Production/Contract Number, and CLIN (if applicable), and press ENTER. If the CLIN field is
      blank, then the SOR must be OC, OO, WR, OT or UN. If there is a value in the CLIN, then the SOR
      must be OT, CT or DM. The MRPR Data screen (Figure 15.2.) will appear. (See paragraph 15.5.6.
      for further instructions.)
      15.5.4. The MRPR screen (Figure 15.1.) is used to change the SOR percent, so that the pipeline times
      and prices can be adjusted correctly when the past data is not indicative of the future. The SOR per-
      cents are used to weight the repair costs and 3 of the pipeline days (see paragraph 15.9.). The PMS
      should inform the IMS of the changes. The IMS/ES/PMS (responsibility assigned by ALC policy)
      does the file maintenance of the future SOR percents. To change the SOR Percent, type "C" in the left
      most field by the first current stock number and associated production/contractor number to be
      changed, tab to the SOR PCT and change the value, tab to the next the current stock number and asso-
      ciated production/contractor number to be changed, tab to the SOR PCT and change the value. ALL
      SOR PCT fields must be changed and must add up to 100 before the user should press ENTER. If the
      changed SOR PCT fields do not add up to 100, SIRS will display the error message "SOR percent
      total is not 100", and will not accept the file maintenance.
         15.5.4.1. The SOR percents can be returned to computed values by typing a “C” in the left most
         field and entering “YYY” in the SOR field. All the SOR fields should have the “YYY” entered
         into them or the user will get the error “SOR percent total is not 100,” and SIRS will not accept the
         file maintenance.
         15.5.4.2. If the user adds a production record after the SOR percents are file maintained, the SOR
         percent for the added record defaults to a SOR percent of zero with a SRC of E. It will not be used
         in the computation of the weighted repair price or pipeline days. The user must adjust the SOR
         percent to use the added record. If the user deletes a production record which has a file maintained
         SOR percent greater than zero, SIRS will return all SOR percents to computed values. If needed,
         the user must adjust the SOR percents accordingly.
      15.5.5. To change a production record, type an "X" in the left most field by the current stock number
      and associated production/contractor number desired, and press ENTER. The selected MRPR Data
      screen (Figure 15.2.) will appear. (See paragraph 15.5.6. for further instructions.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 383


Figure 15.2. File Maintenance MISTR RPR and Repair Data Screen.




   15.5.6. Use the tab key to move from one field to another field. Type over existing numbers. After all
   data changes have been entered, press ENTER, and the notepad will appear. If file maintained values
   cause the resulting SGM level data to exceed the values on the "Standard Data - ERRC" table, a warn-
   ing message is displayed on the screen. If the changed data is correct, press ENTER again, to get the
   notepad. Type the reason(s) for the change(s) and press ENTER. The screen will reappear with the
   message "update successful" indicating that the SIRS data base has been updated with the file mainte-
   nance. From the MRPR Data screen, the user must return to the MRPR Selection screen, to change to
   a different record for that SGM, or get another SGM.
      15.5.6.1. The IMS and ES/PMS can add or change a production/contract/CLIN number, or Source
      of Repair.
      15.5.6.2. Only the ES/PMS can file maintain the 8 quarters of repair quantities. Entering all Y's
      into the repair quantity fields will cause SIRS to put back the actual data from the interfacing sys-
      tems (if such data was input). It is not possible to file maintain repair quantities on the generic pro-
      duction record of 999999. SIRS will automatically total the repair quantities.
      15.5.6.3. Only the IMS/PMS can file maintain the repair cost and supply to maintenance days,
      shop flow days and serviceable turn in days. The IMS/PMS can enter all Z's in any of these 4 fields
      that will cause SIRS to put the default values into the fields. The IMS/PMS can enter Y's in repair
384                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


       cost and shop flow days that will cause SIRS to put back the actual data from the interfacing sys-
       tems (if such data was input).

15.6. Display MISTR Repair Data (MRPR). The two Display MRPR MISTR RPR and Repair Data
Screens (Figure 15.3. and Figure 15.4.) display the past 12 quarters of MISTR repair quantities by
Source of Repair (SOR), production/contract number, Contract Line Item Number (CLIN), and the asso-
ciated repair cost, supply to maintenance days, shop flow days, and serviceable turn-in days. The "Left"
screen displays repair quantities for quarters 1 - 8,where quarter 1 is the most recent past quarter. The
"Right" screen displays repair quantities for quarters 9-12. To see additional CSNs, for the SGM, type
FORW in the command line. To see data from a previous cycle, change the AS OF date. To get data for
the SGM, type the SGM and press ENTER. Leave the SGM blank and enter a CSN to get data for that
CSN, along with the corresponding SGM. If a CSN is entered in the SGM field, the data displayed will be
for the SGM and the SGM will appear in the SGM field. Once this screen is populated, type X by NOTE-
PAD and SIRS will display the notepad for this screen.

Figure 15.3. Display MRPR MISTR and Repair Data Screen (Left).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              385


Figure 15.4. Display MRPR MISTR and Repair Data Screen (Right).




15.7. The MISTR Repair and Repair Data Product.
   15.7.1. This report (Figure 15.5.) is "pushed" to the IMSs and the ES/PMS after each SIRS computa-
   tion (Initial, Final and Summary) for stock numbers that require action or review. The report is not
   generated for items that have a deferred disposal code of “M” (military contingency retention items).
   15.7.2. This hard copy product can be requested for an individual SGM or part number, all SGMs or
   part numbers for an ALC and IMS code, or all SGMs or part numbers for an ALC and ES code. To get
   this product by IMS code, use the IMS Reports Selection PSS Screen FOE OP SJR RCVS PSS (see
   paragraph 13.5.). To get this product by ES code, use the ES Reports Selection EPSS screen FOE OP
   SJR RCVS EPSS (see paragraph 12.4.). To get this product from a previous cycle, change the AS OF
   date on the screen.
   15.7.3. This product displays, by subgroup master stock number, all current stock numbers which
   have data from the G019C, G004L, CAV AF, and G072D systems for repair cost, shop flow days, pro-
   duction quantities, at the production/contract number and contract line item number level. This prod-
   uct also displays the source of repair percents, the weighted repair cost, the weighted shop flow days,
   the weighted supply to maintenance days, and the weighted serviceable turn-in days at the subgroup
   master stock number level. This product will also display any data file maintained into SIRS as either
386                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      additions or changes of the above referenced data. This product is printed in ascending ALC, Division
      (DIV), IMS (or ES) and Stock number order. A stock number is not printed if no data was received for
      it. A report is not printed if there is no data for the ALC/DIV/IMS or ES selected. The MISTR Repair
      and Repair Data Product displays the following data.
      15.7.4. On the top line are printed the page number, ALC and IMS or ES codes, the title, and the
      Product Identifier Number.
      15.7.5. CUR. The print date.
      15.7.6. AS OF. In the format DD MM YY, this is the day, month and year of the asset cutoff date of
      the computation that the product was produced from. When using an online screen, you can change
      this date to display repair data for a previous cycle. A two position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the
      right of the AS OF field. The first position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for
      Final and "S" for Summary). The second position represents the number of times that item was recom-
      puted during that computation cycle. A zero means the item was not re-computed.
      15.7.7. SGM. This is the subgroup master stock number or bachelor stock number
      15.7.8. ALC. The 2 position Air Logistics Center that has management responsibility for the SGM.
      15.7.9. IMS. The inventory management specialist code.
      15.7.10. ES. The equipment specialist code.
      15.7.11. PMS BUYER. The production management specialist code for this item
      15.7.12. PMS SELLER. The production management specialist code for this item
      15.7.13. WEIGHTED REPAIR COST. This is the cost that is displayed on the Factor/Usage Printout,
      on the first page of the SGM Computation Worksheet and on the Basic Management Data (BMD)
      screen (see Figure 14.1.). The source reference code for this data element will always be “C” on this
      product. SIRS calculates the weighted repair cost as explained in paragraph 15.9. The weighted
      repair cost is based on the historical repair (data received from G019C, G004L, CAV AF, G072D or
      by IMS file maintenance) or the default value, if historical data is not available. SIRS (unlike D041)
      does not use the data from "T-jobs" in the development of weighted pipeline days, but does use the
      repair costs from T-jobs in the development of the weighted repair cost. When there are no production
      records for the stock number, SIRS will assign a "dummy" production record of 999999 and an SOR
      of “UN”. The dummy record will have as the default repair cost 25% of the Forecasted Unit Price
      (FUP).
      15.7.14. SOR PERCENTS. These are the percents for each of the 8 SOR listed in paragraph 15.7.16.
      15.7.15. CSN. This the current stock number as received from G019C, G004L, CAV AF, and/or
      G072D and/or as file maintained by the IMS/ES. This may be the subgroup master stock number or
      any member of the subgroup family. A current stock number may not be established on this product
      without the associated production number/contract number and CLIN and SOR.
      15.7.16. SOR. This is the Source Of Repair (SOR) code as received from G019C, G004L, CAV AF,
      and/or G072D and/or as file maintained by the IMS/ES. There are 8 SOR codes: OC (OC-ALC
      repaired), OO (OO-ALC repaired), SA (SA-ALC repaired), SM (there is no repair done at this site),
      WR (WR-ALC repaired), CT (contract repaired), DM (DMISA repaired), and OT (AF Form 206
      repaired, ICS repaired, RIW repaired).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                387


  15.7.17. Production/Contract Number. This is the production number and/or the contract number as
  received from G019C, G004L, CAV AF, and/or G072D and/or as file maintained by the IMS/ES/
  PMS. The production number must be either a 5-digit numeric and a 1-digit alpha or be established as
  a “T” first position followed by a 4-digit numeric and a 1-digit alpha. The contract number field may
  contain any combination of numeric and alpha characters.
  15.7.18. CLIN. This the contract line item number as received from CAV AF or G072D and/or as file
  maintained by the IMS/ES/PMS. This field may contain any combination of numeric and alpha char-
  acters.
  15.7.19. Repair Cost (RC). This is the repair cost as received for a current stock number, production
  number from G019C (for MISTR repair), temporary work request number from G004L (for AF Form
  206 repair), and/or contract number and CLIN from CAV AF or G072D (for contract/DMISA repair),
  and/or as file maintained by the IMS/ES/PMS (for ICS/RIW and other repair, including estimated unit
  costs). The source reference code for the repair cost may be “A” for actual, “E” for file maintained, or
  “S” for the default value. If no repair cost is received from interfacing systems, SIRS will use the fore-
  casted unit cost for the SGM multiplied by a repair cost factor to determine a default value. (See para-
  graph 15.8. for how to develop repair cost).
  15.7.20. Sup To Maint (SUP-MA). The Supply To Maintenance days are displayed in two places on
  the MISTR Repair and Repair Data product.
     15.7.20.1. At the top of the product, is the weighted Supply To Maintenance days as calculated by
     SIRS (see paragraph 15.9.). The source reference code for this data element will always be “C”.
     These days are displayed on the SGM Computation Worksheet (Figure 9.14.) and on the Pipeline
     Days screen (Figure 23.1.). These days are used to compute requirements.
     15.7.20.2. On the lines where the production number or contract number appear, the Supply To
     Maintenance Days will be the default value unless file maintained by the IMS/PMS. The source
     reference code for supply to maintenance days may be “S” for the default value or “E” for file
     maintained. (See paragraph 23.11.).
  15.7.21. SHOP FLOW. The Shop Flow days are displayed in two places on the MISTR Repair and
  Repair Data product.
     15.7.21.1. At the top of the product, is the weighted Shop Flow days as calculated by SIRS (see
     paragraph 15.9.). The source reference code for this data element will always be “C”. These days
     are displayed on the SGM Computation Worksheet (Figure 9.14.) and on the Pipeline Days screen
     (Figure 23.1.). These days are used to compute requirements.
     15.7.21.2. On the lines where the production number or contract number appear, the Shop Flow
     Days are as received for a current stock number, and production number/ from G019C (for MISTR
     repair) and/or contract number and CLIN from CAV AF or G072D/I (for contract/DMISA repair)
     and/or as file maintained by the IMS/ES/PMS. When there have been more than 10 transactions
     on a NIIN production number combination from Q302, D200A will drop outliers exceeding 3
     standard deviations. (No outliers will be dropped when there have been ten or less transactions).
     The shop flow figures for the remaining Q302 NIIN production number combination will then be
     averaged. Where there is a match of the Q302 and G019C production number, source of repair and
     actual NIIN, the averaged Q302 shop flow figures calculated in D200A will be used by D200A
     unless no data has been received from Q302 in the last two years in which case the G019C shop
     flow days will be used. Where this occurs there will be a difference between the G019C printed
388                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         product and what appears in D200A. The averaged shop flow days at NIIN production number in
         D200A will not be changed by the IMS/MM or PMS unless the reason for the change is thor-
         oughly documented. Any changes to organic shop flow days in D200A must be based on actual
         shop flow data not projected changes to shop flow days and must be approved by the wing com-
         mander of the IMS/MM or PMS. If the IMS/MM or PMS is aware of a successful lean event that
         has successfully reduced the shop flow days, they may file maintain the new value. If no shop flow
         days are received from interfacing systems, the default value will be assigned. The source refer-
         ence code for the shop flow days may be “A” for actual, “E” for file maintained, or “S” for the
         default value. (See paragraph 23.12.).
      15.7.22. SVC T-I (SVC-TURN-IN). The Serviceable Turn In days are displayed two places on the
      MISTR RPR and Repair Data product.
         15.7.22.1. At the top of the product, is the weighted Serviceable Turn In Days as calculated by
         SIRS (see paragraph 15.9.). The source reference code for this data element will always be “C”.
         These days are displayed on the SGM Computation Worksheet (Figure 9.14.) and on the Pipeline
         Days screen (Figure 23.1.). These days are used to compute requirements.
         15.7.22.2. On the lines where the production number or contract number appear, the Serviceable
         Turn-In Days will be the default value unless file maintained by the IMS/PMS. The source refer-
         ence code for serviceable turn-in days may be “S” for the default value or “E” for file maintained.
         (See paragraph 23.13.).
      15.7.23. REPAIR HISTORY. This is the previous four quarters’ of repair history for a current stock
      number, source of repair, and production number/contract number and CLIN combination. The
      MISTR repair quantities displayed will be as received from the interfacing systems or as file main-
      tained by the ES/PMS. The total production quantity for the 4 quarters is also displayed.

15.8. Repair Cost.
      15.8.1. A repair cost is required for every item computed in SIRS, except items with ERRC = “N”.
      Actual organic repair costs are received from G019C. If G019C does not provide a repair cost, SIRS
      will use the actual organic repair cost from G004L. Contractor repair costs are received from CAV AF
      or G072D. If no production records are received from interfacing systems, SIRS computes a default
      repair cost using the applicable factor on the Repair Cost Factors screen in D200A multiplied by the
      item’s Forecasted Unit Price.
      15.8.2. The IMS/PMS should not change the repair cost in SIRS as it appears on the individual pro-
      duction numbers on the MRPR screen fed by G019C for organic repair. If the IMS or PMS or MM
      suspects the SIRS repair cost for an organic production number to be in error, the IMS or PMS or MM
      should compare the SIRS and G019C products. (A comparison between SIRS and G019C products
      will not be possible in the March and June cycles; because, during the March cycle, G019C, CAV AF,
      and G072D feed SIRS future prices. During the Sep cycle, the IMS/MM/PMS needs to look at the Oct
      G019C product as the Sep cycle D200A product already has the new fiscal year price.)If SIRS and
      G019C products agree and the IMS or PMS or MM still believes that the repair cost is in error, the
      IMS or PMS or MM should contact the local maintenance wing DMAG representative and ask that
      they verify the repair cost. Changes to the repair cost on production numbers on the MRPR screen
      require the DMAG representative’s written approval. Disagreements over the unit repair cost of a par-
      ticular production number should be elevated until resolved.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                389


  15.8.3. Repair Cost for AF SICA items. If an actual repair cost is not available, repair costs for these
  items should be calculated at 35 percent of the Forecasted Unit Price (FUP) and file maintained into
  SIRS by the IMS/PMS.
  15.8.4. Repair Costs For Multiple Sources of Repair. When there is more than one source of repair or
  more than one contract CLIN combination, including Interim Contract Support, SIRS will compute a
  weighted repair cost (see paragraph 15.9.). Repair data for depot maintenance organic workloads and
  contractor/DMISA workload should be received from interfacing systems (G004L, G019C, CAV AF,
  and G072D). The IMS, PMS, and ES will file maintain any other known workload/repair data, includ-
  ing ICS, any Overseas Workload data, etc., not reported by G019C/G004L, CAV AF and/or G072D
  into SIRS to facilitate the proper weighting of the repair cost. The ES/IMS/PMS can also file maintain
  the SOR percents that are used to compute the repair cost, when the past data is not indicative of the
  future (see paragraph 15.5.4.).
  15.8.5. The Kadena Overseas Workload production is reported through OO-ALC’s G004L and
  G019C systems. Stock numbers which are worked at Kadena contain a pseudo MMAC and will,
  therefore, be rejected by SIRS. These production and condemnation quantities and their associated
  end item sale costs will have to be file maintained into SIRS by the IMS, PMS, and ES. When entering
  this data, use a source of repair code of “OT”
  15.8.6. The weighted repair cost, as computed by SIRS, will be passed to the ABCS Repair Budget.
  The weighted repair cost will be used as the repair cost on the ABCS/B21 and will also be used to
  update the Item Pricing System and update stock funded prices and costs. The PMS scrubs the future
  dollars on the ABCS/B21 to reflect known changes in prices such as a new contract being awarded
  with a new repair cost. These changes to future repair prices/costs will appear through D075 in the
  budget as adjustments.
  15.8.7. For Warranty Exclusions items, repair costs should be calculated the same as for any other
  item. Any reimbursement due to customers will be handled by the financial systems. The IMS should
  file maintain the RIW code of “W” on the Basic Management Data screen (see paragraph 14.2.).
  Time phasing of data is not needed unless it is known that the item will be transitioning to another
  source of repair.
  15.8.8. For an ICS item, use the estimated repair cost if available. If it is not available, calculate the
  default repair cost the forecasted unit price multiplied by the applicable repair cost factor from the
  Repair Cost Factor screen in D200A, and file maintain it into the repair cost field. All depot type pro-
  duction/repairs (failures) should be file maintained into MISTR Repairs (see paragraph 15.5.).
  15.8.9. Future changes in repair breakout. The “future source(s) of repair percentage breakout” is here
  defined as the percentage of repair that different repair sources will be doing on a particular NSN. The
  PMS will notify the IMS of any known upcoming changes in the “future source(s) of repair percent-
  age breakout.” On items on which the ES/IMS/PMS knows that the “future source(s) of repair per-
  centage breakout” for the next fiscal year is changing, the ES/IMS/PMS will file maintain the future
  SOR percentages on the effected production numbers and/or contract CLINs of the current NSN on
  the MRPR screen. (See Figure 15.1. and paragraph 15.5.).
  15.8.10. Special I and S Instructions.
     15.8.10.1. If D043 has a two-way interchangeable I and S group erroneously split apart when the
     pass is made to the Requirements Item Identification Data (RIID) system, D200E, and in turn to
     the March SIRS, each subgroup master computation pricing data will be passed to the Item Pricing
390                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


       System (IPS). The pricing elements must be file maintained in SIRS to manually replicate the
       proper I and S family grouping.
       15.8.10.2. If an erroneous two-way interchangeable I and S split passes from D043 to RIID and
       on to SIRS on June, September, or December cycles, the subgroup masters resulting from the split
       will be seen by SIRS and IPS as new NSNs. Prices for new NSNs are passed from the first sum-
       mary computation appearing in SIRS to IPS and in turn to D043 quarterly. Once again, pricing ele-
       ments must be file maintained in SIRS to manually replicate the correct I and S family group.
       15.8.10.3. For one-way I and S groups, each subgroup is passed under the subgroup master for
       requirements computation. Pricing elements are passed to IPS for each subgroup master. D043
       matches all NSN prices and costs in the subgroup to the subgroup master NSN.
       15.8.10.4. There may be cases that justify treating one-way I and S groups as two-way inter-
       changeable I and S groups within SIRS but not D043. Or there may be cases that justify treating
       two-way interchangeable I and S groups as one-way I and S groups in SIRS but not in D043. The
       IMS should submit such requests with the justification, following local policy, up to the ALC
       SIRS OPR. If approved, the IMS can file maintain a change in SIRS that will treat the one-way I
       and S group as if it were a two-way interchangeable group within SIRS.

15.9. Weighting of DRC Days and Unit Repair Cost. A Source of Repair (SOR) percentage is devel-
oped for each production record using the number of repairs reported over the last four quarters for that
production number. If the production record has no repairs reported for the last four quarters, then quarters
five through eight are used. If the production record has no repairs reported for quarters one through eight,
then quarters nine through twelve are used. If none of the quarters have reported repair, the SOR percent
is equal to zero for that production record. If all of the production records for the SGM compute SOR per-
cents of zero, then SIRS assigns 100 to the last production record as a default. The SOR percents can be
file maintained on the MRPR selection screen and then SIRS uses the file maintained values rather than
the computed values. The SOR percent for the production record is multiplied times the Supply to Main-
tenance Days from that production record received. The values for each production record are added
together and rounded to the nearest whole number to get the weighted Supply to Maintenance Days. This
same process is used to calculate the weighted Shop Flow Days, Serviceable Turn In Days and the Unit
Repair Cost.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                              391


Table 15.1. Example.
Production Number       Quantity                   SOR Percent
                        Repaired *
T2345A                        6                    6/25 = 24%
12345A                        6                    6/25 = 24 %
34521A                        3                    3/25 = 12 %
F32456C0014/0001              10                   10/25 =40 %
                                                   25
* Total repaired over the last four quarters.


Production              SOR                        URC
Number/Contract         Percentage
No. and CLIN
T2345A                      24%           times    $1,100 = $264
12345A                        24          times    1,000 = 240
34521A                        12          times    2,000 = 240
F32456C0014/0001              40          times    1,500 = 600
                       Weighted Unit Repair Cost $1,344


Production      SOR                                Shop Flow Days
Number/Contract Percentage
No. and CLIN**
12345A                      24%        times       23 = 5.52
34521A                       12        times       10 = 1.20
F32456C0014/0001             40        times       8 = 3.20
                            76%                    9.92
                            Weighted Shop Flow Days = 9.92
                                                               76%
                                                = 13.052631 rounded
                                                     Equals 13 Days
     ** T-jobs are not used in computing pipelines.
392                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 15.5. MISTR Repair and Repair Data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              393


                                              Chapter 16

                                                USAGE

16.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the policy and procedures to be used by the Equipment Spe-
cialist (ES) for the validation of usage.
   16.1.1. For each item, SIRS divides the actual usage by the past installed programs to compute the
   factors. Each factor times the future installed programs determines the portion of the item's gross
   recurring requirements attributable to that factor. Gross requirements minus assets equals net require-
   ments. The ES ensures that the usage, applications and programs (Chapter 18), and factors (Chapter
   17) are correct.
   16.1.2. Failure, replacement, condemnation and other reliability rates, or factors, are computed by
   SIRS for each item on the basis of past usage and past program data accumulated over a set time
   period referred to as the Base Period. The base period starts from the oldest Program Begin Date
   (PBD) on the item's application record in Applications, Programs, Indenture (API) system, D200F
   (see paragraph 18.30.) and ends at the asset cutoff date of the SIRS computation. The base period for
   any item can be a maximum of 12 quarters. If the oldest PBD is less than 36 months from the asset
   cutoff date, then the base period for that item will be less than 36 months. The most recent 8 quarters
   of the base period are used to compute most rates and percents (example: TOIMDR, Base NRTS %,
   etc.) and can be file maintained. All 12 quarters are only used in the computation of the Predictive
   Logistics (PRELOG) and Exponential Smoothing rates (see paragraph 17.27.). SIRS retains a maxi-
   mum of 12 quarters of history for each usage type. After 12 quarters of history data, SIRS drops the
   oldest quarter of history and adds the "current" or most recent past quarter of usage history received
   from interfacing systems. A maximum of 12 quarters of usage, past installed programs and computed
   factors for the base period are displayed on the Factors/Usage Printout (see paragraph 16.13.). The
   usage for the SGM totaled for the most recent 8 quarters of the base period, are displayed under Base
   Period on the first page of the SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts product (see Figure 9.2.) and on
   page 2 of the online display screen SMCW (see paragraph 9.4.4. and Figure 9.3.), DIS SIRS CW
   SMCW. SIRS gets the base condemnations, base Not Reparable This Station (NRTS), base Reparable
   This Station (RTS) from D002A (if available) or depot reparable generations and depot condemna-
   tions from D035A by current stock number and SRAN. For recoverable items, SIRS gets Manage-
   ment of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) Condemnations (formerly called depot overhaul
   condemnations - this item MISTR) and MISTR Repairs (formerly called depot repaired quantities -
   this item MISTR) from G004L for organic repair and from G072D for contractor repair.
   16.1.3. Usage for consumable items.
       16.1.3.1. Base level usage and condemnations for Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability
       Category (ERRC)"P" items are received from D002A and D035A into SIRS just like for recover-
       able items. Depot usage from ERRC "P" items are reported from D035K through D035A into
       SIRS. Both base and depot usage for ERRC "N" items are received from D035A into SIRS. For
       everything except ERRC "P" items' base level usage, the demands do represent requisitions
       because consumables do not undergo the same repair actions as recoverables. Consumable items
       must have both base and depot level reporting for both usage and assets because SIRS is a world-
       wide computation, computing retail as well as wholesale recurring requirements and stock levels.
       16.1.3.2. "How do we handle cancellations of ERRC N and P demands?"
394                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


             16.1.3.2.1. D035A will "net" or subtract out the cancellations from the demand requisitions
             for the current report quarter using the requisition/cancellation date to determine the current
             reporting quarter. For example, for the 1 July to 30 Sep timeframe, which is the 30 Sep report-
             ing quarter, all cancellations must be against requisitions that occurred in that three month
             window.
             16.1.3.2.2. For cancellations that are received that had an original requisition date previous to
             the current quarter, D035A will pass that cancellation to D200A in a file that will include the
             date of the quarter in which the original requisition date falls. Cancellations occurring against
             different requisition dates within one previous quarter will be summarized to one cancellation
             quantity for that quarter. All cancellations against original requisitions dates 3 years old or
             older will be ignored.
             16.1.3.2.3. D200A will take the cancellations for older quarters and will net the appropriate
             quarter. If the cancellation quantity is more than the actual value in D200A, a notice will be
             output to both the IMS and ES.
             16.1.3.2.4. D200A will produce a listing stating the actual values that were reduced by quarter
             and quantity. Two types of listings will be produced, one for the IMS and one for the ES. The
             listings will be in IMS or ES sequence and one per center.
             16.1.3.2.5. D200A will not adjust file maintained values. Only the reported “actual” values
             will be adjusted.
      16.1.4. Item past usage data are summarized by Subgroup Master stock number (SGM) for the com-
      putation of factors. The usage data of any Current Stock Number (CSN), not including the SGM, that
      is coded obsolete will be used in the computation of the factors. If the SGM is coded obsolete, no fac-
      tors are computed for the item.
      16.1.5. Usage by CSN and Stock Record Account Number (SRAN) received from D002A and
      D035A can be viewed on the DIS SIRS DTI SUD screens (see paragraph 16.2.). A batch SRAN
      USAGE report is pushed to each IMS and equipment specialist from each initial computation display-
      ing this data. The report for the IMS is sorted by division, item manager code, SGM, CSN and SRAN.
      The report for the equipment specialist is sorted by division, equipment specialist code, SGM, CSN,
      and SRAN. These reports can also be pulled using the output products EPSS screen (see paragraph
      12.4.). The IMS can also pull this report using the PSS screen (see paragraph 13.5.), and the OPRs
      can use the OPSS screen (see paragraph 5.2.).
      16.1.6. This actual usage by CSN and SGM and any file maintained usage are displayed on the DIS
      SIRS FUD UH screens (see paragraph 16.3.2.). The DIS SIRS FUD TSUH screen displays the
      12-quarters of usage data (actual and file maintained) totaled for the SGM (see paragraph 16.3.3.).
      Most usage are file maintained on the USGD screen (Figure 16.9.), FM SIRS SND USGD (see para-
      graph 16.12.). MISTR Repaired quantities are file maintained using the FM SIRS SND MRPR screen
      (see paragraph 15.5.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            395


Figure 16.1. Display SUD SRAN Usage Data Screen (left).




16.2. Display Usage By Current Stock Number and SRAN.
   16.2.1. Use the DIS SIRS DTI SUD left and right screens (Figure 16.1. and Figure 16.2.) to view the
   asset data from D002A and/or D035A by SRAN and by CSN or by SGM. The format of the SRAN is
   XX9999 (two alphas and 4 numerics.
   16.2.2. Type the SGM or just the NIIN for the SGM to view the data for the SGM. To type the NIIN,
   you must TAB past the FSC. Do not put spaces in the FSC field. If a SGM is typed in the CSN field,
   SIRS will display the SGM data. Totals by SRAN are displayed when the SRAN has more than one
   CSN. The totals for the SGM are displayed at the bottom.
   16.2.3. Type the CSN or just the NIIN for the CSN in the CSN field to view the asset data by SRAN
   for the CSN. SIRS will also display the associated SGM in the SGM field. The totals for the CSN are
   displayed at the bottom.
   16.2.4. To display the right page, type RIGH at the command line. To display the left page, type LEFT
   at the command line. To scroll forward, type FORW at the command line. To scroll backward, type
   BACK at the command line. To go the beginning of the list, type TOP at the command line. To go the
   end of the list, type BOTT at the command line.
396                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      16.2.5. To display historical usage data, change the AS OF DATE to another valid date on the SUD
      display screen. Figure 16.1. and Figure 16.2. are examples of an SGM's usage data. NOTE: The AS
      OF Date identifies the Asset Cutoff Date of the computation cycle in the format dd mmm yy. To view
      historical data on a display screen, the user must enter a valid Asset Cutoff Date, 31 Mar yy, 30 Jun yy,
      30 Sep yy or 31 Dec yy.

Figure 16.2. Display SUD SRAN Usage Data Screen (right).




      16.2.6. Use the SIRS DIS DTI MUH left and right screen (Figure 16.3.) to view the usage, by
      weapon system and MAJCOM from D002A by SRAN, MAJCOM, Weapon System, and SGM. The
      data can be viewed with the following options:
         16.2.6.1. By MAJCOM, Weapon System, and SGM. This option will provide the usage data that
         occurred for the selected SGM, but only for the MAJCOM and Weapon System requested. In this
         option, all fields must be entered, including the type of usage desired, i.e., base NRTS, base Con-
         demnations, or Base RTS.
         16.2.6.2. By MAJCOM and Weapon System. This option will provide the usage data for all of the
         Sub Group Master (SGM) stock numbers that apply to the MAJCOM and Weapon System
         requested. In this option, the SGM field is left blank.
         16.2.6.3. By MAJCOM, SGM. This option will provide the usage data that occurred for all
         Weapon Systems for the selected MAJCOM and SGM. In this option, the Weapon System field is
         left blank.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              397


       16.2.6.4. By SGM. This option will provide the usage data, for the selected type of usage, that
       occurred on the selected SGM, listing all of the MAJCOMs and Weapon Systems where the usage
       data occurred. In this option, the MAJCOM and Weapon System fields are left blank.
       16.2.6.5. The type of usage, i.e., RTS, NRTS, or Condemnations must be entered on each request.
       The 3 position MAJCOM, the 7 position Weapon System, and SGM are entered depending on
       which of the above options are desired. NONACFT may also be entered in the Weapon System
       field. When entering the Weapon System, the application must be spaced properly. For example, if
       the Weapon System is C130E, it must be entered as space, space, C130E, or if the Weapon System
       is EC130E, it must be entered as space EC130E. The screen provides a total of all of the SRANs
       for each of the last 4 quarters, plus a 4 quarter total at the bottom of the screen. The MAJCOM’s
       Percent of Usage, over the last 4 quarters, is shown for the selected SGM and Weapon System.
       Also, an 8 quarter total is shown, even though only the last 4 quarters are visible. The 4 quarter
       Mean Time Between Demand (MTBD) is shown which is determined by dividing the 4 quarter
       total hours by the 4 quarter total usage. The 8 quarter MTBD is not shown, however, it can be
       derived by dividing the 8 quarter total hours by the 8 quarter total usage.

Figure 16.3. Display MUH MAJCOM Usage History (left).




16.3. Display Usage Screens (Figure 16.4., Figure 16.5., and Figure 16.5.).
   16.3.1. The FUD Factors/Usage Selection screen (Figure 16.4.) shows the many screens which dis-
   play usage, MISTR repair and factor data. There are seven screens that display the data on the Factors/
   Usage Printout (Figure 16.10., Figure 16.11. and Figure 16.12.). These seven screens are inter-
398                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      changeable and can be accessed from any of the seven screens by using the paging commands, or
      using GUI, pointing and clicking to the page number at the bottom of each screen. The seven screens
      and their applicable page number are: FBD (1), RAP (2), FRAP (3), UH (4), TSUH (5), PF (6), FAD
      (7). The Usage History (UH) and Total SGM Usage History (TSUH) screens are described below. The
      other 5 screens are described in Chapter 17.
      16.3.2. Display UH Usage History Screen. The UH screen (Figure 16.5. and Figure 16.6.) displays
      the past 12-quarters of base period usage data, which includes base RTS, base NRTS, base condemna-
      tions, base reparable generations, depot reparable generations, MISTR repairs, MISTR condemna-
      tions, and total depot condemnations, by CSN and by SGM. The UH screen has a "left" and "right"
      screen and vertically scrolls between Top and Bottom. The "left" screen displays the latest eight quar-
      ters (quarters 1-8) of usage history. The "right" screen displays the oldest four quarters (quarter 9-12)
      of usage data. The screen shows both the actual (ACT) data received from interfacing systems and
      data file maintained (F/M). There may be multiple screens depending on how many types of usage the
      item has. Enter the SGM or CSN and press ENTER. If an SGM or a CSN is entered in the SGM field,
      SIRS displays the data for the SGM and for all CSNs in the family. If a CSN is entered in the CSN
      field, SIRS displays the data for that CSN only and displays the SGM in the SGM field. Enter a valid
      AS OF date to view historical data otherwise the AS OF date defaults to the current cycle. After the
      selected data is displayed, type "X" in the Notepad field. The element Notepad text is displayed in the
      order in which the elements appear on the screen. This is page four of the seven screens that show the
      data displayed on the Factors/Usage Printout.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                   399


Figure 16.4. Display FUD Factors/Usage Selection Screen.
400                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 16.5. Display UH Usage History Data Screen (left).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                     401


Figure 16.6. Display UH Usage History Data Screen (right).
402                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 16.7. Display TSUH Total SGM Usage History Data Screen (left).




      16.3.3. Display TSUH Total SGM Usage History Screens. The TSUH screens (Figure 16.7. and Fig-
      ure 16.8.) displays the past 12 quarters of base period usage data totaled for the SGM. If a CSN is
      typed in the SGM field, SIRS will display the SGM and the SGM data. The screen also displays the
      past installed program for Organizational Intermediate Maintenance (OIM), Programmed Depot
      Maintenance (PDM), Engine Overhaul (EOH), and Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR).
      The TSUH has a "left" and "right" screen. The "left" screen displays the latest eight quarters (quarters
      1-8) of usage history and past installed programs. The "right" screen displays the oldest four quarters
      (quarters 9-12) of usage history and past installed programs. This data is displayed only if the data is
      greater than zero. Enter a valid As OF date to view historical data, otherwise the AS OF date defaults
      to the current cycle. To see the Notepad for usage data, transfer to the UH screen. This is page five of
      the seven screens that show the data displayed on the Factors/Usage Printout. This screen also dis-
      plays the “QTR LAST DMND” or the last quarter a demand was received for this item, helpful to the
      ES to determine how active the item has been.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               403


Figure 16.8. Display TSUH Total SGM Usage History Data Screen (right).




16.4. Base Reparable Generations. The user at the field activity finds the part unserviceable. This user
removes the part and turns it in for possible repair. This user places a demand on supply for a serviceable
to replace the reparable. These base Reparable Generations (Rep Gens) are for OIM types only and are the
sum of the base condemnations, base NRTS, and base RTS as computed within the base period. Base Rep
Gens cannot be file maintained by the ES. The reported base reparable generation data are used to deter-
mine the computed Total Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance Demand Rate (TOIMDR)
12-month and 24-month moving averages.

16.5. Base Reparable This Station. A base RTS is a base reparable generation that the OIM shop at the
base was able to repair and turn into Base Supply as a serviceable asset, for which an accompanying
demand was placed upon supply for a recurring requirement. (An item that is bench checked service-
able-no repair is not counted as a base RTS). Base RTS are reported to SIRS from D002A and D035A.
The reported base RTS data are used in determining the base condemnation percent. RTS may be removed
from usage only when the SMR code excludes all base repairs (an “L” in the 4th position), the RTS are
sporadic (one or two quarters in two years) and there are no more than two RTS per quarter. The exception
to this would be for items for which documentation is available to show a change in maintenance concept
such as RE21 items or for which the ES has documentation from the bases reporting the RTS that the RTS
data is in error.
404                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


16.6. Base Not Reparable This Station. A base NRTS is a base reparable generation that the OIM shop
at the base was not able to repair and was shipped to the depot for possible repair. The OIM shop placed a
demand on supply to replace the reparable sent to the depot. Base NRTS are reported to SIRS from
D002A and D035A. The reported base NRTS data are used to determine the base NRTS percent.
      16.6.1. Quality Deficiency Reports (QDRs) policy. QDRs do not report as usage to SIRS, so when
      there are significant numbers of them on an item, usage is significantly understated. If the QDR is
      quickly resolved and is not expected to recur, this does not cause a significant problem, but if the sit-
      uation persists, support problems can occur due to understated requirements. QDRs are authorized as
      input of base NRTS when the following criteria are met:
         16.6.1.1. The number of QDRs must be significant. As a general guideline, more than 3 should
         have occurred in the two most recent quarters.
         16.6.1.2. A true QDR has not been documented, or there is no projected date when the QDR will
         be resolved and thus usage should decline.
         16.6.1.3. All QDRs that are input must be backed up with Transaction Histories that prove that the
         QDR took place.
         16.6.1.4. ES must document the use of QDRs on the Factors/Usage Printout.
         16.6.1.5. QDRs are only authorized for the current and 1st forecast factors in order to prevent buy-
         ing pipeline requirements only to see the problem “go away”. The F-16 directorate at OO-ALC is
         authorized to extend the effect of QDRs beyond the first forecast for selected items (through the
         second or third forecast as necessary).
         16.6.1.6. The exception to the above is for returns of condition code “Q” assets that the ES actu-
         ally knows were returns of assets under warranty for repair during the warranty period. They
         should be included in the NRTS.

16.7. Base Condemnations. A base condemnations (BASE CNDMN) is a base reparable generation that
the OIM shop condemned and placed a demand on base supply to replace the condemnation. Either the
item cannot be repaired at any facility or the estimated cost of repair exceeds the maximum repair allow-
ance for the item. Base condemnations should not include items sent to disposal for reasons other than
"beyond economical repair". Reported base condemnations that are not from normal wear and tear should
be removed by the ES as past usage in SIRS because they are non-recurring and therefore should not be
projected as future requirements. The IMS should be notified when non-recurring condemnations are
removed, as the IMS will need to move the asset loss from Condemnation to Transfer to DRMO. Base
condemnations are reported to SIRS through D002A and D035A. The reported base condemnation data
are used to determine the base condemnation percent.

16.8. Depot Reparable Generations. DEPOT REP GENS are the total unserviceable assets generating
at all the depot repair facilities (including contractors and other DOD services facilities) from the Depot
Level Maintenance (DLM) programs which are subsequently turned into supply accountability. The DLM
programs are the PDM, EOH and Next Higher Assembly (NHA) MISTR programs. Depot reparable gen-
erations are reported to SIRS through D002A and D035A. The reported depot reparable generation data
are used to compute the three Non Job Routed (NJR) replacement percents (PDM, EOH and NHA
MISTR) (see paragraph 17.16.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                   405


   16.8.1. To be considered a depot reparable generation of the NJR replacement type: The depot activ-
   ity finds the part unserviceable, removes the part and turns it in for possible repair. (The depot activity
   does not determine if the part should be condemned under the NJR concept). A demand is placed on
   supply for a serviceable to replace the reparable. (See paragraph 17.16.).
   16.8.2. To be considered a depot reparable generation of the JR condemnation type: The depot activ-
   ity finds the part unserviceable and removes the part for possible repair. The same depot activity tries
   to repair the item and if it is repaired that part is replaced in the same spot. If the depot activity cannot
   repair the item, it is condemned and a demand is placed on supply to replace the condemnation. Under
   the JR concept, a depot repair is not reported to SIRS since it did not place a demand on supply. But a
   JR condemnation does place a demand on supply, so it is reported as a depot reparable generation.
   (See paragraph 17.17.).

16.9. MISTR Repairs (MISTR RPR). This is the new name for the data element that was formerly
called "Depot Overhaul Repaired - This Item MISTR". The depot MISTR Repairs are the reparables
(located at the depot) that have been made serviceable during the MISTR repair process of this item. To
be considered a MISTR Repair, the reparable is the result of a Base NRTS, a Requirements Data
Exchange (RDE) Unserviceable Return or a NJR replacement. The reparable is stored at or sent to a depot
or contractor facility until it can be scheduled for repair. When the reparable is scheduled for repair, it is
sent through a MISTR repair line (for that item) and made serviceable. If the reparable can not be made
serviceable in the MISTR repair process, it is a MISTR Condemnation. Also, MISTR Repairs do not
include items that were repaired during JR repair of higher applications. The MISTR repair data are used
to compute the MISTR Condemnation Percent (formerly called the Depot Overhaul Condemnation Per-
cent). The MISTR Repairs are reported through the G004L (organic) and the G072D (contractor) systems.

16.10. MISTR Condemnations (MISTR CNDMN). This is the new name for the data element that was
formerly called “Depot Overhaul Condemnations - This Item MISTR.” The MISTR condemnations are
the reparables (located at the depot) that have been condemned during the MISTR repair process of the
item by the depot (organic or contractor). To be considered a MISTR condemnation, the reparable is the
result of a Base NRTS, RDE Unserviceable Return or a NJR replacement. The reparable is stored at or
sent to a depot or contractor facility until it can be scheduled for repair. When the reparable is scheduled
for repair, it is sent through a MISTR repair line, for that item, and condemned. If the reparable can be
made serviceable in the MISTR repair process, it is a MISTR Repair. Also, MISTR Condemnations do
not include items that were condemned during JR repair of higher applications. The reported MISTR con-
demnation data are used in determining the MISTR condemnation percent. MISTR condemnations should
never exceed the Depot Condemnation Total. If the reported MISTR condemnations exceed the Depot
Condemnations Total, then one or both of these data elements are incorrect. The MISTR condemnations
are reported through the G004L (organic) and the G072D (contractor) systems.

16.11. Depot Condemnations Total (DEP CNDM TOT). These are the total condemnations from
depot level repair. Therefore, this quantity cannot be less than the quantity of MISTR Condemnations.
The depot level repair lines that can generate a depot condemnation are the MISTR line for this item and
the JR PDM, EOH, and NHA MISTR lines of higher applications. To be considered a MISTR condemna-
tion from the depot overhaul repair lines, the reparable is the result of a Base NRTS, a RDE Unserviceable
Return, or a NJR replacement. The reparable is stored at or sent to a depot or contractor facility until it can
be scheduled for repair. When the reparable is scheduled for repair, it is sent through a MISTR repair line
for that item, and condemned. To be considered a JR condemnation from the PDM, EOH, and NHA
406                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


MISTR repair lines of higher applications, the depot activity finds the component part unserviceable and
removes the part for possible repair. That same depot activity tries to repair the component part and can-
not repair the item, so it is condemned. The MISTR Condemnations Total is reported to SIRS from
D035A and is used to compute the three JR condemnation percents.

16.12. File Maintenance Usage Screen. Use the FOE FM SIRS SND USGD screen (Figure 16.9.) to
file maintain the most recent 8 quarters of base period usage data for the following data elements.
Base Condemnations (Base CNDMN)               MISTR Condemnations (MISTR CNDMN)
Base Not Reparable This Station (NRTS)        Depot Condemnations (DEP CNDMN)
Base Reparable This Station (RTS)             Depot Reparable Generations (DEP RPR GEN)
      16.12.1. The Base Condemnations, Base NRTS, and Base RTS are summed to get the Base Reparable
      Generations. Base Reparable Generations can not be directly file maintained. The difference between
      the MISTR Condemnations and the Depot Condemnations Total are the Job Routed Condemnations.
      The MISTR Condemnations should never exceed the Depot Condemnations Total.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                407


Figure 16.9. File Maintenance USGD Usage Data Screen.




   16.12.2. Using Relay Gold enter the CSN or NIIN of the CSN. Place an "X" to select the data element
   or multiple data elements to be file maintained, or using GUI, point and click to the usage data ele-
   ment to be file maintained, and an "check mark" will appear. Press ENTER. The past eight quarters of
   base period usage for the selected data element will appear. The actual reported data from D002A/
   D035A appears on the ACTL line. Any previously file maintained quantities for this cycle appears on
   the F/M line. Use the tab key to move from left to right through the eight quarters of base period. Enter
   the quantity on the F/M line. Press ENTER. The data element specific notepad will appear. Type the
   documentation and press ENTER. The message "update successful" appears indicating that the SIRS
   database has been changed. When multiple data elements have been selected, SIRS processes the
   selections from left to right and top to bottom. If the ENTER key is pressed without a file maintenance
   action, SIRS displays the next selection. The "X or check mark" in the selection field is removed once
   the selected file maintenance data is displayed on the screen. When the updates are complete, the cor-
   responding SGM level usage data is adjusted. The total field on this screen is the sum of the 8 quarters
   of file maintained data, or actual data, if no file maintained data exists for that quarter. The user can
   transfer to the NOTEPAD by entering "X" in the Notepad field, or if using GUI, click on the notepad
   button.
408                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      16.12.3. The screens displaying the Rates And Percents (RAP) and the factor data FM SIRS SND
      FACD will not be updated to display the recomputed rates and percents that result from the file main-
      tenance of usage data until either a "For Real" (FRIR screen, see paragraph 10.2.) item re-computa-
      tion is initiated, or the final computation or summary computations is run. Also, when the FIC is
      changed, the previously used rate and percent values remain on the FACD screen until either a "For
      Real" item recomputation is done, or the final computation or summary computation is run. However,
      the Source Reference Codes (SRC) will change immediately for each of the rates and percents when
      the FIC is changed.

16.13. The Factors/Usage Printout. This report (Figure 16.10.)is "pushed" to the ES and to the IMS for
items requiring review or action from the initial, final and summary computations. The hard copy product
can be requested by ES code using the OP SJR SIRS EPSS screen (see paragraph 12.4.), or by IMS code
using the OP SJR SIRS PPS screen (see paragraph 13.5.), or by an ALC OPR using the OP SJR SIRS
OPSS screen (see paragraph 5.2.) and by using the Select SGM "What If" screen (see paragraph 10.2.).
The report consists of 7 sections. When the report is requested for a “What If” recomputation, the word
“SIMULATION” appears below the title of the report, i.e. Factors/Usage printout, then SIMULATION
below that. When the ES has completed the review of a FPO, then he/she is to sign and date it and forward
a copy to the IMS.
      16.13.1. The first section contains basic management type information.
         16.13.1.1. CUR. The print date.
         16.13.1.2. AS OF. In the format DD MM YY, this is the day, month and year of the asset cutoff
         date of the computation that the product was produced from. When using an online screen, this
         data can be changed to display factor/usage data for a previous cycle. A two position Cycle Indi-
         cator is displayed to the right of the AS OF field. The first position identifies the computation
         cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The second position represents the num-
         ber of times that item was recomputed during that computation cycle. A zero means the item was
         not re-computed.
         16.13.1.3. PRGM BEG. This is the oldest Program Begin Date (PBD) on the item's application
         records. It is displayed in the format YYMM, where MM is 03, 06, 09 or 12.
         16.13.1.4. SGM is the 15 position I and S subgroup master or bachelor stock number.
         16.13.1.5. PART NUMBER and CAGE (Contractor and Government Entity Code) for this item.
         16.13.1.6. ITEM NAME is the nomenclature assigned to the SGM from D043 or by the IMS. (see
         paragraph 14.7.).
         16.13.1.7. ALC is the 2 position Air Logistics Code.
         16.13.1.8. ES is the 3 position Equipment Specialist code. The left-most position contains the
         division designator code.
         16.13.1.9. IMS is the three-position Item Management Specialist code. The left-most position
         contains the division designator code.
         16.13.1.10. PMS is the Production Management Specialist code for this item.
         16.13.1.11. ERRC is the one position code, “C”, “T”, “N” or “P” applicable to the I and S sub-
         group master/bachelor stock number. (see paragraph 14.14.5.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                         409


     16.13.1.12. PMIC is the Precious Metal Indicator Code that is passed to SIRS from D200E. (See
     paragraph 9.3.25.).
     16.13.1.13. MIEC is the 3 position Mission Item Essentiality Code (see paragraph 18.28.).
     16.13.1.14. ACT CD is the 1 position Item Activity Code that tells which cycles to review the
     item. (See paragraph 14.5.).
     16.13.1.15. NEW is a 1 position New Item Code ("N" = new) and blank - not new. (See para-
     graph 14.14.9.).
     16.13.1.16. CAT is the 1 position Item Category Code (see paragraph 14.6.).
     16.13.1.17. FEEMS IND is the 1 position code where "X" = an item managed under the Field
     Engine Exchangeable Management System (see paragraph 3.10.).
     16.13.1.18. ITEM PRGM SEL is the 4 position Item Program Select Code (see paragraph
     18.3.9.).
     16.13.1.19. FACTOR IND is the 3 position Factor Indicator code that allows the ES to select the
     type of method used to compute the rate and/or percent to be used in the SIRS computation. (The
     third position of this code replaces the D041 DLM exclusion code). (See paragraph 17.26.).
     16.13.1.20. BASE RTS EXCL is the Base RTS Exclusion Indicator file maintained by the ES.
     When the Base RTS Exclusion Indicator reflects an "X", SIRS will ignore any base RTS and base
     condemnations in the computation of OIM rates and percents. When the RTS Exclusion Indicator
     is used, a base NRTS percent of 100% will result, and the base reparable generations used in the
     computation of the TOIMDR will be reduced by the quantity of base RTS and base condemna-
     tions. (See paragraph 17.25.).
     16.13.1.21. SFTY LVL EXCL is file maintained by the IMS, and if equal to "X", SIRS will not do
     a Safety Level computation for the item. (see paragraph 14.10.).
     16.13.1.22. BASE RPR CYCLE DAYS is the 2 position Base Repair Cycle Days followed by the
     1 position source reference code. (See paragraph 23.7.).
     16.13.1.23. DEP RPR CYCLE DEPOT is the 3 position Depot Repair Cycle Days. (See para-
     graph 23.8.).
     16.13.1.24. UNIT PRICE FCST is the Forecasted Unit Price (see paragraph 14.11.2.).
     16.13.1.25. UNIT REPAIR COST is the Unit Repair Cost and the 1 position source reference
     code. (See paragraph 15.7.13.).
     16.13.1.26. UNIT REPAIR MANHOURS indicates the approximate time it takes to repair the
     item at the depot facility. This is passed for G019C. (See paragraph 3.11.).
     16.13.1.27. SOR is a 2 position code identifying the Source Of Repair. Below the SOR is dis-
     played the related % of repair performed by that SOR. . (See paragraph 15.7.16.)There can be
     eight different SORs: CT (contract repaired), OC (OC-ALC repaired), OO (OO-ALC repaired),
     SA (SA-ALC repaired), SM (since there is no repair at SM-ALC this value is no longer used), WR
     (WR-ALC repaired), DM (DMISA repaired), and OT (Other used for AF Form 206 repaired, ICS
     repaired, RIW repaired).
410                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         16.13.1.28. ICS/RIW is the code which identifies items that are being managed under Interim
         Contractor Support (ICS) with a value of "C", or the Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW)
         program with a value of "W". (See paragraph 14.4.).
         16.13.1.29. EXPIR DATE in the format YYMM is the Expiration Date for the ICS/RIW code.
         (See paragraph 14.4.2.).
         16.13.1.30. CONDITION X ASSET. If the item has any condition "X" assets, the numbers are
         displayed on this line. (See paragraph 26.5.14.1.).
      16.13.2. The second section (Rates and Percents) contains rates and percent values that were calcu-
      lated using various techniques as well as the forecast factors that were chosen for use in the computa-
      tion.
         16.13.2.1. RATES AND PERCENTS. Displayed are Mean Time Between Demands, 3 rates and
         13 percentages (factors) for the SGM for the following time periods. The rates and percentages are
         described in paragraph 17.6. through paragraph 17.17.
         16.13.2.2. LAST USED. This column displays the current factors that were used in the previous
         quarterly summary SIRS computation.
         16.13.2.3. 24 MTHS. The factors displayed in this column are computed by SIRS using the most
         Current 24 months of usage.
         16.13.2.4. 12 MTHS. The factors displayed in this column are computed by SIRS using the most
         Current 12 months of usage.
         16.13.2.5. PRELOG. The factors displayed in this column are computed by SIRS using Predictive
         Logistics. (See Chapter 19.).
         16.13.2.6. EXPON. The factors displayed in this column are computed by SIRS using Exponen-
         tial Smoothing. (see paragraph 17.27.).
         16.13.2.7. FCST DT. The Forecast Date (YYYYMM) is assigned by SIRS when either the ES file
         maintains a factor, or when the 1st forecast factor is automatically shifted into the current factor
         during the 30 September shifting process. SIRS uses the Forecast Date to determine how many
         quarters to use in the interpolation between the current and 1st forecast factors. (See paragraph
         17.5.).
         16.13.2.8. FORECAST CUR, 1ST, 2ND, 3RD 4TH 5TH. This column displays the Current fiscal
         year factors and 5 Forecasted fiscal years of factors.
      16.13.3. The third section (Past Usage History - Current Stock Number Level) shows past actual and
      file maintained usage data at the CSN level. This section does not appear on a simulation report since
      usage data is file maintained at SGM level for "What If" re-computations.
         16.13.3.1. CURRENT NSN / PART NUMBER. The usage for this interchangeable or current
         stock number is displayed along with the part number.
         16.13.3.2. OBS CODE. When the interchangeable stock number is obsolete, "D" is displayed.
         SIRS uses the obsolete item's usage to compute factors for the subgroup master.
         16.13.3.3. TYPE USAGE. Up to 12 quarters' of past actual and/or file maintained usage are dis-
         played by quarter. The oldest quarter is displayed first. 8 QTR TOTAL is the total of the most
         recent past 8 quarters, adding together the F/M data if it exists or else the actual data for that quar-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             411


     ter. Any usage printed that precedes the oldest program begin date, are not used in the computation
     of the factors and indicates either an erroneous program begin date, invalid usage, or an ES deci-
     sion not to use premature failure data. The top line shows the actual (ACT) usage reported by
     interfacing systems. The lower line displays any usage file maintained (F/M). The months and
     year shown on the product represent the ending month of the quarter and the associated calendar
     year. The types of usage are described in paragraphs 16.4. through 16.11.
  16.13.4. Section 4 (Past Usage History - Subgroup Master Level) displays past usage data summa-
  rized to the SGM level.
     16.13.4.1. TYPE USAGE. Up to 12 quarters' of summarized usage are displayed by quarter. The
     oldest quarter is displayed first. The months and year shown on the product represent the ending
     month of the quarter and the associated calendar year. The types of usage are described in para-
     graphs 16.4. through 16.11.
     16.13.4.2. 8 QTR TOT USE. The total past usage for the most recent 8 quarters for all CSNs in
     the family. SIRS adds together the F/M data if it exists or else the actual data for that quarter.
     16.13.4.3. QUARTER OF LAST DEMAND. Format is YYMM where MM is 03, 06, 09, 12, the
     ending month of the quarter. Represents the most recent quarter in which a demand was reported.
     Will not update unless the ES has file maintained at least one application with a program begin
     date earlier than the asset cutoff date.
  16.13.5. Section 5 (Total Item Past Installed program - Subgroup Master Total) shows quarterly totals
  for the four basic types of programs. OIM, PDM, ENG OH, and NHA MISTR programs. (See Chap-
  ter 18). Up to 12 quarters' of past installed programs for the SGM are displayed by quarter. The oldest
  quarter is displayed first. 8 QTR TOTAL is the total of the most recent past 8 quarters. The months
  and year shown on the product represent the ending month of the quarter and the associated calendar
  year.
  16.13.6. Section 6 (Past Factors). Past computed factors by Quarter (QTR) and Moving Averaged
  History (MAH) are displayed for the TOIMDR, base NRTS percent, base condemnation percent,
  MISTR condemnation percent and the DLM factors (JR condemnation percents, NJR replacement
  percents and NJR program percents for PDM, EOH and MISTR). These factors are developed from
  historical data, disregarding manually entered factors. A maximum of eight quarters of data are dis-
  played. When a ninth quarter factor is developed, the oldest quarterly factor is dropped. Zeroes are
  displayed when zero factors are computed. The QTR factor is computed with a minimum of one quar-
  ter of usage and item past installed program. The MAH factor are computed with a minimum of 4
  quarters of usage data. (No moving averages are computed when there are less than 4 quarters of
  usage data). The factors displayed can only be changed by file maintenance of the usage data in the
  base period or by changing the application data resulting in a change to the item's past installed pro-
  gram. These factors are displayed to assist the ES in analyzing past trends and forecasting future fac-
  tors.
  16.13.7. Section 7 displays the time phased item application data (System Applications). Each appli-
  cation for the SGM are listed (APPLICATION DESIGNATOR) with the associated program select
  code (PGM SEL), application essentiality code (APPL MIEC), program development code (DEV
  CD), program begin date (PRGM BEGIN DATE), quantity per application (QPA), and application
  percent (APPL %) All file maintenance of application data is performed in D200F, API (see para-
  graph 18.26.).
412                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


16.14. Spares Requirement Review Board (SRRB) Output Products.
      16.14.1. MUD Output Product. The OP-SUBMIT MUD may be used to produce hard copies of the
      SRRB MAJCOM usage data that is reported via the 7SC transaction. There are two types of products
      that can be printed. These products must be requested separately, one at a time. The printing instruc-
      tions are as follows:
         16.14.1.1. MAJCOM USAGE HISTORY. This product (Figure 16.13.) provides the past 8 quar-
         ters usage data history that has been reported, by usage type, by SRAN and Organization and
         PFMR codes. It also shows the usage hours for each of the quarters in the base period. To print this
         product, the MAJCOM, MDS, and SGM, must be entered, and the type of usage and “MAJCOM
         Usage History” must be selected. After you have entered these data elements, press enter, and a
         job number will appear at the bottom of the screen to let you know you have successfully launched
         the print request.
         16.14.1.2. MAJCOM BREAKOUT PERCENTAGE. This product (Figure 16.14.) provides the 8
         quarters of usage data history that has been reported, by MAJCOM and usage type to show the
         percentage of usage for each of the MAJCOMs. To print this product, follow the same procedure
         as above, except, the MAJCOM must be blank, and the MAJCOM BREAKOUT PERCENTAGE
         must be selected.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                         413


Figure 16.10. Factors/Usage Printout (Page 1).




Figure 16.11. Factors/Usage Printout (Page 2).
414                                              AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 16.12. Factors/Usage Printout (Page 3).




Figure 16.13. MAJCOM Usage History.




Figure 16.14. MAJCOM Breakout Percentage.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              415


                                              Chapter 17

                                              FACTORS

17.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the policy and procedures to be used by the Equipment Spe-
cialist (ES) for the validation and the development of factors.
   17.1.1. For each Subgroup Master (SGM) stock number, SIRS divides the actual usage by the past
   installed programs to compute the factors. Each factor times the future installed programs determines
   the portion of the item's gross recurring requirements attributable to that factor. Gross requirements
   minus assets equals net requirements. The ES ensures that the usage (Chapter 16), applications and
   programs (Chapter 18), and factors are correct.
   17.1.2. Failure, replacement, condemnation and other reliability rates, or factors, are computed by
   SIRS on the basis of past usage and past program data accumulated over a set time period referred to
   as the Base Period. The base period starts from the oldest program begin date on the item's program
   selection record in D200F, Application Programs and Indenture System (see paragraph 18.30.) and
   ends at the asset cutoff date of the SIRS computation. The base period can be a maximum of 12 quar-
   ters. The most recent 8 quarters are used to compute most rates and percents. The oldest 4 quarters of
   the 12 quarter base period are only used in the computation of the Predictive Logistics (PRELOG) and
   Exponential Smoothing rates (see paragraph 17.27.).
   17.1.3. SIRS provides the capability for five methods or types of rates and percents for computing
   requirements. The methods are the 8 Quarter Average (24 Month), 4 Quarter Average (12 Month),
   Predictive Logistics (see Chapter 19), Exponential Smoothing, and Estimates. The results of these
   methods can be viewed on the Rates and Percents (RAP) screen (Figure 17.3.). The ES selects which
   method to use to compute the requirements, by file maintaining the Factor Indicator Code (FIC). The
   FIC is a 3-position code, with each position of the code affecting the rates and percents (see para-
   graph 17.26.).
   17.1.4. Factors and the Factor Indicator Code are file maintained on the FM SIRS SND FACD screen
   (see paragraph 17.24.). 12 quarters of usage, past installed programs and computed factors are dis-
   played on the Factors/Usage Printout (see paragraph 16.13.). Factors for the current year and 5 fore-
   cast years for the SGM are displayed on the first page of the SGM Computation Worksheet (see
   paragraph 9.3.).
   17.1.5. Factors are displayed on the online screens, the SGM Computation Worksheet and on the Fac-
   tors/Usage Printout with a Source Reference Code (SRC) of "C" for eight quarters, "F" for four quar-
   ters, "P" for PRELOG, "X" for Exponential Smoothing, and "E" for estimated. The SRC is determined
   by the FIC that is input by the ES. Factors are displayed for 11 time periods: Last Used, 24 months, 12
   months, PRELOG, Exponential Smoothing, current, 1st forecast, 2nd forecast, 3rd forecast, 4th fore-
   cast, and 5th forecast.

17.2. Definitions of Factors.
   17.2.1. There are 16 types of factors consisting of 3 Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance
   (OIM) rates, 4 OIM percentages and 9 Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) percentages. Rates specify
   how many per a given program. A rate is a five position field with a decimal between the first and sec-
   ond left most positions (1.2345 or 0.0250). Percents specify how many per 100s. A percent is a 3 posi-
416                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      tion field with a maximum value of 1.00. Mean Time Between Demands (MTBD) is computed by
      SIRS and is displayed along with the factors (see paragraph 17.10.).
      17.2.2. SIRS computes factors for each subgroup master stock number except military contingency
      items (deferred disposal code "M"), items with a "no compute" code equal to "N", "P", "B", or “X”,
      obsolete items, and items with no programs. SIRS will not compute OIM factors if the first position of
      the item program select code is zero. SIRS will not compute DLM factors if the last 3 positions of the
      item program select code are zeroes. Past installed programs are used to compute all the factors except
      for base Not Reparable This Station (NRTS) percent, base processed percent, base condemnation per-
      cent, and MISTR condemnation percent. NOTE: SIRS will compute factors for insurance and NSO
      items and will output a message to the IMS and ES on the Review Lists, if the factors indicate the item
      should be coded active. The factors computed are not used in the INS/NSO items computation. (see
      Chapter 31.)
      17.2.3. File maintained factors are called Estimated Factors. Prior to file maintaining any estimated
      factors, the methodology used in calculating them and the reasons for using them will be thoroughly
      documented and retained as a permanent record. The ES will obtain adequate support and documenta-
      tion from contractors, engineering, program managers and/or management for estimated factors, rates,
      and percent being used and ensure they are based on verifiable and current data. The ES will review at
      least annually the estimated factors, rates and percents file maintained to ensure actual usage is indic-
      ative of what had been projected. The ES will make necessary adjustment based on this periodic
      review. For forced attrition or forced generation and replacement of items, the ES will follow proce-
      dures in AFI 63-1101, Modification Management when they would result in a change in the form, fit,
      function or interface of the item or AFMCI 21-121 when they would not result in a change in the form,
      fit, function or interface of the item. The Item Management team will track forced attrition/generation
      and replacement programs and retain documentation showing how many total assets needed replace-
      ment, how many assets have been replaced and how long it will take to complete the replacement pro-
      cess. During initial establishment of an item record, SIRS puts zeros in all fields of each factor and
      puts blanks in the corresponding SRCs. Estimated factors should be determined and file maintained
      by the ES to protect initial provisioned quantities that might otherwise fall into termination or excess
      positions. Estimated factors can be file maintained only if an appropriate FIC code has been input. The
      ES cannot file maintain OIM depot demand rate, OIM base repair rate, base processed percent and
      Mean Time Between Demands, which are always computed by SIRS.
      17.2.4. The ES ensures that the current and Forecast Factors are accurate so buy quantities and repair
      requirements are realistic and the readiness posture may be assessed properly. Forecast rates depend
      on events that SIRS cannot foresee. Modifications, changes in base/depot repair capability, age of an
      item, and other events can cause alterations in the type and quantities of base/depot level maintenance
      actions. The ES should forecast using total maintenance knowledge of the item when trends are
      revealed or events affecting reliability are foreseen. A higher rate in the forecast fields over the current
      rate indicates a reduced service life and conversely, a lower rate in the forecast fields over the current
      rate indicates an increased service life. A reduced service life results in more projected base genera-
      tions and an increased service life results in less projected base generations.

17.3. Factors For Consumable Items.
      17.3.1. Consumable items are PROHIBITED from projecting any generations or requirements that
      normally result in depot level repair projections. Examples of these projections are OIM reparable
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                    417


    generations, Non Job Routed (NJR) Reparable Generations, or Engine Overhaul (EOH) NJR require-
    ments. When this occurs, the ES should review the applicable factors and usage for problems.
    17.3.2. SIRS can compute legitimate condemnation rates greater than 100% for consumable items.
    Rates greater than 100% cannot be file maintained. Any condemnation rate greater than 100% should
    be the “exception rather than the rule” and the ES should try to provide justification for those rates.

17.4. Shifting of Factors and Resetting To Computing. Once a year, during the September initial
cycle, forecast factors are shifted to agree with the intended fiscal year for which the factors were estab-
lished. (SIRS shifts the programs during the March cycle). The OIM depot demand rates, OIM base repair
rates and base processed percents are not shifted but are computed after the other factors are shifted. The
1st forecast factors are shifted to the current factors, the 2nd forecast factors are shifted to the 1st forecast
factors, the 3rd forecast factors are shifted to the 2nd forecast factors, the 4th forecast factors are shifted
to the 3rd forecast factors, and the 5th forecast factors are shifted to the 4th forecast factors and also
remains as the 5th forecast. After the shifting of factors, the Current Factors are set to "computing", unless
the FIC is "M". The 1st through 5th Forecast Factors are not changed.

17.5. Factor Interpolation. SIRS will interpolate (or pro-rate) the factors when there are different values
from the current to the 1st forecast, or from one forecast year to another forecast year. Interpolated results
for all values are carried out to 6 decimal places.
    17.5.1. The Forecast Date (YYYYMM) is assigned by SIRS as the 4 position year and the last month
    of the quarter (03, 06, 09 or 12) when the ES manually inputs an estimated factor. The Forecast Date
    is also assigned as YYYY09 when the 1st forecast is shifted into the current during the 30 September
    shifting process. The Forecast Date is displayed on the FRAP screen (see paragraph 17.21.) and on
    the Factors/Usage Printout (see paragraph 16.13.2.7.). SIRS uses the Forecast Date to determine how
    many quarters to use in the interpolation between the current and 1st forecast (unlike D041). If there
    is no Forecast Date, the quarter of the computational cycle is used instead. The number of quarters
    used to interpolate between the current and 1st is 2 quarters for 31 March, 1 quarter for 30 June, 4
    quarters for 30 September, and 3 quarters for 31 December
    Example #1. This is the Mar 01 cycle and the Forecast Date is 0103. The rate for the June quarter is
    equal to the current rate. The rate for the September quarter is equal to the current rate divided by 2
    plus the 1st forecast rate divided by 2.
    Example #2. This is the Mar 01 cycle and the Forecast Date is 0012. The rate for the June quarter is
    equal to double the current rate divided by 3, plus the 1st forecast rate divided by 3. The rate for the
    September quarter is equal to the current rate divided by 3, plus double the 1st forecast rate divided by
    3.
    Example #3. This is the Mar 01 cycle and the Forecast Date is 0009. The rate for the June quarter is
    equal to double the current rate divided by 4, plus double the 1st forecast rate divided by 4. The rate
    for the September quarter is equal to the current rate divided by 4, plus 3 times the 1st forecast rate
    divided by 4.
    17.5.2. 4 quarters are always used in the interpolation between the 1st to 2nd years, 2nd to 3rd years,
    3rd to 4th years and 4th to 5th years.
    Example #4. Add the 3rd forecast rate to the 4th forecast rate and divide by 4. This result is added to
    the 3rd forecast rate to get the new rate for the Mar quarter. Then the result is added to the new rate for
418                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      the Mar quarter to get the new rate for the Jun quarter. Next, the result is added to the new rate for the
      Jun quarter to get the new rate for the Sep quarter. The rate for Dec is the forecast rate for that fiscal
      year.
      17.5.3. The Interpolation Indicator, either “Y” or “N”, instructs the system to perform linear interpo-
      lation when developing the quarterly values used in between the annual forecasted rates and percents.
      The interpolation Indicator can be file maintained, by the Equipment Specialist, on the FM SND
      FACD screen (See Figure 17.8.). An Interpolation Indicator of “Y”, which is the system default, will
      instruct the system to interpolate the rates and percents as described above. An Interpolation Indicator
      of “N”, will instruct the system not to interpolate within the fiscal year, and will cause each fiscal year
      forecast to be used in every quarter throughout the fiscal year. Using the 31 March comp timeframe,
      here are examples of the impact of the Interpolation Indicator:

Table 17.1. Example of Impact of the Interpolation Indicator.
CURRENT                                 1st FORECAST                       2nd FORECAST
1000                                    2000                               3000
  IND          JUN 04       SEP 04        DEC 04        MAR 05         JUN 05        SEP 05         DEC 05
      Y         1000         1500          2000           2250          2500          2750            3000
      N         1000         1000          2000           2000          2000          2000            3000

17.6. Base NRTS Percent. The base NRTS percent is the ratio of reparables returned to the depot
(organic or contractor) in relation to the total base reparable generations. The percent is computed as the
base period base NRTS divided by the base reparable generations (which are equal to the base period base
RTS plus base NRTS plus base condemnations). Base NRTS percents can be file maintained by the ES
(SRC = "E"). A base NRTS percent of zero percent indicates that the item is 100 percent base processed
at the OIM level. A base NRTS percent of 100 indicates that the item is 100 percent depot processed. This
factor only applies to items with an OIM program. The base NRTS percent is used to compute the Base
Processed Percent and the OIM Depot Demand Rate. When the base NRTS percent is 100 percent, SIRS
automatically internally assigns the default days in the base processing days, and automatically internally
puts zeroes in the base repair cycle days as long as the fields have not been file maintained. When the
Base RTS Exclusion Indicator is turned on (or has a value of "X") the system will compute a base NRTS
percent of 100.

17.7. Base Condemnation Percent. The base condemnation percent is used to compute the portion of
repairs at base level (or the base processed quantity) that will be condemned, or the base condemnation
quantity. It is equal to the base period reported base condemnations divided by the sum of the base con-
demnations plus base RTS. This factor applies only to items with an OIM program. Items that only have
DLM programs, have zero base condemnation percents. AF SICA NIMSC 5 items have zero base con-
demnation percents. Base condemnation percents can be file maintained by the ES (SRC = "E") if an
appropriate code allowing the file maintenance is input to the 1st position of the FIC. The base condemna-
tion percent is used to compute projected base condemnations and to compute the OIM Depot Demand
Rate. When the Base RTS Exclusion Indicator is turned on (or has a value of "X") SIRS will compute a
base condemnation percent of zero.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                419


17.8. MISTR Condemnation Percent. The MISTR condemnation percent is the ratio of reparables con-
demned in relation to the total attempted repairs during depot level (organic and contractor) repair of the
item. (It does not include condemnations of the item during the repair of the engine or aircraft). SIRS
computes the current MISTR condemnation percent from the base period MISTR condemnations divided
by the sum of the base period MISTR condemnations plus the MISTR repairs. MISTR condemnation per-
cents can be file maintained by the ES (SRC = "E") if an appropriate code allowing the file maintenance
is input to the 2nd position of the FIC.

17.9. Total OIM Demand Rate. The TOIMDR is the rate at which OIM activities places a recurring
demand on base supply for like serviceable items as replacements for removed unserviceable items in
relation to an OIM program. This factor indicates the rate of total OIM demands that are expected to occur
during operational use of the aircraft or system. It also provides the number of base RTS plus base NRTS
plus base condemnations (or the base Rep Gens) that have occurred or are projected to occur. TOIMDR
can only be computed for items with an OIM program (first position of the item program select code = 1,
3, 5, 7 or 8). The SRC is determined by the FIC that is input by the ES. The following SRCs apply; "C"
for 8 quarter factor, "F" for 4 quarter factor, "P" for PRELOG factor, "X" for Exponential Smoothing fac-
tor, and "E" for estimated factor. SIRS computes the 8 quarter and 4 quarter factors by dividing the base
reparable generations (from 12 to 24 months) by the items' past installed OIM program for the base
period. The current and five forecast TOIMDRs are applied to the item's OIM future program to compute
the future OIM operating requirements. The TOIMDR is used to compute the OIM Depot Demand Rate
and the OIM Base Repair Rate.

17.10. Mean Time Between Demands. The MTBD is the ratio of the total operating time to the number
of demands upon the supply system for the item. MTBD is computed by dividing the item's past installed
OIM program by the base reparable generations. Then, MTBD is expressed as hours, months, events or
ammunition expenditures, depending on the first position of the item's program select code. If the item's
OIM program is flying hours (type 1), then a MTBD of 300 means that a demand is placed upon supply
for every 300 hours of that item's installed operation. It does not mean that the item has a service life of
300 hours. The MTBD can be computed using the TOIMDR. If the first position of the items' program
select code = 1, then the MTBD in hours equals 100 divided by the TOIMDR. If the first position of the
item's program select code = 3, then the MTBD in months equals 1 divided by the TOIMDR. If the first
position of the item's program select code = 5 or 7, then the MTBD in events equals 1 divided by the
TOIMDR. If the first position of the item's program select code = 8, then the MTBD in ammunition
expenditures equals 1000 divided by the TOIMDR.

17.11. OIM Depot Demand Rate. The OIM depot demand rate equals [(Base Processed Percent times
Base Condemnation Percent) plus the Base NRTS Percent] times TOIMDR. It is the rate per OIM pro-
gram at which base supply places demands upon the depot to replace base NRTS and base condemna-
tions. It is always computed by SIRS and cannot be file maintained. No SRC for this rate is displayed on
products. This rate is used to compute the OIM base Order and Shipping Time (O and ST) requirement
(part of the OIM base stock level) and the fixed OIM depot stock level.

17.12. OIM Base Repair Rate. The TOIMDR minus the OIM Depot Demand Rate equals the OIM
Base Repair Rate. It is the rate per OIM program at which base level repair is done to replace base RTS.
It is always computed by SIRS and cannot be file maintained. No SRC for this rate is displayed on prod-
420                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


ucts. This rate is used to compute the OIM base repair cycle requirements (part of the OIM base stock
level).

17.13. Base Processed Percent. 100 percent minus the Base NRTS Percent equals the Base Processed
Percent. The base processed percent is the ratio of reparables that were repaired and/or condemned (base
processed quantity) in relation to the total base Rep Gens. Base processed percent is always computed by
SIRS and cannot be file maintained. No SRC for this data is displayed on products. After the base pro-
cessed quantity is computed, the difference between OIM operating requirement and the base processed
quantity becomes the OIM reparable generations (NRTS) or generations into the depot segment of the
requirements computation. The base processed percent is also used to calculate the OIM depot demand
rate. If the base NRTS percent is 100, or if the Base RTS Exclusion indicator reflects an "X", the base pro-
cessed percent will be zero.

17.14. Depot Level Maintenance Factors. SIRS computes DLM factors (NJR program percents, JR
condemnation percents and NJR replacement percents) and uses them to compute item requirements to
support depot repair programs. These programs are Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM), Engine
Overhaul (EOH) and Next Higher Assembly (NHA) Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR).
(The D041 DLM exclusion code is not in SIRS as the use of DLM factors is controlled by the FIC). If
there is an appropriate code allowing file maintenance is input to the 3rd position of the FIC, the ES can
file maintain any of the 9 DLM factors. Job Routing and Non Job Routing refer to the repair concept spec-
ified by the ES in the Work Specification or in the Overhaul Technical Order. Job Routed Repair means
that if a recoverable component is found to be unserviceable during the overhaul of the major end item
(aircraft, engine or NHA), then remove the unserviceable item, repair and reinstall the item on the same
end item. The repairs are charged to the total cost to the major end item job. Maintenance requisitions
from supply only those items that could not be repaired (that were condemned). Non Job Routing means
that an unserviceable item will not be repaired at the same time the major end item is repaired, but will be
removed and replaced with a serviceable item from supply.

17.15. Non Job Routed Program Percents. The PDM, EOH and NHA MISTR NJR program percents
are the percentages to be used in dividing the overhaul programs of PDM, engine overhaul, and NHA
MISTR into a JR program and NJR program. These factors reflect the repair policy (JR and NJR) rather
than a rate of demand. SIRS divides the applicable DLM (PDM, EOH or NHA MISTR) past NJR item
program by the applicable total DLM past item installed program to get the applicable NJR program per-
cent. Then, SIRS multiplies that NJR program percent times the applicable DLM (PDM, EOH or NHA
MISTR) future installed program to compute the future NJR DLM program. The future NJR DLM pro-
gram is subtracted from the total future DLM program to get the future JR DLM program. When an item
has more than one application program, each with a different factor, a future weighted factor should be
computed by the ES. For example: An item on the F16C is non job routed 80% of the times during PDM,
but the same item is non job routed 60% of the time during PDM of the C17A. Multiply the future PDM
program of 50 F16C times 80% equals 40. Multiply the future program of 30 C17A times 60% equals 18.
40 plus 18 equals 58. The future PDM total item program is 50 plus 30, or 80. 58 divided by 80 equals the
future NJR PDM program percent of 73%.

17.16. Non Job Routed Replacement Percents. The PDM, EOH and NHA MISTR NJR replacement
percents are the past NJR replacements divided by the past NJR item installed DLM program. SIRS com-
putes NJR replacements by subtracting JR condemnations from depot reparable generations. Depot repa-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                421


rable generations are the total unserviceable assets generating at a depot level maintenance repair facility
and consist of job routed condemnations and NJR replacements. Depot reparable generations are reported
through D035A and displayed on the Factors Printout. When more than one DLM type applies (PDM,
engine overhaul, NHA MISTR), the computed factor is an average; that is, the same factor will apply to
NJR replacement percents for the DLM types indicated by the item program select code. NJR replace-
ment percents are multiplied times the future NJR DLM programs to compute the future NJR require-
ments. When an item has more than one application program, each with a different factor, a future
weighted factor should be computed by the ES. Compute the correct NJR replacement percent for each
application. Then multiply the future NJR item program for that application times that correct NJR
replacement percent for that application to equal the future NJR requirement. Do this for each application.
Then add together all the future NJR requirements and divide by the total item programs (for all applica-
tions) to get the weighted average to file maintain as the NJR replacement percent.

17.17. Job Routed Condemnation Percents. The PDM, EOH and NHA MISTR JR condemnations per-
cents are used to compute the quantity of condemnations that should occur for a lower assembly compo-
nent during the performance of the JR DLM overhaul program of an aircraft, engine, or NHA. The JR
condemnation percent is computed by dividing the past Job Routed Condemnations by the past Job
Routed item installed program. Job Routed Condemnations are computed as the Depot Condemnations
Total minus the MISTR Condemnations. The JR condemnation percents are multiplied times the future
JR DLM program to compute the future JR requirements. When an item has more than one application
program, each with a different factor, a future weighted factor should be computed by the ES. Example:
During the past 2 years, 40 compressor rings were condemned during engine overhaul of 400 F0100100
engines and 120 of the same compressor rings were condemned during engine overhaul of 600
TF0033009 engines. 40 divided by 400 = 10% JR condemnation percent for the F0100100. 120 divided
by 600 = 20% JR condemnation percent for the TF0033009. Next, multiply the future JR item program of
140 for the F0100100 times the 10% = 14. Multiply the future JR item program of 500 for the TF0033009
times the 20% = 100. The future JR condemnations of 14 + 100 = 114, then divided by the total program
of 640 equals 18% rounded. The 18% should be file maintained as the JR condemnation percent.
422                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 17.1. Display FUD Factors/Usage Menu.




17.18. The Display Factors/Usage Menu. The FUP screen (Figure 17.1.) shows the many screens
which display usage, MISTR repair and factor data. There are seven screens that display the data on the
Factors/Usage Printout (Figure 17.2.). These seven screens are interchangeable and can be accessed from
any of the seven screens by using the paging commands, or using GUI, pointing and clicking to the page
number at the bottom of each screen. The seven screens and their applicable page number are: FBD (1),
RAP (2), FRAP (3), UH (4), TSUH (5), PF (6), FAD (7). The Usage History (UH) and Total SGM Usage
History (TSUH) screens are described in paragraph 16.3. The other 5 screens are described below.

17.19. The Display Factors Basic Data. The FBD screen (Figure 17.2.). NOTE: wrong screen is in the
draft document, be sure it is the FBD screen in both versions shows basic management data for the SGM.
Enter either the SGM or the part number and Contractor and Government Entity Code (CAGE). If a CSN
is entered, SIRS will display the corresponding SGM. After the data has been displayed, put "X" by the
NOTEPAD. The general Notepad will display first, if it exists. The element Notepad text is displayed in
the order in which the elements appear on the screen. The FBD is the first of seven screens that display the
data on the Factors/Usage Printout. Transfer to the other screens by using the paging commands.
      17.19.1. AS OF. In the format DD MMM YY, this is the day, month and year of the asset cutoff date
      of the computation that the product was produced from. Enter a valid AS OF Date to display data for
      a previous cycle, else SIRS will display data for the current cycle. A two position Cycle Indicator is
      displayed to the right of the AS OF field. The first position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             423


   Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The second position represents the number of times that
   item was recomputed during that computation cycle. A zero means the item was not re-computed.

Figure 17.2. Display FBD Factor Basic Data Screen.




   17.19.2. PRGM BEG is the oldest Program Begin Date of any application for the item.
   17.19.3. SGM is the 15 position I and S Subgroup master or bachelor stock number.
   17.19.4. Part Number And Cage (Contractor and Government Entity Code) for this item.
   17.19.5. ALC is the 2 position Air Logistics Code.
   17.19.6. ES is the 3 position Equipment Specialist code. The left-most position is the division desig-
   nator code.
   17.19.7. IMS is the three-position Item Management Specialist code. The left-most position is the
   division designator code.
   17.19.8. PMS is the Production Management Specialist code for this item.
   17.19.9. Item Name is the nomenclature assigned to the SGM (see paragraph 14.7.).
   17.19.10. ACT CD is the 1 position item Activity Code that tells which cycles to review the item.
   (See paragraph 14.5.).
   17.19.11. ERRC is the one position code, “C”, “T”, “N” or “P” applicable to the I and S subgroup
   master/bachelor stock number. (See paragraph 14.14.5.).
424                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      17.19.12. PMIC is the Precious Metal Indicator Code. (See paragraph 9.3.25.).
      17.19.13. New is a 1 position New item code ("N" = new) and blank - not new. (See paragraph
      14.14.9.).
      17.19.14. Cat is the 1 position item Category code (see paragraph 14.6.).
      17.19.15. BRC is the 2 position Base Repair Cycle days followed by the 1 position source reference
      code. (See paragraph 23.7.).
      17.19.16. DRC is the 3 position Depot Repair Cycle days. (See paragraph 23.8.).
      17.19.17. Prgm Sel is the 4 position item Program Select code (see paragraph 9.3.2. and paragraph
      18.3.9.).
      17.19.18. MIEC is the 3 position Mission Item Essentiality Code (see paragraph 18.28.).
      17.19.19. ICS/RIW is the code that identifies items that are being managed under Interim Contractor
      Support (ICS) with a value of "C", or the Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW) program with a
      value of "W". (See paragraph 14.4.1.).
      17.19.20. Expir Date in the format YYMM is the Expiration Date for the ICS/RIW code. (See para-
      graph 14.4.2.).
      17.19.21. Base RTS Excl is the Base RTS Exclusion Indicator file maintained by the ES. When the
      Base RTS Exclusion Indicator reflects an "X", SIRS will ignore any base RTS and base condemna-
      tions in the computation of OIM rates and percents. (See paragraph 17.25.).
      17.19.22. FEEMS Ind is the 1 position code where "X" = an item managed under the Field Engine
      Exchangeable Management System (see paragraph 3.10.).
      17.19.23. Sfty Lvl Excl is the Safety Level Exclusion Code file maintained by the IMS. If equal to
      "X", SIRS will not do a safety level computation for the item. (see paragraph 14.10.).
      17.19.24. Factor Ind is the 3 position Factor Indicator code that allows the ES to select the type of
      method used to compute the rate and/or percent to be used in the SIRS computation. (See paragraph
      17.26.).
      17.19.25. SOR is a 2 position code identifying the source of repair. Below the SOR is displayed the
      related % of repair performed by that SOR. (See paragraph 15.7.14.)There can be eight different
      SORs: CT (contract repaired), OC (OC-ALC repaired), OO (OO-ALC repaired), SA (SA-ALC
      repaired), SM (since there is no repair at SM-ALC this value is no longer used), WR (WR-ALC
      repaired), DM (DMISA repaired), and OT (Other used for AF Form 206 repaired, ICS repaired, RIW
      repaired).
      17.19.26. Unit Price FCST is the Forecasted Unit Price (see paragraph 14.11.2.).
      17.19.27. Unit Repair Cost is the unit Repair Cost and the 1 position source reference code. (See
      paragraph 15.7.13.).
      17.19.28. Unit Repair Manhours indicates the approximate time it takes to repair the item at the depot
      facility and is passed from G019C (See paragraph 3.11.).
      17.19.29. Condition X Asset. If the item has any condition "X" assets, the numbers are displayed on
      this line. (See paragraph 26.5.14.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  425


17.20. The Display Rates And Percents screen. The RAP screen (Figure 17.3.) shows the 16 rates and
percents used in the SIRS computation, plus the Mean Time Between Demand (MTBD). The last used, 24
month, 12 month, PRELOG, and Exponential Smoothing computed values for each of the 17 data ele-
ments are displayed. Enter a valid AS OF Date to display data for a previous cycle, else SIRS will display
data for the current cycle. A two position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the right of the AS OF field. The
first position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The sec-
ond position represents the number of times that item was recomputed during that computation cycle. A
zero means the item was not re-computed. Enter the SGM and press ENTER If a CSN is entered, SIRS
will display the corresponding SGM. The RAP is the second of seven screens that display the data on the
Factors/Usage Printout. Transfer to the other screens by using the paging commands.

Figure 17.3. Display RAP Rates and Percents Data Screen.




17.21. The Display Forecast Rates And Percents Screen. The FRAP screen (Figure 17.4.) shows the
current, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th forecasted values for the 16 rates and percents and MTBD used in the
SIRS computation, along with the FCST DT (Forecast Date). Enter a valid AS OF Date to display data for
a previous cycle, else SIRS will display data for the current cycle. A two position Cycle Indicator is dis-
played to the right of the AS OF field. The first position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for Initial,
"F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The second position represents the number of times that item was
recomputed during that computation cycle. A zero means the item was not re-computed. Enter the SGM
and press ENTER If a CSN is entered, SIRS will display the corresponding SGM. After the data has been
426                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


displayed, put "X" by the NOTEPAD. The element Notepad text is displayed in the order in which the ele-
ments appear on the screen. The FRAP is the third of seven screens that display the data on the Factors/
Usage Printout. Transfer to the other screens by using the paging commands.

Figure 17.4. Display FRAP Forecast Rates and Percents Data Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 427


Figure 17.5. Display PF Past Factors Screen (page 1).




17.22. The Display Past Factors Screens. The PF screens (Figure 17.5. and Figure 17.6.) displays the
factors that were computed for the past two years (eight quarterly cycles as of the summary computation).
   17.22.1. Both the Moving Average History (MAH) and the individual Quarter (QTR) values are dis-
   played on two vertical pages (Top and Bottom). Enter a valid AS OF Date on page 1, to display data
   for a previous cycle, else SIRS will display data for the current cycle. A two position Cycle Indicator
   is displayed to the right of the AS OF field. The first position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for
   Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The second position represents the number of times that
   item was recomputed during that computation cycle. A zero means the item was not re-computed.
   17.22.2. Enter the SGM and press ENTER If a CSN is entered, SIRS will display the corresponding
   SGM. Use the scrolling commands (FORW, BACK, TOP BOTT) to view additional data. The first
   page of the two PF screens is the sixth of seven screens that display the data on the Factors/Usage
   Printout. Transfer to the other screens by using the paging commands.
428                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 17.6. Display PF Past Factors Screen (page 2).




17.23. The Display Factors Application Data Screen. The FAD screen (Figure 17.7.) shows the data
that was input to the API system by the ES. The application data reflected is the Application Designator,
program select code (PRGM SEL), mission item essentiality code (APPL MIEC), development code
(DEV CD), program begin date (PRGM BEGIN DATE), quantity per application (QPA), and the applica-
tion percent (APPL %). Enter a valid AS OF Date to display data for a previous cycle, else SIRS will dis-
play data for the current cycle. A two position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the right of the AS OF field.
The first position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The
second position represents the number of times that item was recomputed during that computation cycle.
A zero means the item was not re-computed. Enter the SGM and press ENTER If a CSN is entered, SIRS
will display the corresponding SGM. The FAD is the seventh of seven screens that display the data on the
Factors/Usage Printout. Transfer to the other screens by using the paging commands.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  429


Figure 17.7. Display FAD Factor Applications Data Screen.




17.24. File Maintenance of Factor Data. Use the FM SIRS SND FACD screen (Figure 17.8.) to
change the Factor Indicator Code (FIC), estimated or forecast Rates and Percents, and initiate or delete the
Base RTS Indicator Code, for the current cycle. Enter the SGM and press ENTER. If a CSN is entered,
SIRS will display the corresponding SGM.
   17.24.1. The Rates and Percents may be estimated or forecasted for the current and five forecasts,
   only if the FIC allows file maintenance for the applicable rate or percent. Then, all six fields of the
   desired data element (current, and the five forecast fields) must be entered, as entered data does not
   straight-line into the following field. After the FIC has been file maintained, enter the estimated or
   forecasted rate to be file maintained, press ENTER, and the generic factors documentation notepad
   will appear. Type documentation or press ENTER, and the data element specific notepad for the rate
   or percent will appear. After entering the reason for changing the rate or percent on the data element
   specific notepad, press ENTER, and the message "Update Successful" will appear indicating that the
   desired rate or percent has been changed on the SIRS data base. If already existing documentation on
   either the generic or data element specific data element notepads is considered adequate, press
   ENTER, and no further notepad entries are required. When entries are made to the TOIMDR, ensure
   that the entire field is filled, including the decimal point, e.g., 0.5000 or 1.0200. Enter Y's in any cur-
   rent through fifth forecast factor to revert that field to the value indicated by the corresponding Factor
   Indicator Code. The user can transfer to the NOTEPAD by entering "X" in the Notepad field.
430                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      17.24.2. To change the FIC, using GUI, point and click to the down arrow on the right side of any of
      the three positions of the FIC, and a menu will appear with a short definition of each code. Point and
      click to the desired code and the code will immediately appear in the FIC.
      17.24.3. The screens displaying the Rates And Percents (RAP) and the factor data FM SIRS SND
      FACD will not be updated to display the recomputed rates and percents that result from the file main-
      tenance of usage data until either a "For Real" (FRIR screen) item recomputation is initiated, or the
      final computation or summary computation is run. Also, when the FIC is changed, the previously used
      rate and percent values remain on the FACD screen until either a "For Real" item recomputation is
      done, or the final computation or summary computation is run. However, the Source Reference Codes
      (SRC) will change immediately for each of the rates and percents when the FIC is changed.
      17.24.4. Enter "Y's" in the Factor Indicator Code or the RTS Exclusion Indicator will cause SIRS to
      revert back to the default values and eliminate the accompanying notepad records in the current cycle.

Figure 17.8. File Maintenance FACD Factor Data Screen.




17.25. The Base RTS Exclusion Indicator. Per direction of AFMC/A4Y, ES may not input a RTS
Exclusion Indicator due to the negative impact it has on Readiness Based Leveling (RBL). The ES should
contact the base to get the incorrect reporting stopped, particularly if this item is not supposed to be
repaired or condemned at base level. When there is an "X" for this code, SIRS ignores all Base Repaired
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                431


This Station (RTS) and Base Condemnations that are reported or file maintained in the usage history base
period. Also, SIRS will set the Base NRTS Percent to 100 and the Base Condemnation Percent to zero.
SIRS will display an error message if the user attempts to file maintain the Base RTS and/or Base Con-
demnation Percent. Use of this indicator could also reduce the TOIMDR as the Base RTS and Base Con-
demnations will not be used as a part of the Base Reparable Generations in the computation of the
TOIMDR. When the RTS Exclusion Indicator is turned "off" by entering a blank (or removing the "X"),
SIRS computes values for all forecast years.

17.26. Factor Indicator Code. The 3 positions of the FIC are file maintained on the upper right corner
in Figure 17.8. The definitions of the values of the FIC are listed in Table 17.5.
   17.26.1. The FIC allows the ES to determine the method (past eight quarter average, past four quarter
   average, Predictive Logistics (PRELOG), Exponential Smoothing, or estimated) of factor computa-
   tion to use in the requirements computation.
   17.26.2. The FIC is a 3-digit alpha code to handle all possible combinations for the following three
   distinct areas of factors. The first digit is the OIM factor code. It corresponds to the OIM Rates and
   Percents (the TOIMDR, OIM Base Repair Rate, OIM Depot Demand Rate, Base NRTS Percent, Base
   Processed Percent, and Base Condemnation Percent). The second digit is the MISTR Condemnation
   Percent. (D041 called this the Depot Overhaul Condemnation Percent). The third digit is for the Depot
   Level Maintenance (DLM) Rates and Percents, i.e., PDM Job Routed (JR) Condemnation Percent,
   PDM Non Job Routed (NJR) Replacement Percent, PDM NJR Program Percent, Engine Overhaul
   (EOH) JR Condemnation Percent, EOH NJR Replacement Percent, EOH NJR Program Percent,
   MISTR JR Condemnation Percent, MISTR NJR Replacement Percent, and MISTR NJR Program Per-
   cent. (The third position of this code replaces the D041 DLM exclusion code).
   17.26.3. FIC Characteristics. The PRELOG method capability is available for the TOIMDR only.
   Therefore, the codes E, F, G, H, I, and J can be used in only the 1st position of the FIC, and are not
   applicable for the 2nd and 3rd positions. An appropriate code in the applicable FIC must be present
   before an estimated or forecasted rate or percent can be input.
   17.26.4. If an element in any year is file maintained, the field is updated and the SRCs of all following
   element/forecast year combinations are updated to "E". If an FIC is file maintained to override esti-
   mates, the corresponding fields (all forecast years) on the screen are changed in accordance with the
   FIC. If the FIC is file maintained at the same time as the corresponding element and the selected FIC
   does not allow for estimated values, an error message is displayed. When the computer assigns a FIC
   of “P”, and the corresponding element file maintained does not exceed the 8 quarter MAH value,
   SIRS defaults to the 8 QTR MAH value.
   17.26.5. The SIRS assigns FICs when a FIC is required such as for new items. The SIRS defaults to
   the following FICs as follows:
       MMM - 1-3 quarters of usage history           PPP - 4-7 quarters of usage history,
       AAA - 8 or more quarters of usage history      AAA - Insurance or Numerical Stockage
                                                      Objective items
   17.26.6. Factor Indicator Code. A Factor Indicator Code (FIC) of “Q” may be selected when a “Best
   Fit Forecast” is desired. The use of “Q” will cause the system to select the best fit from the 8 Quarter
   Average, 4 Quarter Average, or Exponential Smoothing that have been computed by the system, and
   are displayed on the RAP screen. The Predictive Logistics (PRELOG) values will not be considered
432                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      in determining the Best Fit Forecast. If the Best Fit Forecast is desired for all data elements, then file
      maintain a FIC of “QQQ”.

17.27. Exponential Smoothing. This is a mathematical technique for forecasting rates and percents that
uses five different weighted formulas, and then chooses the most accurate exponential smoothing factor to
be displayed for the ES, using the Mean Absolute Deviation (MAD). It weights recent history more
heavily in the calculation of forecast factors. To use Exponential Smoothing rates and percents, either an
"I ', "J", "K" or "L" must be file maintained as the first position of the Factor Indicator Code. Factors
affected by the exponential smoothing forecast method are TOIMDR, Base NRTS Percent, Base Condem-
nation Percent, NJR Program Percent, NJR Replacement Percent, JR Condemnation Percent and MISTR
Condemnation Percent. The exponential smoothing equation is as follows.
Fn = a · X + b · Fo where:
Fn = Current quarter’s forecast (F=forecast, n=new). “F” and “n” do not have separate values. Together as
Fn they are a term for the forecast value for this quarter, the new forecast.
Fo = Last quarter’s forecast (F=forecast, o=old). Like Fn, Fo is a term for the old forecast value. Fo is last
quarter’s Fn.
X = Most recent quarter’s value being forecasted (e.g., TOIMDR, Base NRTS Percent, etc.).
A = Smoothing coefficient for the current quarter where 0.0 ≤ a ≤ 1.0. It is the weight we want to put on
the current quarter’s data value in computing the forecast value for this quarter.
B = Smoothing coefficient for the past quarter’s forecast, where b = 1.0 – a. It is the weight we want to put
on last quarter’s forecast, Fo.
For example, if a = 0.4, then b must be 0.6. In this case we are using 40 percent (a = 0.4) of the value of X
and 60 percent (b = 0.6) of last quarter’s forecast, Fo, to compute the new forecast value, Fn, for this quar-
ter. The values a plus b must equal 1.0 (100 percent).
For exponential smoothing forecasting, normally only the current Fn value would be retained for the next
quarter’s computation cycle. (This quarter’s Fn becomes next quarter’s Fo.)And the technique would only
use the X value for this quarter. However, SIRS creates a problem for the exponential smoothing forecast-
ing technique in that the historical data can be file maintained. That means the user can file maintain the
older “X” values. For example, if the Base Repair Generations value (used to compute the TOIMDR)
from three quarters ago is file maintained, then using the old Fn (Fo) value for TOIMDR would not reflect
the change to the older X values. To correct for this, SIRS develops exponential forecasts from all the
available history data.
Let’s assume the following historical data would need to be forecasted in the Mar 01 cycle. The “Qtrly
Data” in this example is the “X” value in the above formula.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                    433


Table 17.2. Example of Historical Data.
                Jun 99       Sep 99     Dec 99      Mar 00     Jun 00     Sep 00     Dec 00        Mar 01
Qtrly Data      1.3000       1.5000     1.7000      1.8000     2.0000     1.9000     1.8000        1.6000
Let’s assume last quarter’s Fn value was 1.8101. The 1.8101 will become the Fo value for Mar 01. The
new forecast for Mar 01 would be:
Fn = a · X + b · Fo where:
Fn = 0.4 · 1.6000 + 0.6 · 1.8101 = 1.7261
We would then use 1.7261 in the computation. However, let’s say during the file maintenance window,
the ES finds the 1.8000 value for Dec 00 should have been 2.1000. That means the Fo value is wrong. If
SIRS only used the Fo (last quarter’s Fn) and the current quarter’s Qtrly Data (X) value, it would
compute the wrong answer. Therefore, in SIRS, the exponential smoothing technique uses all the
historical data that is available to compute its forecasted value (up to 12 quarters). In this way it picks up
all corrected historical data values (e.g., 2.1000 instead of 1.8000). Following is an example describing
how SIRS computes exponential smoothing.

Table 17.3. Example of Exponential Smoothing.
              Jun 99     Sep 99       Dec 99     Mar 00   Jun 00    Sep 00     Dec 00     Mar 01 Forecast
Qtrly Data    1.3000     1.5000       1.7000     1.8000   2.0000    1.9000     2.1000     1.6000
Avg Avg       1.1250     1.1875       1.2500     1.3625   1.4875    1.5875     1.6875     1.7375
Exp Smith     1.1250     1.1950       1.3170     1.4702   1.6021    1.7613     1.8168     1.9301 1.7980


Using a = 0.4 and b = 0.6:
Fn-81 =                               = 1.1250 (always start with oldest 8 quarter MAH)
Fn-7 = 0.4 · 1.3000 + 0.6 · 1.1250 = 1.1950
Fn-6 = 0.4 · 1.5000 + 0.6 · 1.1950 = 1.3170
Fn-5 = 0.4 · 1.7000 + 0.6 · 1.3170 = 1.4702
Fn-4 = 0.4 · 1.8000 + 0.6 · 1.4702 = 1.6021
Fn-3 = 0.4 · 2.0000 + 0.6 · 1.6021 = 1.7613
Fn-2 = 0.4 · 1.9000 + 0.6 · 1.7613 = 1.8168
Fn-1 = 0.4 · 2.1000 + 0.6 · 1.8168 = 1.9301
Fn = 0.4 · 1.6000 + 0.6 · 1.9301 = 1.7980
________________________________
1. The subscripts “n-8” to “n-1” are to help the reader understand the formulas. For example, Fn-8 is the
Fn value using the oldest data available. Fn-8 becomes the Fo value for the next forecast, Fn-7. After
that, Fn-7 uses the next oldest data available. This continues up to Fn, the current quarter’s forecast.
Values may vary due to rounding.
434                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


In SIRS, exponential smoothing starts off with the oldest eight quarter moving average value available.
In this example, the oldest moving average available for Fn-8 is equal to 1.1250. If the eight quarter
moving average is not available then Fn-8 is set equal to the oldest four quarter moving average history
value.
Fn-8 then becomes the Fo for the next forecast, Fn-7. For computing Fn-7, SIRS starts with the oldest
Qtrly Data available and uses the exponential smoothing technique to compute its forecast value of
1.1950. Fn-7 then becomes the Fo for the Fn-6 forecast value. This continues in this manner up to the
current forecast value of Fn.
Although the above example uses only eight quarters, SIRS uses up to twelve quarters of historical data
to compute the exponential smoothing forecast. Also, there must be at least four quarters of data
available. If fewer than four quarters are available, the forecast value is not computed. The exponential
smoothing forecast is developed for five different sets of smoothing coefficients. The five coefficients
for “a” are file maintainable on the Standard Data Table by the Headquarters’ OPR. Once the five Fn
values are developed, the best Fn value will be selected using the Mean Absolute Deviation (MAD)
which is calculated for each of the five smoothing coefficient forecasts. The Fn value with the lowest
MAD value is the best forecast to use. The MAD is computed as follows:

Table 17.4. Example of MAD Computation.
Qtrly Data        1.3000   1.5000    1.7000    1.8000     2.0000    1.9000    2.1000    1.6000
Exp Smth          1.1250   1.1950    1.3170    1.4702     1.6021    1.7613    1.8168    1.9301   1.7980
Abs Error         0.1750   0.3050    0.3830    0.3298     0.3979    0.1387    0.2832    0.3301
Abs Error (Absolute Error) = the absolute value of (Qtrly Data – Exp Smth).
MAD = (∑Absolute Error)/(Base Period)             MAD = (2.3427/8) = 0.2928
A MAD is calculated for each of the five smoothing forecasts. The Fn value with the lowest MAD is
chosen for this quarter’s forecast. It is then straightlined into the current and five forecast factors.

Table 17.5. Definitions of Factor Indicator Code.
 CODE        POS DEFINITION
      A       1    Uses an 8 quarter average for the OIM rates and percents and overrides any estimated
                   values
      B       1    Uses estimated values, if present. If estimated values not present, uses the 8 quarter
                   average for OIM rates and percents
      C       1    Uses 4 quarter average for the OIM rates and percents and overrides any estimated
                   values
      D       1    Uses estimated values, if present. If estimated values not present, uses the 4 quarter
                   average for OIM rates and percents
      E       1    Uses PRELOG (or 8 quarter average if no PRELOG results available) for the
                   TOIMDR only. Uses an 8 quarter average for all of the remaining OIM rates and
                   percents
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          435


 CODE   POS DEFINITION
   F     1   Uses estimates if present or PRELOG for the TOIMDR only. Uses estimated values
             for all of the remaining OIM rates and percents, if present. If estimated values not
             present, uses a 8 quarter average for all of the remaining OIM rates and percents
  G      1   Uses PRELOG (or 4 quarter average if no PRELOG results available) for the
             TOIMDR only. Uses a 4 quarter average for all of the remaining OIM rates and
             percents.
  H      1   Uses estimates if present or PRELOG for the TOIMDR only. Uses estimated values
             for all of the remaining OIM rates and percents, if present. If estimated values not
             present, uses a 4 quarter average for all of the remaining OIM rates and percents.
   I     1   Uses PRELOG (or Exponential Smoothing if no PRELOG results available) for the
             TOIMDR only. Uses an Exponential Smoothing for all of the remaining OIM rates
             and percents
   J     1   Uses estimates if present or PRELOG for the TOIMDR only. Uses estimated values
             for all of the remaining OIM rates and percents, if present. If estimated values not
             present, uses a Exponential Smoothing for all of the remaining OIM rates and
             percents
  K      1   Uses Exponential Smoothing for the OIM rates and percents and overrides any
             estimated values
  L      1   Uses estimated rates and percents, if present. If estimated rates and percents are not
             present, the Exponential Smoothing rates and percents are used for the OIM rates and
             percents
  A      2   Uses an 8 quarter average for the MISTR Condemnation % and overrides any
             estimated values
  B      2   Uses estimated values, if present. If estimated values not present, uses the 8 quarter
             average for the MISTR Condemnation %
  C      2   Uses 4 quarter average for the MISTR Condemnation %, and overrides any estimated
             values
  D      2   Uses estimated values, if present. If estimated values not present, uses the 4 quarter
             average for MISTR Condemnation %
  K      2   Uses Exponential Smoothing for the MISTR Condemnation %, and overrides any
             estimated values
  L      2   Uses estimated rates, if present. If estimated rates not present, uses Exponential
             Smoothing for MISTR Condemnation %
  A      3   Uses an 8 quarter average for the DLM rates and percents, and overrides any
             estimated values
  B      3   Uses estimated values, if present. If estimated values not present, uses the 8 quarter
             average for the DLM rates and percents
  C      3   Uses 4 quarter average for the DLM rates and percents and overrides any estimated
             values
436                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


 CODE     POS DEFINITION
      D     3    Uses estimated values, if present. If estimated values not present, uses the 4 quarter
                 average for the DLM rates and percents
      K     3    Uses Exponential Smoothing for the DLM rates and percents and overrides any
                 estimated values
      L     3    Uses estimated rates, if present. If estimated rates not present, uses Exponential
                 Smoothing for DLM rates and percents
      M   1, 2, 3 Uses estimated rates only.
      P   1, 2, 3 Computer assigned. Uses estimates only when the 8 quarter is less than the estimate.
                  Cannot be input by the ES, but can be changed
      Q   1, 2, 3 “BEST FIT” when the ES inputs this to FIC, then the computer selects from the
                  computed 24 month, 12 month and exponential smoothing the best fit factors.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 437


                                                Chapter 18

                              PROGRAMS AND APPLICATION DATA

18.1. Introduction. This chapter explains the policy and procedures for developing programs for SIRS
items, along with the associated application data. The commanders of the Aircraft Sustainment Wings,
Combat Sustainment Wing, Supply Chain Management Groups, and Cryptologic Systems Group will
appoint by an official letter those individuals having responsibility for input of programs into Application,
Programs and Indentures (API) D200F for the Mission, Design and Series (MDS), Technical, Model and
Series (TMS) and application Program Element Codes (PECs) managed by their organizations. The
appointed individuals will ensure the API programs are checked and corrected if necessary and retain a
folder with documentation supporting the programs for audit purposes. These procedures are primarily
used by the Equipment Specialists (ES), the AFMC SIRS OPR and the AFMC API OPR. These proce-
dures may be used by the SIRS Item Management Specialists (IMS), equipment item mangers, the SIRS
and API OPRS at the ALCs, system program directors, engine managers and managers of weapon system
modification programs.

18.2. Basic Process. SIRS computes future requirements by multiplying the item's installed future pro-
jected program times a factor. The factor is computed by taking the past actual usage of the item divided
by the item's installed past actual program. The item’s installed programs can be viewed in SIRS on the
IPD screens (Figure 18.2. through Figure 18.6.). Item application data can be viewed in SIRS on the
SMCW display screen, page 13 (Figure 9.20.) and on the FAD Factors Application Data Display screen
(Figure 17.7.). Item application data is displayed on the last page of the Factors/Usage Printout (Figure
16.12.) and on page 10 of the SGM Computation Worksheet (Figure 9.19.). This data cannot be file main-
tained in SIRS. The item application data and the application programs are file maintained in the D200F
Applications, Programs and Indentures (API) system. API, like SIRS, runs on the AMDAHL computer at
OO-ALC. API builds the item installed programs and application data for SIRS during the “API Snap-
shot” process which is done just before each SIRS computation. File maintenance procedures for item
application data and application programs are described in paragraphs 18.19. through 18.31. For more
details, see the API Users Manual, AFMCM 57-510. SIRS computes the item installed Next Higher
Assembly (NHA) Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) programs using the application data
from API (see paragraph 18.14.). SIRS does not receive the API indentures data. SIRS uses the API
application data to build its own indenture data within SIRS, because SIRS does not need all the indenture
data in API, just the data for items for which SIRS does computations. API products that are useful for
checking data needed by SIRS are described in paragraph 18.34. The trend analysis screens for program
data are described in paragraph 30.3.

18.3. Definitions.
   18.3.1. Recoverable Item. This is an entity of hardware that is installed in another piece of equip-
   ment and can be removed or replaced for repair or servicing. Once installed, the item loses its individ-
   ual identity and is a "component" of the major end item. The term recoverable applies to items that are
   economically feasible to repair. Also called a recoverable "consumption" item, meaning that require-
   ments are computed based upon consumption history (the amount consumed) of the item. These items
   are assigned Expendability, Recoverability, Repairability Category (ERRC) code of "XD2" or "T". A
   few items are assigned ERRC code of "XD1" or "C".
438                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      18.3.2. Consumable Item. These items are also called expense items because they are either uneco-
      nomical to repair or are consumed in use. Once installed, the item loses its individual identity and is a
      "component" of the major end item. These items are assigned ERRC codes XB3 or “N”, when con-
      demned at base level or XF3 or “P” when condemned at the field level.
      18.3.3. SIRS Items. Consumable and Recoverable items (as defined above) that are stock numbered
      and are managed by the Air Force as Primary or Secondary Inventory Control Activity (PICA or
      SICA) are referred to as SIRS items in this chapter. SIRS computes their requirements.
      18.3.4. Equipment Item. Air Force managed items are recoverable, consumable or equipment.
      Equipment items are "replacement" items that are neither consumed in use nor do they lose their indi-
      vidual identity while in use. Example are vehicles and photographic equipment. Equipment items area
      assigned ERRC = "ND2" or "S" (depot recoverable equipment) or "NF2" or "U" (field recoverable
      equipment). Requirements for equipment items (formerly called D039 items) are computed in the
      D200C system and passed to API (see paragraph 18.13.).
         18.3.4.1. End Item. An entity of hardware that is usually not installed in another piece of equip-
         ment, and if it is installed it does not lose its individual identity. Examples are aircraft, engines,
         test equipment.
      18.3.5. Next Higher Assembly (NHA). A piece of hardware that is usually installed in another piece
      of equipment. Repairing this item tends to create a repair program for the items installed in this NHA.
      18.3.6. Programs. Are those operations and maintenance activities that create the need for repair
      parts. Programs are inventory positions or levels of activities expressed in terms of hours, months,
      units, overhauls or recoveries as appropriate for the operation involved, at particular points in time.
      Past Programs are statements of actual inventory or accomplishments during a specific past period.
      Projected Programs are estimates of planned inventory or accomplishments during a future period.
      18.3.7. Item Installed Program. The program performed or to be performed by the item while
      installed in an application (major end item or NHA). The item installed program is a measurement of
      an item's exposure to wear and tear.
      18.3.8. Item Program Selection. Documents when the item first began use and how the use has
      changed. The ES file maintains each item's application records on the Program Selection (PS) screen
      in API with the application Program Select Code (PSC) and at least one Program Begin Date (PBD)
      along with a Quantity Per Application (QPA) and application percent.
      18.3.9. Item Program Select Code. SIRS develops the 4 position Item Program Select Code (IPSC)
      from the application program select codes provided by API (see paragraph 18.27.). The IPSC is an
      aggregate of all of the application PSCs that are reflected for the items' applications. The 1st position
      of the IPSC indicates the Organizational Intermediate Maintenance (OIM) that is being used. The 2nd
      position indicates if a Depot Level Maintenance program or maintenance at a depot is being done on
      the aircraft, missile or trainer, "X" for yes, and "0" for no. (D200A/F refer to this as PDM whether or
      not there is an official PDM program.)The 3rd position indicates if an Engine Overhaul program is
      applicable, "X" for yes, "0" for no. The 3rd position is only used if the application is a TMS. The 4th
      position indicates if a MISTR program is applicable, "X" for yes, "0" for no. The 4th position is used
      for all applications that are PECs or NIINs if those PECs or NIINs are going through a depot level
      maintenance repair. There are times when a PEC code is used for PDM or EOH, as appropriate. There-
      fore, an IPSC equal to "0000" indicates that this application is a "reference" application for this item.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                439


   Either no program is available for this application or the item does not need any program for this
   application.

18.4. Responsibilities.
   18.4.1. The Equipment Specialist will file maintains all needed applications into API for each SIRS
   item. SIRS items will have at least one application file maintained to identify the "major end item",
   the weapon system, support system, communication-electronic network or equipment that the item is
   used on. In addition, each SIRS item will be linked by its program selection record in API, to all appli-
   cations (major end items and next higher assemblies) that require the use of this component for con-
   tinued operation. The ES will file maintain each item's Program Selection record containing each
   application with the Program Select Code, mission item essentiality code, the application's program
   begin date(s), quantity per application(s) and application percent(s). The ES will time phase the pro-
   gram begin dates and application percent when an item is being phased in or out of an application. The
   ES will also ensure the application percent for items no longer used on an application is changed to
   zero. Delete the application data for items no longer used on the application two years after the item
   ceased to be used on the application—if the factor indicator is using exponential smoothing wait three
   years after the item ceased to be used on the application. If there are no program select records for an
   item, SIRS will put an "R" in the compute code, and will not compute requirements for the item. The
   application data on the item's program selection record are used to compute the item's installed pro-
   grams (see paragraph 18.17.). The PSC can be 00 when programs are not needed to compute require-
   ments for the item. For items with Budget Program code equal to 15, the application data are used in
   SIRS to develop the Aircraft Availability indenture structure and this indenture structure is used to
   determine the base safety level and depot safety level for the item. The item's application data are
   passed to other computer systems. The ES identifies the applications for the SIRS items using the API
   Component Item Review product and technical order publications. The ES determines the type(s) of
   item program(s) to be developed. The ES ensures that these needed programs are in API. The ES can
   notify the directorate RCO, the ALC SIRS OPR, engine manager or system program director that pro-
   grams are needed for a weapon system.
   18.4.2. The HQ AFMC API OPR maintains current and accurate data on the API SPD table for all air-
   craft, drones and unclassified missiles and their engines needed by SIRS items, which have an "N"
   ownership code. (The modification application designators are maintained automatically by API). The
   HQ AFMC API OPR maintains the Aircraft and Engines List on the web (see paragraph 18..).
   Updates to the trainer applications are done by the programs OPR at OO-ALC. Updates to the engine
   applications are done by the engine managers at OC-ALC. Updates to the drone data are done by the
   drone managers at the ALCs. Using data provided by the ALC Programs OPRs, the HQ AFMC API
   OPR maintains the PEC tables used internally in SIRS and provides PEC to Weapon System conver-
   sion lists to the HQ AFMC OPRs of other computer systems (H036C, etc). The HQ AFMC API OPR
   also maintains the BP-SMC table in API, and the various MDS tables in SIRS.
   18.4.3. Each ALC will assign a person(s) as the ALC API Programs OPR. The ALC API Programs
   OPR maintains the data on the API SPD table for all Program Element Codes (PECs), stock number
   applications, and any aircraft, drones, unclassified missiles and their engines needed by SIRS items,
   for which their site has responsibility. Each ALC API Programs OPR maintains a list of PECs used by
   their ALC and their definitions (what weapon systems the PECs are used for). The ALC API Pro-
   grams OPR informs the HQ AFMC API OPR of each add and delete of a PEC, and any change in def-
   inition of a PEC. The ALC API Programs OPR ensure that all types of past and future programs are
440                                                                           AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      available and provided to the proper divisions for use by the ES. These programs include all PDM and
      EOH programs, all program data for trainers, and all program data for PECs. These programs do not
      include the type 9 MISTR programs developed by SIRS. The ALC API Programs OPR will perform
      at least an annual review of application Program Element Codes (PECs) and associated program data
      to evaluate (a) the continued need for the application PEC and associated program data, (b) the ade-
      quacy of documentation explaining the rationale for the use of the application PEC and (c) the accu-
      racy of the program data. The ALC API Programs OPR may task other people the ALC has assigned
      to the PECs to do the review and report back to the ALC API Programs OPR. For the programs that
      their ALC has the responsibility to file maintain, the ALC API Programs OPR should ensure that
      these programs are reduced, or deleted, in accordance with the force structure reductions (see para-
      graph 18.5.2.).
      18.4.4. The System Program Director or system manager notifies all personnel that the end item has
      transferred out of the initial provisioning stage (demand development period). They are responsible
      for providing the ALC Programs OPRs and/or equipment specialists the programs for all end items,
      including drones, trainers and equipment. They provide the equipment specialists the information
      about which NSNs are related to the end item. The MOD manager provides the ESs with the list of
      NSNs that are affected by a MOD install and/or removal, along with the 15 position MOD application
      used in D363, Maintenance Planning and Execution System, and inputs the MOD schedules to D363
      (see paragraph 18.15.).
      18.4.5. Equipment Item Managers are responsible for the NSN applications programs for equipment
      items (ERRC = "S" and "U") which API gets semiannually from the D200C system. These programs
      can be file maintained in API. (See paragraph 18.13.).
      18.4.6. SIRS Item Management Specialists should understand enough about applications, programs
      and factors to be able to prevent the use of erroneous data, by notifying the ES to research data and/or
      file maintain correct data. For items with equipment item applications, the SIRS item manager should
      check with the equipment item manager to ensure that the D200C data in API is correct.

18.5. Aircraft and Engines List on the World Wide Web. This is a Word doc list of applications used
in API and SIRS along with information not readily available in either system. This list can be used as a
reference to keep program data in API up to date. This list is updated by the 401 SCMS/GUMD API
OPR. It can be viewed via the INTERNET at https://www.ripit.wpafb.af.mil/A4YR/D200A.asp. On
the D200A home page, select Aircraft & Engines. This list can contain an asterisk to note new applica-
tions or applications with changed data.
      18.5.1. Part I is a list of aircraft with each type of engine that is installed on that type of aircraft, along
      with the number of engines per aircraft, and the percent of the fleet that has that engine, which can be
      time phased. Part II is the list of unclassified engines and engine modules used by the Air Force, with
      the ALC that manages the engine overhaul (type 6) programs, the AF Program Expiration Dates and
      the weapon system(s) the engine is used on. Part III is the list of unclassified aircraft used by the Air
      Force with their AF Program Expiration Dates, the ALC that manages the PDM (type 4) programs,
      and the Commands that have that weapon system. Part IV is the list of unclassified drones and mis-
      siles used by the Air Force. Part V is the list of aircraft and engines used only for the support of for-
      eign government (FMS) and/or other DOD agencies/services. Part VI is the list of obsolete aircraft
      and engines no longer used by the Air Force.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                441


  18.5.2. The Program Expiration Date is the last date that the Air Force will use the weapon system.
  This 4 position date is in the format YYMM, where YY is the last 2 positions of the year and MM =
  03, 06, 09 or 12. Program data can remain in SIRS for 3 years (12 quarters) after the weapon system
  is no longer used by the Air Force. (The exception is where non-Air Force program data is file main-
  tained in SIRS for other DOD agencies/services, with a program service code other than "A".)After 3
  years, the past program data will be deleted from API. All ALC managed program data (such as PDM
  and engine overhauls) for these applications, as well as for related applications such as Program Ele-
  ment Codes and trainers should be updated in API in accordance with these Program Expiration
  Dates. For example, a PDM program for an aircraft should not extend past the program expiration date
  for that aircraft (unless the PDM is being done in order to sell the aircraft to another county). The pro-
  gram for a trainer, solely used to support a weapon system that has become obsolete, should be
  deleted.
  18.5.3. FMS applications. Items can remain in SIRS to support an application no longer used by the
  Air Force when the system program director or the ALC SIRS OPR informs the HQ AFMC API OPR
  that the application is being used by other DOD agencies and/or foreign governments. The HQ AFMC
  API OPR changes the application on the SPD screen to include FMS as part of the SPD subtype (see
  paragraph 18.22.). This application remains in API as long as there are FMS or other services'
  requirements. The equipment specialist ensures that the items that use this application have a program
  selection code equal to zero.
442                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 18.1. Output Products Submit Job SIRS Recoverables Menu.




18.6. SIRS Programs Products and Display Screens.
      18.6.1. Hard copy products are "pushed" to the item managers and equipment specialists after each
      SIRS computation for stock numbers that require action or review. It is possible to get any of these
      products for any stock number from the Output Products SIRS Recoverables menu (Figure 18.1.).
      From the RDB-FOE Menu (Figure 2.7.), select Output Products (OP), then select Submit Job Request
      (SJR), then select Recoverables (SIRS). On the SIRS menu, select Item Program Data (IPD). On the
      IPD screen, type in the 9 position NIIN for the item, and select "F", "P" or "W" for ITEM Program.
      Select “P” to see the 12 quarters of past programs. Select “F” to see the 38 future quarters and reten-
      tion period. Select “W” to see the future war data. It is possible to limit the product by selecting an
      application, a program type and/or a service code. Press ENTER. The screen will display a message
      XXXXXX job number has been requested (Figure 18.2.). Your product will be automatically printed
      at the default printer designated in the UVFK screen, found by entering FOE DIS UDV UVFK. The
      data is displayed by application and program type. At the end are displayed TOTAL FOR SGM, the
      totals for the item by program type. Type 1 program is displayed in hundreds of hours, rounded.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              443


Figure 18.2. Output Products IPD Item Program Product Selection Screen.




   18.6.2. SIRS displays the item installed programs on the Item Program Data (IPD) screen. From the
   RDB-FOE menu, select Display, select Recoverables, then select Stock Number Data (SND). On the
   Display SND menu (Figure 18.3.) select IPD. On the IPD screen (Figure 18.4.), type the 9 position
   NIIN for the SGM. The user must type “P”, “F” or “W” for ITEM Program. Select “F” to see the 38
   future quarters and retention period (Figure 18.5.). Select “P” to see the 12 quarters of past programs
   (Figure 18.6.). Select “W” to see the future war data. The data is displayed by application and pro-
   gram type. At the end are displayed TOTAL FOR SGM, the totals for the item by program type. Type
   1 program is displayed in hundreds of hours, rounded. The following data is displayed.
      18.6.2.1. SGM. The Subgroup Master Stock Number.
      18.6.2.2. ALC. The 2 position ALC code for the site responsible for file maintenance of the pro-
      gram.
      18.6.2.3. IMS. This three-position code identifies the Item Management Specialist responsible for
      maintaining this item’s data.
      18.6.2.4. ES. This three-position code identifies the Equipment Specialist responsible for main-
      taining this item’s application data.
444                                                            AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 18.3. Display SND Stock Number Data Selection Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                  445


Figure 18.4. Display IPD Item Program Selection Screen.
446                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 18.5. Display IPD Item Future Peace Programs Screen.




       18.6.2.5. Std Prog Desig. The application or Standard Program Designator.
       18.6.2.6. Prog Type. The Type Program code for the application displayed.
       18.6.2.7. Serv. The Service code for the application displayed. This should be “A” for Air Force.
       18.6.2.8. Prgm Dev. The program development code for the application displayed. This should be
       blank.
       18.6.2.9. Mar-Jun-Sep-Dec. The program quantities are displayed for each quarter. The war data
       screens look like the peace program screens, but only display the 4 quarters of the “war year” or
       Extended Year (EY).
       18.6.2.10. Retention. The Retention quantity.
       18.6.2.11. Pgm Begin Date. This is the Program Begin Date for this application. It is only dis-
       played with past program data.

18.7. Type Program Code. This one position numeric code is used in API to identify the type of pro-
gram that can drive the need for repair parts. Type program codes 1, 3, 5, 7 and 8 are called Organizational
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 447


Intermediate Maintenance (OIM) programs. Type program codes 4, 6, and 9 are called Depot Level Main-
tenance (DLM) programs (See paragraph 18.19.1.4.).
   18.7.1. Program Type 1 represents the operating hours of the application. For aircraft, type 1 pro-
   grams are the flying hours. Flying hours for aircraft do not usually include ground warm up time and
   taxiing time.
   18.7.2. Program Type 2 is the average number of aircraft squadrons for an MD (Mission Design).
   This type of data is not being used by any of the D200, Requirements Management Systems.
   18.7.3. There are 4 types of inventory in API. Program type E = Primary Unaveraged Inventory. Pro-
   gram Type 3 represents Primary Averaged Inventory (PAI) or equipment months. It is usually calcu-
   lated by API. It is the average number of the end item inventory for a given month times 3. The past
   inventory is developed by adding together the actual inventory for each month of the quarter. The pro-
   jected inventory is the average inventory for the quarter, calculated by adding together the end of
   quarter inventory for the previous quarter to the end of quarter inventory for the current quarter, divid-
   ing this sum by two, and then multiplying the result by 3. Program type S= total Unaveraged inven-
   tory. Program type T = Total Averaged Inventory (TAI). TAI is used by API to calculate modification
   programs for aircraft and missiles. (See paragraph 18.15.4.4.).

Figure 18.6. Display IPD Item Installed Past Programs.
448                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      18.7.4. Program Type 4 represents Depot Level Maintenance or maintenance done at a depot being
      done on an aircraft, missile or trainer. (D200A/F refer to this as PDM.)PDM application programs are
      the depot level maintenance programs performed on aircraft, missile and trainer applications. (See
      paragraph 18.1.).
         18.7.4.1. For ERRC “S” and “U” items being used as test equipment/support equipment at a depot
         that do not go through depot level maintenance but generate lower assembly reparables or lower
         assembly condemnations reported as depot reparable generations, use a type 4 program equaling
         the number of equipment/support equipment items being used at the depot or a fixed PEC type 4
         program multiplied by an application percent that will very closely approximate the number of
         equipment/support equipment items being used at the depot. The ES must document the rational
         for using these programs and the methodology/calculations used to compute the program and/or
         application percent.
      18.7.5. Program Type 5 represents sorties or the number of take-off and landings for the aircraft. Sor-
      ties are calculated by API based on the average sortie duration rate and flying hours. (See paragraph
      18.9.3.).
      18.7.6. Program Type 6 represents number of Engine Overhauls (EOH). These are depot level main-
      tenance programs pertaining to engines (includes aircraft engines, ground turbine and small engines).
      (See paragraph 18.12.).
      18.7.7. Program Type 7 represents drone recoveries. Drones are pilot-less aircraft used for target
      practice. The recoveries are equal to launches minus expenditures (See paragraph 18.1.0).
      18.7.8. Program Type 8 represents ammunition expenditures or the number of rounds fired through a
      weapon. The type 8 program is displayed in thousands of units for future quarters and in actual num-
      bers for past quarters. Usually file maintained using a Program Element Code (paragraph 18.12.) for
      the end item.
      18.7.9. Program Type 9 represents the Next Higher Assembly (NHA) Management of Items Subject
      to Repair (MISTR) program. NHA MISTR application programs are defined as depot level mainte-
      nance programs pertaining to stock number applications and PEC codes. The application for most
      type 9 programs are for SIRS stock numbers. These programs are computed by SIRS for ERRC “T”
      and “C” applications, are not in API, and cannot be manually file maintained. The future programs for
      ERRC “S” and “U” application will overlay from the ABCS portion of D075. Both the future and past
      programs for ERRC “S” and “U” applications should be reviewed in D200F quarterly by end item
      IMS and PMS and corrected in D200F as necessary. Programs on PECs must be file maintained in
      D200F and corrected in there as necessary by the personnel designated by the ALC. (See paragraph
      18.13. and paragraph 18.14.).

18.8. Past Actual Programs For Aircraft. Actual flying hours and inventory for aircraft are collected
from base level reporting systems using the Aerospace Vehicle Inventory Status and Utilization Reporting
System (AVISURS), and are consolidated by the Reliability and Maintainability Information System
(REMIS), also called G099. Once a month, G099 furnishes a file containing flying hours, inventory and
number of sorties to API for aircraft. Nearly all G099 data are for aircraft, but it is possible to get records
containing just inventory for drones, trainers and unclassified missiles. Any G099 record containing a
possession code that is on the Possession Code table in API, causes API to not use the data on that record.
For example, possession code "NY" means the aircraft is on load to USAF non-appropriated funded activ-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  449


ities, and possession code "XS" means the aircraft is in storage. Past operating hours for engines are com-
puted by API (see paragraph 18.11.). For the 3 months of the most recent quarter, the G099 input will
replace any file maintained data. Therefore, file maintenance should not be done to any month until the
G099 input has been received. If a change is received from G099 to a previous quarter, the data is added
to the quantity on the database. Normally, when SIRS needs input for its initial computation, 2 months of
G099 data have been received for the most recent past quarter. By the time SIRS needs input for its final
computation, the third month of that quarter has been received from G099. Therefore, it is normal for the
quantity in the quarter of the asset cutoff date to vary slightly from the initial to the final SIRS computa-
tion.

18.9. Projected Programs For Aircraft.
   18.9.1. The Biennial Planning, Programming and Budget System (BPPBS) is the process by which
   the Air Force commanders develop operational plans, along with identifying the resources needed to
   execute these plans, in order to achieve the defense objectives established by the President and the
   Secretary of Defense. First, is the development of the Air Force's plan for 6 years, the Program
   Objective Memorandum (POM). The MAJCOMs POM submissions provide justification for their
   flying hour programs and inventory. Every other year, the AF POM is submitted to the Secretary of
   Defense, who issues the Program Decision Memorandum which records the decisions on the issues
   and directs adjusts to the POM. The POM, as modified by the Program Decision Memorandum,
   serves as the baseline for the start of the budgeting cycle. Second, the Budget Estimate Submission
   (BES) is the Air Force's budget proposal for 2 fiscal years. It is based on the OSD review of the AF
   POM as updated by the Program Decision Memorandum. The BES is submitted to OSD and the
   Office of Management and Budget who hold hearings to gather information on the budget estimates.
   When the Air Force's 2 year budget request is approved, it becomes part of the President's Budget sub-
   mission to Congress. Third, Congress reviews, adjusts and approves the President's Budget (PB).
   During the Congressional appropriation process, OSD holds an execution review, which may result in
   an Amended President's Budget (APB), as well as modifying plans for the next POM.
   18.9.2. HQ USAF Program documents are published, and the HQ USAF Program data base is
   updated for each of the 3 positions: the POM, the BES, the PB and, when there is one, the APB. After
   each mass update of the data base, the Program Authorized (PA) file is sent to the HQ AFMC API
   OPR, usually by email. The PA file is loaded onto the API database where is completely replaces the
   projected flying hours and inventory. The MAJCOMS can submit Program Change Requests (PCR) to
   HQ USAF to request force structure and/or flying hour changes within the execution and budget
   year(s), following the procedures in AFI 16-501, Control And Documentation Of Air Force Programs.
   If the PCR is approved, HQ USAF/XOOT calls or sends a message to the MAJCOMs and to HQ
   AFMC/A4Y. The changes are manually file maintained into API by the HQ AFMC API OPR. Per AFI
   16-501, the HQ AFMC API OPR cannot update flying hours in API unless the changes have been
   approved by HQ USAF.
   18.9.3. The PA file contains the approved peacetime flying hours, sortie duration rates and several
   types of inventory, by aircraft, command and Program Element (PE) funding code. Each record con-
   tains 10 years of programs, by fiscal year and quarter, starting with the first quarter of the current fis-
   cal year. API consolidates the data and stores it on the database by command. The retention program
   quantity is computed by API as the total program from the first quarter of the 8th fiscal year through
   the last quarter of the 10th fiscal year. Primary Aircraft Inventory (PAI), Backup Aircraft Inventory
   (BAI) and Attrition Reserve Aircraft (AR) from the PA file are added together by API to equal Total
450                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      Aircraft Inventory (TAI). TAI is used by API in the MOD computation (see paragraph 18.15.). (Pri-
      mary Aircraft Authorized or PAA is almost always the same as PAI, and is not used by API). PAI is
      stored as program type E on the database. Since PAI is the end of quarter inventory, API adds 2 quar-
      ters of PAI inventory together, divides by 2, and multiplies by 3 to get the averaged inventory months
      to be stored on the database as program type 3. For each aircraft, with the same command and the
      same PE, the sortie duration rate is divided into the number of flying hours (for that command and PE)
      to get number of sorties. These numbers are totaled for the same aircraft, same command, then
      rounded to a whole number, to get the quarterly number of sorties. For the same aircraft, all sorties by
      command are totaled to get the type 5 programs stored on the API database.

18.10. Programs for Unclassified Drones and Missiles. Since these programs are usually not on the PA
file, they should be obtained from the system program director or from HQ USAF documents. If the drone
or missile is undergoing a modification for which there is a D363 schedule, the modification designators
should be file maintained as applications in API (see paragraph 18.15.2.). Drone recoveries are manually
calculated as the number of launches minus the number of expenditures, and file maintained into API as
program type 7. API will calculate the operating programs for the engines used on the drones, if all
needed data is on the database (see paragraph 18.11.). Otherwise, the drones' engines operating hours
should be manually computed by the HQ AFMC API OPR and file maintained in API. If the drones'
engine(s) are also used on aircraft, these drone engine hours will have to be added to the engine hours cal-
culated for the aircraft. To do this, submit the jobs for the projected engine computation and past engine
computation. Once API has calculated the engine hours for the aircraft, then increase the hours for the
engines by file maintaining the additional hours for the drones engines.

18.11. Engine Operating Hours. API computes engine operating hours as flying hours per quarter for
the aircraft times the number of engines installed on the aircraft (the QPA) times the percent of the fleet
that have that engine installed for that quarter (the application percent). The number is rounded to a whole
number. Hours are then totaled for all aircraft with that engine installed and stored on the database as the
total hours per quarter for the engine. API uses the Program Select (PS) table (Figure 18.13.)for each air-
craft/engine combination to obtain the QPA and the application percent. The engine managers can view
this data online in API or view the data as a Word doc file “Aircraft and Engines” on the D200A or D200F
home pages. (See paragraph 18.5.1.). The engine manager validates that this data is complete and cor-
rect. The application percentages are computed according to AFI 21-104, AFMC supplement 1, attach-
ment 2 (AFM 400-1, volume III, AFMC supplement 1, attachment 2). Any corrections, additions and/or
deletions are sent to the HQ AFMC API OPR, who file maintains the data into API. The HQ AFMC API
OPR also runs the engine computation jobs by selecting "run past engine computation" and "run projected
engine computation" on the API Programs Products Selection menu (Figure 18.16.).

18.12. Programs For PDM, EOH, Trainers and Applications Using PECs. The ALCs develop and
file maintain into API all needed Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM) programs, all needed Engine
Overhaul (EOH) programs and all programs for trainers. Any other programs, not described in paragraphs
18.8. through 18.15., needed to compute requirements, such as ammunition programs, are developed and
file maintained by the ALCs using PECs (paragraph 18.21.4.). Engine Overhaul programs are developed
according to AFI 21-104_AFMCSUP1, attachment 3 (AFMC Supplement to AFM 400-1, volume III,
attachment 12)The engine overhaul program represents the maximum occurrences the SIRS item has had
(past installed program) or is projected to have (future program) with the application on the engine over-
haul line which might generate a failure of the SIRS item. The PDM program represents the maximum
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                451


occurrences the SIRS item has had (past installed program) or is projected to have (future program) with
the application on the aircraft, missile and trainer during depot level maintenance line that might generate
a failure of the SIRS item. The PDM line is also called a MOD line or a speed line. PDM is described in
TO 00-25-4, Depot Maintenance of Aerospace Vehicles and Training Equipment. The PDM programs for
the past quarters are the actual induction quantities and for EOH programs it is the actual production (out-
put) quantities. The PDM programs for the quarters in the future are the “approved” input quantities and
for EOH programs it is the “approved” output quantities. The PDM retention program is computed by
dividing the aircraft months retention program by the time cycle frequency in months. The 2 year past
programs of PDM and EOH are used in the development of factors. “In work” quantities will not be added
to the future input quantities for PDM programs.

18.13. Programs For Equipment Items. SIRS items may be installed on “equipment” items. These
items have a national stock number and ERRC ND2 (S) or NF2 (U). Programs for these equipment items
are developed by D200C, the Equipment Requirements Computation System that is managed at
WR-ALC. Equipment item managers can update D200C during the "R and A" file maintenance cycles,
which are usually 4 weeks in May and in November. D200C updates API in mid-June and in mid-Decem-
ber. The data from each D200C record replaces the previous data on the API database. If not updated from
the D200C file, all the future program quantities for equipment items on the API database are changed to
zeroes. If the equipment item is new, API adds the stock number to the SPD table, and adds the program
data to the database. The type program is usually 3, but can be 9. SIRS assign the Carryover Indicator of
"E" to the program data for these equipment items to allow the data to stay on the database during the two
cycles when D200C does not provide an update. The type 3 and type 9 program data can be file main-
tained into API, but should also be corrected in D200C. The program data are assets by fiscal year and
quarter for a maximum of 38 quarters, and a retention quantity. The Comp Group Gains and the Comp
Group Losses from Item Manager Control Data and from the item information section of Projected
Requirements and Assets (PRA) are used in the calculation of programs. To manually compute the pro-
grams, take the lesser of the Worldwide requirements (minus WRM and Replacement) and the Worldwide
Total Assets, subtract the Comp Group Gains and add the Comp Group Losses. File maintain as program
type “E” into API, or multiply the results by 3 for input to API as program type 3 program. The retention
program will be equal to the applied and allocated assets at the end of the last quarter of the future pro-
gram times 12.

18.14. NHA MISTR Programs.
   18.14.1. The NHA MISTR program, program type code = 9, represents the maximum occurrences the
   item has had (past installed program) or is projected to have (future program) with the application on
   the NHA MISTR line which might generate a failure of the SIRS item. The past NHA MISTR pro-
   gram is equal to the actual reported depot overhaul repair or the actual reparable assets located at the
   depot that have been made serviceable during the MISTR repair process of this item.
   18.14.2. MISTR programs for equipment items can be input to API from the D200C file (paragraph
   18.13.). This type 9 program data are developed manually and file maintained into D200C by the
   equipment item managers. The data can also be manually file maintained into API.
   18.14.3. The projected NHA MISTR programs for a SIRS item whose has an application that is also
   a SIRS item, are computed by SIRS during each computation, and cannot be manually file main-
   tained. A NHA program is used as a basis for developing MISTR programs. During a SIRS computa-
   tion, the computed de-accumulated MISTR Output program for a SIRS item that is a NHA to another
452                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      SIRS item is recycled (or used), as the type 9 MISTR program for the next lower assembly's compu-
      tation. The MISTR output of the NHA may or may not exactly match the future program that is passed
      to the lower assembly. This future program can be changed by the Aircraft Availability Model’s recy-
      cling process through multiple indentures for the item. The type 9 program is multiplied times the
      QPA and item application percent for the item to develop the item's installed future MISTR program,
      regardless of the program begin date. To prevent the development of this program, the ES should file
      maintain the application percent as zero.
      18.14.4. An example of recycling:
         SIRS Stock Number             NHA/Application and PSC
         NSN A                                 F015A 1X00
         NSN B                                 NSN A 000X
         NSN C                                 NSN B 000X
         NSN C                                 F016A 3X00
         NSN D                                 NSN C 000X
      The requirement for NSN A is computed using the F015A programs to compute a repair requirement
      of NSN A (MISTR program) to support the F015A. The requirement for NSN B is computed using
      the MISTR program developed for NSN A to compute a MISTR program of NSN B to support NSN
      A. The requirement for NSN C is computed using the MISTR program developed for NSN B plus the
      F016A programs to compute a MISTR program to support both NSN B and the F016A. The require-
      ment for NSN D is computed using the MISTR program developed for NSN C to compute a MISTR
      program of NSN D to support NSN C.
      18.14.5. The Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM) computation (Chapter 21) uses MISTR pro-
      grams for computing both its war and peacetime segments, in addition to the other types of future pro-
      grams. The OWRM computation uses the MISTR war programs which were computed during the
      processing of the war computation. (This is not the war portion of the OWRM computation but a sep-
      arate internal run required to develop the war MISTR program). It also contains the recycling tech-
      nique. These recycled war MISTR programs are used only in the wartime portion of the OWRM
      computation. These recycled war MISTR programs include the total MISTR requirement (peacetime,
      W-B and OWRM MISTR requirements).

18.15. Programs Tailored To Modification Schedules.
      18.15.1. Basic Process. Modification input and output schedules by Mission, Design and Series
      (MDS) and Mod Number (see paragraph 18.15.3.4.1.) for Class IV and V aircraft and missile modi-
      fications are provided by D363 at each ALC and sent to API each month. The output schedule is used
      to compute an install program for use on items being installed. The input schedule is used to compute
      a removal program for items being removed. API uses these schedules along with Total Aircraft
      Inventory (TAI) data provided by HQ USAF to develop modification program factors. These factors
      are then applied against the past program data input from G099 and the projected program data input
      from HQ USAF to develop tailored modification programs. These programs are inventory months
      (type 3) programs for missiles and aircraft MODS, and flying hours (type 1) for aircraft MODS. For
      any item with an application to a MOD, the MOD program is used in the calculation of the item
      installed program that is then sent to SIRS.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               453


  18.15.2. File Maintenance of MOD Applications. For the item installed or removed by the MOD,
  the ES should change the aircraft or missile application data and add the modification application
  data. When the modification is complete, the modification application is retained in the program
  selection record until the 12 quarters of past program on the modification application are shifted out of
  SIRS (see paragraph 18.16.). The ES should file maintain the aircraft or missile application with the
  correct application program select code to start the inventory or flying hour program in the same quar-
  ter the modification is completed. There are some kinds of MOD programs, such as Programmed
  Depot Maintenance (PDM), which cannot be mechanically tailored. For these cases, the ES can
  develop and file maintain either time phased application percentages to reflect the actual conditions
  during the course of the modification or use time phased programs with a program element code for
  the application. (See paragraph 18.18.).
  18.15.3. The D363, Maintenance Planning and Execution System Modification System.
     18.15.3.1. D363 operates at each ALC. The MOD managers keep the D363 data bases updated
     with the schedules, by quarter, of how many aircraft (or missiles), are input to the MOD line (or
     PDM line) and how many aircraft are output from the MOD line. Detailed input and output sched-
     ules by command are displayed on the D363.-R07.WK-XXX Approved Modification Mainte-
     nance Program product.
     18.15.3.2. The MOD managers should file maintain the K004 Indicator Code on the D363 data
     base with a "Y" for firm (approved and funded) modifications that are class IV or V MODs, so that
     the modification input and output schedules are passed to API. A class IV modification is defined
     as a modification to fix a safety problem, correct something that could cause mission failure, or
     improve reliability. A class V modification is defined as a modification to change the capability of
     the aircraft or missile. API and SIRS do not use class I and class II MODs (temporary or proposed
     MODs and MODs that change an MDS), and class III MODs which are MODs to correct some-
     thing on aircraft still in production. For the class I, II and III MODs, file maintain an "N" for the
     K004 Indicator Code to prevent D363 from passing that data to API.
     18.15.3.3. The D363 Weapon System I/D field should have the Mission, Design, Series (MDS),
     and not just the MD, file maintained. This is because both actual and projected programs are by
     MDS (such as C005B), and not by MD (such as C005).
     18.15.3.4. The D363 file to API is built once a month, on the Friday before the last Monday of
     that month. D363 shifts its quarterly data during the first month of that quarter. Therefore, the
     shifted data is input to API on the second month of that quarter, which is used then, for the final
     SIRS computation. The following are the data elements on this file:
         18.15.3.4.1. The MOD Application is 15 positions. It is used to identify the tailored MOD
         program passed to SIRS. Therefore, it will be the application file maintained on the Program
         Selection record (see paragraph 18.26.3.) by the ES for each SIRS item being installed or
         removed because of this MOD. The first 7 characters match the MDS of the aircraft or missile
         for which the modification is being accomplished. Positions 1 and 2 may be blank. The 8th
         position of the MOD application is always the Remove/Install Indicator assigned by the D363
         system. "R" represents an input schedule and "I" represents an output schedule. The last 7
         positions are the Modification Number. It is possible to have the same Modification Number
         for more than one type of aircraft.
454                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


            18.15.3.4.2. The Install Level Code is either "B" (Base) or "D" (Depot). It is for information
            only.
            18.15.3.4.3. The Modification Class is either "IV" or "V". It is for information only.
            18.15.3.4.4. The Type Equipment Code is either "A" (aircraft/drone) or "M" (missile). It is for
            information only.
            18.15.3.4.5. The Start Date consists of a 2 position year and a 2 position "end month of the
            quarter" equal to 03, 06, 09, or 12. It is supposed to be the quarter the mod started. It is for
            information only.
            18.15.3.4.6. The End Date consists of a 2 position year and a 2 position "end month of the
            quarter" equal to 03, 06, 09, or 12. It is supposed to be the quarter the MOD will be completed.
            It is for information only.
            18.15.3.4.7. The Quantity Programmed is a 6 position field for the total quality of the aircraft
            or missile scheduled to be modified when the MOD is completed.
            18.15.3.4.8. The Previous Quantity Scheduled is a 6 position field. It is the quantity of the air-
            craft or missile completed prior to the most recent past eight quarters. This quantity is used by
            API to compute the accumulated quarter inventory.
            18.15.3.4.9. The First FY and Quarter is 3 positions. It indicates the first and oldest Fiscal
            Year and Quarter on the D363 file.
            18.15.3.4.10. System Design Code is 4 positions used by the computer to sort the input data.
            18.15.3.4.11. Processing ALC. Since D363 operates at each ALC, this is the ALC the data
            came from.
            18.15.3.4.12. New Application Indicator Code is 1 position. If this code is "N", then this is a
            new MOD. If this code is "C" and the Quantity Programmed is zero, then this MOD has been
            canceled. Otherwise, when the new application code is "C" and the Quantity Programmed is
            greater than zero, then the MOD has been completed. D363 will pass the "canceled" indicators
            to API on any cycle, for one monthly cycle only. D363 will pass the "completed" indicator on
            each of the three monthly cycles during the quarter following the quarter during which that
            MOD was completed.
            18.15.3.4.13. The Quarterly MOD Schedule is 165 positions or 33 quantities of 5 positions
            each. The schedule represents by fiscal year and quarter, the quantity of aircraft or missiles
            modified in the past 8 quarters and the planned modification for 25 projected quarters. These
            quantities are used to compute the Accumulated Quarter Inventory.
      18.15.4. API Processes D363 Data.
         18.15.4.1. API matches the first 7 positions of each D363 MOD application to its SPD Table (see
         paragraph 18.20.). If no match, the entire D363 record is printed on the Unmatched Application
         Master Report (see paragraph 18.34.4.). Valid transactions are printed on the Tailored Applica-
         tion Master Report (paragraph 18.34.4.). From the D363 valid transactions, the schedules from
         the 3 ALCs' D363 files with identical MOD applications (15 positions) are added together. This
         results in an "end of quarter" schedule total for each of the 33 quarters for each unique MOD appli-
         cation. When a MOD has a canceled indicator from D363, all programmed quantities are made
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                455


       zero on the API database. When a MOD has a completion indicator from D363, a fleet application
       percent is calculated. If the MOD is an install, divide the Quantity Programmed by the TAI. If the
       MOD is a Removal, use the reciprocal of the percentage of the fleet modified. For a completed
       MOD, all projected quarters and the quantity for the most recent past quarter are zero. API only
       calculates the 7 quarters of past data.
       18.15.4.2. Accumulated Quarterly D363 Schedule. Take the previous quantity scheduled from
       D363 and accumulate each quarter, quarter by quarter (for 8 past quarters and 25 projected quar-
       ters) by adding each quarter's scheduled quantity.
               QTR-1 = The previous MODs completed + the quarter-1 schedule
               QTR-2 = accumulated qtr-1 plus qtr-2 schedule
               QTR-3 = accumulated qtr-2 plus qtr-3 schedule, etc
       18.15.4.3. Average Accumulated Quarterly MOD Schedule. Take the Accumulated Quarterly
       Schedule and develop an Averaged Quarterly MOD Schedule, for each quarter by dividing by 2.
       18.15.4.4. Develop Averaged Total Aircraft Inventory (TAI) for the MDS that matches the MOD.
       API receives the end of quarter TAI by quarter for each type of aircraft or missile undergoing a
       MOD from the HQ USAF PA file (see paragraph 18.9.3.). Average TAI for quarter 1 = End of
       Quarter TAI for quarter 1. Averaged TAI for quarter 2 = (end of quarter TAI for quarter 1 plus end
       of quarter TAI for quarter 2) divided by 2. Averaged TAI for quarter 3 = (end of quarter TAI for
       quarter 2 plus end of quarter TAI for quarter 3) divided by 2. This process is repeated for each
       quarter.
       18.15.4.5. Divide the averaged accumulated quarterly MOD schedule (computed in paragraph
       18.15.5.2) for that quarter by the averaged TAI for that quarter to get the MOD percent. This deter-
       mines the percent of the fleet that is being modified for install MODs. For removal MODs this
       percentage is subtracted from 100. The range for both the install and removal MOD percents is
       100 to zero.
       18.15.4.6. The MOD percent for that quarter is multiplied times the Primary Aircraft Inventory
       (PAI) program for that quarter. For the 8 quarters in the past, the past actual program for the air-
       craft is used. For the 38 quarters in the future, the projected peace program is used. Since D363
       only passes a schedule for 25 future quarters, the MOD percent for the 25th quarter is used to cal-
       culate quarters 26-38. For retention, the retention program times the last MOD percent is used. For
       the war year, the 4 quarters of war inventory program data are used. Once the inventory program
       has been calculated, it is multiplied by 3 and stored on the API database as program type 3. API
       uses the same procedure to develop a type 1 tailored MOD program for aircraft MODs, using the
       flying hour program for the aircraft.

18.16. Quarterly Shifting Of Programs. The projected peacetime program data is retained on the API
database until all 38 quarters and retention are zero. Then API deletes the projected program record. The
past program data is retained until all 12 quarters are zero, and then API deletes the past program record.
Even though the future data may be zero, the past program may be needed for the development of factors.
At the start of each quarter, the HQ AFMC API programmer runs a job to shift the Air Force program data
on the API database. The oldest quarter of past program is dropped and each of the 11 quarters of past pro-
gram are shifted. The first quarter of future program, immediately after the asset cutoff date of the compu-
tation, is shifted to become the most recent quarter of past program. The other 37 quarters of future
456                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


program are shifted. The 38th quarter and the retention program are not changed. The oldest quarter of
projected wartime data is dropped. Other services future programs (service code not equal to "A") are not
shifted because no usage data are reported; therefore, no past programs are needed.

18.17. Computation of the Item Installed Program. The application program begin date is the starting
point for computing the item installed program from the application(s) program identified by the applica-
tion (or SPD) and the application's program select code. The installed program is computed by multiply-
ing the quarterly program for the application by the appropriate time phased QPA and application percent.
The QPA is the number of that item installed on the application. The application percent is the ratio of the
application inventory that has the item installed to the total application inventory. The installed program
is computed quarter by quarter, for a maximum of 12 past quarters, 38 projected quarters and retention,
and 4 quarters of war . If the program begin date is at least 3 years old, then all the past and future appli-
cation programs will be used. If the program begin date is within the past 3 years or in the future, only the
program from that date forward will be used. The results are initially rounded to the nearest whole num-
ber. For items with more than one application, the installed programs are summarized by program type
(OIM, PDM, engine overhaul, and NHA MISTR) to get the item installed program(s). Multiple item
installed programs are calculated when an item applies to more than one type of program.

18.18. Time Phased Program Data. Time phasing program data or tailoring program data can be done
manually to phase in or phase out weapon system or end item programs, accommodate modifications,
configuration changes, etc., for use in the calculation of requirements in SIRS. Time phasing of programs
may be accomplished in two ways.
      18.18.1. The first method is by time phasing the application records with multiple program begin
      dates, quantities per application, and application percents. The program begin date will indicate at
      what time a change in the QPA and/or application percent becomes effective. Therefore, the capability
      exists to change item program quarter by quarter for each application through the span of the compu-
      tation.
      18.18.2. The second method is to have a tailored application program constructed manually and file
      maintained using a PEC for the application. A manually developed tailored program should not be
      used for an item affected by a modification when that modification's tailored programs are developed
      by D363 and API. (See paragraph 18.15.). The ES should ensure that the program data for the item
      are not duplicated when a PEC tailored program is used. The ES determines if time phased application
      records are to be used in addition to the tailored program. As a modification program progresses, the
      ES ensures that the active time phased application records are correct and support the item during the
      transition period as well as after the modification program is completed.

18.19. API File Maintenance of Programs.
      18.19.1. File Maintenance Of Application Program Data. Can only be done by certain users at
      each ALC and at HQ AFMC. Once the program data is established, only the “owner” can then update
      the data. Data received from G099 and HQ USAF have an “N” ownership code and can only be
      changed by HQ AFMC. An application’s programs can be on 3 different file maintenance screens.
      From the File Maintenance Main Menu, select Programs. On the Programs menu (Figure 18.7.),
      select FFWD for war projected programs, FPAP for past actual programs or FPRP for projected peace
      programs. On the selected program data screen, use the TAB key or the mouse in GUI, to enter data in
      the following fields.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             457


      18.19.1.1. Func. Enter an “A” for Add, “C” for Change “D” for Delete or “V” for View.
      18.19.1.2. Pgms Cal Yr/Qtr. Change this data and display data for an earlier year using FUNC
      equal to “V”. Historical data cannot be file maintained. API stores the current quarter's data and
      the data from the end of the past 7 quarters as historical data. Valid QTR dates are 03, 06, 09 and
      12. For example, if the current PGMS CAL YR/QTR is 199912, the user can only view the data
      back to 199803.

Figure 18.7. File Maintenance PRGM Programs Selection Menu.




      18.19.1.3. SPD. Must by a valid application already on the Standard Program Designator table.
      This must be typed in the exact format. (See paragraph 18.26.2.)
      18.19.1.4. Program Type. Must be 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, “E”, “S”, or “T”. Type 1 = flying hours or
      operating hours; type 3 = primary averaged inventory or equipment months; type E = primary
      Unaveraged inventory; type S= total Unaveraged inventory; type T = total averaged inventory or
      TAI; type 4 = programmed depot maintenance; type 5 = sorties; type 6 = engine overhaul; type 7
      = drone recoveries; and type 8 = ammunition expenditures. Type 2 is no longer used. Type 9 is not
      available except for equipment items with ERRC = “S” or “U”. When program type E exists, the
      user must file maintain type E and not type 3, and APl will calculate the type 3 program. When
      program type "S" exists, the user must file maintain type S and not type T, and API will calculate
458                                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      the type T program. Any file maintenance of program type 1 for engines (SPD type "E"), should
      be done after the engine computation jobs are processed by API (see paragraph 18.11.).
      18.19.1.5. Service Code. Must be “A”, “B”, “C”, “D”, “G”, “M” or “X”. . Type A = Air Force;
      type B = Army; type C = Navy; type D = Marines; type G = Coast Guard; type M = Foreign Mil-
      itary Sales and type X = other government agencies. (If service code is M, only type program code
      6 is valid.)
      18.19.1.6. Command Code. This is a 3 position code. It can only be used with SPD Type “A” and
      program types 1, 3, 5 and E and only for past actual programs and projected peacetime programs.
      When command level data is updated, API automatically calculates the correct program data for
      the service level.

Figure 18.8. File Maintenance FPAP Past Actual Program Screen.




      18.19.1.7. Ownership Code. Must be “F”, “G”, “H”, “L”, “N” or “P”. This 1 position code identi-
      fies the program source and the site primarily responsible for file maintenance. Anybody with
      access to API can view the data. Only the owner of the associated data or the HQ AFMC API OPR
      can then update this data. Only the owner of the data and the HQ AFMC API OPR can change the
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                459


     ownership code. N = HQ AFMC. H = Oklahoma City ALC. G = Ogden ALC. L = Warner Robins
     ALC. P = San Antonio Texas. F is no longer used.
     18.19.1.8. Assignment Code is always blank.
     18.19.1.9. Press the ENTER key. For Function Code “A”, once the screen is displayed you can
     either file maintain the values or press ENTER and the program fields will all contain zeroes. If
     you file maintain a value it must be numeric. Straightlining occurs after the last entry until the next
     entry. If data is to be added at the Service Code, the Command Code on the screen must be blank
     and no program can exist at the Command level, for that application, service code and program
     type. For function code DELETE, the screen will display the existing data with the message DO
     YOU WANT TO DELETE THE DATA (Y/N)? Type Y on the CMD line and the message
     UPDATE SUCCESSFUL will appear. Type N on the CMD line and the screen will be displayed
     again without the message.
     18.19.1.10. Possible Messages.
     " CAN’T FM SVC LVL RCD, CMD LVL RCD EXISTS". Type a valid command code and press
     ENTER. Valid command codes for the selected data, are displayed near the bottom of the screen.
     Aircraft (SPD Type “A”) are usually the only applications that have command level data.
     " DATA NOT ENTERED". Cursor will be pointing to field that is missing data. Type valid data in
     that field and press ENTER.
     " NO DATA MEETS THE SELECTION CRITERIA". There is no program data on the database
     for the selected SPD and program type.
     "SPD DOES NOT EXIST". The value typed in the SPD field is not on the SPD table. Either the
     value is typed incorrectly, or the SPD needs to be added to the SPD table (see paragraph 18.21.).
460                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 18.9. File Maintenance FPRP Projected Program Screen.




      18.19.2. The Past Actual Program screen (Figure 18.8.) can display 13 quarters of data. API will
      calculate the type 1 programs for engines (SPD Type “E”) whenever the HQ AFMC API OPR selects
      the “Run Past Engine Computation” (see Figure 18.16.). This computation is usually run right before
      the API snapshot.
         18.19.2.1. Under “Monthly Data” is the current quarter and the most recent past quarter. The date
         by each monthly program is the calendar year and calendar month. The 3 months of the current
         quarter rarely contain data. Therefore, this screen usually displays the message "Incomplete Past
         Program Data", a message the user can ignore. Figure 18.8. shows an asset cutoff date of 2001/09,
         and the current quarter of December, November and October. Do not file maintain data into any
         month of the current quarter, as it will be overlaid during the quarterly shifting of program data
         (see paragraph 18.16.). Any data in the current quarter is not sent to SIRS. Data can be file main-
         tained by month into the 3 months of the most recent past quarter. Do not file maintain data into
         any month of the most recent past quarter until the data from G099 has been received In Figure
         18.8., the most recent past quarter are months September, August and July.
         18.19.2.2. Under “Quarterly Data” are the past 11 quarters that are file maintained by quarter. The
         date by each quarterly program is the calendar year and last calendar month of that quarter.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                461


Figure 18.10. File Maintenance FFWD Projected Wartime Program Screen.




   18.19.3. The Projected Peacetime Program screen (Figure 18.9.) Displays 9 ½ Years of Pro-
   grams. The date by each quarterly program is the calendar year and the last calendar month of that
   quarter. RET is the retention quantity. When data is stored by the 3 position Command Code, the user
   cannot file maintain data at the service level, except for retention. Assignment Code is always blank.
   The Carryover Indicator can be “P” or "E" or blank. “P” means the program data will be replaced by
   data from the HQ USAF PA file (see paragraph 18.9.3.) or deleted if not replaced. A blank means
   that API will keep this data until file maintained by the owner of the data. "E" means the program data
   will be replaced by data from D200C twice a year (see paragraph 18.13.). For example, to file main-
   tain authorized overfly hours for an aircraft, add the program data using a unique command code, and
   file maintain the carryover indicator as "P". File maintaining a carryover indicator of blank, will cause
   SIRS to make the carryover indicator blank on the service level record and then SIRS will not replace
   any of the existing command records for that aircraft with the new records from the next PA file.
   When a new PA file is processed, if the overfly hours are still valid, those hours will have to be added
   again. A second example, is an unclassified drone whose hours are not input from the PA file. Add the
   drone's hours at either the service level or command level with a carryover indicator of blank. To file
   maintain inventory, use program type “E” and API will calculate the type 3 program . To file maintain
   total aircraft inventory, use type “S” and API will calculate the type T program. Program type 3 and T
   can be maintained directly when the unaveraged program quantities (types E and S) do not exist. Pro-
   gram type 9 can only be file maintained for equipment items (ERRC = “S” or “U”). API will calculate
462                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      the type 1 programs for engines (SPD Type “E”) whenever the HQ AFMC API OPR selects the “Run
      Future Engine Computation”. This computation is run after input of the HQ USAF PA file, and right
      before the API snapshot.
      18.19.4. The Projected Wartime Program Screen (Figure 18.10.) Displays 5 Years By Month.
      The date by each monthly program is the calendar year and the calendar month. SIRS only uses the
      data for the “war year” which is the first year of the Extended Year or the year after the Budget Year.
      The only wartime data usually available is type 1 for some aircraft and type 4 for some aircraft and
      type 6 for some engines. (See paragraph 21.2.2.). Any program type data can be file maintained
      except S and T. API will calculate the type 1 programs for engines (SPD Type “E”) whenever the HQ
      AFMC API OPR selects the “Run Future Engine Computation”.

Figure 18.11. File Maintenance SPD Standard Program Designator Screen.




18.20. API File Maintenance Of Standard Program Designators (SPD). From the File Maintenance
Main Menu, select Programs. On the File Maintenance Programs menu (Figure 18.7.), select SPD to get
the File Maintenance Standard Program Designator screen (Figure 18.11.). The allowed functions are
“A” for Add, “C” for Change, “D” for Delete or “V” for View. For SPD type “P”, there must be a “P” for
Program Element Code, entered in position 13. Anybody can view the API Standard Program Designator
and its associated data. Only the owner of the data or the HQ AFMC API OPR can delete the SPD, or
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                   463


change the associated data elements. To add a new SPD, type the SPD using the correct format (see Table
18.1.) and the correct SPD Type and press ENTER. The screen will reappear displaying that SPD and will
then allow the entering of the rest of the data. When all data is entered, press ENTER. The screen will
reappear displaying the updated data along with the message “Update Complete”. For adds, the SPD can-
not already be on the SPD table, and must be consistent with the SPD Type Code. For changes, type “C”
in the FUNC field type, the application in the SPD field, and press ENTER. The existing descriptive data
will be displayed. Type over the existing data with the new values and press ENTER. For deletes, type
"D" in the FUNC field and type the application in the SPD field, and press ENTER. The message “DO
YOU WANT TO DELETE (Y/N) ? will appear. Enter a Y on the CMD line and press ENTER. If the
screen displays the message "Program data exists", then the SPD still has program data on the current
quarters database or on the historical database, and therefore the SPD cannot be deleted.

18.21. Standard Program Designator Types. The application is referred to in API as the Standard Pro-
gram Designator (SPD). The application is a unique combination of 15 letters, spaces and numbers
assigned to identity a specific major end item or next higher assembly. On screens that display a 25 posi-
tion SPD, positions 16-25 are always blank. The SPD field never contains any special characters. The
application must be typed on the screen exactly, including leading spaces, in order to access application
and program data in API. An application may be a standard Mission Design Series (MDS) for an aircraft,
missile or drone; a standard Type Model Series (TMS) for an engine; a trainer designator; a Program Ele-
ment Code (PEC); a stock number, or a modification designator (MOD). Each application must be estab-
lished on the API database along with the SPD Type. Applications for SPD Types “C” (Communication/
Electronic/Meteorological or CEM) and “G” (Gun) and "L" (Communication/Electronic Network) and
“V” (Support Equipment Vehicle) are entered under SPD Type “P” for Program Element Codes. That
allows the programs for these applications to be file maintained using the PEC. SPD Type “X” is no
longer used since Auxiliary Power Units are stock listed. This one position SPD Type Code is defined as
follows.
   18.21.1. Aircraft. SPD Type = “A”.
        Format: blank or alpha in positions 1-2, alpha in position 3 (cannot have "Q" in positions 1 or 2
and cannot have "M" in position 3), numeric characters in positions 4-6, alpha or blank in position 7,
blank in positions 8-12, alphas or blanks in 13-15. If alphas in positions 13-15, the aircraft is used by other
services or for FMS only and will probably have no programs.
       Program types: 1 (flying hours), 3, E, S, T (inventory), 4 (PDM), 5 (number of sorties).
   18.21.2. Engines and Engine Modules. SPD Type = “D” (Engine Modules) and “E” (Engines).
        Format: alpha or blank in positions 1-3, (cannot have "Q" in positions 1 or 2 and cannot have "M"
in position 3), numeric characters in positions 4-7, alpha, numeric or blanks in positions 8-10, alphas or
blanks in positions 11-12, alphas or blanks in positions 13-15. If alphas in positions 13-15, the aircraft the
engine is installed on is used by other services or for FMS only and will probably have no programs.
       Program types: 1 (operating hours), and 6 (engine overhaul).
   18.21.3. Unclassified Missiles and Re-entry Vehicles. SPD Type = “M”.
        Format: blank or alpha in positions 1-2, cannot have "Q" in positions 1 or 2, must have "M" in
position 3), numeric characters in positions 4-6, alpha or blank in position 7, blank in positions 8-12,
alphas or blanks in 13-15 (alphas mean no program for this application).
464                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         Program types: 3, E, S, T (inventory), 4 (PDM), 7 (number of recoveries).
      18.21.4. Program Element Code (PEC). SPD Type = “P”.
       Format: numeric characters in positions 1-4, numeric or blank in position 5, blanks in positions
6-12, “P” in position 13, blanks in positions 14-15.
         Program types: any program type.
        Process. The PEC is a four or five-digit number assigned to identify a specific end item when one
of the SPD types listed above cannot be used. Program Element Codes are added and deleted on the API
Standard Program Designator table by the HQ AFMC API OPR. Programs for those PECs are developed
and file maintained in API at ALC level. The HQ AFMC API OPR assigns ranges of the four and five
position numeric PECs to each ALC (listed below). The list of PECs actually being used in API, is kept
on a document and updated by the HQ AFMC API OPR from information provided by the ALC people
requesting the PECs. This list can be viewed on the HQ AFMC/A4Y D200A and D200F home pages
under "PEC".


PEC                              ALC
1000 through 1599                OO-ALC
1600 through 1699                WR-ALC
1700 through 1999                OO-ALC
2000 through 2099                WR-ALC
21000 through 23999              OO-ALC
2200 through 2499                OO-ALC
25000 through 26999              OO-ALC
2603 and 2622                    OO-ALC
27000 through 29999              OO-ALC
30000 through 34100              CPSG at San Antonio
50000 through 59999              WR-ALC
6500 through 6599                OC-ALC
7300 through 7399                OO-ALC
800000 through 800999            HQ AFMC

         18.21.4.1. The four position numeric PECs are assigned by blocks of numbers to specify catego-
         ries of equipment and to an ALC which is prime for that block of numbers. The prime ALC
         assigns the number to a specific application, requests that the HQ AFMC API OPR input the PEC,
         and develops the past and future programs for the application. These four-position numeric PECs
         and their programs are authorized for use across all the ALCs.
         18.21.4.2. The five-position numeric PECs are assigned by blocks of numbers to an ALC which
         is prime for that block of numbers. No specific categories of equipment are identified by the ALC
         OPR. The prime ALC assigns the number to a specific application, requests that the HQ AFMC
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                465


       API OPR input the PEC, and develops past and future programs for the application. These five
       position PECs and their programs are authorized for use only by the prime ALC.
       18.21.4.3. The six-position numeric PECs are reserved for HQ AFMC use. They are used for
       items in the Contractor Supported Weapon System (CSWS), formerly Reformed Supply Support
       Program (RSSP). They are assigned by the HQ AFMC API OPR.
   18.21.5. Stock Number. SPD type = “Q”.
        Format: numeric characters in positions 1-4, alpha or numeric characters in positions 5-7,
numeric characters in positions 8-12, alpha or numeric in position 13, blank or alpha in positions 14-15.
In API, the stock number is referred to by the 9 position NIIN which is the stock number minus the first 4
positions and the last 2 positions.
        Program types: Usually type 3 (inventory) for NHA with ERRC S or U and type 9 (NHA
MISTR) for NHA with ERRC C, T, S, U. If the stock number is an end item with no higher assembly, it
could have any program type.
         Process. The national stock numbers are automatically established and deleted on the API Stan-
dard Program Designator Table from the data D200C equipment item system (paragraph 18.13.). If the
SIRS item needs the program from the stock number application in order to compute requirements, then
the equipment specialist should file maintain the application Program Select Code (PSC) accordingly (see
paragraph 18.27.). For example, if the SIRS item is used on a D200C equipment item, the PSC should be
file maintained as 30 to pick up the equipment months (type 3) program that is passed from D200C to
API. If the SIRS item needs the NHA's MISTR (type 9) program, file maintain the application's PSC as 09
to pick up the MISTR program computed each cycle by SIRS. If there is no program needed to compute
requirements for the item, or no program is available, the PSC for the stock number application should be
reference (= 00). If the stock number that is the application has a "live" PSC (not equal to 00), the stock
number should be listed in D043.
   18.21.6. Drones. SPD Type = “R”.
         Format: must have "Q" in positions 1 or 2, if position 2 is "Q" then position 1 can be blank, alpha
in position 3 (cannot have "M" in position 3), numeric characters in positions 4-6, alpha or blank in posi-
tion 7, blank in positions 8-12, alphas or blanks in 13-15 (but alphas mean no program for this applica-
tion).
        Program types: 1 (operating hours), 3, E, S, T (inventory), 4 (PDM), 5 (sorties), 7 (number of
recoveries).
   18.21.7. Trainers. SPD Type = “T”.
        Format: numeric in position 1, alphas in positions 2-3, alpha or numeric in position 4, numeric
characters in positions 5-6, alpha or blank in positions 7, blanks in positions 8-15. A trainer designator
must have an entry in positions 1 through 6. The first position identifies the type of equipment:
           1 = air-crew training equipment.
           2 = missile training equipment.
           3 = navigation/electronic training equipment.
           4 = mobile training sets and resident training equipment.
           9 = miscellaneous training equipment.
466                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


          Program types: 1 (operating hours), 3 (inventory), 4 (PDM).
      18.21.8. Modification Designator (MOD). SPD Type “Z”.
        Format: aircraft or missile MDS in positions 1-7, "I" for install or "R" for removal in position 8,
the D363 modification number in positions 9-15, alpha or numeric in positions 9-13, alpha or blank in
positions 14-15.
          Program types: 1 (operating hours), 3 (inventory).
       Process. The MOD designators are automatically added and deleted from the API Standard Pro-
gram Designator Table. (See paragraph 18.15.).

18.22. SPD Subtype. Can only be blank, “F” or “R”. “F” is for FMS applications. “R” is for Reclamation
applications.

18.23. System Essentiality Code. The System Essentiality Code (SEC) is a one position numeric field.
The SEC is the first position of the 3 position applications Mission Item Essentiality Code (MIEC). (See
paragraph 18.28.). The purpose of the one position SEC is to rank how essential the application is, com-
pared to other applications, with 1 the most essential. Currently, applications are not ranked by HQ USAF.
For use in API, the SEC is defined as follows: SEC = 1 for highly critical systems (FAD 1), 2 for strategic
systems, and 3 for forward deployed tactical systems. SEC 1, 2 and 3 are used for applications that may
have a war as well as a peacetime operating program. SEC = 4 is for new applications and for applications
that cannot be related to an aircraft. .SEC = 5 for applications that only have a peacetime operating pro-
gram. SEC = 6 for applications being phased out of the Air Force inventory and applications being held
for reclamation projects. SEC = 7 for FMS only applications. The SEC is file maintained on the API SPD
table by the “owner” of the application. Essentiality codes are used to allocate resources, by weapon sys-
tem importance, at the national stock number level. The essentiality criteria are used to justify and allocate
funds, help in the scheduling of items for repair and identify those items that are to be included in the war
readiness material stocks.

18.24. Freeze/Deferred Disposal Code.
      18.24.1. The Freeze Code in API can only be blank, “B”, “C” or “P”. This is the application level
      freeze code. A code of blank means that there is no freeze, and that any excess inventory can be dis-
      posed of. Freeze code B is a directed freeze for common and peculiar depot assets as well as AF base
      reported excesses. Freeze code P is a directed freeze for peculiar depot assets. Freeze code C is a
      directed freeze for common (more than one weapon system) depot assets.
      18.24.2. The application level freeze code should be blank. Before file maintaining this code as a "B",
      "C" or "P", the user must follow the policy on retention of assets and assigning an application level
      Deferred Disposal Code in AFMAN 23-110, Volume III, Part One Chapter 9, Section D.
      18.24.3. From the freeze codes on the applications, API determines the freeze code for the item and
      passes it to SIRS where it is displayed as the Deferred Disposal Code on the SIRS BMD screen (see
      paragraph 14.3.2.). If an item has only one application, then the item's freeze code will be the same
      as the freeze code of the application. On an item with more than one application: API determines what
      the disposal deferred code will be for the item as follows:
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              467



Application                             Item
Freeze Code                    Disposal Deferred Code
All blanks                             blanks
All Bs                                    B
One or more Cs                            C
Ps and blanks                           blank
B with any other value(s)                 C

18.25. Other Data On the SPD Screen.
   18.25.1. The ALC or Ownership Code or AF Manager Code. Must be “F”, “G”, “H”, “L”, “N” or “P”.
   This one position code identifies the program source and the site primarily responsible for file main-
   tenance. Anybody with access to API can view the data. Only the owner of the associated data or the
   HQ AFMC API OPR can then update this data. Only the owner of the data and the HQ AFMC API
   OPR can change the ownership code.
   N = HQ AFMC. H = Oklahoma City ALC. G = Ogden ALC. L = Warner Robins ALC.
   P = San Antonio Texas. F is no longer used.
   18.25.2. Division Designator System Manager Code. This one position field can be any combination
   of letters and/or numbers or blank. This should be the valid division designator of the person assigned
   to manage this application.
   18.25.3. System Program Manager Code. This two position field can be any combination of letters
   and/or numbers or blanks. This should be the valid system manager code of the person assigned to
   manage this application.
   18.25.4. Standard Program Designator Equipment Specialist Code. This two position field can be any
   combination of letters and/or numbers or blanks. This should be the valid equipment specialist code of
   the person assigned to manage this application.
   18.25.5. Standard Program Designator Name. Can be blank or alphanumeric.

18.26. API File Maintenance Of Application Data.
   18.26.1. On the File Maintenance Main Menu (Figure 2.17.). Select AI "Applications/Inden-
   tures". On the AI menu, select IND "Indentures" to add a new application, or PS "Program Selection"
   to add or change the associated data for the application. The application or program selection data
   consists of the application (paragraph 18.21.), program select code (paragraph 18.27.), MIEC
   (paragraph 18.28.), program development code (paragraph 18.29.), program begin date (para-
   graph 18.30.), application percent (paragraph 18.31.), and QPA (paragraph 18.31.). The overhaul
   replacement percent (OVRD REPL %) is also on the Program Selection screen and should always be
   zero, as it is not used. All the applications for each item and this associated data are used by API to
   compute the item installed programs. This data on the PS screen is also used by API to compute the
   engine operating hours by using the aircraft (SPD) the engine is installed on (TMS), the program
468                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      begin date, the percent of the fleet the engine is installed on (the application percent) and the number
      of engines per aircraft (QPA).
      18.26.2. Format Of the Application. When entering an application in the SPD/NIIN/TMS fields,
      follow the exact format of the application including spaces. Positions 16-25 are always blank.
         18.26.2.1. For an Aircraft, drone, missile or engine designator or MOD, enter the alpha prefix in
         positions 1-3. (Leave position 1 blank for a double alpha prefix or 1 and 2 blank for a single alpha
         prefix) and enter the remainder of the designation in succeeding positions. The first numeric posi-
         tion of this type of application always goes in position 4. Must have entries in position 3-7. The 15
         position modification application consists of three components. Positions 1-7 contain the standard
         aircraft or missile Mission Design Series (MDS) application. Position 8 contains an "I" for an
         install program, or an "R" for a removal program. Positions 9-15 contain the mod number as
         recorded in D363. (See paragraph 18.21.).
         18.26.2.2. For a Trainer designator, PEC, or stock number, always enter the first numeric position
         of this type of application in position 1. A trainer designator must have an entry in positions 1-6.
         The first four positions of a PEC must be numeric characters. A PEC can have a numeric in posi-
         tion 5. A PEC must also have a “P” in position 13. For a stock number, only enter the 9 position
         NIIN starting in position 1. (See paragraph 18.21.).
      18.26.3. Add A New Application. On the Indentures screen (Figure 18.12.) select "A" for function.
      Type the NHA on the first line by NIIN or STD DES or P/N. In GUI, click on the appropriate button,
      and API will display a box; then type the NHA in the box and click on OK. Next, type the component
      using the same procedures. An example is a new engine (component) added to an aircraft (NHA).
      Press ENTER. API should display a screen like Figure 18.12. The user must type the QPA, SUBS
      ESSN CD (subsystem essentiality code), ITEMESSN CD (item essentiality code), PRGM SEL CD
      (program select code) and the oldest PRGM BEGIN DATE (program begin date). Leave the rest of the
      fields blank. Press ENTER. If the screen displays the correct information, select DONE, and go to the
      PS Program Select screen (Figure 18.13.). On the PS screen, type the component and SPD (NHA).
      Press ENTER. API should display the screen, with the same program select data that was entered on
      the Indentures screen. Enter the oldest program being date in the first line under TM PHAS DT, along
      with the corresponding application percent (OVRD APPL %) and QPA (OVRD QPAPPL). The over-
      haul replacement percent (OVRD REPL %) is always zero, as it is not used. If the application is
      time-phased, enter all the program begin dates and associated application percents and QPAs. Press
      ENTER.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            469


Figure 18.12. - File Maintenance IND Indentures Screen.




   18.26.4. Add a Program Begin Date for an Application (SPD). On the PS screen (Figure 18.13.),
   type the NIIN or TMS on the top line and press ENTER. If the correct SPD is not displayed on the sec-
   ond line (SELECT SPD), either type it and press ENTER, or use the Forward command to page
   through the records. When the PS record is displayed with the correct Component NIIN/TMS and
   SPD, type a "B" under function on a line listing the time phased program begin dates (TM PHAS DT),
   and press ENTER. API will display the screen with an "Add" line, as shown inFigure 18.13. Enter the
   new program begin date, along with the application percent (OVRD APPL %) and QPA (OVRD
   QPAPPL). The overhaul replacement percent (OVRD REPL %) is always zero. Press ENTER. The
   user cannot enter a time phased program begin date older than the application program begin date
   (PGM BEG DT).
   18.26.5. Change an Application Percent and/or QPA. On the PS screen (Figure 18.13.), type "C"
   under function (FUNC) on the line to be changed. Overtype the existing values with the new values
   and press ENTER. Time phased program begin dates (TM PHAS DT) can only be added and deleted,
   not changed.
   18.26.6. Delete. On the PS screen (Figure 18.13.), the "D" for delete can be entered on any function
   line (FUNC). If entered on a SPD/NAME line, it will delete that application for the item, along with
470                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      all program begin dates and associated data. If entered on a time phased date line, it will only delete
      that time phased date and it associated application percent and QPA. Message “DO YOU WANT TO
      DELETE (Y/N) ? will appear. Enter a "Y" on the CMD line and press ENTER, and API will return the
      message “UPDATE COMPLETE”.
      18.26.7. Error messages.
          - “RECORD DOES NOT EXIST” means that the SPD is not on the SPD table.
          - “SELECTION PAST END OF LIST” means the update will not work.
        - "DEPOT LEVEL MAINTENANCE INVALID" means that the user entered a "9" in the second
position of the PSC and the application is not a support equipment NIIN.

Figure 18.13. - File Maintenance PS Program Selection Screen.




18.27. Application Program Select Code.
      18.27.1. The application PSC is a two position code that determines the type(s) of item program(s) to
      be developed. The first position can be 0 (no OIM program), 1 (flying hours or operating hours), 3
      (primary averaged inventory or equipment months); 5 (sorties), 7 (drone recoveries); or 8 (ammuni-
      tion expenditures). The second position can be 4 (programmed depot maintenance), 6 (engine over-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 471


   haul), or 9 (NHA MISTR). API will only allow a type 9 program to be file maintained for ERRC =
   “S” or “U” NSNs—the type 9 program cannot be file maintained on ERRC “C” and “T” NSNs in
   D200F.
   18.27.2. On the API PS screen (Figure 18.13.), the ES can only file maintain one type of OIM pro-
   gram and one type of DLM program per application. For an item with more than one application, the
   OIM position must be the same for all applications, or equal to zero. Therefore, the ES should look at
   all applications and their OIM programs and decide what is the predominant OIM program for the
   item.
       18.27.2.1. For example, SIRS item "A" is used on an aircraft and the aircraft has type 1 and type
       3 programs. Item "A" is also used on a piece of equipment, but the equipment only has a type 3
       program. The ES has to decide to either use the type 3 programs for both applications (the aircraft
       and the piece of equipment), or use the type 1 program for the aircraft only and make the applica-
       tion PSC for the equipment equal to zero. API will allow file maintenance of type 9 programs for
       ERRCS N, P, C, T, S, or U. Normally the highest OIM program will be selected for application
       program select code input, and normally that is the type 1 flying hour program.
       18.27.2.2. For example, item "B" can be pulled (either by itself or embedded as part of the NHA)
       from the F016C (when it is located outside the engine) at the field level. Item "B" can be repaired
       at the OIM facility or sent back to the depot for repair. Item "B" is part of NHA "G" and the NHA
       "G" is never repaired by itself at the depot. (NHA "G" might be coded as an insurance or NSO
       item). The F016C is also going through a PDM line. Item "B" is removed, repaired, and reinstalled
       (job routed) or is removed and replaced (non-job routed) during the PDM process. The application
       PSC for the F016C should be 1X. This is because the F016C has the potential for generating a
       demand for item "B" during the OIM process at a base and also during the PDM repair line at the
       depot. The application PSC for NHA "G" should be 00. This is because this NHA NSN itself
       never has the potential for generating a demand for the SIRS item. Since the NHA "G" does not
       generate any OIM program and it never generates any DLM program.
       18.27.2.3. For example, item "C" (embedded in NHA "K") has the potential to be removed from
       the F016D at the field level. When the NHA "K" is pulled, it is not repaired at the field, but is sent
       back to the depot and repaired there only. The PSC for NHA "K" is 0X. This is because the NHA
       'K" has the potential for generating a demand when the NHA "K" is repaired at the depot. The
       application PSC for F016D should be 00. This is because the F016D never has the potential for
       generating a demand for item "C". (When the item "C" is taken off in the field, it is embedded in
       the NHA "K" and this NHA "K" is not repaired, thus allowing for the removal of item "C", until it
       is at the depot).

18.28. Application Mission Item Essentiality Code. File maintained on the API PS screen under APP
MIEC. Changes to the second and/or third positions can be made by over typing the appropriate posi-
tion(s). The only use of the MIEC is in SIRS, where the item must have a MIEC with an "A", "B" or "C"
in the second position and a "E" or "F" in the third position, before SIRS will perform an OWRM compu-
tation for the item.
   18.28.1. The first position of the MIEC is derived from the SEC for the application on the SPD table.
   18.28.2. The second position of the MIEC is the subsystem or equipment essentiality code (SUBSEC)
   for aircraft and missile components, communication electronic equipment and support equipment.
472                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      The ES file maintains this position for the item. The valid codes are A, B, C, D and M. For applica-
      tions with a future operating program, the ES file maintains the most correct code based upon knowl-
      edge of the subsystem.
      SUBSEC = A is Not Mission Capable - Lack of subsystem prevents the system from doing any war-
      time or peacetime mission. Always used for propulsion engines.
      SUBSEC = B is Not Wartime Capable - Lack of subsystem impairs the Mission Capable performance
      of wartime and assigned missions.
      SUBSEC = C is Not Fully Capable - Lack of subsystem impairs the Mission Capable performance of
      wartime and assigned missions, but the system can perform at least one assigned mission.
      SUBSEC = D is Not Peacetime or Training Capable - Lack of subsystem prevents the system from
      performing its peacetime/training missions. Used for applications that have no future operating pro-
      gram, applications that have only a retention program, applications that have only a past program, and
      applications that have only a retention program and past program.
      SUBSEC = M is for FMS only and used only when the first position of the MIEC is 7.
      18.28.3. The third position of the MIEC is the item essentiality code or the item's importance to the
      subsystem. The ES file maintains this position for the item. The valid codes are E, F, G or M. E = crit-
      ical for operation. F = impairs operation. G = not critical for operation. M = FMS and can only be used
      with SEC 7 and SUBSEC M.

18.29. Application Program Development Code. The PDC should be left blank. The PDC is file main-
tain on the PS screen. To phase in or phase out an application, the preferred method is to use phased appli-
cation data (see paragraph 18.18.). However, the capability exists to use only future programs, by file
maintaining "F" for the PDC. To use only past programs, the ES file maintains "P" for the PDC.

18.30. Application Program Begin Date.
      18.30.1. When the application is first established for the item, the program begin date (PBD) is file
      maintained on the PS screen next to PGM BEG DT (Figure 18.13.). Format is YYYY and QQ. This
      is the calendar year and the month the quarter ends in. The quarter can only be 03, 06, 09 or 12. The
      program begin date describes "when" an item became or is to become operational on a given applica-
      tion. It does not indicate when the application became operational. The PBD is required by API in
      order to determine when to pick up usage and past program by application for constructing a base
      period and computing factors. Also, the PBD could be projected into the future and would be used to
      determine when to pick up future program by application.
      18.30.2. The ES must file maintain at least one PBD along with a QPA and application percent. Even
      if the application PSC is 00, and/or the application percent is zero, the PBD cannot be file maintained
      as 0000 or left blank.
      18.30.3. If all the application program begin dates are three or more years in the past, all the applica-
      tion's program(s) will be used for the item's installed program(s). If the oldest program begin date for
      an application is later than the asset cutoff date, there will be no past program developed for this appli-
      cation. If the oldest application program begin date does not fall anywhere within the computation
      time-span, there will be no program developed for this application.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              473


18.31. Quantity Per Application and Application Percent.
   18.31.1. The Quantity Per Application (QPA) in API is the maximum quantity of the item that is
   installed on the application. The QPA is not the quantity per assembly. The best source of the QPA is
   the appropriate Technical Order for the application, the API Component Item Review list and histori-
   cal records maintained by the ES. The Application Percent is the percentage of the past and future pro-
   grams of the application that SIRS will use to compute the items requirements.
   18.31.2. The QPAs and application percents are associated with the time phased program begin date.
   API will accept a QPA from 0 to 99999 but the QPA of zero should not be used. API will accept an
   application percent from 000 to 100. The zero states that the item does not appear in any of the appli-
   cations at that time. The 100 states that the maximum number of items appear on all applications at
   that time. When the application PSC is 00, none of the QPAs and application percents are used in the
   SIRS processing.
   18.31.3. When time phasing applications, the QPA generally remains the same. The exception will be
   if a modification is performed that will result in an increase or decrease of the QPA.
   18.31.4. The application percent would be less than 100% for a limited application, where an item is
   installed on only a percent of all the end items. Example: One fuel pump "D" is installed on only 40%
   of the C005As. The ES should file maintain a QPA of 1 for the C005A application with an application
   percent of 0.40.
   18.31.5. API limits one QPA per application for any quarter. In cases where the QPA varies for the
   same application, the ES develops a weighted average QPA, which is not input to API but is used to
   develop a less than 100 percent application percent to input along with the largest QPA.
      18.31.5.1. Example #1. The speed drive is the SIRS item and the application is the KC135R. 40%
      of the KC135Rs have 3 speed drives per aircraft and 60% of the KC135Rs have 4 speed drives per
      aircraft. 0.40 times 3 = 1.2. 0.60 times 4 = 2.4. 1.2 + 2.4 = 3.6 which is the weighted QPA. Then
      3.6 divided by the largest QPA of 4 = 90%. For the speed drive, the ES file maintains a QPA of 4
      with a 0.90 application percent for the KC135R.
      18.31.5.2. Example #2. SIRS item "F" has a QPA of 1 to a pump (the next higher assembly) when
      the pump is installed on the B052H. Item "F" has a QPA of 2 to the same pump when that pump is
      installed on the F016C. The program for the B052H is 200 hours per quarter. The program for the
      F016C is 300 hours per quarter. Multiply the QPA of 1 times the B052H program (1 times 200) =
      200. Multiply the QPA of 2 times the F016C program (2 times 300) = 600. 200 plus 600 = 800.
      Then, add the 2 programs together for the quarter (200 plus 300) = 500 and multiply times the
      highest QPA of 2 to get 1000. 800 divided by 1000 = 0.80. For SIRS item "F", the ES should file
      maintain a QPA of 2 with an application percent of 0.80 for the pump (NHA NSN) application
      along with an application program select code of 09. The pump which is identified by an NSN,
      and has an ERRC = "T", would have an application to the B052H and an application to the F016C.
      Both of these applications would have an application program select code of 10, a QPA of 1 and
      an application percent of 1.00.
474                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 18.14. Display PDPS Program Selection Data By SPD.




18.32. API Display Application Program Data By Application/SPD. From the Display Main menu
(Figure 2.8.), select AI "Applications/Indentures". From the Display AI menu, select PDPS "Standard
Program Designator Program Selection" to view application program data by application. In the space by
SPD, type the application and press ENTER. Follow the exact format for the SPD. If the application is a
PEC, type a "P" in position 13. An option is to also type the NIIN/TMS by "Select Component", to view
the application data for that item/component. Another option is to type the time phased application date
by TM PHAS DT, and API will display the data starting with the date. Figure 18.14. is an example of an
aircraft with different engines installed on a percentage of the fleet, since the application percent is not
100. Use the forward command to display the other engines installed on this aircraft.

18.33. API Display Application Program Data By Component/Item. From the Display Main menu
(Figure 2.8.), select AI "Applications/Indentures". From the Display AI menu, select CPS "Component
Program Selection" to view data that each component/item is used on. Type the NIIN/TMS and press
ENTER. An option is to also type the application by "Select SPD", to view the item's application program
data for that application. Follow the exact format for the SPD. If the application is a PEC, type a "P" in
position 13. Another option is to type the time phased application date by TM PHAS DT, and API will
display the data starting with the date. Figure 18.15. is an example of an engine and the several aircraft
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  475


that engine is installed on. Use the forward command to display the other aircraft this engine is installed
on.

Figure 18.15. Display CPS Program Selection Data By Component.




18.34. API Program Products. The following are descriptions of some of the products from API. These
products are used by ALC personnel to update program data for PECs and for management information.
API products can be produced on demand. From the RDB FOE Final Operating Environment Menu (Fig-
ure 2.7.), select Output Products (OP), then select Submit Job Request (SJR) and then select Programs
(Figure 18.16.). The date displayed in the right corner of the header is the actual calendar date (month,
day and year) and time the product was requested.
   18.34.1. AFMC Future Programs Report. This product displays the future program data for all
   applications on the API data base along with various totals. SPD is the application or MDS, or a total.
   Totals are displayed for each series and for each MD. (For example, C130T are the totals for all the
   C-130s. C999T are the totals for all the cargo aircraft. The KC135T is an aircraft, not a total.)Engine
   data are not totaled. SPD TYPE is A for aircraft and E for engine. SVC is the service code and is A
   for Air Force. PGM TYPE is Type 1 the flying hours/operating hours which have been rounded to
   100s; Type 3 the averaged PAI inventory times 3; Type 5 the number of sorties, Type T is the total air-
   craft inventory end of quarter. FY is the fiscal year. QTR-1 is always the first quarter of the fiscal year
476                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      (October, November, December). QTR-2 is always the second quarter of the fiscal year (January,
      February, March). QTR-3 is always the third quarter (April, May, June). QTR-4 is always the fourth
      quarter of the fiscal year (July, August, September). RET is the retention quantity calculated as the
      total quantities for the 8th, 9th and 10th fiscal years. FY TOTAL is the total for that fiscal year and
      does not include the retention quantity. WAR is the war program is displayed, if one has been file
      maintained. Otherwise, the peace program for that year is displayed.

Figure 18.16. API Programs Products Selection Menu.




      18.34.2. Past Actual Program Report. This product displays the past actual program data for all
      applications on the API database along with various totals. SPD is the application or MDS, or a total.
      Totals are displayed for each series and for each MD. (For example, C130T are the totals for all the
      C-130s. C999T are the totals for all the cargo aircraft. The KC135T is an aircraft, not a total.)Engine
      data and trainer data are not totaled. SPD TYPE is A for aircraft, E for engines. SVC is the service
      code and is "A" for Air Force. PGM TYPE is Type 1 the actual flying hours/operating hours; Type 3
      the actual inventory reported; Type 5 the number of sorties computed by API . FY is the fiscal year of
      the data displayed. The quantity is displayed by fiscal quarter. FY TOTAL is the total for that fiscal
      year.
      18.34.3. Past Program Change Report. This product displays the past actual program data that was
      changed for the latest SIRS computation and sent to SIRS along with various totals. SPD is the appli-
      cation or MDS, or a total. Totals are displayed for each aircraft series and for each MD. (For example,
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              477


  C130T are the totals for all the C-130s. C999T are the totals for all the cargo aircraft. The KC135T is
  an aircraft, not a total.)Engine data and trainer data are not totaled. PRGM TYPE is Type 1 the actual
  flying hours/operating hours; Type 3 the actual inventory; Type 5 the actual number of sorties. SVC
  CD is the service code and is "A" for Air Force. YR/QTR is the Calendar year and month of the data
  displayed. QTY is the program data quantity displayed by month. This report always displays the cur-
  rent 3 months of the quarter even if the quantity sent to SIRS is zero. CHG IND is "A" for add.
  18.34.4. Tailored Application Master Report (AD200.FU1FA8D8). This product displays the list
  of modifications data received from D363 each month that updated the API database. The
  "Unmatched Tailored Master Report" (AD200.FU0FA8D8) displays any data that will not be used to
  update the database. Errors are usually caused by the first 7 positions of the application from D363 not
  matching an application on the API SPD table. Either the SPD table should be updated by the HQ
  AFMC API OPR, or the modification program manager at the ALC should file maintain the correct
  data into D363.
     18.34.4.1. Tailored Application Code. The 15 position MOD Application.
     18.34.4.2. Application Indicator. Displays "New", "Complete" or "Canceled" if applicable to this
     MOD application.
     18.34.4.3. Type Schedule. Depending on the 8th position of the application, displays either "input
     removal" or "output install".
     18.34.4.4. Mod Class. Either "IV" or "V" is displayed to identify the MOD class.
     18.34.4.5. Qty Pro. The Quantity Programmed is a 6 position field for the total quality of the air-
     craft or missile scheduled to be modified when the MOD is completed.
     18.34.4.6. Install Level. "D" is displayed if this is a depot MOD and "B" is displayed if this is a
     base MOD.
     18.34.4.7. Start Date. The Start Date consists of a 2 position year and a 2 position "end month of
     the quarter" equal to 03, 06, 09, or 12. It is supposed to be the quarter that the MOD started.
     18.34.4.8. End Date. The End Date consists of a 2 position year and a 2 position "end month of
     the quarter" equal to 03, 06, 09, or 12. It is supposed to be the quarter that the MOD will be com-
     pleted.
     18.34.4.9. ALC Code. The site code for the modification.
  18.34.5. AFMC Tailored Modification Report (AD200.FU2FA8D8). This product displays 8
  quarters of past program data (marked by *) and 28 quarters of future program data for all modifica-
  tion applications on the API data base.
     18.34.5.1. Tailored Application. The 15 position MOD Application from D363.
     18.34.5.2. Proc Code. The site code for the modification.
     18.34.5.3. Install Level. "D" is displayed if this is a depot MOD and "B" is displayed if this is a
     base MOD.
     18.34.5.4. Mod Class. Either "IV" or "V" is displayed to identify the MOD class.
     18.34.5.5. Type Equip. "A" is displayed if this is an aircraft MOD; "M" is displayed if this is a
     missile MOD.
478                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        18.34.5.6. Start Date. The Start Date consists of a 2 position year and a 2 position "end month of
        the quarter" equal to 03, 06, 09, or 12. It is supposed to be the quarter that the MOD started.
        18.34.5.7. End Date. The End Date consists of a 2 position year and a 2 position "end month of
        the quarter" equal to 03, 06, 09, or 12. It is supposed to be the quarter that the MOD will be com-
        pleted.
        18.34.5.8. Quant Prog. The quantity programmed is a 6 position field for the total quality of the
        aircraft or missile scheduled to be modified when the MOD is completed.
        18.34.5.9. Qtr 1 is always the first quarter of the fiscal year (October November December). QTR
        2 is always the second quarter of the fiscal year, etc.
        18.34.5.10. Retent. The Retention quantity calculated as the quantities for the 8th, 9th and 10th
        fiscal years.
        18.34.5.11. Type Data. Type 1 are the flying hours which are actual hours for the past quarters and
        have been rounded to 100s for the future quarters; Type 3 are the averaged PAI inventory times 3.
        18.34.5.12. IPP (WAR). The war program is displayed, if one has been file maintained. Other-
        wise, the peace program for that year is displayed.

Table 18.1. Format of the Application.
Field            1    2    3     4     5     6      7     8     9    10    11     12     13     14    15
Position
ACFT MDS                   B     0     0     1     A
ACFT MDS              K    C     1     3     5      T
ACFT MDS         N    K    C     1     3     5      E
ACFT MDS                   F     1     1     1     A                                     F      M      S
ACFT MDS                   C     1     3     0     A                                            U      K


ENG TMS               T    F     0     0     3      3     0     0     1     A
ENG TMS                    F     0     1     0      0     1     0     0
ENG TMS               T    F     0     0     3      0     1     0     3                  F      M      S
ENG TMS                    T     0     0     7      6     0     1     0     A                   U      K


Missile          A    G    M     0     8     6     B


Drone            Q    R    F     0     0     4     G
Drone                 Q    F     1     0     6     B


Trainer          1    A    D     0     0     0     A
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                             479


Field          1   2       3       4       5       6       7       8       9   10   11       12       13       14   15
Position


stock number 1     6   5       0       0       1       5       6       4       8    5    7        7        Z        R


PEC           1    0   0       1       1                       P
PEC           5    6   0       1                               P


MOD                    B       0       5       2       H       I       4       5    3    2        4
MOD                N   C       1       3       5       E       R       3       6    4    2        4


authorized
data
A = alpha     A    A   A       A       A               A       A                    A             A        A        A
N = numeric N      N   N       N       N       N       N       N       N       N    N    N        N
field position 1   2   3       4       5       6       7       8       9       10   11   12       13       14       15
480                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                Chapter 19

                                       PREDICTIVE LOGISTICS

19.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the computation in SIRS called Predictive Logistics (PRE-
LOG).
      19.1.1. PRELOG is one of the five methods in SIRS for computing the Total OIM Demand Rate
      (TOIMDR) used for computing requirements. PRELOG checks 12 quarters of historical TOIMDR for
      a significant trend and generates regression forecast estimates. The TOIMDRs computed by PRELOG
      are displayed on the Rates and Percents screen (Figure 19.2.) and on the Factors/Usage Printout (Fig-
      ure 16.10.).

Figure 19.1. Display FUD Factors/Usage Menu




      19.1.2. SIRS displays 6 screens with the results of PRELOG. From the Display SIRS Main menu,
      select FUD Factors/Usage menu (Figure 19.1.) to get to the PRELOG equations, plots and plot head-
      ers screens. From the Display SIRS Main menu, select PD PRELOG Data (Figure 19.6.), to get to the
      PRELOG selected data, error list and error summary screens. The ALC OPR can request hard copy
      products of any of the PRELOG products from the OPSS screen, OP SJR SIRS OPSS (see paragraph
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                481


  5.2.). The ES can request hard copy products of the PRELOG Equations and the PRELOG Plots from
  the EPPS screen, OP SJR SIRS EPPS (see paragraph 12.4.). SIRS provides 4 hard copy products.
  A-D200.-ADD-AX-86A PRELOG Error List & Summary Report, pages 1 and 2 (Figure 19.13. and
  Figure 19.14.).
  A-D200.-ADF-AX-86D PRELOG Selected Information Report (Figure 19.12.).
  A-D200.-ADS-A1-86A PRELOG Equations Report (Figure 19.11.).
  A-D200.-AFV-A1-86A PRELOG Plots Report (Figure 19.10.).
  19.1.3. The ES reviews and analyzes the data on the PRELOG screens along with the Factors/Usage
  Printout for the TOIMDRs (current and forecasts). The ES selects which method (past eight quarter
  average, past four quarter average, PRELOG, Exponential Smoothing, or estimated) of factor compu-
  tation to use in the requirements computation, by file maintaining the Factor Indicator Code (FIC).
  The FIC is a 3-position code, with each position of the code affecting the rates and percents (see para-
  graph 17.26.). Factors and the Factor Indicator Code are file maintained on the FACD FM SIRS
  SND FACD screen (see paragraph 17.24.). PRELOG applies only to the computation of the
  TOIMDR. The ES can select the PRELOG TOIMDR by entering E, F, G, H, I or J in the 1st position
  of the FIC.
  "E" Uses PRELOG for the TOIMDR only. Uses an 8 quarter average for all of the remaining OIM
  rates and percents.
  "F" Uses PRELOG for the TOIMDR only. Uses estimated values for all of the remaining OIM rates
  and percents, if present. If estimated values not present, uses a 4 quarter average for all of the remain-
  ing OIM rates and percents
  "G" Uses PRELOG for the TOIMDR only. Uses a 4 quarter average for all of the remaining OIM rates
  and percents.
  "H" Uses PRELOG for the TOIMDR only. Uses estimated values for all of the remaining OIM rates
  and percents, if present. If estimated values not present, uses a 4 quarter average for all of the remain-
  ing OIM rates and percents.
  “I” Uses PRELOG if present or Exponential Smoothing for TOIMDR, Exponential Smoothing for all
  other rates and percents.
  “J” Uses estimate if present or PRELOG if available for TOIMDR. Exponential Smoothing for all
  other rates and percents.
482                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 19.2. Display RAP Rates and Percents Data Screen.




19.2. The PRELOG Computation.
      19.2.1. SIRS provides a maximum of 12 quarterly TOIMDRs for PRELOG use. SIRS will not pro-
      vide the TOIMDRs for items coded no-compute, insurance, NSO, military contingency, or obsolete.
      Each of the SGMs are "screened" by PRELOG. PRELOG will not compute the TOIMDR for an SGM
      if the item has less than 5 moving averages, or if all the quarterly demand rates are zero. In addition,
      for SGMs with a Factor Indicator that has an E, F, G, H, I or J in the first position, PRELOG will not
      compute the TOIMDR for items if the number of positive quarterly demand rates is less than the Min-
      imum Number of Positive Demands Rates, as determined by each ALC. (See paragraph 19.8.3.2.
      and paragraph 6.18.4.).
      19.2.2. The Trend Test uses the method of least squares (regression analysis technique) to compute
      the best fit straight line through the given data. This test is designed to determine if the slope of the
      computed line is significantly different from a horizontal line. It is also a test of the hypothesis of null
      slope for a required confidence level. This confidence level is determined by each ALC (see para-
      graph 6.18.1.). The trend test value (T-STAT) for the SGM is the confidence level the ALC wants the
      trend to fit into. T-STAT is a signed field. Negative values are artificial values that represent insuffi-
      cient data conditions. These conditions are that there are less than five quarters of moving average
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             483


  data (-1.0000), or all quarterly TOIMDRs are zero (-2.0000) or there are fewer than the required min-
  imum number of positive TOIMDR quarters as specified by the input variable (-3.0000). If the trend
  test for the item was equal to or greater than the confidence level required in the T-TEST value, a "T"
  appears after the TSTAT value on some reports. The SGM "passed" the test and therefore the SGM is
  selected for forecasting. PRELOG forecasts are made fitting curves through data points which repre-
  sent past quarterly TOIMDRs, then mathematically projecting the chosen curve forward in time.
  19.2.3. The Error Level test measures the error involved in using the moving average to forecast the
  current demand rate. Each quarterly TOIMDR is compared with the immediate preceding moving
  average. The Error Level analysis value (ERR-LEV) is a signed field. Negative values are artificial
  values that represent insufficient data conditions. These conditions are that there are less than five
  quarters of moving average data (-1.0000) or all quarterly TOIMDRs are zero (-2.0000) or there are
  fewer than the required minimum number of positive TOIMDR quarters as specified by the input vari-
  able (-3.0000). When the error level test results equal or exceed the ALC determined levels (see para-
  graph 6.18.), the item is selected for forecasting. PRELOG forecasts are made by fitting curves
  through data points which represent past quarterly TOIMDRs, then mathematically projecting the
  chosen curve forward in time.
484                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 19.3. Display PPH PRELOG Plot Headers Screen.




19.3. Prelog Plot Headers.
      19.3.1. The PRELOG Plot Headers (PPH) screen (Figure 19.3.) allows the user to view a single plot
      header for a specific SGM. Change the AS OF Date to view historical data. The PRELOG Plot Header
      screen is the first of three screens that display PRELOG data. These three screens are interchangeable
      and can be accessed from any of the three screens by pointing and clicking to the page numbers lit up
      at the bottom of the screens, or typing FORW and BACK in the CMD line. The three screens and their
      applicable page numbers are PPH (page 1) (See Figure 19.3.), PRELOG Plots PP (page 2) (See Fig-
      ure 19.4.), and PRELOG Equations PE (page 3) (See Figure 19.5.). The hard copy PLOT report (Fig-
      ure 19.10.) displays on each page the information for each SGM as shown on the screens PPH and PP
      (see paragraph 19.4.5.).
      19.3.2. The PPH screen displays the ALC, ES & IMS codes for the SGM, the item name (ITM NM),
      unit price (U-P COMP), ERRC, item program select code (PSC) and factor indicator code (FAC
      IND).
      19.3.3. TOIMDR MAH. The moving averages are computed from the recorded base period data, dis-
      regarding manually entered rates and percents. A maximum of 8 quarterly moving average TOIMDRs
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             485


  as computed by PRELOG are displayed with the most recent quarter on the left and the oldest quarter
  on the bottom right. Zero demand rates are displayed.
  19.3.4. TOIMDR QTRLY. The TOIMDRs are computed from recorded base period data, disregarding
  manually entered rates and percents. 12 quarters of TOIMDR are displayed from the most recent quar-
  ter (on the left) to the oldest (bottom right). Zero demand rates are displayed.
  19.3.5. Y = A + B * X ** X.XX. The selected forecasting equation and exponent variable that is plot-
  ted. The exponent (PRELOG EXPON) is a signed field. There are 9 of these exponents (see para-
  graph 6.17.21.).
  A = .XXXX. The computed value of A used in the forecasting equation. This is a signed field.
  B = .XXXX. The computed value of B used in the forecasting equation. This is a signed field.
  R-SQUARED = X.XXXX. The computed "goodness of fit" as measured by the coefficient of deter-
  mination of the forecasting equation. This is a signed field.
  19.3.6. Exponential Last Used from the last time PRELOG was performed on the item.
  19.3.7. Number Of Iterations that it took to come up with the 9 exponents shown on the PRELOG
  Equations screen.
  19.3.8. T Stat = X.XXXX. The trend test value for the SGM is a test of confidence level of slope of
  the input demand data. (see paragraph 19.2.2.).
  19.3.9. T Stat CD. The presence of a T indicates that the SGM's trend test was equal to or greater than
  the confidence level required in the t-test value.
  19.3.10. Err Levl = X.XXXX. The error level analysis value is a test of the confidence of the moving
  average data to forecast the current demand rate. (See paragraph 19.2.3.).
  19.3.11. Err Lvl Cd. The presence of an E indicates that the SGM's forecast analysis was equal to or
  greater than the confidence level required in the error level analysis value.
  19.3.12. Std Dev Of TOIMDR Around Curve = XX.XXX. The standard deviation of the rates
  (TOIMDRs) about the curve.
  19.3.13. Computed TOIMDR are the rates computed by SIRS for the current, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th
  forecast years.
  19.3.14. TOIMDR Prelog are the TOIMDRs computed by PRELOG for the current 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th,
  and 5th forecast years.
  19.3.15. Prelog Base RPR Gens % are the PRELOG computed base reparable generation percents for
  the current, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th forecast years.
  19.3.16. Prelog MTBD are the PRELOG computed Mean Time Between Demands (MTBD). the
  current quarter MTBD is straightlined for the current, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th forecast years. MTBD
  is the ratio of the total operating time to the number of demands upon the supply system for the item.
  MTBD is computed by dividing the item's past installed OIM program by the base reparable genera-
  tions. Then, MTBD is expressed as hours, months, events or ammunition expenditures, depending on
  the first position of the item's program select code (see paragraph 17.10. for MTBD and paragraph
  18.3.9. for IPSC).
486                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 19.4. Display PP PRELOG Plots Screen.




19.4. Prelog Plots.
      19.4.1. The PRELOG Plot (PP) screen (Figure 19.4.) allows the user to view a single plot for a spe-
      cific SGM. Each SGM can only have one graph plotted per SIRS computation cycle. The data selected
      for graphic plotting are based upon the maximum exponent constraint and the computation results for
      R-squared, otherwise described as the "goodness of fit" as measured by the coefficient of determina-
      tion. Only SGMs whose demand data equal or exceed the trend test and/or error level test, are selected
      for equations computation and graphic plotting. Change the AS OF Date to view historical data. This
      screen displays the ALC, ES & IMS codes for the SGM, the item name (ITM NM), unit price (U-P
      COMP), ERRC, item program select code (PSC) and factor indicator code (FAC IND)
      19.4.2. The Y-axis represents the demands rate scale which is computed for each SGM. The vertical
      axis is computed separately for each item.
      19.4.3. The X-axis displays the data time span in quarters and calendar years. The 2 position calendar
      year is indicated under the fourth quarter so that if the scale should begin with actual data in the fourth
      quarter, there will be a year identification for that fourth quarter. The quarters 1, 2, 3, and 4 relate to
      usage data cutoff dates 1 = 31 March, 2 = 30 June, 3 = 30 September and 4 = 31 December.
      19.4.4. 34 quarters of TOIMDR are plotted. The "+" represent each of 12 quarters of actual computed
      TOIMDR QTR. The "-" represent 22 forecasted quarters of TOIMDRS computed by PRELOG ( PRE-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  487


  LOG FIT PROJ TOIMDR). The "+" represents the actual value and the "-" represents the predicated
  value. Quarters with unavailable or zero demand rates are shown on the plot. If a "-" falls on the same
  location as that of a "+", only the "+" is displayed. The plot is not displayed if the plot range is less tan
  .001.
  19.4.5. The hard copy PLOT report (Figure 19.10.) displays on each page the information for each
  SGM as shown on the PP and PPH screens. The hard copy report can by selected from the OPSS
  screen, OP SJR SIRS OPSS (see paragraph 5.2.), by SGM, or by ALC, or by ALC and Division, or by
  ALC, DIV and ES. The hard copy report can by selected from the EPPS screen, OP SJR SIRS EPPS
  (see paragraph 12.4.), by SGM, by Part Number and Cage, or by ALC, DIV and ES.
  19.4.6. The PRELOG Plot screen is the second of three screens that display PRELOG data. These
  three screens are interchangeable and can be accessed from any of the three screens by pointing and
  clicking to the page numbers lit up at the bottom of the screens, or typing FORW and BACK in the
  CMD line. The three screens and their applicable page numbers are PRELOG Plot Headers PPH (page
  1) (Figure 19.3.), PRELOG Plots PP (page 2) (Figure 19.4.), and PRELOG Equations PE (page 3)
  (Figure 19.5.).

19.5. PRELOG Equations.
  19.5.1. The PRELOG Equation Screen (Figure 19.5.). Allows the user to view the results of nine
  separate equations on a SGM's demand data as constrained by the nine variable exponents (see para-
  graph 6.17.21.). The SGMs selected are those with a PRELOG factor indicator file maintained by the
  ES, and those SGMs without a PRELOG indicator, but with demand data equal or greater than the
  trend test (T-TEST) and/or error level (ERRLEV) analysis value. Change the AS OF DATE to view
  data from a prior quarter: This screen displays the ALC and ES codes for the SGM, the item name
  (ITM NM), unit price (U-P COMP), ERRC, the trend test value (T-STAT) and the error level value
  (ERR LVL), (see paragraph 19.2.2. and paragraph 19.2.3.).
  19.5.2. BASE NRTS. The Base Not Reparable This Station OIM demand data for the base period, up
  to 2 years based upon the program begin date and the asset cutoff date. This total represents those
  OIM reparable generations that the bases were unable to repair and were shipped to the depots for fur-
  ther processing.
  19.5.3. BASE CNDMN. The Base Condemnations OIM demand data for the base period, up to 2
  years based upon the program begin date and the asset cutoff date. This total represents those OIM
  reparable generations that the bases condemned.
  19.5.4. BASE RTS. The Base Repaired This Station OIM demand data for the base period, up to 2
  years based upon the program begin date and the asset cutoff date. It represents those OIM reparable
  generations that the bases were able to repair.
  19.5.5. BASE EXCL IND. Is the Base RTS Exclusion Indicator file maintained by the ES. When the
  Base RTS Exclusion Indicator reflects an "X", SIRS will ignore any base RTS and base condemna-
  tions in the computation of OIM rates and percents. (See paragraph 17.25.).
  19.5.6. OIM PAST PRGM. The item's total OIM program for the base period, up to 2 years, based
  upon the PBD and asset cutoff date.
  19.5.7. TOIMDR MAH. The moving averages are computed from the recorded base period data,
  disregarding manually entered rates and percents. A maximum of 8 quarterly moving average TOIM-
488                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      DRs as computed by PRELOG are displayed with the most recent quarter on the left and the oldest
      quarter on the bottom right. Zero demand rates are displayed.

Figure 19.5. Display PE PRELOG Equations Screen.




      19.5.8. TOIMDR QTRLY. The TOIMDRs are computed from recorded base period data, disregard-
      ing manually entered rates and percents. 12 quarters of TOIMDR are displayed from the most recent
      quarter (on the left) to the oldest (bottom right). Zero demand rates are displayed.
      19.5.9. EQ. The number of the equation displayed. Will be equal to 1 through 9.
      19.5.10. Y = A + B * X ** -X.XX. The forecasting equation and exponent variable used in the equa-
      tion.
      19.5.11. A = X.XXXX. The computed value of A used in the forecasting equation. This is a signed
      field.
      19.5.12. B = ZX.XXXX. The computed value of B used in the forecasting equation. This is a signed
      field.
      19.5.13. R-SQUARED = X.XXXX. The computed "goodness of fit" as measured by the coefficient
      of determination of the forecasting equation. This is a signed field.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                489


  19.5.14. FIT DMND RT. The PRELOG computed demand rate trend plot points for the first 12
  quarters.
  19.5.15. PROJ DMND RT. The PRELOG computed demand rate plot points predicted for the next
  22 quarters.
  19.5.16. UPPR CTL LIM and LOW CTL LIM. The 16 upper control limits and the 16 lower con-
  trol limits, or prediction intervals, indicate the validity of the forecast. A narrower interval increases
  the confidence in the forecast.
  19.5.17. The Hard Copy Report (Figure 19.11.). Is automatically generated for the ES after each
  initial and final computation. The hard copy report can by selected from the EPPS screen, OP SJR
  SIRS EPPS (see paragraph 12.4.), by SGM, by Part Number and Cage, or by ALC, DIV and ES. The
  hard copy report can by selected from the OPSS screen, OP SJR SIRS OPSS (see paragraph 5.2.), by
  SGM, or y ALC, or by ALC and Division, or by ALC, DIV and ES, or with no selection to get data for
  all ALCs. Historical data can be printed by selecting a valid AS OF Date on the selection screen. The
  hard copy report shows the general data for the SGM as described in paragraph 19.5.1. through
  19.5.8., followed by the data for each of the 9 equations as described in paragraphs 19.5.9. through
  19.5.16., and then a page break.
  19.5.18. The PRELOG Equation Screen. Is page three of the screens that display PRELOG data.
  These three screens are interchangeable and can be accessed from any of the three screens by pointing
  and clicking to the page numbers lit up at the bottom of the screens, or typing FORW and BACK in
  the CMD line. The three screens and their applicable page numbers are PRELOG Plot Headers PPH
  (page 1) (Figure 19.3.), PRELOG Plots PP (page 2) (Figure 19.4.), and PRELOG Equations PE (page
  3) (Figure 19.5.). For the PE screens, use the scrolling commands to view each of the 9 screens per
  SGM.
490                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 19.6. Display PRELOG Data Menu.




19.6. PRELOG Selected Information. The PSI screen (Figure 19.7.) displays information about the
SGMs that were selected for PRELOG screening. The SGMs selected are those with a PRELOG factor
indicator file maintained by the ES (see paragraph 19.1.3.), and those SGMs without a PRELOG indica-
tor, but with demand data equal or greater than the trend test (T-TEST) and/or error level (ERRLEV) anal-
ysis value. The data is in sequence by Division/ES code & SGM for the selected ALC. (This screen may
take several minutes to display). Change the AS OF Date to view historical data. The hard copy report
(Figure 19.12.) can by selected from the OPSS screen, OP SJR SIRS OPSS (seeparagraph 5.2.), by ALC,
or by ALC and Division, or by ALC, DIV and ES, or with no selection to get data for all ALCs. Historical
data can be printed by selecting a valid AS OF Date on the selection screen. Data displayed are the ALC,
Division/Equipment Specialist Code (DIV/ES), the item name (ITM NM), unit price (UNIT PRICE), &
ERRC. The indicator (IND) will display *** for an SGM that was selected for PRELOG output even
though the Factor Indicator does not require it. The indicator will display a "P" for a SGM that does not
have a PRELOG Factor Indicator, but which would have been automatically selected for PRELOG. Also
displayed are the Computed Moving Averages (MV AVG), (see paragraph 19.5.7.), Computed TOIM-
DRs (QTR DMND RT)(see paragraph 19.5.8.), OIM PAST PRGM (see paragraph 19.5.6.), T STAT
(see paragraph 19.2.2.) and ERROR LEVEL (see paragraph 19.2.3.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               491


Figure 19.7. Display PST PRELOG Selected Information Screen.




19.7. PRELOG Error List (PEL). The PEL screen (Figure 19.8.) is page one of the two screens that
display PRELOG error data. The second page, the PRELOG Error Summary (Figure 19.9.), can be
accessed by pointing and clicking to the page number at the bottom of the screen, or by typing the FORW
command
   19.7.1. Data can be accessed by ALC, by ALC & Division, or by ALC, Division and ES code.
   Change the AS OF Date to view historical data. If there are no error records for the selection criteria,
   "No Data Meets The Selection Criteria" is displayed at the bottom of the screen.. This product is
   printed in NSN sequence. The ALC OPR can request the hard copy product PRELOG ERROR LIST
   and SUMMARY (Figure 19.13.) from the OPSS screen, OP SJR SIRS OPSS (see paragraph 5.2.),
   by ALC, or by ALC and Division, or by ALC, DIV and ES, or with no selection to get data for all
   ALCs. Historical data can be printed by selecting a valid AS OF Date on the selection screen.
   19.7.2. This report displays the SGMs with one of the following conditions:
       19.7.2.1. PLOT RANGE < .001 Item will appear in the Equation Listing (Figure 19.11.) because
       PRELOG forecasting was performed for the SGM. However, the graph has been suppressed
       because the plot range is less than .001.
492                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         19.7.2.2. T STAT IS ZERO. Indicates that the PRELOG computation rejected the SGM because
         the T- STAT and ERROR LEVEL were both less than their respective cutoff values, and T STAT
         was equal to zero. Item shows absolutely no trend.

Figure 19.8. Display PEL PRELOG Error List Screen.




19.8. PRELOG Error Summary (PES). PES screen (Figure 19.9.) is page two of the two screens that
display PRELOG error data. The first page, the PRELOG Error List (Figure 19.8.), can be accessed by
pointing and clicking to the page number at the bottom of the screen, or by typing the FORW command.
      19.8.1. The PES screen displays a summary of the errors in the PRELOG computation. Data can be
      accessed by ALC, by ALC and Division, or by ALC, Division and ES code. (This screen may take
      several minutes to display). Change the AS OF Date to view historical data. The ALC OPR can
      request a hard copy product page 1 (Figure 19.3.) and page 2 (Figure 19.14.) from the OPSS screen,
      OP SJR SIRS OPSS (see paragraph 5.2.), by ALC only. This summary will also be printed as the
      second part of the PRELOG Error List. Historical data can be printed by selecting a valid AS OF Date
      on the selection screen.
      19.8.2. This report displays the total number of SGMs that had errors in the PRELOG computation.
         19.8.2.1. < 5 Moving Averages. The number of SGMs that have less than 5 past quarters of
         TOIMDR moving averages.
         19.8.2.2. All Zero Demand Rates. The number of SGMs with all demand rates equal to zero.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           493


     19.8.2.3. < X Positive Demand < Rates. The number of SGMs that failed to equal or exceed the
     ALC established variable requirement for X number of positive demands rates (see PRELOG
     MIN NUMBER PAST TOIMDR, paragraph 6.18.4.).
     19.8.2.4. Test > / = Not PRELOG. The number of SGMs with a Factor Indicator other than PRE-
     LOG, that tested equal to or greater than the T-TEST and/or Error Level test values. (Therefore,
     the SGM "passed".)There are totals displayed under T-TEST and Error Analysis. It is possible for
     an item to be counted in both of these totals.
     19.8.2.5. Test > / = PRELOG Ind. The number of SGMs with a Factor Indicator which indicates
     PRELOG that tested equal to or greater than T-TEST and/or error level test values. (Therefore, the
     SGM "passed".)There are 2 totals displayed under T-TEST and Error Analysis. It is possible for an
     item to be counted in both of these totals.
     19.8.2.6. Test < PRELOG Ind. The number of SGMs with a Factor Indicator which indicates
     "PRELOG Computation" that tested less than the T-Test and error level values. (Therefore, the
     SGM "failed".)
     19.8.2.7. Test < Not PRELOG. The number of SGMs with a Factor Indicator other than PRELOG
     that tested less than the T-Test and error level values. (Therefore, the SGM "failed".)
     19.8.2.8. Total number of items with errors.
  19.8.3. Input variables used in the PRELOG computation are displayed on the bottom of the screen.
  The TSTAT cutoff values are computed. The rest are file maintained by ALC on the Standard Data By
  ALC.
     19.8.3.1. Dampening Factor: Y-N (yes-no) (see paragraph 6.18.2.).
     19.8.3.2. Minimum No. of Positive Demands Rates: X (see paragraph 6.18.4.).
     19.8.3.3. Confidence Level: XX.XX% (see paragraph 6.18.1.).
     19.8.3.4. TSTAT Cutoff value for 8 Qtrs - X.XXXX, 9 Qtrs - X.XXXX; 10 Qtrs - X.XXXX;
     11 Qtrs - X.XXXX; 12 Qtrs - X.XXXX.
     19.8.3.5. Error Level Cutoff Value : X.XX (see paragraph 6.18.3.).
494                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 19.9. Display PES PRELOG Error Summary Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008          495


Figure 19.10. PRELOG Plots.




Figure 19.11. PRELOG Equations.
496                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 19.12. PRELOG Selected Information.




Figure 19.13. PRELOG Error List and Summary (Page 1).




Figure 19.14. PRELOG Error List and Summary (Page 2).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 497


                                               Chapter 20

                         ROUTED REPAIR REPLACEMENT QUANTITY

20.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the process and procedures to be used by the Inventory Man-
agement Specialist (IMS), the Equipment Specialist (ES), the ALC designated RRRQ monitor, and the
Production Management Specialists (PMS), engine managers, Next Higher Assembly (NHA) manager
and System Program Directors (SPD) in applying serviceable long supply assets to the Routed Repair
Replacement Quantity (RRRQ). The RRRQ represents assets that are available to curtail repair of
Job-Routed (JR) reparable generations. JR reparable generations are removed, repaired, and replaced dur-
ing the organic or contract depot level overhaul of aircraft, missiles, engines, support equipment, Next
Higher Assemblies (NHAs), training devices, etc. SIRS computes a quantity of serviceable assets identi-
fied as the RRRQ that are to be considered for use to preclude job-routed repair. All documentation should
be kept for 2 years. This includes documentation for all decisions not to use serviceable long supply assets
and to continue repairing reparable subassemblies.

20.2. Policy. Air Force policy is to discontinue repair of JR reparables when more than enough quantities
of serviceable parts are available to meet current needs. The two "Index of Actions - RRRQ Qty" products
(see paragraph 20.5.) identify and match available serviceable replacement parts with parts scheduled to
be repaired concurrently with depot level maintenance.
   20.2.1. Besides performing routine maintenance work, the Air Force periodically inspects and over-
   hauls its systems and associated support equipment to keep them in serviceable condition. The more
   comprehensive inspection and repair work is done either by maintenance activities at the three Tech-
   nological Repair Centers collocated with the Air Logistics Centers (ALCs), or by contractors. These
   overhaul activities remove and inspect installed recoverable components, and repair or replace worn,
   broken, or missing parts. Missing or condemned parts are routinely replaced, while necessary repairs
   are made to other parts. The repair and overhaul work is directed by the materiel management func-
   tions at the ALCs. The management activities also manage the serviceable spare parts replacement
   inventory.
   20.2.2. The ALC materiel management function advises the ALC maintenance activity of the types
   and quantities of end items to be repaired. However, the materiel management functions do not direct
   the repair of component parts that are removed from the end item; the depot maintenance function
   decides this. Generally, depot maintenance disassembles the end item, inspects the component parts,
   and determines which parts can be repaired. Those parts that cannot be repaired are condemned and
   replaced with new parts that had been requisitioned from the IMS. Those parts that can be repaired are
   processed through maintenance repair lines and used in reassembling the repaired end item.
   20.2.3. Generally, it is more economical to repair parts than to buy new parts. New parts do not need
   to be purchased when available serviceable parts exceed foreseeable needs. To decide whether it is
   more cost effective to replace or repair, management needs to know the types and quantities of ser-
   viceable parts available for use and the types and quantities of parts planned for repair.
   20.2.4. Once identified, available serviceable parts must be matched against parts scheduled for
   repair. After identifying matched parts, management would be able to determine if it is more cost
   effective to replace or repair unserviceable assets. If replacement is more cost effective than repair for
   a certain item, a RRRQ will be developed.
498                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         20.2.4.1. Items with an extended repair dollar value (RRRQ times unit repair cost) of $5,000 or
         less, and items with a serviceable balance less than the job routed program over the first two quar-
         ters of the computation are excluded from RRRQ consideration.
         20.2.4.2. Eligible items will be evaluated considering the cost of repair, the cost of supplying ser-
         viceable assets to the repair line, the cost of returning unserviceable parts to supply warehouses,
         the cost of interrupting repair lines and rewriting work specifications and the number of hours
         (equipment and man-hours) which would be freed for other repair work. Subgroup Master (SGM)
         stock numbers appearing on RRRQ products may be offered to maintenance activities for less than
         the normal selling price.
      20.2.5. After determining the quantities of serviceable parts on hand that can be used, the orderly sub-
      stitution of serviceable parts for planned work should be scheduled. For planned contract repairs, the
      contractor should be notified that replacement parts are available.
      20.2.6. AFMAN 23-110, volume III, part three, chapter 3, paragraph 3.9 requires that recoverable
      investment items receive special processing under the routed item repair quantity (RIRQ) program to
      determine if the serviceable asset position of the item is excess and should be used to support the end
      item repair line, and specifies requisitioning procedures. AFMAN 23-110, volume III, part three,
      chapter 12, paragraph 12.2 (specifically paragraph 12.2.1.9) describes the RIRQ process and requisi-
      tion processing procedures in the D035A system for RIRQ items.

20.3. Process Description. The RRRQ data products are produced from each quarterly summary compu-
tation cycle (see paragraph 20.5.). The RRRQ data are output to D035A as Routed Item Repair Quantity
(RIRQ). Active items' data only are provided. Insurance, military contingency, obsolete, and numeric
stockage objective (NSO) coded stock numbers are excluded. The following describe the 3 checks made
in SIRS to determine if the active SGM qualifies as a candidate for RRRQ.
      20.3.1. The item must have a Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) program. If the Item Program Select
      Code (IPSC) has zeros in positions 2, 3, and 4 of the code, the SGM is not a candidate for RRRQ con-
      sideration. If the IPSC contains an X in position 2, 3, and/or 4, then if either the Programmed Depot
      Maintenance (PDM) Non Job Routed (NJR) program percent, Engine Overhaul (EOH) NJR program
      percent, or Management of Items Scheduled for Repair (MISTR) NJR program percent are less than
      100, the SGM is a candidate for developing an RRRQ. Zeros are valid, since zeroes mean that the
      SGM is totally job routed.
      20.3.2. The item must have serviceable assets available above the computed total gross requirements.
      Any GM with a zero or blank at the 2nd over or short position of any quarter from the start quarter
      through the buy period is eliminated. Any SGM that computes a 2nd short in any quarter from the start
      of the computation through the buy period is eliminated.
      20.3.3. The NHA (aircraft, engine, or item) must project an active repair program. The first four quar-
      ters of the item computation are checked for a JR program (PDM, EOH, or MISTR, as applicable). If
      there is not a JR program in the first four quarters, the SGM is not a candidate for RRRQ develop-
      ment. If JR program(s) do exist, the smallest 2nd over quantity is selected from the start of the compu-
      tation through the buy period, as the quantity that is output on the listings and sent to D035A. (See
      Figure 20.4.).

20.4. Responsibilities.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               499


  20.4.1. The IMS receives the RRRQ listing, and with the assistance of the ES, processes the listing
  every quarter as specified below. The listing is then forwarded to the next higher assembly manager.
  SGMs that have an activity codes of 5, 6, 7, or 8 should be fully evaluated for RRRQ during review
  cycles in which a computation is generated.
  20.4.2. The ES determines if the RRRQ item is now or will be undergoing modification, replaced,
  phased out, or subject to any other actions or circumstances affecting current or future requirements.
  The ES validates estimated factors, especially estimated PDM JR condemnation percent, EOH JR
  condemnation percent, and NHA MISTR JR condemnation percent.
  20.4.3. The ES and IMS make a joint decision concerning the usability of the item as RRRQ. Avail-
  able serviceable assets are to be considered for use to preclude JR repair when the use of such assets
  will not cause a requirement for repair on the MISTR line of the requirements computation prior to the
  buy point. If it is determined that RRRQ will not be used, the reasons should be annotated on the list-
  ing. The IMS may need to run a SIRS "What-If" item re-computation.
  20.4.4. On the RRRQ listing, the IMS lists each application (aircraft, engine or NSN of a NHA) that
  has a JR program. Example: If an item has a IPSC of 1X0X with a MISTR JR program but no PDM
  JR program, only the NSN applicable to the MISTR JR program will be annotated on the listing. The
  quantity of serviceable assets available in depot supply are also annotated on the RRRQ listing.
  20.4.5. ALC designated monitors assure distribution of RRRQ listings that reflect a local source of
  repair (SOR) for the item NHA or application (aircraft, engine, or equipment). The ALC monitor for-
  wards to the applicable ALC SOR, the RRRQ listings that reflect NHA SORs located at another ALC,
  to the designated monitor at that ALC. The ALC monitor distributes listings received from other
  ALCs to the appropriate local organizations. The ALC monitor forwards locally annotated listings
  that indicate a RRRQ IMS at another ALC to the designated monitor at that ALC. The ALC monitor
  may also establish local policy and procedures for the annotation of SOR on all RRRQ listings with
  aircraft, engine designator, and equipment NHAs, the determination of the NHA's IMS when the
  NHA is an equipment stock number, the interrogation of D035A to determine RRRQ requisition
  quantities for the past 6 months, and supplementary ES file maintenance instructions.
  20.4.6. Items are processed according to local ALC policy. The IMS signs and dates the page with the
  RRRQ SGM being processed and retains a copy in the item folder for 2 years. The original listing is
  sent to the monitor designated by the ALC OPR. If the SGM's NHA is a recoverable item with a
  MISTR program, the managing ALC, division, and manager designator code is annotated on the
  RRRQ listing. If the SGM's NHA is an equipment stock number (and therefore in D200C), the man-
  aging ALC and division, manager designator code will be determined according to local ALC policy.
  RRRQ items whose NHA' item managers are located at the same ALC will be redistributed to the
  NHA manager according to ALC policy. All other RRRQ items, where the NHA is managed at
  another ALC, are sent to the monitor designated by the ALC OPR. Items with more than one applica-
  ble NHA should be sent to all activities that manage those NHAs.
  20.4.7. RRRQ listings meeting the above criteria should be sent to the NHA manager (via the ALC
  OPR) at least once a year. Items meeting the criteria need to be evaluated annually, but do not need to
  be forwarded to the NHA IMS unless they become eligible for RRRQ development. SGMs appearing
  on listings in subsequent cycles only require annotation of the cycle when the SGM was fully evalu-
  ated. A copy of each repeat listing is retained in the item folder. The ALC monitor is notified of repeat
500                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      items if required by ALC policy. If RRRQ listings are not forwarded (for reasons other than those
      already detailed), the reasons for not forwarding should be documented on the listing.
      20.4.8. The NHA manager receiving the RRRQ listing consults with the ES to determine if the NHA
      is now or will be undergoing modification, phased out, or subject to any other actions affecting current
      or future requirements.
      20.4.9. Item managers of a stock numbered NHA annotate the Automated Repair Requirements Com-
      putation System (ARRCS) portion of D075, product with the words "RRRQ LISTING(S)
      ATTACHED" and circle or highlight the depot serviceable assets or the RRRQ quantity, whichever is
      less. The circled or highlighted quantity will be the quantity of RRRQ to be offered to the depot main-
      tenance function. One copy of the listing is retained before passing the package to the Production
      Management Specialist (PMS) during the next quarterly D075 MISTR processing period.
      20.4.10. Engine managers and SPDs annotate the engine overhaul program schedule and/or pro-
      grammed depot maintenance program schedule with the words "RRRQ LISTING(S) ATTACHED",
      then circle or highlight the depot serviceable assets or the RRRQ quantity, whichever is less. The cir-
      cled or highlighted quantity is the quantity of RRRQ to be offered to the depot maintenance function.
      One copy of the listing is retained. The original copy is included in the package that is forwarded to
      the PMS or other schedule negotiator during the next program schedule processing period.
      20.4.11. The PMS ensures that the Maintenance Planning Organization gets the RRRQ listings. The
      IMS and ES assist the PMS as necessary with any decisions required to ensure that work specifica-
      tions contain directions on the use of RRRQ. During workload negotiation between the PMS and
      depot maintenance, RRRQ listings should be reviewed and a joint decision reached concerning use of
      RRRQ. During workload negotiations, the acceptance or rejection of the RRRQ is annotated on the
      listing. Rejection, total or partial, requires complete justification. The PMS lists the managing ALC in
      the upper left corner of the listing. If the managing ALC is local, the annotated listing is forwarded
      according to ALC policy. If another ALC is indicated, the annotated listing is forwarded to the desig-
      nated ALC monitor.
      20.4.12. IMSs receiving annotated listings back from workload negotiations notify the ES of the
      RRRQ decision and keep the annotated copy in the item folder, replacing the original signed and dated
      listing that was sent to maintenance.
      20.4.13. The ES checks those items accepted as RRRQ by maintenance to determine which depot
      reparable generations are attributable to RRRQ, and deletes those generations by file maintenance in
      SIRS. The depot reparable generations attributable to RRRQ can be determined by interrogating
      D035A for a six month stock number transaction history on the RRRQ item and locating all shipments
      with advice code "6Z". The ES subtracts the 6Z shipments from the most recent historical quarter's
      depot reparable generations and file maintains the result as depot reparable generations (see para-
      graph 16.8.). Zero is file maintained if the result is a negative number. The difference between the
      negative result and zero is applied to the next quarter's depot reparable generations. Local ALC policy
      determines procedures and responsibilities for obtaining D035A interrogations.

20.5. Hard Copy Products. The "RRRQ Index For IMS" (AD200.AF3A18P3) (Figure 20.2.) is
"pushed" to each IMS after each summary SIRS computation. It is sorted by SGM and lists all items that
have an RRRQ for that IMS. The "RRRQ Index For ALC" (AD200.AF8A18BQ) (Figure 20.3.) is
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               501


"pushed" to the ALC OPR after each summary SIRS computation. It is sorted by SGM and lists all items
that have an RRRQ for that ALC. Both products display the following data.
   20.5.1. SGM. The subgroup master or bachelor stock number.
   20.5.2. DIV - IMS. The 3 position item management specialist of the SGM.
   20.5.3. ES. The 3 position equipment specialist code
   20.5.4. ERRC CD. The Expendability, Recoverability, Repairability, Category (ERRC) code is a one
   position code that represents the management technique and repair capability assigned to the NSN.
   The ERRC items computed by SIRS are "N" (XB3), "P" (XF3), "C" (XD1), and "T (XD2).
   20.5.5. ITM ACT. The item activity code for the SGM (see paragraph 14.5.).
   20.5.6. ICS RIW. If "C" the SGM is managed under the Interim Contract Support program. If "W"
   the SGM is managed under the Reliability Improvement Warranty program (see paragraph 14.4.).
   20.5.7. RRRQ. The projected quantity of serviceable long supply or RRRQ that has been computed
   as available to curtail JR repairs.
   20.5.8. UNIT REPAIR COST. Cost, in dollars and cents, to repair the SGM (See paragraph 15.9.).
   20.5.9. DOLLAR VALUE of RRRQ. The extended dollar value in dollars of the RRRQ which is
   obtained by multiplying the RRRQ by the unit repair cost and rounding.

20.6. RRRQ Display Screen.
   20.6.1. The RRRQ screen (Figure 20.1.) can be viewed by accessing the DIS SIRS RPR RQI screen.
   The RQI screen identifies the SGM that has excess serviceable assets that could be issued to a
   job-routed line to save repair costs. Data will appear on this screen only if there is a job routed item
   and the item has more serviceable assets than are currently required, and the assets could be issued to
   the job routed line to save money and time. The screen has the capability to display an individual Sub-
   group Master (SGM) stock number, all SGMs for a selected ALC, or all SGMs for a selected IMS
   manager designator. Type the ALC and press ENTER, or type a SGM and press ENTER, or type an
   IMS and ALC and press ENTER (example below). If a current stock number is entered in the SGM
   field, SIRS displays the corresponding SGM data. SIRS displays all items with an RRRQ for the
   selection criteria. Use the scrolling commands to see additional items.
502                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 20.1. Display RQI RRRQ Items Screen.




      The data elements displayed on the RQI display screen are as follows.
      20.6.2. CUR. The current date and time that the screen is accessed.
      20.6.3. AS OF. In the format DD MMM YY, this is the day, month & year of the asset cutoff date of
      the computation that the product was produced from. Only data from the current cycle is available. A
      two position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the right of the AS OF field. The first position identifies
      the computation cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The second position repre-
      sents the number of times that item was recomputed during that computation cycle. A zero means the
      item was not re-computed.
      20.6.4. SGM. The Sub-Group Master that has an RRRQ asset value.
      20.6.5. IMS. Provides the capability to list all SGMs with a selected IMS designator code.
      20.6.6. ALC. Provides the capability to list all SGMs with a selected ALC code.
      20.6.7. DIV IMS. The IMS designator code applicable for the SGM being displayed.
      20.6.8. DIV ES. The ES designator code applicable for the SGM being displayed.
      20.6.9. ERRC CD. The Expendability, Recoverability, Repairability, Category Code for the SGM
      being displayed.
      20.6.10. ITM ACT. The Item Activity Code for the SGM being displayed that indicates the manage-
      ment intensity required for the NSN (see paragraph 14.5.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                      503


   20.6.11. ICS/RIW. The Interim Contract Support or Reliability Improvement Warranty code for the
   SGM being displayed (see paragraph 14.4.).
   20.6.12. RRRQ. The Routed Repair Requirement Quantity for the SGM being displayed.
   20.6.13. UNIT REPAIR COST. The cost required by the Source of Repair to repair the NSN (See
   paragraph 15.9.).
   20.6.14. DOL VAL OF RRRQ. The total dollar value of the RRRQ. Determined by multiplying the
   Unit Repair cost times the RRRQ.

Figure 20.2. RRRQ Index For IMS.




Figure 20.3. RRRQ Index For ALC.
504                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 20.4. Development of RRRQ Data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             505


                                              Chapter 21

                               OTHER WAR RESERVE MATERIEL

21.1. Introduction. AFI 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance And Procedures sets
the policies and responsibilities for managing War Reserve Materiel (WRM). Other acquisition War
Reserve Material (OWRM) are reserve requirements needed to augment Readiness Spares Packages
(RSP) and other Peacetime Operating Stocks (POS) and sustain wartime operations until the point when
the delivery of industrially produced assets meet total war needs. The OWRM requirement is computed
by SIRS, and cannot be file maintained. An item must meet two conditions in order for SIRS to compute
its OWRM requirement: The item must (1) have an application with a war program or have an RSP
requirement from D087H, and (2) the Mission Item Essentiality Code (MIEC) for the subgroup master
stock number must contain A, B, or C in the second position, and E or F in the third position OWRM is
displayed in the SIRS requirements computation as “OWRM Rqmt (FULL)" and “OWRM Rqmt (LTD)”
and in the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) as "Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable"
(OTH A-W-R PROT) and "Other Acquisition War Reserve Balance" (OTH A-W-R,BAL). The system
program directors (SPD), the RSP OPRs at the MAJCOMs, the HQ AFMC WRM and RSP OPRs, the HQ
AFMC SIRS OPR, the ALC WRM and RSP OPR , the ALC SIRS OPR as well as the Inventory Manage-
ment Specialists (IMS) and Equipment Specialists (ES) are all involved in the development, validation
and management of WRM/RSP/OWRM data.

21.2. Inputs to the OWRM Computation.
   21.2.1. The WSMIS REALM Requirements Computation Support System D087H provides 2 files to
   SIRS each quarter for the initial computation, and can provide files for the final computation. (See
   paragraph 3.7.).
       21.2.1.1. One D087H file provides 38 quarters of requirements quantities for 2 types of records.
       The first position of each record is either an “H” for High Priority Mission Support Kit (HPMSK)
       requirements or an R” for RSP. These are additives and are explained in the Additive Chapter 25,
       paragraph 25.4.1. (RSP), and paragraph 25.4.18. (HPMSK). Additive data can be viewed on the
       DIS SIRS SND ADRQ screen (Figure 25.1.). For insurance and NSO items, this D087H data is,
       instead, added to the Non-Recurring Requirement (see paragraph 31.8.3.).
       21.2.1.2. The second D087H file provides War Total Organizational and Intermediate Mainte-
       nance Demand Rate (TOIMDR) in the format 9V9999 where V is the assumed decimal point,
       Wartime Adjustment Factor in the format 99V99 where V is the assumed decimal point, and Work
       Unit Code by actual stock number. The TOIMDR and wartime adjustment factor will not be
       passed together in the same quarter for the same item. If the wartime adjustment factor is passed,
       it must be greater than zero and not equal to 1. (The wartime adjustment factor may be used to
       increase demand rates for electronic warfare items). No duplicate stock numbers will be included
       on this file. This data is used in the OWRM computation and can be viewed on the DIS SIRS SND
       WARD screen (Figure 21.1.)
   21.2.2. The item installed programs are provided to SIRS from the Application Program Indenture
   (API) D200F system (see paragraph 3.19.) for each SIRS computation. War flying hours are pro-
   vided by HQ USAF for some aircraft. SPDs and engine managers at the ALCs may develop their own
   wartime programs for program types 4 Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM) and 6 Engine Over-
506                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      haul (EOH). These war programs have to be file maintained into API on the FOE FM PRGM FFWD
      screen (see paragraph 18.19.). When no wartime programs are available for a given application, API
      uses the peacetime program instead, to develop the war item installed program for SIRS to use in the
      OWRM computation. War & peace installed programs are received in quarterly increments and are
      divided into monthly increments by SIRS using the war Program Percentages (PRGM PCT) from the
      OWRM Table (Figure 6.14.).
      21.2.3. For rates and percents, and for pipeline days, wartime data is displayed only on the OWRM
      computation and are used to compute the OWRM requirement. Quarterly rates, factors, and percent-
      ages are interpolated into monthly segments. Time-phased depot repair cycle days will be used if they
      are used in the peacetime computation and apply during the war year, which is the Extended Year
      (EY). The war data for the current cycle can be viewed online in using the DIS SIRS SND WARD
      screen (Figure 21.1.). Type the SGM and press ENTER. After the data is displayed, put "X" by the
      Notepad to display the notepad. The Source Reference Code is displayed, with “A” indicating data
      from D087H, “P” the peacetime value, “S” the default value and “E” a file maintained value.

Figure 21.1. Display WARD War Data Screen.




21.3. OWRM Computation Logic. With the exceptions noted below, war requirements are computed
using the same logic and formulas that are used for the peacetime computation (see Chapter 9.).
      21.3.1. D-day is the first day of hostilities and is the first day of the first month after the budget year.
      The war computation time-span is on the OWRM Table (Figure 6.14.), and can be file maintained by
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            507


  the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR to any value between 1 and 12, for any SMC. Peacetime requirements are
  computed on a time-phased basis for up to 39 months, as described in Chapter 9. War year require-
  ments are computed on a month-by-month basis, for the war year. The OWRM computation does not
  compute a retention period requirement. The peak difference between the total wartime requirement
  accumulated (NET WAR Rqmt ACM) and the total peacetime requirement accumulated (PEACE
  Rqmt ACM) within the war computation time-span is used to determine the D-day to Production def-
  icit requirement (D-P DEFICIT).
  21.3.2. Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) programs (PDM PROG, ENG O-H PROG and MISTR
  PROG) are displayed as the sum of the JR and NJR programs, just like they are in the peacetime com-
  putation.
  21.3.3. Depot condemnations are computed against OIM depot reparable generations (Base NRTS)
  and non-job routed reparable generations before they have been slipped.
  21.3.4. The peace and war base repair cycle requirement and peace and war base order and shipping
  time requirement are not rounded in the same manner as in the peacetime requirements computation.
  In the peacetime computation algorithm, the base order and shipping time is truncated and the remain-
  der is added to the base repair cycle requirement before it is rounded. In the OWRM computation,
  both requirements are rounded independently and the remainder is unused.
  21.3.5. The peace and war OIM base stock levels do not use rounded elements. (Unrounded elements
  are summed together and the result is rounded).
  21.3.6. Net requirements are determined considering the computed assets and condemnations as fol-
  lows. The capitalized terms below correspond to the requirements lines on the OWRM Computation
  Worksheet (Figure 21.6. and Figure 21.10.):
     21.3.6.1. Computed assets (COMPUTED WAR ASSETS and COMPUTED PEACE ASSETS)
     for the first month equal the gross requirements (GROSS WAR Rqmt plus PEACE Rqmt) minus
     the condemnations (TOTAL WAR COND and TOTAL PEACE COND).
     21.3.6.2. For subsequent months (months 2 -12), computed assets equal the previous month's
     computed assets plus the gross requirements for the current month minus the condemnations for
     the current month.
     21.3.6.3. The gross requirements (GROSS WAR Rqmt and PEACE Rqmt) for the first month
     consist of the condemnations (TOTAL WAR COND and TOTAL PEACE COND) and total levels
     (TOTAL WAR LEVELS and TOTAL PEACE LEVELS).
     21.3.6.4. For subsequent months (months 2-12), the gross requirements (GROSS WAR Rqmt and
     Peace Rqmt) equals the Total Condemnations for that month plus the Total Level for that month
     minus the Total Assets for the previous month.
     21.3.6.5. The gross OWRM requirement (WAR MINUS PEACE Rqmt) for any month within the
     computation time-span is the difference between the accumulated wartime requirement (NET
     WAR Rqmt ACM) and the accumulated peacetime requirement (PEACE Rqmt ACM). A negative
     entry is possible and indicates that the peacetime program is larger than the wartime program. This
     requirement is displayed only for those months in the war computation time-span. The peak differ-
     ence within this time-span is the D-P DEFICIT. Negative entries in each of the months will result
     in zero D to P DEFICITs.
508                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         21.3.6.6. The RSP requirement from D087H (WRSK-BLSS Rqmt AT BUY) at the buy point is
         subtracted from the D to P DEFICIT to equal the OWRM Requirement. If the RSP requirement is
         larger than the D-P DEFICIT then the OWRM requirement will be zero, and no OWRM line will
         display on the SGM COMPUTATION WORKSHEET.

21.4. File Maintenance of War Data Elements. Changes to these data elements by subgroup master
stock number are made using the FM SIRS SND WARD screen (Figure 21.2.).
      21.4.1. All file maintenance is done at the Sub-Group Master stock number (SGM) level. Enter the
      SGM and press ENTER. If a CSN is entered, SIRS will display the corresponding SGM. Change the
      data and press ENTER. Enter "Zs" to revert to the corresponding default peace value. If the file main-
      tained value was a factor other than TOIMDR, then the "Z's" replace the value with the peace time
      factor from the EY time period and the SRC is set to "P". If the file maintained value is a pipeline ele-
      ment, “Zs” may be used only when the current SREC is “E”. File maintained values are validated
      against the OWRM Table (see Figure 6.14.). If a file maintained value exceeds the value on that table
      for that data element, a message is displayed on the screen. If a file maintained value exceeds the
      peacetime value, SIRS will replace the file maintained war value with the peacetime value. When the
      new data passes the edits, the notepad will appear. Documentation is required to explain the reason for
      changing the data element. After entering the documentation, press ENTER, and the file maintained
      screen will re-appear with the notification "Update successful" indicating that the data base has been
      changed to the entered values.
      21.4.2. Data displayed that cannot be file maintained is the OIM Base Repair (RPR) Rate, the OIM
      Depot Demand Rate (DEP DMND RT), War Adjustment (ADJ) Factor, the Depot Repair (RPR) Cycle
      days (month 1 and month 2), Comp TMSP, and the Work Unit Code (WUC). Only a SIRS OPR can
      update the Base NRTS % and the War Adjustment (ADJ) Factor. The data elements on the WARD
      screen are also displayed on the OWRM SGM worksheet (paragraph 21.9.) and are described in
      paragraphs 21.5. - 21.8.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                      509


Figure 21.2. File Maintenance WARD War Data Screen.




21.5. War Total OIM Demand Rate.
   21.5.1. For a description of the peacetime TOIMDR, see paragraph 17.9. The War Total OIM
   Demand Rate (TOIMDR) is determined by one of the following 3 methods.
      21.5.1.1. On any initial computation, the War TOIMDR is used if received from D087H. The SRC
      is “A”.
      21.5.1.2. If the War TOIMDR is not received from D087H, and if the war adjustment factor is
      greater than zero, SIRS computes the war TOIMDR and the SRC is “C”. On the Sept & Dec
      cycles, the war TOIMDR equals the War Adjustment Factor times the peace TOIMDR second
      forecast year. On the Mar & Jun cycles, the War TOIMDR equals to War Adjustment Factor times
      the peace TOIMDR third forecast year.
      21.5.1.3. If the War TOIMDR is not received from D087H, and if the war adjustment factor is
      zero, then the War TOIMDR SRC is “P”. On the Sep & Dec cycles, the war TOIMDR equals the
      peace TOIMDR second forecast year. On the Mar & Jun cycles, the War TOIMDR equals the
      peace TOIMDR third forecast year.
   21.5.2. The TOIMDR can be file maintained as follows.
510                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         21.5.2.1. When the War TOIMDR is file maintained, its SRC is set to “E”, and SIRS puts zero in
         the War Adjustment Factor and sets its SRC = space.
         21.5.2.2. When the War TOIMDR’s SRC is “E” or “A”, “Z’s” can be file maintained for the War
         TOIMDR. SIRS then, puts the peace War TOIMDR into the War TOIMDR, puts “P” in its SRC,
         and SIRS puts zero in the War Adjustment Factor and sets its SRC = space. On the Sep & Dec
         cycles, the war TOIMDR equals the peace TOIMDR second forecast year. On the Mar & Jun
         cycles, the War TOIMDR equals the peace TOIMDR third forecast year.
         21.5.2.3. When the War TOIMDR’s SRC is “C”, SIRS rejects the file maintenance of “Z’s”.
      21.5.3. War Adj Factor. For the March initial computation, and any other initial computation when the
      SRC is “A”, SIRS puts zero in the War Adjustment Factor, and makes its SRC = space. SIRS then
      accepts a war adjustment factor from D087H. The war adjustment factor cannot be file maintained by
      the IMS.

21.6. War Rates & Factors.
      21.6.1. For descriptions of the peacetime rates and factors see Chapter 17. On the March initial
      cycle, SIRS puts the corresponding peacetime value third forecast year, into the war rates and percent-
      ages. On any other initial cycle, the value is not changed it the SRC is “E”. Otherwise, on the Septem-
      ber & December cycles, the corresponding peacetime value second forecast year is used, and on the
      June cycle, the corresponding peacetime value third forecast year is used. When peace values are
      used, the corresponding SRC is set to “P”. Then the OIM Depot Demand Rate and the OIM Base
      Repair Rate are calculated by SIRS.
      21.6.2. OIM BASE RPR RT. The OIM Base Repair Rate is calculated as the War Total OIM Demand
      Rate minus the War Depot OIM Demand Rate. This cannot be file maintained. (See paragraph
      17.12.).
      21.6.3. OIM DEP DMND RT. The War OIM Depot Demand Rate is calculated as the War TOIMDR
      times (100 minus the War Base NRTS Pct) times War Base Condemnation Pct) plus War Base NRTS
      Pct ). This cannot be file maintained. (See paragraph 17.11.).
      21.6.4. Base NRTS Pct. War Base Not Repaired This Station Percent. (See paragraph 17.6.).
      21.6.5. Base Cndmn Pct. War Base Condemnation Percent. (See paragraph 17.7.)
      21.6.6. MISTR Cndmn Pct. War MISTR Condemnation Percent. (See paragraph 17.8.)
      21.6.7. PDM Jr Cndmn %. War PDM Job Routed Condemnation Percent. (See paragraph 17.17.).
      21.6.8. PDM NJR Repl %. War PDM Non-Job Routed Replacement Percent. (see paragraph 17.16.)
      21.6.9. PDM NJR Prgm %. War Program Depot Maintenance Non-Job Routed Program Percent. (See
      paragraph 17.15.)
      21.6.10. EOH JR Cndmn %. War Engine Overhaul Job-Routed Condemnation Percent. (See para-
      graph 17.17.)
      21.6.11. EOH NJR Repl %. War Engine Overhaul Non-Job Routed Replacement Percent. (See para-
      graph 17.16.)
      21.6.12. EOH NJR Prgm %. War Engine Overhaul Non-Job Routed Program Percent. (See para-
      graph 17.15.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               511


   21.6.13. MISTR JR Cndmn %. War Next Higher Assembly MISTR Job Routed Condemnation Per-
   cent. (See paragraph 17.17.)
   21.6.14. MISTR NJR Repl %. War Next Higher Assembly MISTR Non-Job Routed Replacement
   Percent. (See paragraph 17.16.)
   21.6.15. MISTR NJR Prgm %. War Next Higher Assembly MISTR Non-Job Routed Program Per-
   cent. (See paragraph 17.15.)

21.7. War Pipeline Days. For descriptions of the peacetime pipeline days, see Chapter 23.
   21.7.1. BASE O-ST DAYS (MO 1). War Base Order and Shipping Time Days Month 1. During any
   SIRS computation, if the SRC is “P” or “S”, that value is updated accordingly with either the peace-
   time value or the default value from the OWRM Table (Figure 6.14.). If the SRC is “E”, then only
   during the initial March computation, the base O&ST days will be updated from the value on the
   STANDARD DATA TABLE-ERRC. (See paragraph 23.3.3.)
   21.7.2. BASE O-ST DAYS (MO 2). War Base Order and Shipping Time Days Month 2. Same as
   above. The user can file maintain a different value to be used for month 2 – 12 for the item. The HQ
   AFMC SIRS OPR can file maintain on the OWRM Table, by SMC, a different value to be used for
   month 2 – 12.
   21.7.3. JR STOCK LEVEL DAYS. War Job-Routed Stock Level Days. Updated from the default
   value on the Standard Data table (Figure 6.18.) (See paragraph 23.6.).
   21.7.4. NJR STOCK LEVEL DAYS. War Non Job-Routed Stock Level Days. Updated from the
   default value on the Standard Data table (Figure 6.19.) (See paragraph 23.5.).
   21.7.5. BASE RPR CYCLE DAYS. War Base Repair Cycle Days. On the March initial computa-
   tion, SIRS will update with either the peacetime days or the default days, whichever is less. This will
   override any file maintained value. On any other computation, this update will only be done if the
   SRC is “P” or “S” and will not be done if the SRC is “E”. (See paragraph 23.7.)
   21.7.6. BASE PROCESSING DAYS. War Base Processing Days. On the March initial computa-
   tion, SIRS will update with either the peacetime days or the default days, whichever is less. This will
   override any file maintained value. On any other computation, this update will only be done if the
   SRC is “P” or “S” and will not be done if the SRC is “E”. (See paragraph 23.9.).
   21.7.7. REP INTRAN DAY (MO 1). War Reparable Intransit Days Month 1. During any computa-
   tion, if the SRC is “P” or “S”, that value is updated accordingly with either the peacetime value or the
   default value from the OWRM Table (Figure 6.14.). If the SRC is “E”, then only during the initial
   March computation, the reparable intransit days will be updated from the values on the OWRM Table.
   (See paragraph 23.10.).
   21.7.8. REP INTRAN DAY (MO 2). War Reparable Intransit Days Month 2. Same as above. . The
   user can file maintain a different value to be used for month 2 – 12 for the item. The HQ AFMC SIRS
   OPR can file maintain on the OWRM Table, by SMC, a different value to be used for month 2 – 12.
   21.7.9. SUPPLY TO MAINT DAYS. War Supply to Maintenance Days. The war default value
   (SRC S) from the OWRM table for that ALC is assigned for those items that undergo all depot repair
   at a single ALC location, or the ALC Source Of Repair (SOR) = 100%. For items with multiple, con-
   tractor, or unassigned SOR, the peacetime value (SRC P) is assigned. For computations other than the
512                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      March initial computation, the supply to maintenance days is not updated when the SRC equal “E”.
      (See paragraph 23.11.).
      21.7.10. SHOP FLOW DAYS. War Shop Flow Days. For items that undergo all depot repair at a sin-
      gle ALC location, SOR = 100%, SIRS computes the war shop flow days equal to the peace shop flow
      days minus the war shop flow days percent from the OWRM table for that ALC, times the peace shop
      flow days, rounded. For items with multiple, contractor, or unassigned SOR, the peacetime value
      (SRC P) is assigned. F or computations other than the March initial computation, the shop flow days
      is not updated when the SRC equal “E”. (See paragraph 23.12.).
      21.7.11. SERV TURN IN DAYS. War Serviceable Turn In Days. Updated from the default value on
      the Standard Data table (Figure 6.19.) (See paragraph 23.13.).
      21.7.12. DEP RPR CYC DA (MO1). War Depot Repair Cycle Days cannot be file maintained.
      SIRS computes it as the total of the war base processing days, war reparable intransit days, war shop
      flow days, war supply to maintenance days and war turn-in days. If war depot repair days are now
      greater than the MAX DRC DA on the Standard Data table (Figure 6.17.), a message is put on the
      IMS Review list (see paragraph 13.2.).
      21.7.13. DEP RPR CYC DA (MO2). Same as above.

21.8. Other War Data.
      21.8.1. Float S/L. War Depot Floating Stock Level. Not used.
      21.8.2. Users 1-3. War Number of Users. Months 1, 2, 3, and 4. For the March initial computation
      only, SIRS updates this element with the number of peacetime users for that time phased quarter of the
      Extended Year (EY).
      21.8.3. Users 4-6. Months 4, 5, and 6. For the March initial computation only, SIRS updates this ele-
      ment with the number of peacetime users for that time phased quarter of the EY.
      21.8.4. Users 7-9. Months 7, 8, and 9. For the March initial computation only, SIRS updates this ele-
      ment with the number of peacetime users for that time phased quarter of the EY.
      21.8.5. Users 10-12. Months 10, 11, and 12. For the March initial computation only, SIRS updates
      this element with the number of peacetime users for that time phased quarter of the EY.
      21.8.6. Comp Tmsp. Computation Time Span is the war computation time-span in months. It is
      equal to a number between 1 and 12. It can only be file maintained on the OWRM Table (Figure
      6.14.).
      21.8.7. WUC. This is the Work Unit Code from D087H. It can only be file maintained in D087H.

21.9. The SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet. This product displays the war data and the OWRM
computational results.
      21.9.1. The OWRM computation worksheet can be viewed online DIS SIRS CW SOCW (Figure
      21.3. through Figure 21.8.). To view the display screens, enter the SGM or NIIN, and a valid AS OF
      Date (the default date is the current cycle). After page 1 is displayed, use the paging/scrolling com-
      mands to select any other page. Page 3 displays the data for the peak month in the first column fol-
      lowed by data for months 1, 2, 3, 6 and 12. Page 3 may contain more data than can be displayed on one
      screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              513


  21.9.2. The hard copy product AD200.AIPA#88K (Figure 21.9.) is automatically generated after
  each SIRS computation, for items computing a buy, term, repair, excess, or based on the item activity
  code. For items computing excess, this product is produced only if this is the first time the item is in
  excess, or if the current computed excess quantity is larger than last cycle’s excess quantity. The hard
  copy product can also be requested from the OPR Reports selection screen (Figure 5.2.), the IMS
  Reports selection screen (Figure 13.4.), the Select SGM For “What IF’ screen (Figure 10.2.) or from
  the “For Real” Item Recomp screen (Figure 10.1.). The first page of the report is the Item Detail page
  that shows basic management information, pipeline days and forecast rates and percentages. The sec-
  ond part of the report is the results of the time-phased requirements computation for the 12 months of
  the war year (EY). This part of the report has variable number of pages or display screens, since a data
  element does not appear of the report if it has no data.
  21.9.3. The following data is always displayed on the OWRM computation worksheet.
     21.9.3.1. Current Date. DD MMM YY and time of the print of the product.
     21.9.3.2. As Of Date. DD MMM YY of the asset cutoff date. Immediately to the right of the asset
     cutoff date, is a two position field to indicate the segment of the quarterly cycle and the number of
     re-runs of the segment. The first position will be "I" for the initial computation, "F" for the final
     computation, and "S" for the summary computation. The second position will be a numeric to
     indicate the number of times that that computation was recomputed.
     21.9.3.3. SGM. The 15-position Sub Group Master stock number.
     21.9.3.4. ALC. The two-position code indicating the ALC that is responsible for managing the
     item. (See paragraph 14.14.2.)
     21.9.3.5. IMS. The three-position code indicating the Inventory Management Specialist (IMS)
     responsible for managing the item. (See paragraph 14.14.7.).
     21.9.3.6. ES. The three-position code indicating the Equipment Specialist (ES) assigned to the
     item. (See paragraph 14.14.6.).
     21.9.3.7. Name. The name of the subgroup master stock number. (See paragraph 14.7.).
     21.9.3.8. ERRC. The ERRC Code (N, P, C or T) for the stock number. (See paragraph 14.14.5.).
     21.9.3.9. MIEC. The Mission Item Essentially Code for the subgroup master stock number that
     was file maintained in D200F/API. (See paragraph 14.14.8.).
     21.9.3.10. Prgm Sel. The item Program Select Code for the master stock number. (See paragraph
     14.14.11.).
     21.9.3.11. WUC. The Work Unit Code (WUC) passed from D087H that indicates the item's rela-
     tionship to the Next Higher Assembly (NHA) or end item (See paragraph 3.7.).
     21.9.3.12. Budget Code. The Budget Program, System Management Code, and Materiel Program
     Code (BP/SMC/MPC) for the subgroup master stock number. (See paragraph 14.2.)
     21.9.3.13. Sfty Lvl Excl Ind. The Safety Level Exclusion Indicator of "X" indicates an IMS deci-
     sion to exclude the subgroup master stock number from the Variable Safety Level (VSL) or Air-
     craft Availability Model (AAM) computation. Otherwise the value is blank. (See paragraph
     14.10.).
514                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      21.9.3.14. Unit Prices. The Actual and Forecast (FCST) Unit Prices are displayed. The forecast
      unit price is determined by the fiscal year the subgroup master stock number was last procured and
      the latest inflation indices. (See paragraph 14.11.)
      21.9.3.15. Flt Stk. The floating stock level for war which is not used. (See paragraph 15.4.).
      21.9.3.16. Cage. The contractor and government entity (CAGE) associated with the part number
      of the item (See paragraph 3.8.).
      21.9.3.17. Part Number. The manufacturer's Part Number for the subgroup master stock number
      (See paragraph 3.8.).
      21.9.3.18. For descriptions of the rest of the data, see paragraphs 21.5., 21.6., 21.7. and 21.8.

Figure 21.3. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet (page 1).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                         515


Figure 21.4. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 2).
516                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 21.5. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 3 levels).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                               517


Figure 21.6. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 3 rqmts).
518                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 21.7. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 3 results).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                 519


Figure 21.8. Display SOCW OWRM Comp Worksheet Screen (page 3 deficit).
520                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 21.9. OWRM Computation Worksheet Product (Page 1: Item Detail)




Figure 21.10. OWRM Computation Worksheet Product (Page 2: Actual Computation Worksheet).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                521


                                               Chapter 22

                                   PROCUREMENT LEAD TIMES

22.1. Introduction.
   22.1.1. This chapter describes the process and file maintenance procedures to be used by the Inven-
   tory Management Specialist (IMS) to validate Procurement Lead Time (PCLT). PCLT is the time that
   elapses between a decision to acquire stocks of spares through new acquisition and delivery of those
   spares by a vendor. PCLT is the total of Administrative Lead Time (ALT) and Production Lead Time
   (PLT). ALT and PLT are displayed in Days and in Months on the SIRS Pipeline Data screen, DIS
   SIRS SND PLD (Figure 23.1.). ALT days and PLT days can be file maintained using the SIRS Pipe-
   line Data screen, FM SIRS SND PLD (Figure 23.2.). All adjustments to ALT and PLT must be prop-
   erly documented on the D200A notepad and AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and
   maintain it in a location readily available for audits/inspections.
   22.1.2. SIRS receives the actual ALT and PLT days by subgroup master stock number from the
   Requirements Item Identification System (RIID), D200E. SIRS puts a "J" for the source reference
   code for actual ALT and PLT received from J018R. If the item has a Non-consumable Item Material
   Support Code (NIMSC) of 5 and the Air Force is the Secondary Inventory Control Activities (SICA),
   ALT/PLT default standards are assigned by SIRS. ALT days and PLT days are converted to months by
   RIID using the routine in paragraph 22.5.3., and also passed to SIRS. J018R also passes PLT to RIID
   by current stock number at the time of contract award. This PLT is based on the contractor's quote,
   plus RIID adds 15 days transportation time to this contractor quote.
   22.1.3. ALT and PLT are displayed by subgroup master stock number on the SGM Computation
   Worksheet Rqmts (see paragraph 9.3.12.). Also displayed are the source reference codes assigned by
   SIRS which are J (actual days from RIID), E (entered/file maintained) and S (default days assigned by
   SIRS). SIRS uses default days (see paragraph 6.19.) for new items and continues to use default days
   until days are received from RIID or days were entered by file maintenance. Default days are devel-
   oped by HQ USAF & the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR and are file maintained in SIRS on the Standard Data
   Table by ERRC (Figure 6.19.) by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. Whenever the SRC is already an S
   (default value) and that default value is changed on the table, the element's value will be automatically
   updated by SIRS.

22.2. ALT. ALT is developed by determining the number of days between date of PR/MIPR initiation
and date of contract or purchase order award. The initiation date is recorded by input of the “A” transac-
tion in J041 and passed to J018R. This date will be displayed on the AFMC Form 339 J018R.5FA gener-
ated by the J018R system and should be entered by the IMS on the AFMC Form 318 under the “date
initiated” column. If the IMS chooses not to record the ALT on an AFMC Form 318, the IMS will retain
the AFMC Forms 339 showing the initiation of the PR and the award of the contract as a permanent
record for the life of the item. For manual PR/MIPRs, use the date the IMS actually signed/submitted the
PR/MIPR. For initial provisioning buys, use the date the IMS signed the D220 product as the beginning
of the ALT and use the date the order was established as the end of the ALT period not the date the provi-
sioning contract was awarded. D200E automatically adds 7 days to the ALT received from J018R. If you
are manually calculating the ALT add 7 days for approval of the buy computation and preparation of the
acquisition document; this is part of the ALT and includes such actions as review, documentation, and
approval of the buy requirement. (This is not established as a limit on PR preparation time, but as a stan-
522                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


dard to allow for time expended.)Subtract any unusual delays such as funding freezes (see paragraph
22.2.1.7.). File maintain the ALT days. The IMS will ensure ALT changes are documented on the D200A
notepad and AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintain it in a location readily
available for audits/inspections.
      22.2.1. Use the most recent PR/MIPR to determine ALT. The IMS may also use the ALT based on a
      contract awarded after the asset cutoff date. The ALT for urgent PRs will be used. When manually cal-
      culating the ALT, the IMS must add seven days to the ALT to allow for the approval of the buy com-
      putation and preparation of the acquisition document. ALTs passed to SIRS from RIID already include
      the seven days administrative time if the ALT came from J018R. If the ALT came from J018R prior to
      the RIID interface with J018R, it will not include the seven days for approval/preparation. The follow-
      ing are exceptions and are expected to be used infrequently.
         22.2.1.1. When the latest PR/MIPR was processed on an emergency basis or when the ALT expe-
         rience is not considered realistic, use the last representative ALT or the ALT of a like item. When
         this exception is utilized, it must be well documented. Do not include unusual delays, such as
         funding freezes, extensive rework time, etc. (See paragraph 22.2.1.7.).
         22.2.1.2. When an incremented, multiple year, option contract, multi-year, or other contract that
         provides for subsequent options or orders, is available, base the ALT on the time required to place
         the order or exercise the option. If the last actual ALT was not from the exercise of one of the con-
         tract options, an average of 26 days should be used unless contracting provides a more realistic
         value for the item. This abbreviated ALT should not be input until the basic contract quantity is
         delivered otherwise the quantity bought for the difference in ALTs may be put into termination.
         (Note that before that contract expires, ALT must be adjusted to reflect time required to obtain
         new or additional contract coverage. This adjustment could occur "full ALT" before contract expi-
         ration. A better option to changing the ALT "full ALT" before contract expiration is to submit a
         "zero" dollar PR when the final option is exercised. This allows time for a new catalog contract to
         be awarded before the old one expires.)
         22.2.1.3. Base ALT for first time replenishment buys, when possible, on similar items (technol-
         ogy, value, acquisition method) which have an established acquisition history.
         22.2.1.4. Use of the system default ALT will only be used for the items for which the methods
         used in the previous paragraphs cannot be used and no other supply estimate is available and for
         those items mentioned in para 22.2.1.5. When the IMS does not expect to buy the item in the
         future, 30 days should be file maintained unless the item is part of an I&S family. If something
         such as unexpected condemnations should happen in the future that requires the item to be bought,
         remove the 30 days ALT and revert to the methods described in the previous paragraphs to arrive
         at a representative ALT.
         22.2.1.5. Insurance items will always use the default ALT as they are not normally procured
         again. AF SICA NIM5 items will use the values in the RIID D200E System. The IMS does not
         need to file maintain this field on AF SICA NIM5 items as it is not used in the comp.
         22.2.1.6. If the item is peculiar to an obsolete weapon system, but the item is not coded obsolete,
         the ALT should be file maintained as 30 days.
         22.2.1.7. Do not include unusual delays such as funding freezes, extensive rework time, etc. The
         ALT passed from J018R through the RIID D200E system includes funding freeze time. A query of
         J018R should be done at each ALC to determine the number of days each PR is placed in code 65,
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 523


       “awaiting funds”. The number of days in code 65 must be subtracted from the ALT (see para-
       graph 22.2.2.). These deleted days must also be annotated on the AFMC Form 318 or another
       paper or a compact disc and maintain it in a location readily available for audits/inspections with
       a note saying “awaiting funds per J018R”. Code 65 information is also available on a monthly
       J018R report, J018R-4ZA-M1-850.
       22.2.1.8. For buys from surplus dealers, use the ALT for awarding the contract to the surplus
       dealer.
       22.2.1.9. For I&S family members, use the ALT of the I&S family master.
       22.2.1.10. If an item is being locally manufactured by a Temporary Work Request, use the date
       the IMS initiates the Temporary Work Request through the date that maintenance accepts it plus 7
       days as the ALT.
   22.2.2. ALT is developed by determining the number of days between date of PR/MIPR initiation and
   date of contract or purchase order award. The initiation date is recorded by input of the “A” transac-
   tion in J018R. This date will be displayed on the AFMC Form 339 generated by the J018R system and
   should be entered by the IMS on the AFMC Form 318 under the “date initiated” column. If the IMS
   chooses not to record the ALT on an AFMC Form 318, the IMS will retain the AFMC Form 339s
   showing the initiation of the PR and the award of the contract as a permanent record for the life of the
   item. For initial provisioning buys, use the date the order was established as the end of the ALT period
   not the date the provisioning contract was awarded. D200E automatically adds 7 days to the ALT
   received from J018R. If you are manually calculating the ALT add 7 days for approval of the buy
   computation and preparation of the acquisition document; this is part of the ALT and includes such
   actions as review, documentation, and approval of the buy requirement. (This is not established as a
   limit on PR preparation time, but as a standard to allow for time expended.)Subtract any unusual
   delays such as funding freezes (see paragraph 22.2.1.7.). File maintain the ALT days. The IMS will
   ensure ALT changes are documented on the D200A notepad and the AFMC Form 318.

22.3. Production Lead Time Computation. PLT is the time between the date of award of the contract
or purchase order and the date of the first significant delivery quantity. A significant delivery quantity is
defined as at least 10 percent of the total contract or purchase order quantity. Insurance items will always
use the default PLT. When manually computing the PLT, the IMS should add 15 days transportation time
to the PLT from a contractor quote. The IMS will ensure PLT changes are documented on the D200A
notepad and AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintain it in a location readily
available for audits/inspections. If the IMS chooses not to record the PLT on an AFMC Form 318, the
IMS will retain the AFMC Form 339s showing the award of the contract and the delivery of the assets as
a permanent record for the life of the item. AF SICA NIM5 items will use the values in the RIID D200E
System. The IMS does not need to file maintain this field on AF SICA NIM5 items as it is not used in the
comp.
   22.3.1. In the absence of valid data from RIID, PLT may be derived from these sources:
       22.3.1.1. The latest acquisition history or other valid data available to the ALC may be used to
       determine PLT. When actual item history does not support the lead time input to SIRS, sufficient
       justification must be documented in the item records for management reviews and audits. When
       the IMS does not expect to buy the item in the future, 30 days should be file maintained for the
       PLT unless the item is part of an I&S family. If the IMS does not expect to ever buy any of the
524                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         items in the I&S family again, including the I&S family master, 30 days PLT should be input into
         SIRS. If something such as unexpected condemnations should happen in the future that requires
         that requires the item to be bought, remove the 30 days PLT and revert to the methods described to
         arrive at a representative PLT.
         22.3.1.2. Contractor quotes of PLT and the PLT of contracts awarded after the asset cutoff date
         may be used instead of actual history; however, since contractor quotes for PLT and new contract
         awards not received from RIID interface do not include transportation time to the ALC storage
         site, add an extra 15 days to the PLT estimate prior to file maintenance into SIRS. If the IMS
         chooses to use either of these, the IMS needs to ensure that the date of last procurement (DOLP)
         reflects the contractor quote or new contract award as applicable. It is not necessary to use con-
         tractor quotes if they are not realistic. However, if they are available but not used, document the
         justification for not using them and keep the documentation in the item folder, for as long as the
         data is being used in SIRS. Contractor's quotes passed to SIRS from RIID already include 15 days
         transportation time.
         22.3.1.3. The IMS may obtain PLT for a new item from the contractor through local contracting
         and manufacturing representatives, or may use the PLT of a like item which has an established
         PLT.
      22.3.2. While unusual circumstances affecting PLT may be considered, disregard those of a tempo-
      rary nature. When figuring PLT input to the computation, do not consider situations resulting in an
      understatement of PLT because the contractor filled part of an order from existing stock or diverted it
      from current production. If the total quantity of "off the shelf" or "diversion from production" is
      known to exceed the 10 percent criteria, an adjustment may be made to reflect the contractor's true
      continuous production capability. When an item has a requirement for first article approval, make sure
      the first article time is excluded from the PLT unless a first article is required every time the item is
      purchased. Normally PLT should be computed as the time from first article approval to the first signif-
      icant delivery, but if a first article is required every time the item is purchased the contract line item
      award date to delivery of the first 10 percent criteria will be used. Use the AFMC new source insur-
      ance policy procedures (AFMCI 23-102, Part 2, Chapter 10, paragraph 10.2)to avoid a break in supply
      for these items. Give close attention to items competitively purchased using performance specifica-
      tions. Alternatively, acquisitions split between proven and new sources and in the case of low annual
      buy value, evaluate only the acquisitions from proven sources.
      22.3.3. PLT is developed by calculating the number of days between date of contract or purchase
      order award and date of first significant delivery (10 percent of the contract quantity). For initial pro-
      visioning buys, use the date the order was established as the start of the PLT period not the date the
      provisioning contract was awarded. If this number is derived from a contractor's quote, add 15 days
      for in transit time.
      22.3.4. SIRS will automatically move buy requirements of I&S families to the family master. Use the
      PLT of the I&S family master on the I&S family members. If the item is peculiar to an obsolete
      weapon system, but the item is not coded obsolete, the PLT should be file maintained as 30 days.
      22.3.5. For contracts awarded to surplus dealers, do not use PLT from the award to the surplus dealer
      as it is not representative of true production lead-time. Use methodology in paragraph 22.3.1. to
      determine PLT.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                525


   22.3.6. Unless the IMS is unable to obtain the PLT from one of the preceding sources, the default PLT
   will not be used for any items except for insurance items. To use the default for non-insurance items,
   the IMS must fully document why the PLT could not be obtained from the preceding sources.
   22.3.7. For items that require forgings, if the forging is being bought as part of the item procurement
   and not being bought separately from the item procurement, include the forging and machine time as
   part of the PLT of the item.
   22.3.8. For items which have widely varying PLTs within the last five years, the IMS may do an aver-
   age of the PLTs for input into SIRS. Thoroughly document the calculation and rationale for using it.
   22.3.9. For items being manufactured on Temporary Work Request, use the date maintenance
   accepted the Temporary Work Request until the date maintenance completes the Work Request as the
   PLT.

22.4. Lead Time for Items Acquired Under the SAIP Program. Extra lead time is authorized for
items acquired under the Spare Acquisition Integrated with Production (SAIP) program. This extra lead
time requirement is incurred due to the requirement to identify acquisition quantities well in advance of
the annual order placement date. The extra lead time represents the amount of time between the beginning
of the Apportionment Year (AY) and the order placement date for which acquisition quantities are being
projected. Upon completion of the production contract or receipt of the last SAIP delivery (whichever is
later), reduce the lead time to that authorized for normal acquisitions. Make sure the input for these items
is a true representation of the time required to obtain delivery of assets. Determine the amount of extra
time to be input for these items, as follows:
Step 1. Identify the annual order placement date and the computation cycle from which SAIP acquisition
quantities will be derived.
Step 2. Determine the amount of time in calendar days between the beginning of the AY (1 October) and
the upcoming order placement date. This applies to any computation cycle, including those with an asset
or usage cutoff date subsequent to 1 October.
Step 3. Determine the amount of time between the upcoming order placement date and the next subse-
quent order placement date. If this amount of time is less than 12 months (365 days), subtract this value
from 365 and deduct the difference from step 2. If equal to 365, do not adjust the result of step 2.
Step 4. Add the result to the ALT days developed according to the procedures in paragraph 22.2.2.

22.5. File Maintenance of Lead Time Days . The lead time days may be file maintained on the Pipeline
Data (PLD) screen (Figure 23.2.).
   22.5.1. File maintenance should be done during the file maintenance cycle (about 4 weeks), which
   starts after the initial computation is completed and ends with the start of the final computation. There
   may be a few days for file maintenance after the final computation is completed and before the start of
   the summary computation. The SIRS on line data base is maintained real time and reflects the latest
   data from interfacing systems or file maintained data, whichever was input last. After the summary
   computation, neither the SIRS database nor the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) can be
   updated for that quarter. The SIRS file maintenance screens are closed from the start of the summary
   computation until after the next cycle's initial computation is completed. Data is changed by entering
   the new data and pressing the ENTER key. If the entered data failed the edits, an error message will
   appear on the screen. When the entered data passes the edits, the notepad will appear. After entering
526                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      the documentation for the changed data on the notepad screen, press ENTER, and the file maintained
      screen will re-appear with the notification "update successful" indicating that the data base has been
      changed to the entered values.
      22.5.2. SIRS allows a maximum 999 days for ALT and 2980 days for PLT but will only use a maxi-
      mum of 72 months total PCLT. The values for ALT and PLT displayed on the SGM Computation
      Worksheet Rqmts product may exceed 72 months total but only 72 months will be used to compute
      requirements. Enter ZZZZ to delete previously established figures and revert to standard days. Enter
      YYYYs to revert to data received from RIID. Documentation for data file maintained should be
      retained for as long as the lead times are in SIRS and for 2 years after that.
      22.5.3. The ALT Months and PLT Months cannot be file maintained. The ALT and PLT months are
      computed using this logic. Divide the ALT days by 30. Divide the PLT days by 30. If there were any
      left over days (carryover) add the left over days together. If the result is 15 to 44 days, add 1 month to
      the lead time segment (ALT or PLT) which contributed the largest number of days to this carryover. If
      equal days were contributed by each segment, then the 1-month addition is made to PLT months. If the
      result is 45 days or more, add 1 month to ALT and 1 month to PLT.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               527


                                               Chapter 23

                                           PIPELINE TIMES

23.1. Introduction. This chapter contains policy and file maintenance procedures for the Inventory Man-
agement Specialist (IMS), Equipment Specialist (ES) and Production Management Specialist (PMS) for
the validation of pipeline times for SIRS recoverable items. SIRS is not programmed to accept blanks for
pipelines days; therefore, values will be assigned along with either an "S" or "C" for the Source Reference
Code (SRC). Pipeline times can be viewed on the Pipeline Data (PLD) screen (Figure 23.1.) DIS SIRS
SND PLD. and on the MISTR Repair Data Product (see Figure 15.5.). Most pipeline times can be file
maintained using the FM SIRS SND PLD screen (Figure 23.2.). Supply to maintenance days, shop flow
days and serviceable turn in days are file maintained on the FM SIRS SND MRPR screen (see paragraph
15.5.). All days referred to in this chapter are calendar days, not working days.

Figure 23.1. Display PLD Pipeline Data Screen.




23.2. General Policy.
   23.2.1. Pipeline times represent the authorized number of days worth of stock to be in the inventory
   at the base and depot supply/repair facilities or intransit between them. Stock levels that SIRS com-
528                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      putes using these pipeline days should, under average conditions, assure continuing support of supply/
      repair lines during maintenance and resupply times. Pipeline times are displayed by subgroup master
      stock number on the SGM Computation Worksheet Rqmts (see paragraph 9.4.) display screen and
      hard copy product. The source reference codes that can be shown on each segment are S (default days
      assigned by SIRS), C (computed by SIRS), A (actual days from an interfacing system), and E
      (entered/file maintained).
      23.2.2. For new items, SIRS assigns the default values for all pipelines times and continues to use
      default days until actual days are received from an interfacing system or days were entered by file
      maintenance. The default or "standard" values are developed by HQ USAF and are file maintained in
      SIRS on the "Standard Data Table -ERRC" by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR (see paragraph 6.19.).
      23.2.3. The IMS verifies pipeline times with assistance from the ES. When an actual pipeline time
      exceeds the default value by more than 10 days, it must be justified by the IMS through research and
      documentation. If the actual pipeline cannot be substantiated, the default value should be used instead.
      The PMS should inform the IMS, as soon as possible, when an item is transitioning from Reliability
      Improvement Warranty (RIW) or Interim Contractor Support (ICS) to Air Force repair, and from/to
      contractor repair to/from organic repair. Documents supporting why pipeline times were file main-
      tained should be kept for as long as those days are in SIRS and for 2 years after that.

Figure 23.2. File Maintenance PLD Pipeline Data Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                529


23.3. General Instructions For File Maintenance of Pipeline Times.
   23.3.1. File maintenance should be done during the file maintenance cycle (about 4 weeks), which
   starts after the initial computation is completed and ends with the start of the final computation. There
   may be a few days for file maintenance after the final computation is completed and before the start of
   the summary computation. The SIRS on line data base is maintained real time and reflects the latest
   data from interfacing systems or file maintained data, whichever was input last. After the summary
   computation, neither the SIRS database nor the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) can be
   updated for that quarter. The SIRS file maintenance screens are closed from the start of the summary
   computation until after the next cycle's initial computation is completed. Data is changed by entering
   the new data and pressing the ENTER key. If the entered data failed the edits, an error message or
   warning message (see paragraph 23.3.3.) will appear on the screen. When the entered data passes the
   edits, the notepad will appear. After entering the documentation for the changed data on the notepad
   screen, press ENTER, and the file maintained screen will re-appear with the notification "update suc-
   cessful" indicating that the data base has been changed to the entered values.
   23.3.2. For any pipeline time, file maintain "ZZZs" to delete previously established data and SIRS
   will revert to using the default days. Whenever a different default value is file maintained on the SIRS
   Default Table, SIRS automatically updates that value for all stock numbers that have that data element
   with an SRC of "S".
   23.3.3. There are three types of Warning Messages that SIRS can display on the PLD screen.
      23.3.3.1. SIRS compares the file maintained value of each data element to that data element's
      default value on the "Standard Data Table - ERRC" (Figure 6.19.). If the file maintained value
      exceeds the default value for that pipeline time, SIRS displays a warning message on the screen. If
      the IMS still wants to use this data, press ENTER. SIRS will then display the warning message
      "EXCEEDS STD" identifying the pipeline days that exceed the default days, on the IMS Review
      List (see paragraph 13.2.).
      23.3.3.2. For base order and shipping time days, and base repair cycle days SIRS compares the
      file maintained value to the value of the "Standard Data Table - ERRC", plus 10 days. For base
      processing days, SIRS compares the file maintained value to the value of the "Standard Data Table
      - ERRC", plus 3 days. When the file maintained value is larger, SIRS displays a warning message
      on the screen. If the IMS still wants to use this data, press ENTER. SIRS will then display the
      warning message " D035C-A BASE PROCESSING DAYS > DEFAULT + 3" or " D035C-A
      BASE RPR CYCLE DAYS > DEFAULT + 10" or " D035C-A BASE O&ST DAYS > DEFAULT
      + 10" on the IMS Review List (see paragraph 13.2.).
      23.3.3.3. When the current base Not Reparable This Station (NRTS) forecast is 100%, file main-
      taining base repair cycle days greater than zero will cause SIRS to display a warning message.

23.4. Base Order and Shipping Time (O&ST) Days.
   23.4.1. O&ST is the time that elapses between the initiation of a request for a serviceable item and its
   receipt by the requesting activity. (Requisition transactions which receive a backorder status are
   excluded). O&ST days are used in the computation to determine the O&ST requirement. O&ST
   requirements are stock levels computed by SIRS to support the bases during the time it takes to order
   and receive replacements for parts condemned at the base or returned to the depot as NRTS.
530                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      23.4.2. SIRS assigns the default base O&ST days for new items. For items with no Organizational
      and Intermediate Maintenance (OIM) program, the IMS does not have to check the O&ST days. The
      IMS may file maintain estimated days using like items. Each quarter, the Recoverable Assembly Man-
      agement Process System (RAMP) D035C sends SIRS averaged actual base O&ST days for the sub-
      group master. Zeros may be file maintained, but SIRS uses the zeros during the computation. File
      maintain "YYYs" to revert to data received from the RAMP interface.

23.5. Non-Job-Routed (NJR) Stock Level Days. NJR stock level days are the authorized number of
days worth of stock that has been approved to be in the inventory at the organic or contractor overhaul
facility to support a Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) workload. NJR days represent the length of time
for which serviceable assets must be available at the overhaul facility to replace those reparable parts
which have been turned-in to supply in unserviceable condition from the various DLM overhaul pro-
grams. These days represent a quantity of the component item which will be needed to support the
“biweekly drive” quantity of the higher assembly being repaired. The stock level SIRS computes using
these days will assure continuing support of the overhaul line during turn-in and resupply time. There is
no mechanized interface to provide these days. SIRS assigns default days, even when the item does not
have a NJR program percent greater than zero. The IMS can file maintain any numeric value, including
zeros, in this field.

23.6. Job-Routed (JR) Stock Level Days. JR stock level days are defined as the number of days worth
of stock level which is approved to be on hand to support the overhaul facility to replace items which are
condemned during job-routed repair. These days represent a quantity of the component item which will be
needed to support the “biweekly drive” quantity of the higher assembly being repaired. There is no mech-
anized interface to provide these days. SIRS assigns default days, even when the item does not have a
NJR program percent less than 100%. The IMS can file maintain any numeric value, including zeros, in
this field.

23.7. Base Repair Cycle Days.
      23.7.1. Base repair cycle days are the number of days from the time an unserviceable item is removed
      from use until the time it is made serviceable in base maintenance and ready for issue, not including
      time awaiting parts. SIRS assigns the default base repair cycle days, when there are no actual or esti-
      mated days. The IMS, with assistance from the ES and PMS, should determine what the base repair
      cycle days should be. If the current and forecast base NRTS percent is 100, SIRS will automatically
      internally put zero into base repair cycle days as long as the field is not file maintained, and the SRC
      will be "C". The IMS should not manually file maintain this quantity to zero for 100% NRTS
      items--leave the actual or default and let SIRS automatically do it.
      23.7.2. Each quarter, RAMP sends SIRS averaged actual base repair cycle days for the subgroup mas-
      ter. Use the actual days from RAMP. Enter "YYYs" to revert to the values received from the RAMP
      interface.

23.8. Depot Repair Cycle Days. DRC days are the authorized peacetime number of days worth of stock
that has been approved to be in the pipeline to cover the OIM NRTS generations from operating bases,
plus the NJR NRTS generations from overhaul facilities (for both organic repair at the ALCs and at con-
tractor facilities). These days represent the time from the removal of an unserviceable item from the
weapon system or NHA on which it was installed, until the item is made serviceable through repair by an
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                531


organic or contractor overhaul facility and returned to depot stock. This data element cannot be file main-
tained. It is computed by SIRS as a total of the Base Processing Days, Reparable Intransit Days, Supply to
Maintenance Days, Shop Flow Days, and Serviceable Turn-In Days. SIRS compares the computed total
DRC days to the Maximum DRC Days on the "Standard Data Table" (Figure 6.17.). If it is greater than
the Maximum DRC Days on the SDT, what is used in the computation is adjusted to that Maximum value,
but the online data remains the same. The Maximum DRC Days is file maintained by the HQ AFMC
SIRS OPR.

23.9. Base Processing Days. The base processing days covers the time from when an item is removed
from the weapon system or NHA, bench checked, processed through base supply, and is ready for ship-
ment. Each quarter, RAMP sends SIRS averaged actual base processing days for the subgroup master. If
the current and forecast base NRTS percent is 100, SIRS will automatically internally put the default
value into base processing days as long as the field is not file maintained. The IMS should not manually
file maintain this quantity to the default value for 100% NRTS items--leave the actual or default and let
SIRS automatically do it. If the item is a 100% NRTS item and the field has been file maintained Y or Z
the field so SIRS can compute correctly internally.

23.10. Reparable Intransit Days.
   23.10.1. The reparable intransit days covers the time from the shipment by base supply to the receipt
   by the SOR. Each quarter, RAMP sends SIRS averaged actual base intransit days for the subgroup
   master. The RAMP Repairable Item Transportation Time product (PCN-A-SCS-RAMP-QT-2BC)
   does not reflect the Repairable Intransit Days shown in SIRS. A DR will be initiated by the HQ
   AFMC SIRS OPR to have this error corrected. More guidance will be provided upon the correction of
   this problem. File maintain "YYYs" to revert to the values received from the RAMP interface.
   23.10.2. Use the actual days received from RAMP or the default value for all items except for those
   items that meet the following criteria:
       23.10.2.1. For items that have contract repair and the reparable assets MUST be sent to the depot
       prior to shipment to the contractor, the item manager may add a value no larger than the current
       default value to the reparable intransit days. This does not apply to those items where there are
       more reparable assets than the current repair requirement and the IMS is sending the reparable
       assets to the depot for storage. For those items that have dual organic/contract repair and all repa-
       rables are returned to the depot, a weighted average should be developed by the IMS and file
       maintained.

23.11. Supply to Maintenance Days. The supply to maintenance days covers the period of time
between maintenance’s request (or shipment to maintenance per express table) for an unserviceable item
until maintenance acknowledges receipt of the unserviceable asset. SIRS receives by current stock num-
ber, organic production records from G004L and contract production records by contract/CLIN from
G072D. Because these production records do not contain Supply to Maintenance Days, the default value
is stored for each production record. Actual data may be file maintained if documented. SIRS computes a
‘weighted’ value at SGM level for use in the requirements computation (see paragraph 15.9.). The SRC
will be "C". If no production records are received, SIRS will assign the default value. Supply to Mainte-
nance Days can be file maintained on the MISTR Repair and Repair Data (MRPR) screen (see paragraph
15.5.).
532                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


23.12. Shop Flow Days.
      23.12.1. The shop flow days covers the time from the date the reparable is input for repair to the date
      of the serviceable output. SIRS receives by current stock number, organic production records from
      G019C and contract production records by contract/CLIN from G072D, containing shop flow days.
      SIRS computes a ‘weighted’ value at SGM level for use in the requirements computation (see para-
      graph 15.9.). The SRC will be "C". If no production records are received, SIRS will assign the default
      value. Shop Flow Days can be file maintained using the MISTR Repair and Repair Data (MRPR)
      screen (see paragraph 15.5.).
      23.12.2. For Contract Repair Enhancement Program (CREP) items, if the contract has been negoti-
      ated and awarded, use the times specified in the contract. For ICS items, see paragraph 23.15. For
      items acquired under Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW), the guaranteed shop flow days speci-
      fied as one of the provisions of the RIW contract are used. An exception to this policy may be used
      when actual shop flow time generated from the contractors experience is available and it is less than
      the guaranteed days in the RIW. If these days are more than the guaranteed days in the RIW, contrac-
      tual remedies should be explored before buying additional spares to support the item for additional
      shop flow days.

23.13. Serviceable Turn-in Time. The serviceable turn-in time covers the intransit time, that applies to
the processing of serviceable items from the SOR to supply. SIRS receives by current stock number,
organic production records from G004L and contract production records by contract/CLIN from G072D.
Because these production records do not contain Serviceable Turn-in Days, the default value is stored for
each production record. Actual data may be file maintained if documented. For dual SOR (including
CREP), use the default value or the weighted negotiated days. For CREP items, if the contract has been
negotiated and awarded, file maintain the times specified in the contract. If a contract has not yet been
negotiated, use the default value. SIRS computes a ‘weighted’ value at SGM level for use in the require-
ments computation (see paragraph 15.9.). The SRC will be "C". If no production records are received,
SIRS will assign the default value. Serviceable Turn-in Time can be file maintained using the MISTR
Repair and Repair Data (MRPR) screen (see paragraph 15.5.).

23.14. Repair Lead Time. Repair Lead Time (RLT) is the amount of time required to restore an unser-
viceable item to serviceable condition. This data element cannot be file maintained. SIRS computes repair
lead time by adding together the supply to maintenance days, shop flow days, and serviceable turn-in
days. The IMS can only change repair lead time by file maintaining supply to maintenance days, shop
flow days, and serviceable turn-in days at the production number level causing SIRS to recompute the
weighted value for that data element. SIRS compares the repair lead-time days to the Minimum RLT Days
and Maximum RLT Days on the Standard Data Table (SDT). If it is greater than the Maximum RLT Days
on the SDT, what is used in the computation is adjusted to that maximum value, but the online data
remains the same. If it is less than the Minimum RLT Days on the SDT, what is used in the computation
is adjusted to that minimum value, but the online data remains the same. The Maximum RLT Days and the
Minimum RLT Days are file maintained by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR (see paragraph 6.17.)

23.15. Time-Phased Depot Repair Cycle. Whenever the item is expected to have a dramatic change in
one or more of its depot repair pipeline segments (such as the source of repair is transitioning between
contract and organic repair, or there is a significant change in the repair procedure, etc.), the IMS should
file maintain that change in the time phased depot repair cycle fields. Beginning with the time-phased
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               533


depot repair cycle date (YYMM), SIRS will switch from using the depot repair cycle days and start using
the time-phased depot repair cycle days to determine requirements. The PMS should give the IMS the
date that the items pipeline segment(s) will change (such as from organic to contractor repair). The year
must be within the item's computation span, at least 2 quarters past the asset cutoff date, and the month
must be 03, 06, 09 or 12. The Time Phased Depot Repair Cycle Effective Date is a mandatory entry for
time-phased DRC data. To delete the time-phased DRC data, file maintain "ZZZs" in the time phased
DRC effective date field. The time phased depot repair cycle effective date is used to forecast funding for
the first month of the quarter indicated. For example, 9803 indicates that repair begins January 1998.
Repair prices to customers are developed and funds requirements are forecasted using this date. The IMS
can file maintain this date and all 5 segments of the time phased depot repair cycle on the PLD screen.
SIRS will assign a zero to any time-phased data element left blank. Total time phased depot repair cycle
and time phased repair lead time are calculated by SIRS. For ICS items, use the effective date of the tran-
sition to time phase the organic shop flow days.

23.16. Depot Repaired Items With NJR DLM Program. With the implementation of Block 2.0 for the
30 June 2001 cycle, SIRS has two new fields for pipeline days: depot reparable intransit days and depot
processing days. These days are applied to the reparable generations originating from the DLM repair (see
paragraph 9.8.70.). There is no mechanized source for these days. SIRS uses the default values for these
days in the SDTE table (see paragraph 6.19.). When the item management specialist can justify different
days, then the item management specialist can file maintain the days using the PLD screen. Documenta-
tion should be made on the notepad, and kept in the item folder.
534                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                  Chapter 24

                                       ADJUSTED STOCK LEVELS

24.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the policy and file maintenance procedures to be used by the
Inventory Management Specialist (IMS) to validate Adjusted Stock Levels (ASL) and Number of Users.
Adjusted Stock Levels are also called Adjusted Levels (ADJ LVL) and Special Levels. ASL can be spe-
cial requirements for new items that have not experienced sufficient usage to predict future activity, for
items that are associated with low-density requirements, or for established items that experience fluctua-
tions in OIM usage. ASL and related data are input to SIRS from D035E (the Readiness Based Leveling
System or RBL). This data can be file maintained on the ALVL screen, FM SIRS SND ALVL. (Figure
24.4.). The data can be viewed by Subgroup Master stock number (SGM) and Stock Record Account
Number (SRAN) on the two ALVW screens DIS SIRS SND ALVW. (Figure 24.1. and Figure 24.2.). The
format of the SRAN is XX9999 (two alphas and four numeric characters. The data is also displayed on the
Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet A-D200.-ACK-A#-8B0 (Figure 24.6.). The total adjusted levels
for the SGM are displayed as the Special Levels line on the SGM Computation Worksheet (see para-
graph 9.8.9.) and on the Consolidated Assets and Additive (see paragraph 26.12.) products. The number
of users for the SGM are displayed as Time-Phased Users on the SGM Computation Worksheet (see
paragraph 9.8.86.) and as Phased NBR of Users on the Consolidated Assets and Additive products. SIRS
adds the ASL to the OIM Base Stock Level in the requirements computation. SIRS uses the Total Number
Of Users in the computation of the OIM Safety Level (see paragraph 9.8.7.), which is also added to the
OIM Base Stock Level in the requirements computation.

24.2. Processing of Data From D035E.
      24.2.1. SIRS receives a file for each quarterly cycle from RBL (D035E). The records on this file are
      by current stock number and SRAN. The records contain the level justification code, Effective Date
      (Authorized Load Date), Base Demand Level quantity, the Base Level Authorized quantity (the RBL
      (D035E) Adjusted Level quantity), and the Justification Phrase Text (Special Level Justification).
      When the level justification code from RBL (D035E) is an "A", the Type Indicator is set to "I" for Ini-
      tial Spares Support Lists (ISSL) (see paragraph 24.6.1.). When level justification code from RBL
      (D035E) is a "3", the Type Indicator is set to "F" for Forward Supply Support Lists (FSSL) (see para-
      graph 24.6.8.). Otherwise, the Type Indicator is set to blank. The Source Reference Code (SRC) for
      the Type Indicator is set to "C". If the third position of the SRAN is a 5, then the C-Factor is set equal
      to "2", otherwise it is a "1". The SRC for the C-Factor is set to a "C".
      24.2.2. Selection of the Base Level Authorized quantity for the SGM/SRAN. A given SRAN is
      allowed only one Base Level Authorized quantity per SGM. When there are multiple records from
      RBL (D035E) with the same SGM/SRAN/CSN, any ISSL records are ignored and from the remaining
      records, the one with the largest Base Level Authorized quantity is selected. If all the records are
      ISSL, then the one with the oldest Effective Date is selected. The data record will be stored at SGM
      level on the SIRS database ignoring the CSN. The SRC is "A".
      24.2.3. Computation of the Base Demand Level. The SRAN Base Demand Level is computed by
      summing the Demand Level quantities for all RBL (D035E) records with the same SGM/SRAN,
      ignoring the CSN. The SRC for the Base Demand Level is "C". If the Type Indicator is "I", the Base
      Demand Level is set to zero (see paragraph 24.5.8.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               535


  24.2.4. Computation of the Pipeline Quantity. The Pipeline Quantity can be obtained from the
  "C-Factor" table (Figure 24.5.). Each Base Demand Level from zero to 100 is listed in column 1. Col-
  umn 2 displays the calculated Pipeline Quantity for a C-Factor of 1. Column 3 displays the calculated
  Safety Level for a C-Factor of 1. Column 4 displays the calculated Pipeline Quantity for a C-Factor of
  2. Column 5 displays the calculated Safety Level for a C-Factor of 2. SIRS calculates the Pipeline
  quantity using these formulas. The C in the equations refers to the numeric C-Factor. Base Safety
  Level = 1/2(C)((square root of (12 times Base Demand Level plus 9(C)(C))) minus 3(C)). Pipeline
  Quantity = Base Demand Level minus Base Safety Level. The result is rounded to a whole number.
  The base Pipeline Quantity is defined as the quantity needed to support base Reparable This Station
  (RTS) actions, Not Reparable This Station (NRTS) and the time required for a base to make a NRTS
  or base condemnation decision. The Base Safety Level is defined as the quantity needed to satisfy
  variability of base usage.
  24.2.5. SIRS converts the RBL (D035E) Effective Date (YYDDD) to the Authorized Load Date
  (YYMM). The SRC values are set to "A" for the Authorized Load Date and the Special Level Justifi-
  cation (which is the RBL (D035E) justification phrase text). If the RBL (D035E) justification phrase
  text is blank from RBL (D035E) a warning message will be printed on the Item Review List product
  for the IMS. The warning message is not printed when the Base Level Authorized quantity equals zero
  and the Base Demand Level quantity is greater than zero.
  24.2.6. Computation of the SRAN Adjusted Stock Level. If the Type Indicator is "I", the ASL is zero
  (see paragraph 24.6.1.5.). Otherwise, the Pipeline Quantity is subtracted from the SRAN Base Level
  Authorized quantity to get the SRAN Adjusted Stock Level. The SRAN Adjusted Stock Level is put
  into the 38 quarters (See paragraph 24.5.12.).
     24.2.6.1. Once this data is rolled up to the SGM the data is compared to the previous quarter’s
     data. If the data for a unique SGM/SRAN combination was received from RBL (D035E)the previ-
     ous quarter and no data was received from RBL (D035E) for the current quarter, this SGM/SRAN
     data record is deleted from the SIRS database. If the data was received from RBL (D035E) last
     quarter and also for the current quarter, the current data record overlays last quarter’s data. If the
     data was file maintained last quarter and the SGM/SRAN was received RBL (D035E) for the cur-
     rent quarter, the D035E data overlays the file maintained data. SIRS stores an "X" on the database
     to indicate that this SGM/SRAN data came from RBL (D035E).
     24.2.6.2. If the data was file maintained last quarter and no SGM/SRAN data record was received
     from RBL (D035E) for this quarter, the file maintained data is retained. The ASL is shifted to the
     new cycle's 38th quarter and the oldest quarter of ASL is dropped. This file maintained data is
     retained for nine SIRS processing cycles, but then deleted if this SGM/SRAN data was not
     received from RBL (D035E) for any of those previous quarterly cycles.
     24.2.6.3. When the Type Indicator is "F" or blank and the SRAN Adjusted Stock Level quantity is
     zero and the SRAN Base Demand Level is also zero, this summarized SGM/SRAN record is not
     put on the database.
     24.2.6.4. The exception to the above logic are those SRANs identified as authorized New Activa-
     tion Supply Support Lists (NASSL) users (Type Indicator = "N"). NASSLs do not come in on the
     RBL (D035E) interface and must be file maintained by the IMS. A NASSL that has an Authorized
     Load Date equal to or older than the asset cutoff date is not allowed in SIRS, and is deleted.
536                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


24.3. The Display Adjusted Levels Verification Worksheet Screen (Figure 24.1. and Figure 24.2.).
The user may enter a SGM (or the NIIN) and, optionally, may enter a SRAN. If a SGM is entered, the
screen displays data for the selected SGM. If a CSN is entered in the SGM field, the corresponding SGM
is displayed in the SGM field. When an SGM is entered but the SRAN is left blank, SIRS displays data for
all SRANs associated with that SGM followed by the SGM totals data at the bottom. Data is displayed
one SRAN at a time on the screen. Use the scrolling functions to view data for the other SRANs and the
SGM totals. When the SGM totals are displayed, the SRAN specific data is not displayed (Figure 24.2.).
Type "X" in the FSS field to view just FSS SRAN data and totals for the SGM. After the SGM data
appears on the screen, type "X" by NOTEPAD to see the notepad. Change the AS OF date to view data
from previous cycles. A two position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the right of the AS OF field. The first
position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The second
position represents the number of times that item was recomputed during that computation cycle. A zero
means the item was not re-computed.

Figure 24.1. Display ALVW Adjusted Levels Verification Worksheet Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            537


Figure 24.2. Display ALVW Adjusted Levels Verification Worksheet Totals Screen.




24.4. General Policy For Adjusted Stock Levels.
   24.4.1. ASL are based upon negotiated quantities between the IMS, the System Program Director,
   and the using command. Adjusted Stock Levels may include stock listed ERRC “N” and “P” items
   with budget code “8” (see AFMAN 23-110, Vol. 1, Part 1, Chapter 12, paragraph 12.72.5) and stock
   listed ERRC “C” and “T” items.
   24.4.2. ASLs are not authorized for Insurance items. All AF Form 1996s for insurance items should
   be rejected by the IMS and returned to the requesting bases. ASL are not authorized for Special Pur-
   pose Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance (see paragraph 24.8.).
   24.4.3. The IMS should review the item folder for any AF Form 1996s or other authority for the ASLs
   such as the ISSL or the Command/ALC letter of negotiation. The IMS should determine whether the
   authorization for the ASL is still current by comparing it to the end of quarter RBL (D035E) Special
   Level Master Summary. If the Approved Effective Date (AP-EF DATE) on the Special Level Master
   Summary is less than 730 days old, then the ASL is still current. Compare the authorizations with the
   Base Level Authorized (BASE LVL AUTH) on the Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet
   (A-D200.-ACK-A#-8B0). If the Base Level Authorized from RBL (D035E) has decreased, the IMS
   does not need a new source document. If the Base Level Authorized from RBL (D035E) has
   increased, the IMS must have the new source document from the base user before the IMS can file
   maintain any changes in SIRS.
538                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      24.4.4. Unless the user has updated the effective date, ALSs expire after 730 days and are deleted in
      RBL (D035E). RBL (D035E) notifies the Standard Base Supply System (D002A) that the ASL has
      expired and was deleted. If the base still requires the ASL, then the base must send a new AF Form
      1996, Adjusted Stock Level to the IMS. Expired Special Levels are visible in the RBL (D035E) “Lev-
      els” “RBL Interrogation” “Expired Adjusted Stock Levels” Menu. For an expired ASL, the IMS
      should not input the ASL into SIRS until a new AF Form 1996 is received from the base. The IMS
      does not have to contact the base to request this AF Form 1996.
      24.4.5. All source documents ( AF Form 1996, ISSL listing, MSSL listing, etc.) should be retained by
      the IMS and be available for auditors for as long as the ASL is in the computation and for 2 years after
      the ASL is removed.
         24.4.5.1. If the source document for a current ASL appearing on the Adjusted Level Verification
         Worksheet is missing, the IMS should ask the MAJCOM, base, or ISSL Monitor to provide a copy
         for the IMS file.
         24.4.5.2. The IMS does not need to keep the source document for Air Force Communication
         Agency (AFCA) Pre-position ASL, Forward Supply Support Lists (FSSL) or In-Place Readiness
         Spares Package ASL as the documentation is on the Web for these. However, these Web pages
         may get changed. So the IMS should keep a hard copy of the appropriate Web page, or keep a copy
         of the end of quarter RBL (D035E) Special Level Master Summary as the source document for
         these ASLs.
      24.4.6. For additional information on ASLs and the AF Form 1996 (see paragraph 24.6.5.1.) and
      AFMAN 23-110, Volume I, Part One, Chapters 11 and 12 and AFMAN 23-110, Volume III, Part One,
      Chapter 6.

24.5. File Maintenance of Adjusted Stock Level Data.
      24.5.1. The adjusted stock level data can be file maintained on the FM SIRS SND ALVL screen.(Fig-
      ure 24.4.) File maintenance should be done during the file maintenance cycle (about 4 weeks), which
      starts after the initial computation is completed and ends with the start of the final computation. There
      may be a few days for file maintenance after the final computation is completed and before the start of
      the summary computation. The SIRS database is maintained real time and reflects the latest data from
      interfacing systems or file maintained data, whichever was input last. After the summary computation,
      neither the SIRS database nor the Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) can be updated for that
      quarter. The SIRS file maintenance screens are closed from the start of the summary computation until
      after the next cycle's initial computation is completed.
      24.5.2. All file maintenance is done at the SGM level by SRAN. SIRS will display the ALVW
      Adjusted Level Selection Screen (Figure 24.3.) listing all SRAN records for the SGM selected. Select
      the SRAN and press ENTER. The ALVL screen (Figure 24.4.) appears. Data is changed on the ALVL
      screen by entering the new data and pressing the ENTER key. If the new data failed the edits, an error
      message will appear on the screen. When the new data passes the edits, the notepad will appear. Noth-
      ing will be displayed for the Old Value and for the New Value on the notepad. Documentation is
      required to explain the reason(s) for changing the data element(s). After entering the documentation,
      press ENTER, and the file maintained screen will re-appear with the message "Update Successful"
      indicating that the SIRS database has been changed.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            539


Figure 24.3. File Maintenance ALVW Adjusted Level Selection Screen.




   24.5.3. Function Code can only be an A (add), C (change), or D (delete).
      24.5.3.1. A new SRAN is added by putting "A" in the function code, typing the SGM and new
      SRAN and pressing ENTER. Enter the documentation in the notepad and press ENTER. The
      ALVL screen will appear with "C" in the function code and the rest of the data can be entered. The
      SRAN INPUT date will default to the asset cutoff date. The SPCL LVL JUST field will default to
      blank and must be file maintained. SIRS will set the C-Factor to 2 for SRANs with a format of
      FB5XXX. SIRS will set the C-Factor to 1 for all other SRANs. All other values will default to
      zero and all SRCs will default to “C.” If no data is received from RBL (D035E) in the following
      quarterly processing cycles for an added SRAN, the data will be saved for eight additional cycles.
      On the 10th processing cycle, SIRS will delete the SRAN.
      24.5.3.2. To change data for a SRAN, select the SRAN on the ALVW screen, press ENTER and
      type a “C” in the function code on the ALVW screen, and type a valid SGM and press ENTER.
      Type over the data to be changed. To have SIRS revert to the actual data received from RBL
      (D035E), enter Y's in any of these fields: Type Indicator, C-Factor, Authorized Load Date, Base
      Level Authorized, Base Demand Level and Special Level Justification. Enter Z's in Adjusted
      Stock Level and/or time-phased User fields to have SIRS calculate the values.
      24.5.3.3. To delete a SRAN, enter a “D” in the function code and type a valid SGM and SRAN
      and press ENTER. The SRAN data will be displayed with a message "Do you want to delete the
540                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         record". The IMS confirms the delete by typing "Y" and pressing ENTER. The IMS types "N" to
         cancel the delete action. SIRS provides the appropriate message, either "SRAN deleted" or
         "Delete canceled".

Figure 24.4. File Maintenance ALVL Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet Screen.




      24.5.4. Type Ind. The Type Indicator can be an “F” (FSS item), “I” (ISSL item), “N” (NASSL item)
      or blank (other categories of ASL).
      24.5.5. C Factor. The only valid values for the C-Factor are 1 for CONUS bases and 2 for all overseas
      bases. SIRS will set the C-Factor to 2 for SRANs with a 5 in the third position of the SRAN. All other
      SRANs are set to 1. The C-Factor may be file maintained to 2 for those overseas SRANs not following
      the FB5XXX format. SIRS will display a warning message on the screen when the FB5XXX logic is
      not followed. However, the file maintenance will be accepted. The C-Factor is used in the calculation
      of the base Pipeline Quantity.
      24.5.6. Auth Date. The format is YYMM where YY is the last two digits of the calendar year and MM
      is the quarter in which the Authorized Load Date falls. The only values for the quarter are 03, 06, 09,
      and 12. SIRS uses this date to determine which quarter to start the ASL and/or number of Users (see
      paragraph 24.5.12.2. and paragraph 24.5.13.2.). For NASSLs this date must be greater than the
      Asset Cutoff Date, or the record will be deleted by SIRS.
      24.5.7. Pos Auth. This is the Peacetime Operating Stock Level Authorized also called the Base Level
      Authorized. This quantity is received from RBL (D035E) or file maintained. (See paragraph
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                541


  24.2.2.). If the Type Indicator is "I" or "N", the field is set to zero. This quantity minus the Pipeline
  Quantity equals the SRAN Adjusted Stock Level.
  24.5.8. Base Dmnd Lvl. The Base Demand Level is received from RBL (D035E) or file maintained.
  If the Type Indicator is "I" or "N", the Base Demand Level is set to zero. It is used by SIRS to calculate
  the Pipeline Quantity. (See paragraph 24.2.3.).
  24.5.9. Pipeline Qty. SIRS always computes the Pipeline Quantity and it cannot be file maintained. If
  the Base Demand Level is greater than or equal to the Base Level Authorized, then the Pipeline Quan-
  tity is set to zero. Otherwise, the Pipeline portion of the SRAN Base Demand Level is computed by
  SIRS. (See paragraph 24.2.4.). The Pipeline Quantity is subtracted from the SRAN Base Level
  Authorized quantity to get the SRAN ASL (paragraph 24.5.2.).
  24.5.10. SRAN Input is a date that cannot be file maintained. It is in the format YYQQ. It will display
  the year (YY) and quarter (03, 06, 09 or 12) that the SRAN data was file maintained. If the SRAN
  Input Date is blank, the data displayed was received from RBL (D035E).
  24.5.11. SPCL LVL JUST. Special Level Justification contains the ID of the source document such as
  the Initial Spares Support List (ISSL) number, AF Form 1996, Date Time Group (DTG), etc. This text
  field must have something file maintained. If left blank, SIRS will produce the error message "Failed
  range check, SPCL LVL JUST must not be space". The rest of the changes to the SRAN record will
  not take, until this field is file maintained.
  24.5.12. SRAN Adjusted Level Quantity By Quarter.
     24.5.12.1. This is the ASL for the SGM computed by SIRS or file maintained by the IMS. If the
     Type Indicator is "N", all 38 quarters are set to zeroes, and cannot be file maintained. If the Type
     Indicator is "I", all 38 quarters are set to zeroes, but they can be file maintained.
     24.5.12.2. If the Type Indicator is "F" or blank, SIRS puts the computed ASL (paragraph
     24.2.6.) into the quarter in which the Authorized Load Date falls, and straight-lines the quantity to
     the end of the computation. SIRS puts zero into any quarter prior to the Authorized Load Date. If
     the Authorized Load Date is older than the Asset Cutoff Date, then the ASL is put into all 38 quar-
     ters.
     24.5.12.3. The IMS should not file maintain increasing adjusted levels for the ASL. When file
     maintenance occurs to one of the 38 quarters of data, the new value is straight-lined into all subse-
     quent quarters until a new change occurs or to the 38th quarter. If Base Demand Level, Base Level
     Authorized, C-Factor, Type Indicator or Authorized Load Date are file maintained, SIRS will
     re-compute the ASL and override any file maintenance of the ASL. If zero is file maintained into
     any of the Time-Phased User quarters, SIRS will change the ASL for that corresponding quarter to
     zero. File maintain ZZZ's into any quarter and SIRS will re-compute the ASL.
  24.5.13. SRAN Time-Phase Users By Quarter.
     24.5.13.1. There are 38 quarters for the SRAN Time Phased Users. This field can only be one or
     zero.
     24.5.13.2. If the Type Indicator is "I" or "N", one is put in each quarter starting with the quarter
     that the Authorized Load Date falls and zero is put into each quarter prior to the Authorized Load
     Date.
542                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         24.5.13.3. When the Type Indicator is "F" or blank, the Base Demand Level is checked. When the
         Base Demand Level is greater than zero, the number of Users is one in all 38 quarters. When the
         Base Demand Level is zero, but the Base Level Authorized is greater than zero, then one is placed
         in each quarter starting with the quarter that the Authorized Load Date falls and zero is placed in
         each quarter prior to the Authorized Load Date. When both the Base Demand Level and the Base
         Level Authorized are zero, the number of Users for all quarters are zero.
         24.5.13.4. If a base is deactivating or if the mission supported is being transferred to another base,
         the IMS can file maintain the Time Phased User to zero in the quarter following the quarter in
         which it will deactivate. The IMS should enter a single zero in the appropriate quarter and press
         ENTER. SIRS will straight-line the zero into each quarter through the last (38th) quarter of the
         computation.
         24.5.13.5. SIRS automatically sets the Adjusted Stock Level to zero in those quarters in which the
         Time Phased User is set to zero. The SRC is set to "C" for computed or "E" for file maintained.

24.6. Categories of Adjusted Stock Levels (ASLs).
      24.6.1. Initial Spares Support Lists (ISSL).
         24.6.1.1. ISSLs are established lists of spare and repair parts that are required to support site acti-
         vations of new systems for a certain period of initial support (usually two years). ISSLs are
         intended to provide base level support while demand experience is being developed. The ISSL
         item candidates are determined during the provisioning process (see AFMCI 23-101). For recov-
         erable items, the ISSL quantity represents the order and ship time and base repair cycle require-
         ments. The documentation for this Adjusted Stock Level is a copy of the ISSL listing.
         24.6.1.2. In most cases, quantities for ISSL adjusted stock levels are not included in SIRS.
         Instead, SIRS increases the number of users to equal the number of SRANs that are authorized an
         ISSL detail. This is because the additional pipeline requirement for these bases is already included
         in the computation by an increase in the program data for these new weapon systems. The change
         to the number of users includes them in the safety level calculations. (Although SIRS may not
         include ISSL quantities as an ASL, the Standard Base Supply System may contain ISSL quantities
         for bases, which become part of the base requisitioning objective).
         24.6.1.3. Future activations are indicated by an increase in the time-phased users that coincides
         with the anticipated activation date. SRANs that are already considered users (i.e., computing a
         base demand level, as indicated by data from the D035A system) are not considered ISSL users.
         SIRS straight-lines the increased number of users in the computation throughout the remaining
         quarters. The ISSL expiration date occurs three years after the last delivery of the end item at the
         last site. If the ISSL expiration date is past the current quarter, the ISSL may no longer be used in
         SIRS and must be removed.
         24.6.1.4. Quantities for ISSL ASLs cannot be included in SIRS unless the item is non-demand
         based (Numeric Stockage Objective) or used on a low-density system. A "Low Density" system is
         defined as having four or fewer end items per geographical site. In addition, the item must be mis-
         sion critical and its failure at a single site would cause the system to be inoperative. If the item
         meets these criteria, then the IMS may input to SIRS adjusted stock levels sufficient to allow one
         asset for each geographical site.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             543


     24.6.1.5. Spares requirements for tactical C-E systems should not be duplicated within the Readi-
     ness Spares Package (RSP, formerly called WRSK) and the ISSL, unless the consumption data
     supports both requirements. For systems with both RSP and ISSL, is the item critical to mission
     accomplishment, or would its failure create a safety hazard? If so, put the spares requirement in
     the RSP. If no, then does the anticipated Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF) data or the Total
     Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance Demand Rate (TOIMDR) indicate the item will fail
     within 60 days? If so, put the spares requirement in the RSP. If not, and the MTBF or the TOIMDR
     indicates that the item will fail two or more times in a 12 month period, put the spares requirement
     in the ISSL.
     24.6.1.6. File Maintaining an Initial Spares Support List (ISSL) Item. On the ALVL screen, enter
     an “I” in the Type Indicator Code field and press ENTER. Put "C" in the function code and press
     ENTER. The AUTH DATE must be file maintained with a value greater than the Asset Cutoff
     date. (It is possible to enter data in the POS AUTH and BASE DMND LVL fields, but the data will
     not be accepted). Starting with the AUTH DATE quarter, SIRS will put 1 into each quarter of the
     Time Phased User fields through the last quarter of the computation. SIRS will put zero in all the
     Adjusted Stock Levels as well as the POS AUTH and BASE DMND LVL fields. The IMS can file
     maintain a quantity greater than zero into the Adjusted Level quarters. SIRS will accept that num-
     ber, but will put zero into each quarter before the AUTH DATE and will straight-line the number
     file maintained until the end of the computation.
  24.6.2. New Activation Supply Support Lists (NASSL) are developed by the using major command
  and the system program director to support new activation of an existing system. ASLs are not autho-
  rized to support NASSLs. However, the IMS should ensure the SRAN is added via file maintenance
  so the number of users reflects anticipated activations. On the ALVL screen, enter a “N” in the Type
  Indicator field and press ENTER. Put "C" in the function code and press ENTER. Only the AUTH
  DATE is file maintainable and that date must be greater than the Asset Cutoff date. Authorized load
  dates for NASSL items are not allowed in SIRS if they are equal to or older than the asset cutoff date.
  (It is possible to enter data in the POS AUTH and BASE DMND LVL fields, but the data will not be
  accepted). Starting with the AUTH DATE quarter, SIRS will put 1 into each quarter of the Time
  Phased User field to the last quarter of the computation. All the Adjusted Stock Levels (ADJ LVL)
  will be set to zero as well as the POS AUTH and BASE DMND LVL fields. The documentation for
  file maintaining the user is the NASSL.
  24.6.3. Major Command Spares Support Lists (MSSL) are developed by the using commands, fol-
  lowing the ISSL expiration, to support low density systems with demand experience that is too infre-
  quent or too sporadic to permit the user to maintain a stock level with a NASSL. The documentation
  for this ASL is a copy of the MSSL with its cover AF Form 1996. (See AFMAN 23-110, volume. 1,
  part 1, chapter 12, paragraphs 12.30-12.32.)
  24.6.4. Command Negotiated Stock Levels are requested by a major command, usually by letter or
  message in AF Form 1996 format, for a range of stock numbers for SRANs under its control that
  require additional stock levels. This document is the documentation for this type of Adjusted Stock
  Level.
  24.6.5. Base Negotiated Stock Levels are initiated and developed by the using base and are negotiated
  between the requesting base, the Major Command, and the IMS. Those with an extended dollar value
  of less than $5000 are approved at base level. RBL accepts the XE4 transaction from the base loads
544                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      the adjusted level in RBL and passes the information to D200A. The AF Form 1996 is the documen-
      tation for this type of Adjusted Stock Level. See paragraph 24.4.3. for further instructions.
         24.6.5.1. When the IMS receives an AF Form 1996 from a base, with a new ASL or an increased
         ASL, the IMS will approve or disapprove it based on the 1996 justification. The justification must
         explain, to the satisfaction of the IMS, that the ASL is needed because the base’s reported usage
         does not represent the true need of the base. If the IMS approves the ASL, then the IMS will (1)
         File maintain the ASL data in the Stock Control System Readiness Base Leveling (D035E) via the
         Adjusted Stock Level Input menu. (2) Put a copy of the AF Form 1996 in the item folder. (3)
         Return the approved AF Form 1996 to the Major Command. After receiving the approved AF
         Form 1996 from the Major Command, the base will send an XE4 transaction which will load the
         SBSS document number against the ASL in D035E.
         24.6.5.2. The IMS will send all disapproved AF Form 1996’s to the Major Command. The reason
         for disapproval will be annotated on the AF Form 1996.
      24.6.6. ASLs for Depot Maintenance Type Facilities. SIRS will not accept this data from RBL
      (D035E). The ES and IMS per AFMAN 23-110, Vol. 1, Part 1, Chapter 12, paragraph 12.72.1.1.6.
      may approve an AF Form 1996 from a depot. The ASL can be file maintained in SIRS by the IMS, if
      it has been approved by the D200A ALC OPRs who will verify that the requirement is not already
      computing in SIRS. SIRS computes levels for the depots through the depot stock level and the depot
      variable safety level. A depot maintenance ASL will not be loaded into D200A by the IMS until a
      D200A ALC OPR approves it. Those depot ASLs with an extended dollar value of less than $5000 are
      approved by the chief of maintenance. RBL accepts the XE4 transaction and loads the adjusted level
      within RBL, but the levels are not passed to D200A.
      24.6.7. Air Force Communication Agency (AFCA) Pre-Position includes Single Point Failure (SPF),
      Operational Readiness Part (ORP) and Joint Transfer Agreement (JTA) items. The levels are com-
      puted and approved by the MAJCOMs (Major Command) and sent to AFCA. AFCA then adds these
      levels to the Low-Density Level (LDL) database. These levels only pertain to non-airborne communi-
      cation-electronic items, space items and missile items. The approved levels (ASLs) are passed from
      RBL (D035E) to SIRS. Documentation authority of these ASLs is the end of quarter Special Levels
      Mater Summary. The information can also be viewed AFCA spreadsheet posted at web site https://
      www.afca.scott.af.mil/c-e_supply/alc_ld-levels.htm. AFCA Pre-Position items can be file main-
      tained in SIRS by the IMS. The Type Indicator is blank. After reviewing the items, the IMS may
      present challenges concerning the AFCA Pre-position level of an item to AFCA. AFCA will forward
      any challenges to the applicable MAJCOM for review. Any changes that the IMS makes to the data
      from RBL (D035E) should be thoroughly justified and documented.
      24.6.8. Forward Supply Support Lists (FSSL) are computed by the Air Mobility Command (AMC).
      The approved ASLs are passed from RBL (D035E) to SIRS. FSSs establish levels at designated for-
      ward supply locations and support strategic airlift missions on established routes and route extensions
      in forward areas. Documentation authority of these ASLs is the end of quarter Special Level Master
      Summary. The AF Form 1996 is not required for an FSSL. Forward Supply Support levels can be file
      maintained in SIRS by the IMS. The Type Indicator is "F". Any changes to the data from RBL
      (D035E) should be thoroughly justified and documented.
      24.6.9. In-Place Readiness Spares Package (IRSP)ASL is loaded into RBL (D035E) through a XE4
      transaction initiated by the base. Then it is fed into D200A on a quarterly basis. It is used to retain a
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            545


   Total War Reserve (TWR) quantity in spite of fluctuations in demand level. The IRSP ASL is usually
   loaded by the base on the least preferred NSN, but RBL (D035E) automatically rolls the requirement
   to the most preferred NSN. So if there is an IRSP ASL on any of the one-way or two-way interchange-
   able items and there is a RSP buy and/or contingency requirement on any of them, then the IRSP ASL
   should be considered valid even if it is not on the same NSN as the RSP buy and/or contingency
   requirement. The ASL justification for these items begins with TR and ends with zeroes. The AF
   Form 1996 is not required for an IRSP ALS. The documentation authority for the IRSP ASLs loaded
   into D200A is the end of quarter Special Level Master Summary. Following these steps you will be
   able to access the most current IRSP ASL on line:
   Step 1. Go the RBL home page: https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/HQ-AFMC/LG/lgi-page/rbl-
   website/
   Step 2. On the RBL home page double click on the FTP icon.
   Step 3. On the screen that will appear, double click on "RBL FTP Access at 129.52.200.132" that
   appears under the heading FTP Access to RBL Reports.
   Step 4. On the next screen, screen down until you see a folder with your ALC two digit code followed
   by IRSP and MDC. Example: OC_IRSP_MDC
   Step 5. Double click on the folder.
   Step 6. You will find a notepad labeled ALL_MDC. This notepad has all the IRSP ASL requirements
   for the ALC by IMS code. You can view it by double clicking on it. You will need to screen down to
   find an individual IMS code or use find.
   Step 7. The IRSP ASL requirements are also broken out separately by individual IMS code. Example:
   XXX.TXT where the first three letters are the IMS code. The IMS can view his/her NSNs by double
   clicking on it.

24.7. The Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet. T h i s        product        (Figure          24.6.)
A-D200.-ACK-A#-8B0 displays the levels received from RBL (D035E), the data computed by SIRS and
any file maintained data. This product always displays 38 quarters of data. The report is in sequence by
ALC, DIV, IMS and SGM. It is "pushed" to the IMS for items requiring review or action from the initial,
final and summary computations. The product can be requested by IMS code using the OP SJR RCVS
PPS. screen (see paragraph 13.5.) or the OPSS screen (see paragraph 5.2.).
   24.7.1. The ALC, DIV (division) and IMS (item management specialist code) are displayed at the top
   of the page
   24.7.2. SGM is the Subgroup master stock number.
   24.7.3. ** = AF Form 1996 Required - A set of double asterisks are used to help the IMS identify
   those SRANs which should have an AF Form 1996 on file to justify the ASL. If any of the SRAN
   Adjusted Level Quantities greater than zero for any of the 38 quarters of data, the asterisks will be
   printed for that SRAN.
   24.7.4. SRAN ** Stock Record Account Number. Asterisks are only printed for SRANs having an
   ASL greater than zero and needing an AF Form 1996. See paragraph 24.7.3.
   24.7.5. Type Indicator is “F” (FSS item), “I” (ISSL item), “N” (NASSL item) or blank (other catego-
   ries of ASL). (See paragraph 24.2.).
546                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      24.7.6. C-Factor. The C-factor should be 1 for CONUS bases and should be 2 for overseas bases. (See
      paragraph 24.2.1.).
      24.7.7. Auth Date. The SRAN Authorized Load Date (YY MM). Indicates the 2 position year and the
      quarter (03, 06, 09 or 12) that the base will be authorized to load the ASL. If received from RBL
      (D035E), SIRS converts the date to quarters. The date is followed by an SRC of "A" (received from
      RBL (D035E) or "E" (file maintained). (See paragraph 24.2.5.).
      24.7.8. Base Lvl Auth. The Base Level Authorized quantity, also called the Peacetime Operative
      Stock (POS) Authorized quantity. (See paragraph 24.2.2.).
      24.7.9. Base Dmnd Lvl. The Base Demand Level for the SGM/SRAN. (See paragraph 24.2.3.).
      24.7.10. Base PL Qty. The computed base Pipeline Quantity for the SGM/SRAN. (See paragraph
      24.2.4.).
      24.7.11. SRAN Input Date displays the 2 position year and quarter (03, 06, 09 or 12) that the SRAN
      data was file maintained. If this date is blank, none of the data was file maintained and the data dis-
      played was received from RBL (D035E).
      24.7.12. Spcl Lvl Justification. The SRAN Special Level Justification is received from RBL (D035E)
      or file maintained into SIRS. It contains the ID of the source document such as Initial Spares Support
      List (ISSL) number, AF Form 1996, Date Time Group (DTG), etc.
      24.7.13. SRAN Adjusted Level Quantity By Quarter. This is the Adjusted Stock Level quantity for
      the SGM as computed by SIRS or file maintained by the IMS. (See paragraph 24.2.6. and para-
      graph 24.5.12.).
      24.7.14. SRAN Time-Phased User By Quarter. This is the time phased Users for the SRAN. The
      value will be either one or zero in every quarter. (See paragraph 24.5.13.). (Unlike D041, SIRS does
      not use the number of users from D035A).
      24.7.15. Total SGM Adjusted Level Quantity By Quarter. This is the sum of all the individual SRAN
      Adjusted Stock Levels by quarter for the SGM. (See paragraph 24.5.12.). This should be the same as
      the Special Levels line on the SGM Computation Worksheet (see paragraph 9.8.9.) and on the Con-
      solidated Assets and Additive Rqmts (see paragraph 26.12.) products.
      24.7.16. Total SGM Time-Phased Users By Quarter. This is the sum of all the individual SRAN Num-
      ber of Users. (See paragraph 24.5.13.). This should be the same as the Time-Phased Users line on the
      SGM Computation Worksheet (see paragraph 9.8.86.) and the Phased NBR of Users on the Consol-
      idated Assets and Additive Rqmts (see paragraph 26.12.) products.

24.8. Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance (SPRAM). Adjusted Stock Levels
(AF Form 1996) are not authorized to support SPRAM. SPRAM are assets used by a base maintenance
facility to perform functions such as fault isolation, calibration, equipment alignment, or system duplica-
tion. They are authorized by AFMAM 23-110, Volume I, Part 1, Chapter 11, Section AG. (The exception
is SPRAM that were provisioned and/or acquired, as part of an ISSL requirement, in which case the
SRANs authorized a SPRAM detail will be displayed as users until the ISSL expires). Because of the
change to stock funding of Depot Level Reparables, new SPRAM requirements are not an authorized
additive to SIRS. The systems program director will procure these using weapon system/equipment funds
and direct ship them to the user. If an agreement between the system program director and the user and the
prime IMS is reached, long supply assets may be repaired, if necessary, and shipped from the prime IMS
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              547


stock. If the asset must first be made serviceable, the quantity that needs to be made serviceable may be
added to the D075 ARRCS B21 or repaired on AF Form 206. These assets will not be free-issued from the
prime item manager stock. The user must pay for these assets. The user and the system program director
must make an arrangement to reimburse the user for these assets. These assets will be counted as losses on
the Asset Reconciliation report.

Figure 24.5. C-Factor Table.
548                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 24.6. Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            549


                                             Chapter 25

                                            ADDITIVES

25.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the policy and file maintenance procedures to be used by the
Inventory Management Specialist (IMS) to validate additive requirements. These are requirements that
fall outside of the scope of the normal computational methodology.
   25.1.1. All but two additive requirements can be viewed online by Current Stock Number (CSN)or by
   Subgroup Master stock number (SGM) on the DIS SIRS SND ADRQ screen (Figure 25.1.) and can
   be file maintained on the FM SIRS SND ADRQ screen (Figure 25.2.). Due Out To Maintenance
   (DOTM) (see paragraph 26.5.16.) and On Loan (formerly Bailment) are file maintained on the Non
   Time-Phased Asset screen FM SIRS SND NTPD (see paragraph 26.6.) and viewed on the DIS SIRS
   SND NTPD screen. The Consolidated Assets and Additive product, section 2, displays these additives
   at the pick-off points for the CSN or the SGM (see paragraph 26.12.).
   25.1.2. Additive requirements will not be applied to requirements that can be computed by SIRS with
   rates and factors that are developed for Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance (OIM) and
   Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) programs. In some cases, development of DLM or OIM factors is
   not feasible to achieve optimal support. When an additive is used to support an OIM or DLM pro-
   gram, the documentation will include an explanation of why the requirement could not be expressed
   with factors. Document the reason(s) online using the notepad capability. ADDITIVE REQUIRE-
   MENTS WILL NOT BE INPUT FOR THE PURPOSE OF RETAINING EXCESS ON HAND OR
   ON ORDER ASSETS THAT OTHERWISE WOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR DISPOSAL OR
   TERMINATION. All requests coming to the IMS/MM asking the IMS/MM to use an additive must be
   fully explained and justified by the requestor in writing. The IMS/MM and ES and if necessary the
   RCO, TCO or ALC D200A analyst will determine whether or not the requirement is already being
   computed in t D200A and whether or not it is outside the scope of rates and factors. The IMS/MM, ES
   and program manager(s) will review and coordinate on the computation for all items with file main-
   tained additives that compute a buy or repair requirement to validate there is not a duplication of
   requirements.
   25.1.3. Additive requirements stratify as non-recurring requirements and are displayed in the compu-
   tation worksheet separately from other requirements. Individual types of additive values are added
   together and appear on the Additive line of the requirements computation (see paragraph 9.8.37.). In
   addition, the W-B requirements, Other War Reserve Materiel (OWRM) requirements and RDE Recur-
   ring requirements appear on their respective computation lines. The W-B, also known as RSP or
   Readiness Spares Packages requirements come from D087H and represents the War Readiness Spares
   Kits (WRSK) or Mobility Readiness Spares Packages (MSRP), and Base Level Self-sufficiency
   Spares (BLSS), or In Place Readiness Spares Packages (IRSP), also called the Readiness Spares Pack-
   ages (RSP). The only additive that is a recurring additive is the Requirements Data Exchange (RDE)
   Recurring additive. Additives are time-phased for a maximum of 38 quarters. Additive requirements
   are not used in the Variable Safety Level (VSL). The W-B requirement is the only additive used in the
   Other War Reserve Material (OWRM) computation. The RDE Non-Recurring requirement is the only
   additive that is not used in the computation nor displayed on the computation products. This can be
   seen on the DIS SIRS SND RDEO screen.
550                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


25.2. Display Additive Requirements (ADRQ) Screen. Additive requirements can be viewed by SGM
or CSN for the current cycle using the DIS SIRS SND ADRQ screen (Figure 25.1.). If a CSN or the NIIN
of the CSN is entered in the CSN field with the SGM blank, the associated additives for the CSN are dis-
played along with SGM in the SGM field and the Source Reference Code (SRC). If a SGM or the NIIN of
the SGM is entered in the SGM field, the SGM totals are displayed and the SRCs are all blank. If the SGM
is a bachelor, the SRCs are displayed. The additive requirements displayed are either the actual values
from an interfacing system with an SRC of "A", or the file maintained values with an SRC of "E". Only
additives with at least one quarter containing a value greater than zero are stored on the database and can
be displayed. Many stock numbers will have no additives and SIRS will display the message "no data
meets the selection criteria". If the stock number is not on the SIRS database, SIRS will display the mes-
sage "not a recoverables item". After a CSN or a bachelor SGM has been selected and the additive data
displayed, the user may view the Notepad text for additives that have been file maintained by typing an
"X" in the NOTEPAD field or clicking on the notepad button using GUI. This element Notepad text is dis-
played in the order in which the data elements appear on the screen. If the Notepad is selected for a SGM
that is not a bachelor, a message is displayed stating that "Notepad is not available at the SGM level".

Figure 25.1. Display ADRQ Additives Data Screen.




25.3. General Instructions For File Maintenance of Additives.
      25.3.1. Quantitative (additive) type requirements are input to SIRS each quarter from interfacing sys-
      tems. They are Readiness Spares Packages (RSP) W-B Rqmt additive from D087H, High Priority
      Mission Support Kits (HPMSK) from D087H, the Weapon Training Detachment Operating Spares
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 551


  (WTDOS) from D087H, Foreign Military Sales (FMS) requirements from W001, Due Out To Main-
  tenance (DOTM) from D035A, and the FMS H-CD BO (FMS H-Coded backorders) from D035A.
  SIRS receives RDE requirements via M024B for ERRC “C” and “T” items. For ERRC “N” and “P”
  items, RDE requirements comes from D035B. RDE requirements are displayed on the RDE Data
  screens (see Chapter 27). The only source of the other additives is by file maintenance. For the addi-
  tives received from interfacing systems, the new data completely replaces the old data during the ini-
  tial computation.
  25.3.2. Except for additives received from interfacing systems, the data is retained from one quarterly
  reporting cycle to the next quarterly reporting cycle. SIRS shifts these requirements upon entering into
  the next quarterly computation cycle. The shifting is done by dropping the first (oldest) quarter's quan-
  tity and then moving the second quarter's quantity into the first quarter, the third quarter's into the sec-
  ond quarter, the fourth quarter's quantity into the third quarter, etc. The 38th quarter's data is shifted
  into the 37th quarter and also remains in the 38th quarter. If the 38th quarter should have different
  data, the IMS should file maintain the data during the initial file maintenance period.
  25.3.3. Additives are file maintained by CSN. It is suggested that all additives for the SGM be viewed
  first, before file maintaining any additives by the CSN, because all these additives are going to overlay
  into that item’s computation. Type the CSN or the NIIN of the CSN in the CSN field. The CSN for the
  SGM must be used to updated the W-B requirements, OWRM requirements, HPMSK and WTDOS
  additives. To select the additive, put an "X" beside the additive(s) to be changed or click on the addi-
  tive type using GUI. Press ENTER, and the quarterly quantity fields to be file maintained will appear.
  File maintenance can be done one data element at a time, or multiple data elements may be selected.
  If multiple data elements are selected, SIRS will process the selected additives, from left to right and
  top to bottom. If the ENTER key is pressed without a file maintenance action, SIRS displays the next
  additive selected. The "X" or check mark if using GUI in the selection field is removed once the addi-
  tive's data is displayed on the screen.
552                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 25.2. File Maintenance ADRQ Additives Data Screen.




      25.3.4. The quantity fields can be changed by either: (1) entering the new number in the left portion
      of the field, (2) placing the cursor (using GUI) directly over the existing number and overlaying, or (3)
      filling the field with zeroes in front of the desired quantity. Use the tab key to move from one quarter
      to another. Data is changed by entering the new data and pressing the ENTER key. File maintain zeros
      to delete data. For the W-B requirements, OWRM requirements, FMS H-CD BO, FMS, HPMSK and
      WTDOS, enter Y's in the quantity fields to revert to the input data from the interfacing systems.
      25.3.5. There are four types of additives where only the first quarter can be changed and the first quar-
      ter value will be straight-lined throughout the 38 quarters of the computation. These additives are the
      OWRM requirements, FMS H-CD BO, FMS requirements, and HPMSK.
      25.3.6. For the other types of additives, the file maintained value is straight-lined into all subsequent
      quarters where the values were equal to the original value prior to the file maintenance. The first value
      that is different stops the straight-lining. To change selected quarters but not all quarters with the same
      value, file maintenance of the new value must be done in the first quarter to be changed and the origi-
      nal value must be entered in the quarter that is to remain unchanged, to stop the straight-lining at that
      quarter. Check the screen when it appears with the "update successful" message to ensure that it dis-
      plays all the correct numbers.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 553


   Example- Quarters Dec 00 through Sep 01 equal 5. Change Mar 01 to 6. Note that after file mainte-
   nance, Dec 01 and Mar 02 have kept their original value of 7.


F/M SCREEN BEFORE CHANGE
YEAR    JUN     YEAR     SEP                      YEAR        DEC          YEAR         MAR
 00     4       00       4                        00          5            01           5
 01     5       01       501                      7           02           7
F/M SCREEN AFTER F/M SUCCESSFUL
YEAR    JUN     YEAR     SEP                      YEAR        DEC          YEAR         MAR
 00     4       00       4                        00          5            01           6
 01     6       01       6                        01          7            02           7

   25.3.7. If the new data fails the edits, a message will be displayed. SIRS will display an error message
   when a changed data element will cause another data element which SIRS computes to exceed the size
   of the field (such as a total field). When the file maintained changes pass the edits, the notepad will be
   displayed. After documenting the reason for the file maintenance, press ENTER, and the message
   "update successful" will appear.

25.4. Additives On The ADRQ Screen. Categories of Additive Requirements used on the ADRQ
screen in SIRS are listed below in the order in which they appear on the screen along with how to file
maintain them. The ALC SIRS OPR after coordination with the ALC Budget OPR(s) and the ALC
DD1000 OPR can direct that an additive field not being used by that ALC, be re-designated for a special
purpose, such as life limited requirements. The HQ AFMC SIRS OPR, the HQ AFMC Budget OPR and
the HQ AFMC DD1000 OPR should be notified of the re-designation of an additive field.
   25.4.1. W-B Rqmt (WRSK-BLSS Requirement) or RSP.
       25.4.1.1. Definitions. Mobility Readiness Spares Packages (MRSP) are the air transportable pack-
       ages of spares and repair parts required to sustain planned wartime or contingency operations of a
       weapon or support system for a specified period of time pending re-supply. RSP are also called the
       War Readiness Spares Kits (WRSK). In-place Readiness Spares Packages or IRSP, (also called the
       Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares or BLSS) are spares and repair parts intended for use as base
       support for units that plan to operate in place during wartime. The RSP additives are received from
       D087H, and displayed in the SIRS computation as the WRSK-BLSS Rqmt. (In D041, the W-B
       requirements were called the prepositioned requirements.) Also displayed in the Central Second-
       ary Item Stratification (CSIS), D200N, as Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable (PREP
       W-R,PROT) and Prepositioned War Reserve Balance (PREP W-R,BAL).
       25.4.1.2. Development of W-B/RSP Requirements. WRSK-BLSS Requirements are developed
       through the joint effort of major commands, SPDs, the item management ALCs, and AFMC.
       AFMAN 23-110, Volume 1, Part 1, Chapter 14 is the governing directive. Reviews are held to
       determine the rates and factors application to each stock number within each kit. Authorized kits
       contain the actual stock number quantities required to have on hand in case of war. The 13 position
       kit serial number contains the aircraft Mission, Design, Series (MDS) (positions 1 – 6), the major
       command (positions 7 – 8), the PAA (positions 9 –10), the serial code (position 11-12) and the kit
554                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         status code (position 13). The same stock number (which may or may not be the subgroup master
         stock number) can have requirements on multiple kits. The classified Weapon System Manage-
         ment Information System (WSMIS) Requirements Execution/Availability Logistics Module
         (REALM), DO87G, computes WRSK-BLSS requirements by weapon system using wartime fly-
         ing hour programs. The computed WRSK-BLSS requirements (in kit quantities) for the current
         year (Contingency kit requirement) and the budget year (Buy kit requirement) are passed to the
         unclassified WSMIS REALM support system (D087H). D087H factors the WRSK-BLSS quanti-
         ties by the note code and application percent for the aircraft. Each stock number should have the
         same aircraft applications in API that is in D087H. When there are differences, the ES needs to
         resolve the problem with the system program manager for the weapon system.
         25.4.1.3. SIRS Processing of the W-B/RSP Requirements. For insurance and NSO items, SIRS
         places the quantity from D087H into the Non-Recurring Requirement line of the Insurance/NSO
         requirements computation (see paragraph 31.8.3.). For active items, the 38 quarters of
         WRSK-BLSS quantities from D087H completely replaces the old data, including any data file
         maintained. At HQ AFMC discretion, it is also possible to have D087H input new WRSK-BLSS
         quantities for the final computation. When multiple records are received for the same NIIN, SIRS
         totals all the quantities (for each of the 38 quarters) to arrive at a total WRSK-BLSS quantity for
         the current stock number. Any of the individual 38 quarters can be file maintained using the FOE
         FM SIRS SND ADRQ screen (Figure 25.2.). Subsequent to file maintenance of this additive, the
         IMS can revert to the quantity values from D087H by placing "Ys" in the quantity fields.
      25.4.2. OWRM Rqmt. File maintenance of this requirement is not authorized at this time. This
      requirement is computed by SIRS. (See paragraph 21..2).
      25.4.3. BNCH MOC (Bench Mock Up). Required supporting installations in end items used by
      maintenance activities to perform workshop check for the condition, completeness, or working order
      of components or pieces of equipment. Also used to support requirements for Air Force end articles
      used in classroom instruction for assembly, disassembly, adjustment, bench test, or individual demon-
      stration. The IMS should have a written request from the using organization, funds approved for repair
      or purchase and a statement that the assets will not be included in Special Purpose Recoverables
      Authorized to Maintenance (SPRAM). File maintained by selecting BNCH MOC.
      25.4.4. GFAE-GFM-GFP (Government Furnished Aerospace Equipment, Government Fur-
      nished Material, and Government Furnished Property). This additive is to cover GFAE/GFM/
      GFP, which are items acquired by the government and furnished directly to a contractor for inclusion
      in an end item, for production or for repair of the end item. The intent of GFAE/GFM/GFP is to
      achieve cost savings. GFAE/GFM/GFP assets located at repair contractors are not reported to any
      computer system, and therefore, must be file maintained in SIR by the IMS. GFAE/GFM/GFP addi-
      tives should only remain in SIRS until the asset has been shipped to the contractor. Upon shipment to
      the contractor, the additive should be deleted and the quantity shipped should be recorded as a loss
      under the "Shipment to Non Reporting Activities" data element of the Asset Reconciliation report.
      File maintained by selecting GFAE-GFM-GFP.
      25.4.5. INSTL (Installation). This additive is to support an approved installation which is not being
      funded from a modification. It authorizes issue of recoverable components missing from end items
      that had been delivered incomplete. It is also used to replace turn-ins of similar, but not I and S
      grouped items. In some cases assets are removed from a higher assembly, condemned and turned into
      supply and there are no serviceable assets available or unserviceable assets available for repair to
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              555


  serve as a replacement for the asset removed and the NHAs/application still are required and still need
  a replacement for the removed item. In such instances, where there is documentation proving this has
  happened, use the installation additive in the computation to show a requirement for the item unless a
  DOTM is being reported for it through D035A. (See Chapter 28, paragraph 28.9.5.) This additive is
  also used for safety of flight modification. The additive will be time phased based on the modification
  schedule. File maintain by selecting INSTL. The IMS/MM must have documentation supporting the
  additive from the program manager or end itme manager. This additive must be removed as soon as
  the assets are shipped.
  25.4.6. CAD-PAD (Cartridge Activated Devices/Propellant Activated Devices). This quantity is
  a requirement for Cartridge Activated Devices/Propellant Activated Devices in support of FMS "C"
  cases. Examples are seat ejection devices, engine starter cartridges, catapults and other items that,
  because of shelf life standards can be economically acquired only in lots on a phased basis. File main-
  tained by selecting CAD-PAD.
  25.4.7. MSN DIR (Mission Direct). Supports ERRC N and P delayed discrepancy backorders (sup-
  plementary address digits 2 and 3 are BQ or supplementary address beginning in YBG)., File main-
  tained by selecting MSN DIR. Delayed discrepancy backorders shall not be file maintained in SIRS
  for ERRC C and T items as a mission direct additive, instead scrub the B-21 to show any delayed dis-
  crepancy backorder requirement for ERRC C and T items.
  25.4.8. MOB TRN UNIT (Mobile Training Unit). This quantity is a requirement in support of
  Mobile Training Units. It is used to provide spare components of end items used by Air Training Com-
  mand field training teams or detachments. File maintained by selecting MOB TRN UNIT.
  25.4.9. RETFT-MOD (Retrofit/Modification). Use this additive for non-safety of flight modifica-
  tions. The additive will be time phased based on the modification schedule. Required to support acqui-
  sition of assets to include in Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO) kits. These TCTO kits may
  include installed equipment and on hand spares inventory up to the computed termination level of the
  item being modified. This quantity is a requirement for spares in support of retrofit and modification
  programs that have been scheduled. File maintain by selecting RETFT-MOD.
  25.4.10. SPR PLN (Special Programmed Requirements). This is a nonrecurring additive submit-
  ted through Standard Integrated Support Management System (SISMS) and Military Standard Trans-
  action Reporting and Accounting Procedures (MILSTRAP). These Special Program Requirements
  are DOD's way of identifying additive on-time requirements received from other service inventory
  control points, system program directors, and the Air Force Major Commands. File maintained by
  selecting SPR PLN.
  25.4.11. SPCL PROJ (Special Projects). The additive is for a Special Project. It consists of specifi-
  cally coded names or project numbers. Justification in the item folder should include the name and
  project for analysis and justification purposes. Required providing spare components for end items
  used in projects or programs directed by HQ USAF or major commands. End items may include
  installed equipment for new construction programs, security items, equipment used by HQ USAF
  controlled units, or other special requirements where separate identification of the material is consid-
  ered necessary.
  25.4.12. SPT EQP (Support Equipment). Required to maintain organizational equipment required
  by units not programmed for deployment by war plans and equipment required by combat support
556                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      units to support a programmed movement in the event of an emergency. This is an additive for spares
      required maintaining support equipment end items. File maintained by selecting SPT EQP.
      25.4.13. TASK (Turnaround Spares Kit). Use this additive for support of planned programmed
      requirements that are outside of the scope or capability of the requirements computation methodology
      such as container requirements, SPRAM (see paragraph 24.8.) and Training Guidance and Control
      (G and C) Systems (the quantity for requirements in support of G and C spares for training launches).
      If this type of additive is required, the additive should be file maintained by selecting TASK.
      25.4.14. TST STND (Test Stand). This additive is for requirements for assets for initial installation
      of engine test stands or test cells. File maintained by selecting TST STND.
      25.4.15. WCDO (War Consumable Distribution Objective). This additive is used for the peace-
      time requirements for aircraft guns, gun barrels, and external fuel Tanks, Racks, Adapters, and Pylon
      (TRAP) items. File maintained by selecting WCDO.
      25.4.16. FMS H-CD BO (Foreign Military Sales Materiel Repair Requirements List Back
      Order). This is the H-coded FMS requisitions provided by D035A. Only the first quarter can be file
      maintained, which will be straight-lined throughout the computation. Subsequent to file maintenance
      of this additive, the IMS can revert to the quantity values from the interfacing system source by plac-
      ing "Y's" in the quantity fields. See paragraph 32.7. for validation procedures. If the FMS H-CD BO
      additive quantity overlaid by D035A into SIRS is changed by the IMS, the requisition numbers and
      quantities must be documented in the notepad. H-coded requisitions received after the computation
      cutoff date will be added to the negotiation quarter of the ARRCS B21 to schedule them for repair
      without delay. All after-cutoff H-coded backorders added to the Automated Repair Requirements
      Computation System ARRCS B21 will be listed by document number and quantity on either the SIRS
      computation repair page or on the ARRCS B21. This will ensure that adequate repair is computed.
      25.4.17. FMS (Foreign Military Sales). Input from the W001 system. Supports Foreign Military
      Sales Order I (FMSO I) stock levels that have been negotiated with the country or countries involved.
      FMSO I stock levels are included in the CLSSA Requirements Listing output by the W001 system.
      The FMS additive in SIRS should match the CLSSA Requirements Listing with the same quarter cut-
      off date. This quantity does not include assets in stock for support of H-coded requisitions from FMS
      countries. SIRS places the quantity from W001 into each of the 38 quarters for the current stock num-
      ber. Requirements for all the current stock numbers an I and S group are automatically summed up to
      the SGM prior to inclusion in the additive requirement. If the FMS additive quantity overlaid by
      W001 into SIRS is changed by the IMS, the change must be justified and documented in the notepad.
      Non-programmed FMS backorders may not be file maintained as an FMS additive. (See paragraph
      32.3.4. and paragraph 32.3.5.). Only the first quarter can be file maintained, which will be
      straight-lined throughout the computation. Subsequent to file maintenance of this additive, the IMS
      can revert to the quantity values from the interfacing system source by placing "Y's" in the quantity
      fields.
      25.4.18. HPMSK (High Priority Mission Support Kits). This additive is input from the D087H
      system on the initial computation. The HQ AFMC SIRS OPR has the option of also inputting D087H
      data for the final computation. HPMSK are transportable packages of expendable supplies and repair
      cycle assets for aircraft engines, support equipment, drones, and communications end items. The
      material is required to support all or part of certain authorized Air Force units that are tasked to oper-
      ate high priority, low-density reconnaissance aircraft and/or ground communication equipment at
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 557


   deployed locations. Under normal base supply procedures, these units are not authorized Mobility
   Readiness Spares Packages (MRSP). The exceptions are items that apply to the Airborne Warning and
   Control System. The IMS may file maintain changes to the HPMSK additive quantity, when docu-
   mented. Manually file maintained changes would either replace the previously recorded data or estab-
   lish a new time phased record. Unauthorized HPMSK levels that are loaded in the SBSS as
   ownership/purpose code HK cannot be used in the computation as a repair additive. Only the authori-
   zation HPMSK level, as passed from D087H may be used as an additive in the computation. SIRS
   puts the single quantity from D087H into each of the 38 quarters for the current stock number.
   Requirements for all the current stock numbers in an I and S group are automatically summed up to
   the SGM prior to inclusion in the additive requirement. Select HPMSK. Only the first quarter can be
   file maintained, which will be straight-lined throughout the computation. Subsequent to file mainte-
   nance of this additive, the IMS can revert to the quantity values from the interfacing system source by
   placing "Y's" in the quantity fields.
   25.4.19. RETAIL EOQ (Retail Economic Order Quantity). The IMS/MM is not authorized to file
   maintain this field. It will be automatically calculated. IMS/MM should review the retail EOQ addi-
   tives quarterly. They should ensure the EOQ additives meet established guidance and the program
   change is working appropriately. They can annotate that the review was accomplished on the IRIS
   tool.
   25.4.20. LIFE LIM REPL (Life Limited Replacement). TheIMS/MM will input the Comprehen-
   sive Engine Management System (CEMS) condemnation data for the items.

25.5. Additives On The NTPD Screen.
   25.5.1. Due out to Maintenance (DOTM). Input from the D035A system and file maintainable on
   the NTPD screen (see paragraph 26.6.). Represents assets that have been removed from an end item
   and turned in to base supply, but replacements have not been furnished. The purpose of this additive is
   to offset the assets that are now being reported by base supply but will drop from accountability upon
   replenishment. (See paragraph 26.5.16.).
   25.5.2. On Loan (formerly Bailment). Offsets assets owned by the Air Force but being held by con-
   tractors or other services, or assets reserved for loan (see paragraph 26.5.6.). File maintenance of the
   On Loan asset quantity on the NTPD screen (see paragraph 26.6.) will result in the same amount
   being included as an On Loan additive in the total additive line of the computation. This additive is to
   offset assets owned by the Air Force but being held by contractors or other services, or assets reserved
   for loan (formerly called bailment).

25.6. High Priority Backorders for Consumable Items. The IMS of ERRC "N" and "P" items may use
the following method to cover high priority backorders.
   25.6.1. Add together the following:
      25.6.1.1. Base MICAPs as of the cutoff date for the cycle (31 Dec, 31 Mar, 30 Jun, 30 Sep).
      25.6.1.2. Base Awaiting Parts (AWP) requisitions as of the cutoff date for the cycle. The AWP
      requisitions from the bases will have an advice code of 6K or 6L in column 65-66 of the requisi-
      tion. The IMS should check the AWP requisitions to ensure that reasonable quantities are being
      ordered. If the quantity does not seem reasonable, it should not be added until it is verified with the
      using base.
558                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         25.6.1.3. Depot level priority 02 and 03 backorders (in support of Next Higher Assembly/Engine
         Overhaul/PDM only) as of the asset cutoff date may be input to SIRS when it can be confirmed
         that no assets were available at the asset cutoff date.
      25.6.2. File maintain the quantity obtained from the above calculation as the Due Out to Maintenance
      (DOTM) using the NTPD screen. If there is already a DOTM quantity appearing, do not add the cal-
      culated quantity to it, as that would duplicate requirements. Use the calculated quantity instead of any
      DOTM appearing on the screen.
      25.6.3. An ALC may designate the use of another additive in lieu of the DOTM if it has been coordi-
      nated and approved by the persons doing the budget and the DD1000 report at the ALC. (Those per-
      sons have to explain the variances to higher headquarters.)If an ALC designates the use of another
      additive, the IMS zeroes out the DOTM quantity first on the NTPD screen before file maintaining the
      calculated quantity into the designated additive field.
      25.6.4. Since the input to SIRS will be manual, rigorous oversight of these requirements must be
      maintained every quarter in order to prevent requirements overstatement in the current and subsequent
      computation cycles. Since many additives are not zeroed out by the system at the beginning of the
      quarter, the IMS will need to review the Consolidated Assets and Additives product
      A-D200.-AHB-A#-87B (Figure 26.12.) to ensure that any additives are still valid. The additives
      would appear in Section 2, the Time-Phased Data portion of the report.

25.7. Documentation of Additive Requirements. Documentation should be kept online using the note-
pad capability for each individual type of additive. All documentation should be kept for as long as the
additive is in the computation, and for two years after the additive is removed.
      25.7.1. Retain source documentation describing basic information, such as project name, time frame
      involved, when and where material will be needed, completion date, requesting activity, contact point,
      etc. in the item folder.
      25.7.2. If reparable assets will generate as a result of the project, a schedule of projected generations
      should be kept and the assets file maintained into the computation as Due In Unserviceable Assets on
      the TPAD screen (see paragraph 26.9.). Document how assets will be provided to the user for which
      the additive was developed. As the material is provided to the user, the requirement, and therefore the
      additive, will decrease.
      25.7.3. The following requirements should be documented with approved lists, contracts, or direc-
      tions: Turnaround Spares Kit for C-130, On Loan (bailment), Installations, Special Projects, GFAE/
      GFM/GFP, Retrofit/Modification, Test Stand, and Special Programmed Requirements.
      25.7.4. Retain supporting data on how the additives were developed, including all methodologies,
      programs, etc. used by the submitting activity. This supporting data should substantiate that the
      requirement does not duplicate one being computed by SIRS, and that the requirement is outside of
      the scope of normal OIM or DLM activity. (Examples of such duplication could be a 100 percent
      replacement rate for a DLM NJR program, increased OIM rates used in the forecast or the other ser-
      vice program in the computation).
      25.7.5. All manually file maintained additive requirements that cover a period of more than one year
      should be validated annually with the submitting activity, in writing, even when the requirements did
      not change.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              559


25.8. Reductions Beyond Safety Levels. If the funding shortfall is so severe that reduction of safety lev-
els alone is not enough then the other segments of the spares requirement must be reduced. These areas
include additives, special levels, INS/NSO levels, pipelines and finally condemnations. The order in
which these cuts will be made is shown below:
Tier 1 Additives
Safety Levels*
Other (also known as Turn-Around Spares Kits) (on ADRQ screen TASK)
Non-safety of flight mods (also known as Retrofit/MOD) (on ADRQ screen RETFT-MOD)
Mobile Training Units (on ADRQ screen MOB TRN UNIT)
Special Program (on ADRQ screen SPR PLN)
Test Stand (on ADRQ screen TST STND)
Support Equipment (on ADRQ screen SPT EQP)
Special Projects (on ADRQ screen SPCL PLN)
Tier 2 Additives
Life of Type Buy (on BMD screen WEAPON SYS LIFE)
GFM/GFAE (on ADRQ screen GFAE-GFM-GFP)
War Consumable Distribution Objective (on ADRQ screen WCDO)
High Priority Mission Support Kits (on ADRQ screen HPMSK)
RSP (on ADRQ screen W-B RQMT)
FMS (on ADRQ screen FMS)
INS/NSO Minimum Stock Levels*
Pipelines*
Tier 3 Additives
Bench Mock-up (on ADRQ screen BNCH MOC)
RDE Recurring Requirement (RDSS screen)
CAD/PAD (on ADRQ screen CAD-PAD)
Delayed Discrepancy (YBQ/YBG) Backorders (also known as Mission Direct) (on ADRQ screen MSN
DIR)
On Loan (on NTPD screen On Loan)
FMS H-Coded Backorders (on ADRQ screen FMS H-CD BO)
Due Out To Maintenance (on NTPD screen DOTM RQMTS)
Safety of Flight Modifications (also known as Initial Installs) (on ADRQ screen INSTL)
Condemnations*
560                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008



*Items are not additives.
      25.8.1. The current D200A system design uses the same additive values in both the full and limited
      funding computation. In order to reduce the funding in the year(s) of execution the D200A HQ OPR
      will notify the SPDs and D200A ALC OPRs which additives are to be removed during the execution
      year for each applicable weapon system. These additives will be file maintained to zero by the D200A
      HQ OPR in every quarter from the first comp quarter through the AY buy point. The values will
      remain in the rest of the computation time span to ensure that these requirements are included in the
      POM year projections. This file maintenance must be accomplished prior to the D200A Summary
      computation cycle.
      25.8.2. Computed INS/NSO levels themselves will automatically be reduced when additives are
      reduced since they form one of the elements used to build the levels. If the funding shortfall is so
      severe that reducing safety levels and additives is not enough, the minimum INS/NSO level (currently
      set to 1) will be eliminated. This can be set by the D200A HQ OPR using a parameter within the sys-
      tem itself.
      25.8.3. The results of the D200A Summary computation will be used to generate the SGM level buy
      quantities for execution. If the SGM is common to more than one weapon system the total buy quan-
      tity will be broken down to show how much is linked to each weapon system that the item supports.
      This will be done by multiplying the total SGM buy quantity times the ratio of each individual weapon
      system item application program to the total program for that item.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 561


                                               Chapter 26

                   NON-TIME PHASED ASSETS AND TIME PHASED ASSETS

26.1. Introduction. This chapter defines the various types of assets and provides the details for file main-
taining assets by the Inventory Management Specialist (IMS). The IMS is responsible for ensuring that
the assets used in the SIRS computation are valid. Overstated assets cause SIRS to understate the buy
requirement and/or overstate repair requirements. Understated assets may cause the buy requirement to be
overstated and repair to be understated. The Equipment Specialist (ES) should assist the IMS in determin-
ing the conditions of assets for condition codes "G" and "X" assets, and for assets affected by modifica-
tions. The asset reconciliation process is explained in Chapter 28.
   26.1.1. Each quarter the reported on-hand worldwide assets, as well as certain inventory gains and
   losses, are received from D002A (see paragraph 3.2.) and from D035A (see paragraph 3.3.) by
   Stock Record Account Number (SRAN) and by Current Stock Number (CSN). This data can be
   viewed online using the DIS SIRS DTI ISA screens (see paragraph 26.4.). A batch SRAN ASSET
   report is pushed from each initial computation with this data. The report for the IMS is sorted by divi-
   sion, item management specialist code, SGM, CSN and SRAN. The report for the equipment special-
   ist is sorted by division, equipment specialist code, SGM, CSN, and SRAN. These reports can also be
   pulled using the output products PSS screen (see paragraph 13.5.) or the OPSS screen (see para-
   graph 5.2.). Also each quarter, J018R (see paragraph 3.13.) provides by Current Stock Number, the
   Due-In and On Order quantities, also called the Time-Phased assets.
   26.1.2. Assets are either Time-Phased or Non-Time-Phased. Non Time-Phased assets are defined as
   on hand assets. Non-Time phased assets can be viewed online on the DIS SIRS SND NTPD screen
   (Figure 26.4.) and can be file maintained on the FM SIRS SND NTPD (Figure 26.3.) screen.
   Time-Phased assets are defined as undelivered on order and due in assets. Time Phased assets require-
   ments can be viewed online on the TRAD screen, DIS SIRS SND TPAD (Figure 26.6.) and can be
   file maintained on the FM SIRS SND TPAD (Figure 26.5.) screen. The Consolidated Assets And
   Additive product (Figure 26.12.) displays the assets used in the SIRS requirements computation. This
   same data can be viewed online using the five CARD screens (see paragraph 26.11.).

26.2. Definition of ALC Asset Purpose Codes. Assets are in MILSTRAP Purpose Codes. Assets in
purpose codes K, W or X are not mechanically input to the SIRS computation. These assets are visible in
the D035A Weekly Transaction Listing. When assets in purpose codes K, R, W, or X are manually input
to SIRS, an additive requirement should be input to offset the reported assets (see paragraph 25.5.2.). In
no case will this additive exceed the reported assets. The MILSTRAP codes are:
         A - General Issue. Stocks held for general issue which aren't earmarked or reserved for another
specific purpose.
         B - General Mobilization Reserve. Stocks held for general mobilization reserve material objec-
tives. These stocks are also referred to as Other War Reserve Material (OWRM).
        E - Reserve for Specific Plans or Projects. Stocks held to support specific plans or projects.
        H - Reserved for Government-Furnished Material (GFM). Stocks held for issue as GFM to sup-
port contractually accomplished repair or production programs.
562                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        J - Reserved for Foreign Military Sales (FMS). Stocks allocated and earmarked for FMS, Security
Assistance program/NATO countries-Grant Aid.
        K - Reserved for Loan are stocks held for issue on a loan basis (located in segregated storage at
the depot). These assets are received from D002A and D035A, and can be viewed on the DIS SIRS DTI
ISA screens (see paragraph 26.4.). These assets are NOT used in the SIRS computational process and,
therefore, are not displayed on the NTPD screens (see paragraph 26.6.). The IMS should file maintain
these assets into SIRS as on loan assets, serviceable or unserviceable. Once this file maintenance is done,
the quantity of assets reflected as on loan assets will automatically appear as an on loan additive (see
paragraph 25.5.2.). If the assets are unserviceable, and will not be available for repair, the IMS should
reduce the repair requirement on the ARRCS B21 by the quantity of the on loan assets. This reduction
should only by done when the SIRS computation is using the total available for repair as the repair output.
        L - Suspended (On Loan) are stocks issued on a loan basis. They are received from D002A and
D035A and can be viewed on the DIS SIRS DTI ISA screens (see paragraph 26.4.). They are used in the
SIRS computation process. The stock includes both serviceable and unserviceable. (The unserviceable on
loan assets are held by the contractor and cannot be repaired).
         R - Quantity of contractor assets which are on consignment (loan) to the Air Force due to a con-
tractor's inability to meet the projected Mean Time Between Demand (MTBD) that has been forecasted
under a Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW) contract. (The RIW concept is DOD-directed and is
used by all services). The purpose code R quantity is received along with the D035A asset record and is
recorded as part of each on hand asset record. These assets aren't truly Air Force spares acquired with Air
Force funds. They are withdrawn by the contractor upon achievement of projected MTBF. The total of
purpose code R assets is shown as a memorandum (information only) entry for each current NSN and a
total for the subgroup NSN, on the Consolidated Assets and Additives product. This is a single balance
not identified to condition (serviceable or unserviceable). The IMS reviews this quantity and adjusts
worldwide spare assets to the known acquisitions and eliminates those assets, which are on loan, from the
computation. An adjustment is made using ownership/purpose code 0A asset balances.
       S - Support Equipment (SE) System Support Package. Obligation account for standard common
SE materiel being held to support the initial activation of weapon support system or subsystem.
         U - Communications and electronics (CE) consolidation materiel reserve.
        W - Airborne Communication Retrofit. Materiel earmarked for airborne communications retrofit
projects.
         X - Supply directive assemblies other than War Reserve Material.
         Y - Programmed communication support program CE scheme equipment or materiel.

26.3. Definitions of ALC Asset Condition Codes. Assets are in MILSTRAP Condition Codes.
      26.3.1. Serviceable Condition Codes:
        A – Serviceable balance. The quantity of material that is new, used, repaired or reconditioned
which is serviceable and issueable to all customers without limitation or restriction.
        AX—Serviceable excess balance. Same as "A" serviceable but excess to depot requirement.
(Prime IM assets.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                563


         B – Serviceable balance (issue with qualification). The quantity of material that is new, used,
reconditioned which is serviceable and can be issued for its intended purpose but which is restricted from
issue to specific units, activities, or geographical areas by reason of its limited usefulness or short ser-
vice-life expectancy.
        BX—Serviceable excess balance. Same as serviceable "B" but excess to depot requirements.
(Prime IM assets.)
         C –Serviceable balance (priority issue). The quantity of material that is serviceable and can be
issued to selected customers but which must be issued before material condition code “A” or “B” material
to avoid loss as a usable asset.
        CX—Serviceable excess balance. Same as serviceable "C" but excess to depot requirements.
(Prime IM assets.)
        Z - Serviceable intransit from maintenance.
        4—Serviceable project balance. Serviceable “A” but carried as project balance instead of operat-
ing balance. It equals the total of the individual detail record for a particular stock number.
        5—Serviceable loan balance. Serviceable “A,” “B,” or “C” carried as on loan balance instead of
operating balance.
         6—Exchange item (due-in-from maintenance balance). Quantity of serviceable material issued to
a local organization or which an exchange item is due in to depot supply.
        7—Serviceable floating stock balance. Serviceable “A,” “B,” or “C” carried as floating stock bal-
ance instead of operating.
   26.3.2. Unserviceable Condition Codes.
         E – Unserviceable (limited restoration) balance. The quantity of material which involves only
limited expense or effort to restore to serviceable condition and which is accomplished in the storage
activity where the stock is located. Prime IM directs when items are to be completed.
        F –Unserviceable (incomplete) balance. The quantity of economically reparable material which
requires repair, overhaul, or reconditioning (includes reparable items which are radioactively contami-
nated).
       G –Unserviceable (incomplete) balance. The quantity of material requiring additional parts or
components to complete the end item prior to issue. This material will require maintenance shop action to
complete. Prime IM directs when these items are to be completed.
         J – Suspended balance. Material in stock which has been suspended from issue pending condition
classification or analysis, where the true condition is not known.
        K—Suspended (returns) balance. The quantity of material returned from customers or users and
awaiting condition classification.
        L—Suspended (litigation). The quantity of material held pending litigation of negotiation with
contractors or common carriers.
         X—Unserviceable (IM Hold) balance. Unserviceable material placed in condition “X” by
inter-condition transfer only, IM directed only. See AFMAN 23-110, Vol. 3, Part 3, Chapter 2, for further
definition, control and handling.
564                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


          Y – Unserviceable intransit to maintenance.
          1 - Unserviceable assets intransit from maintenance.
          W – Warranty.
      26.3.3. Technical Order Compliance (TOC) Condition Codes.
        D –Serviceable TOC. The quantity of material which requires test, alteration (Technical Order
Compliance balance) –modification, conversion, or disassembly. This does not include items that must be
inspected or tested immediately prior to issue.
         Q—Suspended (MDR exhibit). MDR exhibits returned by customers/users as directed by the IM
as a result of materiel deficiency report.
         R—Suspended (reclaimed items awaiting condition determination). Assets turned in by reclama-
tion activities that do not have the capability to determine the materiel condition.
          3 - TOC Technical Order Compliance intransit from maintenance to supply.
      26.3.4. Due in From Overhaul Condition Codes.
        M—Suspended in work balance (due in from overhaul). Material identified on inventory control
records, which has been turned over to a maintenance facility or contractor for processing.
      26.3.5. Condition Codes not used in SIRS.
         H – Unserviceable (condemned). Material which has been determined to be unserviceable and
does not meet repair criteria; includes condemned items which are radioactively contaminated, Type I
shelf-life material that has passed the expiration date, and Type II shelf-life material that has passed expi-
ration date and cannot be extended.
         P—Unserviceable balance (reclamation). Material determined to be unserviceable, uneconomi-
cally reparable as a result of physical inspection, tear down or engineering decision. Item contains ser-
viceable components or assemblies to be reclaimed.
          S - Unserviceable (scrap).
          2 - Condemned/unserviceable item intransit from maintenance to supply.

26.4. Display Asset Data By Stock Number and SRAN.
      26.4.1. The asset data from D002A and/or D035A can be viewed by Stock Record Account Number
      (SRAN) and by Current Stock Number (CSN) or by Subgroup Master stock number (SGM). The for-
      mat of the SRAN is XX9999 (two alphas and 4 numerics. Use the DIS SIRS DTI ISA left and right
      screens (Figure 26.1. and Figure 26.2.). Type the SGM or just the NIIN for the SGM to view the data
      for the SGM. To type the NIIN, TAB past the FSC. Do not put spaces in the FSC field. If a SGM is
      typed in the CSN field, SIRS will display the SGM data. Totals by SRAN are displayed when the
      SRAN has more than one CSN. The totals for the SGM are displayed at the bottom, prior to the Intran-
      sit data. If the SGM is not a bachelor, the intransit assets are displayed for all CSNs within the SGM
      family. Figure 26.1. and Figure 26.2. are examples of an SGM's asset data.
      26.4.2. Type the CSN or just the NIIN for the CSN in the CSN field to view the asset data by SRAN
      for the CSN. SIRS will also display the associated SGM in the SGM field. When there is more than
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            565


   one SRAN for the CSN, a total for that CSN is also displayed. Intransit assets for that CSN are dis-
   played at the end of all other data.
   26.4.3. To display the right page, type RIGH at the command line. To display the left page, type LEFT
   at the command line. To scroll forward, type FORW at the command line. To scroll backward, type
   BACK at the command line. To go the beginning of the list, type TOP at the command line. To go the
   end of the list, type BOTT at the command line or click on the appropriate buttons if using GUI.
   26.4.4. To display historical asset data, change the AS OF DATE to another valid date on the ISA dis-
   play screen.

Figure 26.1. Display ISA SRAN Assets Left Screen.
566                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 26.2. Display ISA SRAN Assets Right Screen.




26.5. Definitions Of Non Time-Phased Assets.
      26.5.1. These are the assets that are on hand as of the asset cut off date in either a serviceable, unser-
      viceable, or Technical Order Compliance (TOC) condition. The on-hand assets are reported by
      D035A and D002A at Current Stock Number (CSN) level. SIRS will store the reported on hand assets
      with purpose code ”FM” and then sum to SGM level, by type. The IMS should file maintain at CSN
      level the assets “FM” only when there is a known reporting error. SIRS will then develop the purpose
      code "0A" assets used in comp by making the necessary adjustment(s), if any, for unaccountable vari-
      ances (see paragraph 28.4.11.). The SGM level data will be stored on two separate records on the
      database. One record will remain static so that the original reported values can be displayed as an audit
      trail. The other record will be updated based on the IMS file maintenance. Both the originally reported
      (Input) and IMS updated (Update) values are displayed on the Asset Reconciliation screens (Chapter
      28).
      26.5.2. Serviceable Base/Depot. Represents the aggregate serviceable asset balance that has been
      reported by the individual bases and depots.
      26.5.3. Serviceable Wrsk/Blss. The serviceable assets that have been prepositioned at the bases in
      support of the W-B (Readiness Spares Packages) requirement.
      26.5.4. Serviceable OWRM. The serviceable assets that are at the depot in support of the OWRM.
      26.5.5. Serviceable Contractor. The serviceable assets that are located at contractor sites.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               567


  26.5.6. Serviceable On Loan. The serviceable assets that are loaned to a contractor in support of Air
  Force work. GFAE/GFM/GFP assets (see paragraph 25.4.4.) for production contacts that have been
  shipped to contractors are recorded as an asset loss. SIRS automatically re-computes the On Loan
  Additive requirement to equal the serviceable on loan assets. SIRS also re-computes the Total
  Non-recurring Additive Requirement.
  26.5.7. Serviceable Intransit. SIRS receives serviceable asset quantities based on actual intransit asset
  data from D035C via D035A. Assets can be reported intransit and also on hand on the same date, due
  to timing in these systems.
  26.5.8. Unserviceable base. Represents the aggregate unserviceable asset balance that has been
  reported by the individual bases.
  26.5.9. Unserviceable Depot. The aggregate unserviceable asset balance that has been reported by the
  individual depot activities.
  26.5.10. Unserviceable OWRM. The unserviceable assets that are at the depot in support of the
  OWRM.
  26.5.11. Unserviceable Contractor. Unserviceable Contractor Unscheduled Assets from D035A are
  all unserviceable assets held at a contractor repair site. Unserviceable contractor scheduled assets are
  not reported by D035A. Contractors do not report how many assets are in overhaul in their shops and
  how many are on their shelves awaiting repair. The PMS/IMS should use the number of repairs previ-
  ously funded but not produced (on contract/PR) to update the ARRCS B-21 as contract carry-
  over-prior year/quarter, first quarter induction and/or 2nd quarter input.
  26.5.12. Unserviceable OWO. These are the unserviceable On Work Order assets that are reported to
  SIRS by G019C. These are assets undergoing organic repair. OWO assets affect the computation of
  Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) lines and the resulting repair budget. OWO is
  removed from peacetime repair input line as previously obligated. The reported OWO quantities are
  compared to the reported Due In From Overhaul (DIOH) quantities from D035A. The DIOH is the
  condition code M balance and should include the sum of OWO, Awaiting Parts (AWP), and Awaiting
  Maintenance (AWM). If the reported DIOH is greater than the OWO from G019C, the difference is
  added to the reported unserviceable depot assets automatically by D200A. If the reported DIOH is less
  than the reported OWO, the reported OWO will be reduced to the number of reported DIOH assets
  automatically by D200A and an error message "OWO not used, OWO>DIOH" will appear on the
  IMS Item Review List screen (see paragraph 13.2.8.11.).
  26.5.13. Unserviceable Intransit. SIRS receives unserviceable asset quantities based on actual intran-
  sit asset data from D035C via D035A. Assets can be reported intransit and also on hand on the same
  date, due to timing in the system from which the data is input to D035A and then passed to SIRS.
  Unserviceable assets on AF SICA NIMSC 5 items are passed by D035A but SIRS does not use the
  assets.
  26.5.14. Cond X Asset. This is an informational entry to indicate the number of condition "X" assets
  that are included in the unserviceable depot assets. The condition "X" asset balance memo entry is not
  file maintainable, and is provided for use by the IMS. The IMS will remove the “X” condition assets
  from the depot unserviceable assets balance in D200A and will show the condemnation of them on the
  asset reconciliation or by input of them as “other losses” on the asset reconciliation. Care needs to be
  taken not to report condemnations or “other losses” more than one time for the same asset. If the “X”
568                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      condition assets do have a repair capability developed, then both the IMS and ES should remove the
      condemnation data or the other losses data as appropriate.
         26.5.14.1. Condition Code X is defined as materiel in stock, suspended pending disposition
         instructions from the prime IMS. The code is unique and peculiar to AFMC operations. This code
         provides a temporary segregated storage for materiel that can not be properly handled under the
         current set of condition codes. Materiel can only be moved into or out of X at the direction of the
         prime IMS, and applies only to depot supply warehouse materiel.
         26.5.14.2. Many items are held pending development of repair procedures. Due to the high cost
         and critical materials in these items, action should be taken to hold these assets in condition code
         X for screening until (1) the development of a repair capability or technology is made available or
         (2) completion of the project or procedure for which assets are being retained.
         26.5.14.3. The IMS/MM file maintains these special assets out of the depot unserviceable assets
         balances reported in SIRS. This ensures these assets aren't considered as both assets and condem-
         nations and thus distort computation results.
         26.5.14.4. The ES will file maintain them into the stock number's usage history for factor devel-
         opment, either as MISTR condemnations (G004L/G072D) and total depot condemnations, as
         applicable. These condemnations equal that quantity placed into condition X and removed from
         depot unserviceable assets. The file maintenance should be input into the proper quarter during
         which these condition X assets are generated. (See Chapter 16).
         26.5.14.5. The IMS deletes Condition Code X assets from SIRS during the file maintenance cycle
         (between the initial and final computations). The IMS should monitor the progress of repair capa-
         bility development. When it materializes, the condition X assets should no longer be file main-
         tained out of depot unserviceable assets that have been overlaid to SIRS. The appropriate
         time-phased condemnation history should be adjusted through file maintenance. Along with the
         foregoing actions, current and forecasted MISTR condemnation percents or JR condemnation per-
         cents should be adjusted accordingly. (See Chapter 17).
      26.5.15. TOC. These assets include the total of all condition codes D, Q, R, and 3 assets reported as
      on hand at depot accounts on the asset cutoff date. TOC assets are almost serviceable but require test-
      ing, adjustment or other minor work before they can be reissued. These assets are not netted by the
      MISTR condemnation percent during determination of the total available for repair, which are used to
      determine the Third Over/Short Position on the computation.
      26.5.16. DOTM Rqmts. The Due Out To Maintenance (DOTM) quantity represents assets that have
      been removed from an end item and turned into retail supply, but replacements have not been fur-
      nished. This quantity is on the asset record, but it is not an asset balance. It is an additive requirement
      (see paragraph 25.5.1.) used in SIRS to offset those assets which were reported as spares but in fact
      should have been installed and operating.
      26.5.17. DIFM. SIRS separates reported Due In From Maintenance (DIFM) into Serviceable DIFM
      and Unserviceable DIFM. When the DIFM is reported by a depot (one of the three ALCs, a repair
      contractor, or a SRAN identified on the depot table like FB2316 - Kadena), it is placed in Unservice-
      able DIFM because these occur when a serviceable spare has been issued to maintenance for repair of
      a NHA and the reparable asset has not been turned in yet. If the DIFM is from any of the other report-
      ing bases it is placed in Serviceable DIFM. When determining the assets used in the computation,
      SIRS adds serviceable DIFM to serviceable Base and Depot assets and adds unserviceable DIFM to
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             569


   unserviceable depot assets. If the item is 100% Not Reparable This Station (NRTS) or the IMS has
   knowledge that these assets have been or will be turned in as unserviceable the IMS can move those
   assets from serviceable to unserviceable.

Figure 26.3. File Maintenance NTPD Non Time Phased Assets Screen.




26.6. File Maintenance Non Time Phased Asset Data (NTPD) Screen.
   26.6.1. The NTPD screen (Figure 26.3.) is used to file maintain the individual on hand asset data ele-
   ments of the serviceable, unserviceable, TOC assets, and the DOTM requirements by CSN or the
   NIIN of the CSN. Also, the screen provides the condition code "X" assets informational entry. The
   Purpose Code can only by FM, 0K, 0R, 0W, 0X or blank. When the purpose code is not entered by the
   user, SIRS defaults to FM. To change any quantity, file maintain the new numbers over the old num-
   bers, and press ENTER. File maintain zeros to delete data. To revert to the input data from D035A/
   D002A, type "Ys" in the entire data field.
570                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      26.6.2. If the new data fails the edits, a message will be displayed. SIRS will display an error message
      when a changed data element will cause another data element that SIRS computes to exceed the size
      of the field (such as a total field). Once an update to the NTPD screen is started, it must be completed,
      or SIRS will ignore any attempt to transfer to the notepad or to the Asset Reconciliation screen. When
      the file maintained changes pass the edits, the notepad will be displayed. After documenting the rea-
      son for the file maintenance, press ENTER, and the message "update successful" will appear.
      26.6.3. The Asset Reconciliation button (A-R ON HAND ASSETS) is a "hot key" to gain direct
      access to the asset reconciliation on hand assets (AROH) screen. This capability lets the IMS to see
      the results in the asset reconciliation process of on hand asset file maintenance that is input on the
      NTPD screen.

Figure 26.4. Display NTPD Non Time Phased Assets Screen.




26.7. Display Non Time-Phased Asset Data NTPD Screen. The Non Time-Phased assets can be
viewed by SGM or CSN for the current cycle using the NTPD screen DIS SIRS SND NTPD. (Figure
26.4.).
      26.7.1. If a CSN or the NIIN of the CSN is entered and the SGM Indicator is left blank (turned off),
      the associated assets and the corresponding SGM are displayed by Purpose Code level. The "CSN
      DATA" header is displayed with all applicable SRCs. If a CSN or SGM or the NIIN of the CSN or the
      NIIN of the SGM is entered, and the subgroup totals of the entire SGM by Purpose Code level are dis-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 571


   played. The "SGM TOTALS" header is displayed and the SRCs are all blank. But if this item is a
   bachelor item than the SRCs are displayed.
   26.7.2. The asset data displayed are either the actual values from D035A/D002A with an SRC of "A",
   or the file maintained values with an SRC of "E". After a CSN has been selected and the asset data dis-
   played, the user may view the Notepad text for assets that have been file maintained by typing an "X"
   in the NOTEPAD field. This element Notepad text is displayed in the order in which the data elements
   appear on the screen. If the Notepad is selected with the SGM total option, a message is displayed stat-
   ing that "Notepad is not available at the SGM level". If the stock number has no Non Time-phased
   assets, SIRS will display the message "no data meets the selection criteria". If the stock number is not
   on the SIRS database, SIRS will display the message "not a recoverables item".

26.8. Definitions Of Time-Phased Assets. These assets are the Due-ins and On orders that have not
been delivered as of the asset cutoff date. These asset balances can be time-phased to reflect different pro-
jected delivery quantities across the 38 quarters of the requirements computation. SIRS receives Due-In
and On order assets time-phased for 24 quarters and a balance period from J018R for each initial compu-
tation. This quarterly submission replaces previously recorded Due-In and On order asset records. A
time-phased record containing 38 quarters is built by SIRS for each reported Due-in and On order asset.
The reported quarterly quantities from J018R are recorded in respective quarters of the time-phased
record and the balance quantity is recorded in the 25th through 38th quarters.
   26.8.1. DUE-IN ASSETS. These assets are excess property, usually from another service, which have
   not been delivered. They are not new assets from a manufacturer. Due-In assets are reported from
   J018R as serviceable, unserviceable and TOC. TOC Due-In assets are material in undetermined con-
   dition. The IMS can resolve the TOC condition upon receipt of the asset by having the asset checked
   against the applicable repair Technical Order. The following due-in assets can be in either serviceable,
   unserviceable, or TOC conditions.
       26.8.1.1. RECL. The assets due in from Reclamation are assets due-in from approved reclamation
       programs and/or a project work order and reflected in save lists that apply to these programs.
       Modification Assets are assets expected to generate from the modification of a higher assembly.
       Those stock numbers that these phase-down modification programs impact should have the proper
       adjustments made to their W-B requirements, additive requirements, and special levels in order to
       recognize the reduced support needs. Projected repair requirements should also be reviewed and
       adjusted to make sure unnecessary repairs aren't processed. These assets should be made available
       for the support of other weapon systems. The assets due-in are equal to the item installed inven-
       tory program. The ES or the shop working by a Temporary Work Request determines the condi-
       tion of these assets when they are received. This field should be blank. Reclamation due-ins will
       not be posted.
       26.8.1.2. Term. The assets due in from left over government property at the termination of a pro-
       duction contract.
       26.8.1.3. FMS. The assets due in from FMS (Foreign Military Sales) are excess items which are
       usually not reported in J018R. Upon determination to accept FMS serviceable excess which are
       projected to be available for application to the Air Force acquisition program, the IMS file main-
       tains the quantity as a time-phased "Due-in FMS Excess Serviceable." If these assets aren't
       received within 6 months after the IMS approval date, the IMS deletes the assets. These assets
       might also be designated DUE-IN Unserviceable FMS or DUE-IN TOC FMS.
572                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         26.8.1.4. Other. The following miscellaneous assets are added to the appropriate balances: sched-
         uled receipts from installation and checkouts or from assembly and checkouts, Category I and II
         test support tables, firm schedule for delivery to support site activation, and transfers from the Y
         to the W account since the asset cutoff date. The applicable system program director or end article
         item management specialist notifies the IMS of these transfers. Known potential due in assets
         from other sources not reported in J018R should be considered in the computation. These may
         include assets from research and development, assets being modified from another stock number,
         loans to contractors, repayment of spares quantities delivered to production installation, and
         excess inventories of other items which may be modified to required configuration at less cost
         than a new acquisition, etc. They should be file maintained into the quarters in which they're
         scheduled to be completed. Assets being locally manufactured should be included as time-phased
         serviceable due-in other. They should also be file maintained into the quarters in which they're
         scheduled to be completed.
      26.8.2. On Order Assets. These are the procurement on orders that are due in from a manufacturer
      that are provided by the J018R system. The On Order assets from J018R include only the quantities
      due-in from an acquisition that has been recently initiated (PR Unfunded), Committed (PR Funded),
      or Obligated (Contract). Contract On orders are assets where funds have been obligated and the con-
      tract has been awarded. PR Funded are On Orders where a Purchase Request (PR) has been initiated
      and funds have been committed. (PR Unfunded assets were not accepted from J018R by SIRS as of
      August 2004). Then within each category, there are 4 types of On Order assets called Initial, Replen-
      ishment, W-B, and OWRM. Since there may be several days variance between the J018R cutoff date
      and the end of quarter cutoff date, some on orders may be incorrectly omitted from SIRS. These may
      be unfunded and funded PRs or MIPRs, or AFMC Form 326, Provisioned Item Order (with Delivery
      Schedule). The J018R Category I and I Requirements Data Report product may be used to determine
      if this situation exists. When J018R does not provide the correct on order quantities to SIRS, the IMS
      should file maintained these assets during the file maintenance cycle (between the initial computation
      and the final computation). The IMS should review all on order assets to determine if the stock num-
      ber will fall into termination after assets, usage and factors are adjusted. The IMS should take correc-
      tive action on any termination quantities to cancel or reduce on order assets. (See Chapter 33 for
      termination policy.)Total On Order assets equals the PR Funded assets plus the On Order Contractor
      assets. See paragraph 9.8.45. for how these assets are used in the computation.
         26.8.2.1. Init. These are the Initial on orders that are procured using Budget Program 16/26 etc.
         funds.
         26.8.2.2. Repl. These are the Replenishment on orders that are procured to replenish spares.
         26.8.2.3. W-B. W-B was formerly called Prepositioned, and stands for War Readiness Spares Kits
         (WRSK) and Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares (BLSS) or MRSP/IRSP (See paragraph
         25.4.1.). These are the On Orders that are procured in support of the Readiness Spares Packages
         (RSP) requirement.
         26.8.2.4. OWRM. On orders that are procured in support of the OWRM requirement.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               573


Figure 26.5. File Maintenance TPAD Time Phased Assets Screen.




26.9. File Maintenance Time Phased Asset Data (TPAD) Screen. The TPAD screen (Figure 26.5.) is
used to file maintain the individual Due-In and On order assets by CSN and to time phase each data ele-
ment.
   26.9.1. Select the due in/on order data element(s) to be file maintained and press ENTER. The user
   can make multiple selections at one time. SIRS will process the selections from left to right and top to
   bottom. The first selection with an "X' is displayed and the corresponding element name is displayed
   in the middle of the screen right above the 38 quarterly values that are associated with it. If the
   ENTER key is pressed without a file maintenance action, the screen displays the next selection. The
   "X' or check mark in the selection field is removed once the element file maintenance data is dis-
   played on the screen.
   26.9.2. Quantities must be numeric and will replace any data that are already on file. File maintain
   zeros to delete data. Each of the 38 quarters is a "stand alone" entry and the file maintenance entries
   do not straight-line into succeeding quarters. For the PR FND and PR UNFND entries of the ON
   ORDER ASSETS, only the last quarter can be file maintained. To revert to the on order values input
   from J018R, fill the data field with "Y's". Do not file maintain PR Unfunded assets as they are not to
   be used in the SIRS computation.
   26.9.3. If any data element fails the edits, a message will be displayed. SIRS will display an error
   message when a changed data element will cause another data element that SIRS computes to exceed
574                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      the size of the field (such as a total field). Once an update to this screen is started, it must be com-
      pleted, or SIRS will ignore any attempt to transfer to the notepad or to the Asset Reconciliation screen.
      When the file maintained changes pass the edits, the notepad will be displayed. After documenting the
      reason for the file maintenance, press ENTER, and the message "update successful" will appear.
      26.9.4. The Asset Reconciliation “A-R ON ORDERASSETS” and The Asset Reconciliation “A-R
      DUE IN ASSETS” "Hot Keys". The TPAD file maintenance screen provides "hot keys" to gain direct
      access to the Asset Reconciliation On Order (AROO) and Due In Assets (ARDI) screens (see Chap-
      ter 28.). This capability allows the IMS to see the results of due in and on order asset file maintenance
      in the asset reconciliation process.

Figure 26.6. Display TPAD Time Phased Assets Screen.




26.10. Display Time-Phased Asset Data (TPAD) Screen. Time-Phased Asset Data can be viewed by
SGM or CSN for the current cycle using the TPAD screen DIS SIRS SND TPAD. (Figure 26.6.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             575


  26.10.1. If a CSN or the NIIN of the CSN is entered and, the associated assets and the corresponding
  SGM are displayed along with the "CSN DATA" header and all applicable SRCs.
  26.10.2. If a CSN or SGM or the NIN of the CSN or the NIN of the SGM are entered and, the sub-
  group totals for the SGM are displayed along with the "SGM TOTALS" header and the SRCs are all
  blank.
  26.10.3. The asset data displayed are either the actual values from J018R with an SRC of "A", or the
  file maintained values with an SRC of "E". Each screen has room to display the data for two
  Time-phased assets. If a stock number has more than 2 types of Time-phased assets, scroll forward
  and backward (FORW and BACK) to display all the data screens. Only asset data with at least one
  quarter containing a value greater than zero are stored on the database and displayed. Many stock
  numbers will have no Time-phased assets and SIRS will display the message "no data meets the selec-
  tion criteria". If the stock number is not on the SIRS database, SIRS will display the message "not a
  recoverable item".
  26.10.4. After a CSN has been selected and the asset data displayed, the user may view the Notepad
  text for assets that have been file maintained by typing an "X" or clicking on the notepad button using
  GUI in the NOTEPAD field. This element Notepad text is displayed in the order in which the data ele-
  ments appear on the screen. If the Notepad is selected with the SGM total option, a message is dis-
  played stating that "Notepad is not available at the SGM level".
576                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 26.7. Display CARD Non Time Phased Assets Screen (Page 1).




26.11. Display Asset Data by Stock Number (CARD) Screens.
      26.11.1. There are five CARD screens (Figure 26.7. through Figure 26.11.). Change the AS OF date
      to view data from previous cycles. A two position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the right of the AS
      OF field. The first position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for
      Summary). The second position represents the number of times that item was recomputed during that
      computation cycle. A zero means the item was not re-computed. To go from page to page, type P1, P2
      etc at the command line or click on the page number if using GUI. Type the SGM on the SGM line, or
      a CSN on the SGM line, and SIRS will display the data for all CSNs in that family. If a bachelor SGM
      is entered in either the SGM or CSN selection fields, all 5 screens can be displayed with the SRCs. If
      the SGM field is blank, and the CSN is typed in the CSN field, SIRS will display only the data for that
      CSN, and will display the SGM on the SGM line. When a CSN is entered only pages 1 and 2 can be
      displayed, along with the applicable SRCs. If data is file maintained, it will not appear on these dis-
      play screens unless the SIRS final computation or summary computation is run or a "for-real" compu-
      tation is run. The user can change the CSN or SGM on any page.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                        577


Figure 26.8. Display CARD Time Phased Assets Screen (Page 2).
578                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 26.9. Display CARD Assets Totals Screen (Page 3).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                          579


Figure 26.10. Display CARD Asset Totals At Buy Screen (Page 4).
580                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 26.11. Display CARD Obsolete Assets (Page 5).




      26.11.2. Page 1 displays the Assets On Hand or Non Time Phased. Page 2 displays the Time-phased
      Assets at the Pick-off points for the CSN or the SGM. Page 3 displays both Non Time Phased and
      Time-phased Asset Totals for all the categories at each "pick-off" point for the SGM only. Total Ser-
      viceable On Hand and Total Unserviceable On Hand contain only purpose code "0A" assets. Page 4
      displays Asset Totals at the Buy Position for Due-in and On Order assets for the SGM only. Page 5
      displays data for any obsolete CSN in the SGM selected. Most stock numbers will have no obsolete
      CSNs. SIRS displays a message "No Obsolete CSNs for SGM Selected". If the SGM has more than 50
      obsolete CSNs, SIRS will not display the data, and will display the SND menu screen instead.

26.12. The Consolidated Assets and Additive Report.
      26.12.1. This report AD200.AHBA#87B (Figure 26.12.) is in sequence by ALC, DIV, IMS and
      SGM. It is "pushed" to the IMS for items requiring review or action from the initial, final and sum-
      mary computations. The product can be requested by IMS code using the PSS screen (see paragraph
      13.5.), by an ALC OPR using the OPSS screen (see paragraph 5.2.), or by using the Select SGM
      "What If" screen (see paragraph 10.3.). This report is in 5 sections, just like the 5 pages of the display
      CARD screens (see paragraph 26.11.).
      26.12.2. The # in the product number is replaced on the actual hard copy report with a "3" for initial
      computation, "F" for final computation, "1" for summary computation and "X" for user request. A two
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              581


  position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the right of the AS OF field. The first position identifies the
  computation cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for Final and "S" for Summary). The second position represents
  the number of times that item was recomputed during that computation cycle. A zero means the item
  was not re-computed. The SGM, ALC, DIV (division) and IMS (item management specialist code)
  and ERRC are displayed at the top of the page.
  26.12.3. The first two sections display a header indicating whether the Non Time-phased and
  Time-phased data are by CSN or by SGM. The Non Time-phased data in section 1 is displayed by pur-
  pose code. There is always 0A data, but any other purpose code will only be displayed if there is
  non-zero data. The On-Hand totals display only purpose code "0A" data. If the SGM selected is a
  bachelor, that message is displayed at the end of the first section. If the stock number has many types
  of Time-phased asset, the data will be displayed on more than one page. The Time-Phased data is only
  displayed if there are non-zero values. Totals are shown for SGM data only. If the stock number has no
  time-phased data, a message is printed in this section. Section 2 displays the time-phased assets and
  the additives at the pick-off points for the CSN or the SGM.
  26.12.4. Section 3 displays both Non Time Phased and Time-phased Asset Totals for all the catego-
  ries at each "pick-off" point for the SGM only. Total Serviceable On Hand and Total Unserviceable On
  Hand contain only purpose code "0A" assets. If all data for this section does not fit on one page, this
  section is moved to the next page.
  26.12.5. Section 4 displays Asset Totals at the Buy Point (buy position) for Due-in and On Order
  assets for the SGM only. If all data for this section does not fit on one page, this section is moved to
  the next page.
  26.12.6. Section 5 lists any obsolete CSNs in the SGM family. Most stock numbers will have no
  obsolete CSNs. SIRS displays a message indicating no data for this section is printed.
  26.12.7. The Non Time-phased and Time-phased data for each CSN in the family (sections 1 and 2
  only) are printed following the 5 sections of data for the SGM.
582                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 26.12. Consolidated Assets and Additive (page 1).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                   583


Figure 26.13. Consolidated Assets and Additive (page 2).




Figure 26.14. Consolidated Assets and Additive (page 3).
584                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                              Chapter 27

                 REQUIREMENTS DATA EXCHANGE WITH OTHER SERVICES

27.1. Introduction. This chapter contains information for the Inventory Management Specialist (IMS)
about SIRS computations and the file maintenance actions required to support the non-consumable item
program. This program was established through the joint logistics commanders for more efficient,
one-manager control of items in use by more than one service. In order to establish the correct worldwide
requirements for these items, one Inventory Control Point (ICP) within DOD is made responsible for Pri-
mary Inventory Control Activity (PICA) management, receiving requirements from Secondary Inventory
Control Activities (SICA). Non-consumable Item Material Support Codes (NIMSC) identify the support
relationship between the PICA and SICA (see paragraph 9.3.23.). Numeric codes identify the kind of
SICA agreement, and determine which wholesale logistic functions are to be performed by the PICA in
support of the SICA. Alpha codes, which apply only to PICA records, identify the PICA source(s) for
depot maintenance. These codes and their meanings are detailed in AFMCR 400-21, which is the overall
policy source for the non-consumable item program.

Figure 27.1. Display RDEO Output To Other Services.




27.2. AF SICA/NIMSC 5 Procedures.
      27.2.1. When the Air Force is a SICA and a NIMSC of 5 has been negotiated with the PICA, SIRS is
      used to compute retail (or base) level requirements. These unique Requirements Data Exchange
      (RDE) requirements are the Projected Recurring Demands, Projected Non-Recurring Demands and
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                585


   Projected Unserviceable Returns. This data can be viewed on the display RDEO screen DIS SIRS
   SND RDEO. (Figure 27.1.). Type the NIIN of the SGM and press ENTER. The message "SICA AF
   not equal to 5 for SGM" means that the SGM selected has no data because it is not a SICA NIMSC 5
   item. SIRS computes these RDE requirements each quarter. The Air Force does not perform depot
   level repair or project any depot level repairs through SIRS.
   27.2.2. Once a year, the RDE requirements from the 30 September computation are sent to all PICAs
   via M024B (see paragraph 4.18.). This data is transmitted between 1 January and 1 February (per
   AFMCR 400-21 chapter 4, paragraph 4.3d and Appendix C) using the format described in paragraph
   27.7. The RDE data transmitted are the Projected Recurring Demands, Projected Non-recurring
   Demands and Projected Unserviceable Returns by quarter for five years, along with unit of issue, Pro-
   jected Other War Reserve Material (OWRM) Requirement, and PICA and SICA Routing Identifiers
   (See paragraph 27.7.) by subgroup master stock number. The RDE data for the interchangeable stock
   numbers within that family subgroup are also passed but with zeroes in the quantity fields. If the IMS
   determines that there has been significant change in the computed Projected Recurring Demands since
   the annual push from the September cycle computation, the revised data can be mechanically sent to
   the PICA by SIRS from the March, June or December cycles. The IMS should access the SMCW file
   maintenance screen for the SGM, FM SIRS CW SMCW and select PUSH RDE TO PICA (Figure
   27.2.). Changes to Non-Recurring Requirements do not require a new RDE submission.

Figure 27.2. File Maintenance SMCW SGM Screen.




   27.2.3. AF SICA NIMSC 5 items:
      - With estimated factors must have justification for rates used, or revert to computed figures.
586                                                                            AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         - Have 6 or higher file maintained as the Item Activity code (see paragraph 14.5.).
         - Have a base condemnation percent of zero.
         - Should not have an item category code of "S" or "I". Change to blank. (See paragraph 14.6.).
         - Should not have a Date of Last Procurement file maintained (see paragraph 14.12.).
         - Unserviceable assets should not be file maintained into SIRS.
         - All depot repair cycle fields should be left as the defaults.
         - Should not have a C-E Depot Floor level file maintained.
         - Should never have FMS stock levels, because the PICA supports the FMS requirements.
         - Should not be repaired on a PDM line under the job routed concept.
      27.2.4. Assets. Since the PICA controls procurement, repair, and worldwide asset accountability of
      these items, asset reconciliation is not required for these items. Initial Spares Support List (ISSL) and
      RSP assets for units not yet activated, are the only assets that should be held at the depot. These should
      be kept in special depot accounts. Base level assets consist of only serviceable assets to fill levels and
      Due In From Maintenance. All unserviceable assets (base and depot) and depot serviceable assets
      (except as specified above) accumulated at the ALC should be reported to the PICA, who will provide
      disposition instructions. Depot serviceable assets should first be screened to determine if AF has a
      need for the item. No disposition action should be taken except as authorized by the PICA.
      27.2.5. Projected Non-Recurring Demands. For each quarter, sum the total OIM base stock level, the
      total overhaul stock level, all the additive requirements and the W-B requirement (see paragraph
      25.4.1.) to get the gross non-recurring requirement. This is de-accumulated by comparing each quar-
      ter's gross non-recurring requirement to the total of all previous quarters' de-accumulated non-recur-
      ring requirements, and any increase becomes that quarter's de-accumulated non-recurring
      requirement. Subtract the de-accumulated total serviceable assets, to get the de-accumulated
      Non-Recurring Demands (D-AC NON-RECUR DMDS, line 8 in this example).

Table 27.1. Example Non-Recurring Demands
LINE                              Quarter         1          2             3         4         5        6
1. OIM Base Stk Lvl                               3          1             1         3         3        4
2. + Tot Ovhl Stk Lvl                             1              1         1         1         1        1
3. + Additive Rqmt                                3          3             4         4         4        5
4. + W-B Rqmt                                     2          2             2         2         2        2
5. = Gross Non-Recur Rqmt                         9          7             8         10        10       12
6. D-AC Non-Recur Rqmt                            9          0             0         1         0        2
7. - Serviceable Assets D-AC                      21
8. = D-AC NON-RECUR DMNDS                         0          0             0         1         0        2

      27.2.6. Projected Recurring Demands. For each quarter, list the computed 3rd short as a positive num-
      ber, subtract the computed 3rd over and subtract the accumulated OWRM requirement. (For any quar-
      ter, the item may have a computed 3rd short quantity or a computed 3rd over quantity, but not both).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  587


   Any negative result is set to zero. De-accumulate this adjusted requirement (D-AC ADJ Rqmt, line 5
   in the example below). Subtract the de-accumulated Non-Recurring Demands (line 8 from example
   above) from the de-accumulated adjusted requirement to get the de-accumulated Recurring Demands
   (DAC RECUR DMDS, line 7 in the example below). Any negative result is set to zero.

Table 27.2. Example Recurring Demands
LINE                        Quarter     1        2      3         4         5         6
1. 3rd Short                                            2         29        55        84
2. 3rd Over                             21       13
3. OWRM ACC                             20       20     20        20        20        20
4. ACC ADJ Rqmt                         0        0      0         9         35        64
5. D-AC ADJ Rqmt                        0        0      0         9         26        29
6. D-AC NON-RECUR DMNDS                 0        0      0         1         0         2
7. D-AC RECUR DMNDS                     0        0      0         8         26        27

   27.2.7. Projected Unserviceable Returns. This quantity represents the number of reparable genera-
   tions forecasted to be returned to the PICA for depot level repair. SIRS computes this de-accumulated
   quarterly projection (D-AC UNSVC RTNS) as the de-accumulated OIM operating requirement minus
   the de-accumulated base processed quantity, plus the de-accumulated total DLM (PDM plus Engine
   OH plus MISTR) non-job routed requirement.

Table 27.3. Example Unserviceable Returns
                                                                       Base Processing percent: 10%
Quarter                                                1      2        3    4    5         6    7     8
OIM Operating Rqmt (DAC)                               37     36       36   35   33        33   34    33
minus Base Processed (DAC) (times 10%, rnd)            4      4        4    4    3         3    3     3
+ total DLM NJR Rqmt                                   12     11       11   11   10        10   11    0
DAC UNSVC RETURNS                                      45     43       43   42   40        40   42    40

   27.2.8. Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) products. No repair CSIS products are produced
   for SICA/NIMSC 5 items. Budget CSIS item detail products for these items contain a Section R,
   NIMSC 5 Unserviceable Returns, in the information data section, which provides the quantities of
   unserviceable returns for the AY, BY, EY periods and the 4th and 5th years. These quantities are mul-
   tiplied by the credit allowance value (65% times the acquisition cost) to determine the projected credit
   allowance for each period on the CSIS summary products.

27.3. AF PICA/NIMSC 5 Procedures.
   27.3.1. These procedures apply where the Air Force is the PICA and the SICA(s) have negotiated a
   NIMSC 5. The Air Force is responsible for computing and providing worldwide support for all ser-
   vices, including depot repair support. A Depot Maintenance Interservice Support Agreement
588                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      (DMISA) may be negotiated with another service. However, this, too, must include all service
      requirements.
      27.3.2. Each SICA is required to provide their forecasted requirements (20 quarters of Projected
      Recurring Demands) and Projected Unserviceable Returns once a year to arrive at the PICA by 1 Feb-
      ruary, for each NIMSC 5 item. An OWRM requirement is also sent by the SICA. For Expendability,
      Recoverability, Reparability Category (ERRC)"C" and "T" items, the data comes from other services
      via M024B (see paragraph 3.14.) on the M024BE6FO Interservice Requirements Data Exchange file
      by subgroup master stock number. The other Services inputs the RDE into the Defense Automatic
      Addressing System (DAAS). DAAS then routes the RDE to the applicable ALC based on the PICA
      Routing Identifier in positions 4-6 of the transactions. M024B at each ALC spools the transactions on
      a file, M024BE6F0. The files from each ALC are processed by SIRS at OO-ALC once a week. There
      should be 5 or 7 transactions per stock number (see paragraph 27.7.). The first five transactions con-
      tain Projected Recurring Demands and Projected Unserviceable Returns. If the other service is also
      sending Projected Non-Recurring Demands for the stock number, these will be sent in transactions 6
      and 7. Data that passes the SIRS edits, are stored by SICA Routing Identifier Code (RIC) and by NSN.
      Any Projected Non-Recurring Demands are output on the IMS Review List as information. Data
      received from M024B from 1 January through 31 March will be accumulated as the "once a year
      input" Any data received from 1 April - 31 December will be treated as "corrections", and stored until
      the next initial computation when the data is used to replace the data with the same SICA routing iden-
      tifier code and NSN on the database. For the initial 31 March cycle, SIRS updates its data base with
      the "once a year input" by replacing the data on the database with the new data. Any data not replaced
      causes SIRS to generate the message "SICA data not received from xxx" on the IMS Review List (see
      paragraph 13.2.8.15.). The IMS should contact the SICA to get the data. The data can be file main-
      tained by the RIC (see paragraph 27.6.).
      27.3.3. For ERRC “N” and “P” items, the Projected Recurring Demands from other services comes
      from D035B (see paragraph 3.4.). Since these are "consumable" items, there are no Projected Unser-
      viceable Returns. SIRS sums the data by service. The data is stored with the "RIC" of ARM, NAV,
      MAR and OTH, and can be viewed (see paragraph 27.3.4.) and file maintained (see paragraph
      27.6.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               589


Figure 27.3. Display OSTD Other Services Total Demands & Requirements.




   27.3.4. The quarterly quantities for all SICAs are consolidated for each of the services (Army, Navy,
   Marines, and Others) see paragraph 27.7. or paragraph 9.3.23., according to the Routing Identifier
   Codes (RIC) (see paragraph 27.2.). To view this data, use the OSTD screen (Figure 27.3.). The DIS
   SIRS MISC OSTD. screen displays the past and future demands that are required by another service
   when the Air Force is the PICA. The screen provides 8 quarters of Past Demands (Projected Unser-
   viceable Returns) from another service, and 20 quarters of Future Requirements (Projected Recurring
   Demands) for the same service. Type the service code (A, N, M or O) and the SGM and press ENTER.
   Each quantity field can display up to 7 positions.
   27.3.5. The Recurring Demands received from the other services are displayed as Future Require-
   ments on the OSTD screen (Figure 27.3.). This data can be file maintained on the RDFM screen as
   RDE Recurring Demands (see Figure 27.5.). An adjustment in the first quarter of the SICA's RDE
   Recurring Demands can be made for any SICA funded backorders which were requisitioned prior to
   the SIRS asset cutoff date. SIRS does not know who is a registered user. Therefore, if the other service
   is not a registered user and the requirement was 'one-time' in nature, then the IMS should file maintain
   zeroes for the Recurring Demands. Recurring Demands are used in the computation as part of the
   Total Gross Requirement (see paragraph 9.8.40.), and are displayed on the SGM Computation Work-
   sheet as the Additive Requirement Recurring. (In D041, this was called the WISSA additive).
   27.3.6. Non-recurring Requirements. This information should be retained in the item folder. No
   file maintenance is needed since this data is only used for stock retention. The data input through the
   M024B file can be seen on the file maintenance screen RDFM, as RDE Non-Recurring Demands.
590                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      27.3.7. The Projected Unserviceable Returns initial entry inputs from the other services are dis-
      played as Past Demands on the OSTD screen (Figure 27.3.). They can be file maintained on the
      RDSS screen as RDE Reparable Returns (see paragraph 27.6.). They are displayed as RDE REP
      GENS on the SGM Computation Worksheet Each quarterly RDE Reparable Generations (DAC) is
      multiplied times the interpolated MISTR condemnation percent, computed to 6 decimal positions,
      accumulated and rounded to an integer to equal the RDE Rep Gens Condemnations. The RDE REP
      GENS CNDMN represent the condemnations against the RDE reparable generations. The net RDE
      Reparable Generations are computed for each quarter of the computation and retention by subtracting
      the accumulated RDE Reparable Generation Condemnations from the RDE Reparable Generations.
      The NET RDE REP GENS represents that portion of the RDE Reparable Generations which are
      anticipated to be returned to serviceable condition during repair of the item. The RDE GENS AVAIL
      FROM RPR represents the RDE Reparable Generations that will be available from output as service-
      able. This quantity is determined by slipping the net RDE Reparable Generations forward the length
      of the depot repair cycle using the technique described in paragraph 9.8.65. The RDE REP GENS
      AVAIL FROM RPR will become part of the TOTAL AVAIL FROM DEP RPR quantity and will be
      subsequently scheduled for repair. The RDE DEP RPR CYCLE Rqmt also appears on the computa-
      tion and represents the quarterly quantity of RDE reparable assets anticipated to be in the depot repair
      cycle pipeline. It is determined by subtracting the RDE GENS AVAIL FROM RPR from the Net RDE
      Reparable Generations.
      27.3.8. SICA Application in SIRS. Application data should be provided by the SICA on the
      Non-consumable Item Materiel Support Request (NIMSR). There is no program from the application
      to be used to compute requirements. However, the IMS should request that the ES establish the appli-
      cation with a program select code of all zeroes in Applications, Programs and Indentures (API)
      D200F.

27.4. AF PICA/NIMSC 6 Procedures.
      27.4.1. General. These procedures will apply to items where the Air Force is the PICA and a NIMSC
      6 has been negotiated with the SICA. A NIMSC 6 identifies those items that are managed by the SICA
      as consumable or economic order quantity (EOQ) items. For these items, the Air Force is responsible
      for support but will not receive reparable generations (Projected Unserviceable Returns) from the
      NIMSC 6 SICA service.
      27.4.2. SICA Application. Application data should be provided by the SICA on the Nonconsumable
      Item Materiel Support Request (NIMSR). There is no program from the application to be used to com-
      pute requirements. However, the IMS should request that the ES file maintain the application with a
      program select code of 00 in API as a reference.
      27.4.3. Computation. As the PICA, the IMS only receives RDE requirements at the time of transfer.
      The SICA is not required to provide the annual requirements projections. However, the IMS should
      review and adjust SICA requirements (RDE Recurring Demands). At least annually, the IMS should
      obtain an interrogation from the D035 Requisition Control File for SICA SRANs. Compute a monthly
      (or quarterly) demand rate by dividing the number of units requisitioned by the base period (12
      months for annual review). Compare the computed quarterly requirement (monthly rate times 3) to the
      projected SICA requirements. If a significant change has occurred, use the RDFM screen, to file
      maintain the new requirement as the RDE Recurring Demands. There are no Projected Unserviceable
      Returns, and no Projected Non-Recurring Demands.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             591


   27.4.4. War Materiel Requirements/War Reserve Materiel Requirements. This is the only data
   element that should be received on an annual basis. Data should be retained in the item record folder
   as it is needed for stock retention purposes.

27.5. Air Force SICA NIMSC 2, 4 or 8 Items. These procedures will apply to items where the Air
Force is the SICA and a NIMSC 2, 4 or 8 has been negotiated with the PICA. These items are managed by
the Air Force in the same manner as items for which the Air Force is the PICA, with one exception, all
procurement must be made through the PICA service, by Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
(MIPR).

Figure 27.4. File Maintenance RDSS RDE Data Selection Menu.




27.6. File Maintenance of RDE. From the File Maintenance Main Menu, select SIRS. On the Recover-
ables Menu, select SND Stock Number Data. From the SND selection screen, select RDSS, RDE Data
Selection Screen. Type the subgroup master stock NIIN by SGM and press ENTER. The RDSS RDE Data
Selection Screen appears again (Figure 27.4.), but this time listing each current stock number with data
and the associated RIC. The only values that can be typed to the left of the CSN are "A" to add a new CSN
and "X" to view or change or delete the data for that CSN and RIC. Even though the screen displays CSN,
the data should be stored by SGM.
592                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      27.6.1. ADD. Type "A" with a new valid SGM (CSN) and RIC and press ENTER. The new SGM
      must be valid. If the SGM in not valid, SIRS returns a message "NEW IIN NOT A RECOV RCD".
      SIRS will accept a RIC of any three alpha-numeric values. For consumable items, the data should be
      stored by service using a RIC of ARM, NAV, MAR and OTH. For recoverable items, the RIC should
      be valid according to paragraph 27.7. SIRS displays the RDFM screen (Figure 27.6.) with the quan-
      tity fields all zero. Type the quantities for the new SGM and press ENTER.
      27.6.2. CHANGE. Type "X" and press ENTER, and SIRS produces the RDFM screen (Figure
      27.5.). Type over the existing data and press ENTER to change the data.
      27.6.3. DELETE. To delete a RIC record, type "X, to bring up the RDFM record, type zero in all
      fields and press ENTER. SIRS will display the all-zero record. Then type DONE. SIRS will delete the
      all-zero record. SIRS will display the RDSS Selection Screen with that RIC-SGM record deleted.

Figure 27.5. File Maintenance RDFM RDE Data Screen – Change.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             593


Figure 27.6. File Maintenance RDFM RDE Data Screen – Add.




27.7. Format of RDE Transaction. The header data in positions 1-25 are duplicated on all transactions.
The following are Routing Identifiers used for the RDE transactions.
OC-ALC = FHZ OO-ALC = FGZ FG5 WR-ALC = FL6 FLZ Marines = MHQ MPB
Army = A12 A35 AKZ AP5 B14 B16 B17 B46 B56 B 63 B64 B69
Navy = N17 N21 N22 N23 N24 N25 N26 N32 N35 N39 N43 N44 N45
N47 N48 N56 N57 N64 N67 N77 N79 N84 NCB NDZ NMP NMZ
NFZ PPZ P73 RAZ RCZ RKZ R29 R31 R32 R33 R41 R48 R58
Others = G36 HAD PSZ Q6D Q81 S9C S9E S9F S9G S9I S9M S9P S9S
S9T ZIC ZNC ZQC


    Transaction 1
Columns                      Entries
 1-3                Document identifier WR1.
4-6                 The routing identifier of the PICA (managing) activity this data are being sent to.
   7                Blank
 8-22               The current stock number.
23-25               The routing identifier of the SICA activity forwarding the RDE.
594                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


26-29              The last digit of the calendar year and Julian day requirements are submitted.
   30              The SICA numeric NIMSC, always 5.
31-36              Blank.
37-42              The projected requirements for OWRM.
43-48              Always zeros.
49-50              The last two digits of the fiscal year in which the projected requirements begin
                   equal to the current FY.
51-70              Projected Recurring Demands - 1st Year (zero fill to the left).
51-55              1st Qtr
56-60              2nd Qtr
61-65              3rd Qtr
66-70              4th Qtr
71-78              Blank
    79             "1" (the number of the transaction)
    80             Blank
   Transaction 2
Columns            Entries
 1-25              Duplicate entries in transaction columns 1-25 of transaction 1
26-45              Projected Recurring Demands - 2nd Year (zero fill to left).
26-30              1st Qtr
31-35              2nd Qtr
36-40              3rd Qtr
41-45              4th Qtr
46-65              Projected Recurring Demands - 3rd Year (zero fill to left).
46-50              1st Qtr
51-55              2nd Qtr
56-60              3rd Qtr
61-65              4th Qtr
66-75              Projected Recurring Demands - 4th Year (zero fill to left).
66-70              1st Qtr
71-75              2nd Qtr
76-78              Transaction date
   79              "2" (the number of the transaction)
   80              Blank
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                              595


    Transaction 3
Columns             Entries
 1-25               Duplicate entries in transaction columns 1-25 of transaction 1.
26-35               Projected Recurring Demands - 4th Year (Continued)
26-30               3rd Qtr
31-35               4th Qtr
36-55               Projected Recurring Demands - 5th Year (zero fill to left).
36-40               1st Qtr
41-45               2nd Qtr
46-50               3rd Qtr
51-55               4th Qtr
56-75               Projected Unserviceable Returns -1st Year (zero fill to left).
56-60               1st Qtr
61-65               2nd Qtr
66-70               3rd Qtr
71-75               4th Qtr
76-78               Transaction date
   79               "3" (the number of the transaction)
   80               Blank
   Transaction 4
Columns             Entries
 1-25               Duplicate entries in transaction columns 1-25 of transaction 1.
26-45               Projected Unserviceable Returns - 2nd Year (zero fill to left).
26-30               1st Qtr
31-35               2nd Qtr
36-40               3rd Qtr
41-45               4th Qtr
46-65               Projected Unserviceable Returns - 3rd Year (zero fill to left).
46-50               1st Qtr
51-55               2nd Qtr
56-60               3rd Qtr
61-65               4th Qtr
66-75               Projected Unserviceable Returns - 4th Year (zero fill to left).
66-70               1st Qtr
71-75               2nd Qtr
76-78               Transaction date.
596                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


   79              "4" (the number of the transaction)
   80              Blank
   Transaction 5
Columns            Entries
 1-25              Duplicate entries in transaction columns 1-25 of transaction 1.
26-35              Projected Unserviceable Returns - 4th Year (continued) (zero fill to left)
26-30              3rd Qtr
31-35              4th Qtr
36-55              Projected Unserviceable Returns - 5th Year (zero fill to left)
36-40              1st Qtr
41-45              2nd Qtr
46-50              3rd Qtr
51-55              4th Qtr
56-75              Projected Non-recurring Demands - 1st Year (zero fill to left)
56-60              1st Qtr
61-65              2nd Qtr
66-70              3rd Qtr
71-75              4th Qtr
76-78              Blank
   79              "5" (the number of the transaction)
   80              If non-recurring requirements are projected, transaction column 80 will be blank. If
                   no non-recurring requirements are projected, an "E" will be entered in transaction 5
                   in column 80 to indicate last trailer transaction for item, and transactions 6 and 7
                   will not be submitted.
   Transaction 6
Columns            Entries
 1-25              Duplicate entries in transaction columns 1-25 of transaction 1.
26-45              Projected Non-recurring Demands - 2nd Year (zero fill to left)
26-30              1st Qtr
31-35              2nd Qtr
36-40              3rd Qtr
41-45              4th Qtr
46-65              Projected Non-recurring Demands - 3rd Year (zero fill to left)
46-50              1st Qtr
51-55              2nd Qtr
56-60              3rd Qtr
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                        597


61-65              4th Qtr
66-75              Projected Non-recurring Demands - 4th Year (zero fill to left)
66-70              1st Qtr
71-75              2nd Qtr
76-78              Transaction date.
   79              "6" (the number of the transaction)
   80              Blank
   Transaction 7
Column             Entries
 1-25              Duplicate entries in transaction columns 1-25 of transaction 1.
25-35              Projected Non-recurring Demands - 4th Year (continued) (zero fill to left)
26-30              3rd Qtr
31-35              4th Qtr
36-55              Projected Non-recurring Demands - 5th Year (zero fill to left)
36-40              1st Qtr
41-45              2nd Qtr
46-50              3rd Qtr
51-55              4th Qtr
56-75              Blank
76-78              Transaction date
   79              "7" (the number of the transaction)
   80              An "E" to indicate last trailer transaction for item.
598                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                   Chapter 28

                                         ASSET RECONCILIATION

28.1. Introduction. This chapter defines the asset reconciliation process. The Item Management Special-
ist (IMS) maintains asset reconciliation records for all SIRS Subgroup Master stock number (SGM)
except ERRC "N" and "P" items, AF SICA NIMSC 5 items, obsolete items, military contingency items
(deferred disposal code = "M"), and reusable air munitions containers (system management code =
D023), Federal Stock Class (FSC) 8145 and items on Performanced Based Logistics contracts on which
the contractor is doing all the demand and supply planning including the calculation of requirements for
the items.
      28.1.1. Reconciliation of delivered and on hand assets is done by a thorough research of ALC records,
      reports, transaction histories, and when warranted, a worldwide inventory according to AFMAN
      23-110, volume 1, part one, chapter 6, paragraph 6.2.30. When time consuming research is required,
      minimum release of procurement with contractual option to increase the quantity may be made to pro-
      tect the lead-time. A worldwide inventory reconciliation is justified, for items computing a buy, repair,
      or termination with a variance of plus or minus five percent or more and dollar value of the difference
      is $500,000 or more and for items not computing buy, repair, or termination with a variance of plus or
      minus ten percent or more and dollar value of the difference is $1,000,000 or more. For classified
      items, if the asset variance is other than 0 or the dollar difference is greater than 0, a worldwide inven-
      tory reconciliation will be accomplished if the variance remains after the research and corrections by
      the IMS/MM.
      28.1.2. The IMS/MM performs asset reconciliation every quarter. The IMS maintains permanent doc-
      umentation records concerning asset changes with enough details so anyone reviewing the item
      (assuming a reasonable amount of SIRS knowledge) can understand what was done and why. The
      IMS maintains these records (as needed) by file maintaining the appropriate Asset Reconciliation
      screens. The IMS maintains all needed asset reconciliation documentation online by using the note-
      pads associated with the screens.
      28.1.3. The results of reported and/or file maintained assets can be viewed on the Asset Reconcilia-
      tion Report (Figure 28.10.) and on the 6 Asset Reconciliation screens. All these screens can be
      accessed from either the DIS SIRS SND selection screen or the FM SIRS SND selection screen. The
      assets used in the SIRS computation should reflect the accountable balances as of the asset cutoff date
      (31 March; 30 June; 30 September, and 31 December.)
      28.1.4. Asset gains will be recorded on the AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and
      the record maintained in a location readily available for audits/inspections as well as recorded on the
      Asset Reconciliation Losses and Gains (ARLG) screen. See AFMCI 23-102, chapter 22 for how to fill
      out the AFMC Form 318. This publication can be reached at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/
      pdl. Asset losses will be recorded on the Asset Reconciliation Losses and Gains (ARLG) screen (see
      paragraph 28.5.) and not on the AFMC Form 318.

28.2. General File Maintenance Procedures. If a Current Stock Number (CSN) is entered, SIRS dis-
plays the SGM data. If there is no data for that SGM, SIRS displays zeroes. Data is changed by entering
the new data and pressing the ENTER key. Negative numbers are displayed with a - to the left of the
value. To enter a negative number, type the - to the right of the value. If the new data failed the edits, an
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               599


error message will appear on the screen. When the new data passes the edits, the notepad will appear. The
general Notepad is displayed before the Notepad for the various data elements. Type the documentation
on the general Notepad or transfer to an element Notepad. Type "X" by NOTEPAD or click on the note-
pad button if using GUI to transfer to the File Maintenance Notepad screen to update existing text. After
entering the documentation, press “enter”, and the file maintained screen will re-appear with the notifica-
tion "update successful" indicating that the data base has been changed to the entered values. To transfer
to another screen, type P1, P2 etc at the command line. Whenever any data used in the asset reconciliation
process (Starting Position, Asset Gains/Losses, On Hand Assets, On Order Assets, Due In Assets, or Due
Out To Maintenance (DOTM) is updated, SIRS will re-compute the results on-line immediately, however,
to actually have the assets applied to the computation, you must run a “for real” computation.

28.3. Asset Reconciliation Process. SIRS performs the asset reconciliation process at the beginning of
the initial, final, and summary computations. The purpose is to maintain an accurate record of the
accountable ‘spares’ balance and ensure that the assets used in the requirements computation reflect that
value. The data used in this process are at SGM level. The asset reconciliation process is displayed and
maintained online within the SIRS. The process will be described below in the order the data is displayed
on the asset reconciliation screens.
   28.3.1. There are six screens that comprise the Asset Reconciliation process: ARD, ARLG, ARCR,
   AROO, ARDI, and AROH. The file maintenance screens ARD and ARLG contain data that can be
   file maintained. The other four screens (ARCR, AROO, ARDI, and AROH) reflect the data that is
   used on the ARD and ARLG screens to arrive at the asset reconciliation results. The screens can be
   accessed individually by typing P1, P2 etc on the command line or using GUI, by pointing and click-
   ing on the page numbers at the bottom of any of the six screens.
   28.3.2. The data is displayed in columns, each column representing a quarterly computation cycle.
   Each column is headed by an AS OF DATE (asset cutoff date) of the computation cycle for which the
   reconciliation is being performed. Up to four quarters of data at the SGM level can be displayed at a
   time. Both the initially reported (INPUT) and IMS file maintained (UPDATE) values are displayed on
   the ARD, AROO, ARDI, and AROH screens. J041, J018R, AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a
   compact disc containing the same information as an AFMC Form 318, H103, and the IMS records are
   used as sources of information to reconcile asset quantities. The on order/due in quantities should be
   added to the Total Acquired and Starting Position fields on the ARD screen by the IMS when the on
   order/due in record is first established. The quantities should reflect what was on order/due-in as of
   the asset cutoff date for the cycle being worked. With the exception of items showing in termination
   (see paragraph 33.3.7.4.), deliveries subsequent to the Asset Cutoff Date are not included regardless
   of when the delivery occurred. Any difference between the IMS records and those overlaid to SIRS
   from J018R should be researched.
   28.3.3. The asset reconciliation screens provide generic and data element specific notepads for use in
   documenting the asset changes and adjustments. Specific types of on order/due-in assets are discussed
   in the following subparagraphs. The asset reconciliation screens and their applicable data elements are
   as follows.
600                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 28.1. File Maintenance ARD Asset Reconciliation Screen.




28.4. Asset Reconciliation Data (ARD) Screens (Figure 28.1. and Figure 28.2.). The ARD screen pro-
vides an overall summary of the asset reconciliation, including the total acquired assets, starting asset
position, gains & losses, and the asset variances. Only the latest quarter's data can be file maintained. The
total acquired assets and starting asset position are the only two data elements that can be file maintained.
      28.4.1. Tot Acq Assets. The Total Acquired Asset field is an information entry and is not to be used
      to reconcile assets delivered and on hand, etc. in the inventory. This field is to be used as an audit trail
      of all assets ever acquired for the SGM. It is the total of all assets acquired for this NSN and all NSNs
      within the subgroup. It includes due-in assets from on order contract; on order Purchase Request (PR)
      funded assets, reclamation, contract termination and those procured for Foreign Military Sales (FMS)
      stock levels. As of August 2004, it does not include PR Unfunded Assets. It should not include
      non-programmed FMS procurement or other "direct shipment" procurement, which will not enter the
      Air Force inventory. The IMS must add by file maintenance, any new acquisitions to the TOT ACQ
      Assets in SIRS. SIRS does not automatically add new acquisitions to the TOT ACQ Assets. The TOT
      ACQ ASSETS will be reduced when PR reductions/cancellations are initiated or when contract reduc-
      tion/termination is initiated (see paragraph 33.3.11. and paragraph 33.3.11.1.). Whenever additional
      assets are acquired, the IMS will update this field on the ARD screen, FM SIRS SND ARD (Figure
      28.1.). Potential sources for this data are AFMC Form 318, Item and IMS records. Do not include
      asset gains from the Asset Gains section (see Figure 28.3.) for the cycle being reconciled. Asset gains
      from the Asset Gains section will be added to this field by SIRS on the next computation cycle being
      reconciled.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                601


Figure 28.2. Display ARD Asset Reconciliation Screen.




   28.4.2. Starting Pos. The starting position is file maintained by the IMS on the ARD screen (Figure
   28.1.). It equals the Total Acquired quantity adjusted by all the fourth quarter reconciliation adjust-
   ments (if any). SIRS will automatically update this field at the beginning of each quarter with the total
   assets gains from the Asset Gains section from the previous quarter. Once established, the IMS should
   only update this field when additional assets are acquired (see paragraph 28.6.1.) or when taking a
   fourth quarter variance adjustment. Whenever the quantity in this field is different than it was the pre-
   vious quarter SIRS will establish a new starting position date. The IMS must add/file maintain new
   acquisitions and adjustments due to three consecutive quarters of variance to the Starting POS in
   SIRS. SIRS does not automatically add new acquisitions and adjustments due to three consecutive
   quarters of variance to the Starting Position. The Starting POS will need to be reduced through file
   maintenance when PR reductions/cancellations are initiated or when contract reduction/termination is
   initiated (see paragraph 33.3.11.1. and paragraph 33.3.11.2.).
   28.4.3. Total Asset Losses. The summary of the asset losses that have been reported and/or file
   maintained are on the ARLG screen (see Figure 28.3.). This section should contain all asset losses,
   which can be validated. It will display two values; the first one (QUARTER) represents the losses for
   the quarter being reconciled and the second one (TOTAL) represents an accumulated total for the life
   of the item. Some asset losses are mechanically reported each quarter from the D035A file. These
   include condemnations, installations losses, shipments to FMS, shipments to non-reporting activities,
   and transfers to DRMO. Other asset losses will have to be manually input by the IMS. Research
   should be accomplished to assure the loss is real. If validation cannot be accomplished, the loss should
   not be included. Assets have a one-for-one impact on the bottom line result (e.g. buy, repair, term,
602                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      excess). Recording an invalid loss directly increases the computed requirement. Therefore, conserva-
      tive management dictates that a reported loss be disregarded unless it can be validated. Potential
      sources of this data are D035A and the IMS records. The IMS can file maintain the current quarter
      value for each type of loss on the ARLG screen (Figure 28.3.). The accumulated ‘total’ field will
      automatically be updated by SIRS during the computation cycle. A negative value can be entered in
      these fields (e.g. ‘-2’) that will cause the accumulated value to be reduced. This allows for the correc-
      tion of an error in a previous quarter. The sum of the accumulative totals will be displayed on the line
      "Total Asset Losses" on the ARD screen (Figure 28.1.). The specific types of losses are discussed in
      the following subparagraphs. (The AFMC Form 247 used prior to June 1997 contained two asset loss
      types that do not appear in this automated process, Mock-ups and Test Equipment. They should now
      be included under ‘Other’.) NOTE: all adjustments made to the current quarter losses will be added to
      or if a negative sign is placed first subtracted from the previous quarter total.
      28.4.4. Total Asset Gains. Include all assets received from validated Inventory Adjustment Voucher
      (IAV), modification, FMS Excess, etc. These entries represent any "actual" gains since the last recon-
      ciliation to the asset cutoff date. There is no mechanical source for this data. All entries must be file
      maintained by the IMS using the ARLG screen FM SIRS SND ARLG (Figure 28.3.). (The asset gains
      will also be annotated on the AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintained in
      a location readily available for audits/inspections.) They are not to be accumulated from one reconcil-
      iation cycle to the next. Instead, on the subsequent quarter, the total asset gains are added to the Total
      Acquired Assets and Starting Position automatically by SIRS.
      28.4.5. Total OO/DIA. The total on order and due in assets that are reflected on the AROO and
      ARDI screens, DIS SIRS SND AROO (Figure 28.6.) and DIS SIRS SND ARDI (Figure 28.7.).
      28.4.6. Net Bal Accountable. This represents the total number of assets for which the IMS is respon-
      sible. It is computed by subtracting the total asset losses from the Starting Position, adding the total
      asset gains and then subtracting the Total On Order and Due In Assets (Total OO/DIA). An error in
      any of the fields used to calculate the net balance accountable will result in an erroneous net balance
      accountable.
      Example:
         Starting Position                       100
         - Total Asset Losses                    - 25
         + Total Asset Gains                     +5
         - Total OO/DIA                          - 10
         = Net Balance Accountable Assets         70
      28.4.7. Net Rpt Assets. This is the updated Total Reported Assets minus the updated DOTM
      (including FMS H-Coded Requisitions quantities).
      28.4.8. Variance Qty. This field is computed within D200A by subtracting the Net Balance Account-
      able from Net Reported Assets. This field reflects the variance between the accountable balance,
      which should have been reported, and what was reported. Differences indicate a problem, which
      requires research. Note: If the net balance accountable is larger than the Net Reported Assets the vari-
      ance quantity will be displayed with a negative sign.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 603


examples: (shown in asset reconciliation sequence):
       -7 Net Balance Accountable             23 Net Balance Accountable
       -3 Net Reported Assets                 10 Net Reported Assets
       4 Variance -13 Variance


       -3 Net Balance Accountable             10 Net Balance Accountable
       -7 Net Reported Assets                 23 Net Reported Assets
       -4 Variance                            13 Variance


       3 Net Balance Accountable              -10 Net Balance Accountable
       -7 Net Reported Assets                 23 Net Reported Assets
       -10 Variance                           33 Variance
   After three consecutive cycles with a consistent variance (all '+' or all '-'), the IMS should make an
   adjustment for unclassified items to the Starting Position equal to the smallest of the three-variance
   quantities on the fourth reconciliation cycle. Examples: (1) If variance quantity for the past three con-
   secutive cycles has been -6, -3, and - 4 and the current quarter is -5, the IMS may reduce the Starting
   Position on the fourth reconciliation cycle by -3 (the smallest variance quantity). Then the IMS could
   not take another variance until the sixth quarter (if sixth quarter variance is negative), and the maxi-
   mum quantity that could be taken then is – 1 because 3 of the – 4 in the third quarter had already used
   in the fourth quarter adjustment. (2) If variance quantity for the past three consecutive cycles has been
   -3, -6, and - 4 and the current quarter is -5, the IMS may reduce the Starting Position on the fourth rec-
   onciliation cycle by -3 (the smallest variance quantity). Then the IMS could not take another variance
   until the fifth quarter (if the fifth quarter variance is negative), and the maximum quantity that could
   be taken then is – 1 because 3 of the – 4 in the third quarter had already used in the fourth quarter
   adjustment. (3)If the variance quantity for the past three consecutive cycles has been – 6, - 3, - 4 and
   the current quarter is –2, the IMS may reduce the Starting Position on the fourth reconciliation cycle
   by only – 2. (4) If the variance quantities had been -6, -3, and +4, no adjustment can be made. Note:
   Consistent adjustments for variances indicate that there is something wrong with the reported assets,
   DOTM, H-coded backorder, losses, gains, due-ins, or starting position in current or prior quarters. The
   existence of a means to adjust the net difference does not justify ignoring the costly problems. Some
   common causes include modifications the IMS may not be aware of, unreported condemnations, poor
   contractor reporting, and theft. The IMS should make every effort to identify and correct the underly-
   ing problems when possible.
       28.4.8.1. Research of Reported Asset Data. Research of item history records should be conducted
       whenever there is a variance between the net reported assets and the net balance accountable. Fol-
       lowing are some suggestions, which might assist in the research effort:
           28.4.8.1.1. G009 products. The PMS receives a copy of these products on a monthly basis.
           They reflect the assets, by condition, located at the contractor’s facility.
           28.4.8.1.2. D035A Weekly Transaction Register (A-D035A.-111-W2-GTR). If there is any
           action at a depot (shipment/receipt of assets, requisition placed on back order, etc.) on the
604                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


             NSN, it will appear on this product. Immediately below the last transaction there will be asset
             balance broken out by condition codes. This information can be used to validate depot bal-
             ances and asset shipments reporting in SIRS.
             28.4.8.1.3. Non-reported Repair Assets. All assets currently being repaired at non-reporting
             interservice or contractor repair facilities should be file maintained into SIRS.
             28.4.8.1.4. The Government and commercial carriers also have other tools available for trac-
             ing shipment that the IMS should utilize.
             28.4.8.1.5. If the IMS cannot determine from their research why there is a variance, the IMS
             should consider requesting a worldwide inventory. For classified items, the IMS will request a
             worldwide inventory. No write-offs for Classified items will be performed without docu-
             mented asset reconciliation actions that will include a worldwide inventory, a minimum of
             Group-level signature approval and after at least 3 consecutive quarters since the initial dis-
             covery the adjustment may occur.
      28.4.9. Variance Percent. This field is the absolute value of the (Variance Quantity/Net Balance
      Accountable) times 100. If the computed variance percent for the SGM exceeds the variance threshold
      value (currently hard-coded as .05 ), a message will be displayed. A message will also be output on the
      IMS Item Review List (see paragraph 13.2.8.17.).
      28.4.10. $ Value of Var. This field is the Variance Quantity times the Unit Price.
      28.4.11. O/H Assets In Comp. Ideally, this is the Net Balance Accountable plus DOTM (including
      FMS H-coded requisition quantities). This field should reflect the quantity that appears on the compu-
      tation. SIRS automatically adjusts the purpose code ‘0A’ assets used in the computation. A description
      of how this is accomplished is described below:
         28.4.11.1. First, the Net Reported Assets are compared to the Net Balance Accountable. If the net
         reported assets are less that the net balance accountable (i.e. - a 'negative' variance quantity) it
         means that there are spares that should exist but cannot be accounted for. The assets used in the
         SIRS computation, purpose code '0A', will be set equal to the updated purpose code 'FM' on hand
         assets (i.e. - no adjustments will be made by SIRS) and a quantity equal to the variance will be
         added to the DIA Serviceable Other in the sixth quarter after the asset cutoff date.
         28.4.11.2. If the net reported assets are larger than the net balance accountable (i.e. - a 'positive'
         variance) it means that there are more spares reporting than should exist. When this condition
         occurs, SIRS will develop the assets used in the computation, purpose code '0A', by reducing the
         values of the updated purpose code 'FM' assets in the following order until the variance quantity
         has been eliminated:
                 Unserviceable Intransit
                 Unserviceable OWRM
                 Unserviceable Base
                 Unserviceable Contractor
                 Unserviceable Depot
                 TOC
                 Serviceable Intransit
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  605


               Serviceable OWRM
               Serviceable Contractor
               Serviceable Base and Depot
               Serviceable WRM Base
               Serviceable On Loan
               OWO
       28.4.11.3. If the variance quantity is greater than the total number of net reported assets, the assets
       used in the computation will be set to zero and a message will be printed on the IMS Review
       Report.
       28.4.11.4. If the variance quantity is zero then the assets used in the computation will be set equal
       to the updated purpose code 'FM' assets and no adjustment of any kind will be made by SIRS.

28.5. Asset Reconciliation Losses And Gains (ARLG) Screens. The ARLG screens (Figure 28.3. and
Figure 28.4.) provide the individual asset losses and gains by category. Only the most recent quarter can
be file maintained. Two values are displayed for each type of asset loss. The first value (QTR) is the num-
ber of losses for that type that occurred during the quarter. This is the field that is file maintained by the
IMS. The second value (TOTAL) is the accumulated number of losses that have been experienced for that
type over the life of the item. Negative numbers are displayed with the - to the left of the value. The asset
loss fields will accept a file maintained negative number. File maintain the - to the right of the value. This
will reduce the accumulated total field. The total field cannot be reduced to less than zero.
606                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 28.3. File Maintenance ARLG A-R Losses and Gains Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 607


Figure 28.4. Display ARLG A-R Losses and Gain Screen.




The asset losses and gains are as follows.
   28.5.1. Condemn. This is the accumulated (from quarter to quarter) total of assets condemned. Con-
   demnations (base and depot) are reported by D002A and D035A on a quarterly basis. Include in this
   figure assets that have been changed to condition code H, P, S or 2 within the quarter preceding the
   asset cut off date. Condemnations are displayed on the Factors Printout. Generally, the quantity that
   appears on the Asset Reconciliation report and the Factors Printout should be compatible. Differences
   may occur when the ES file maintains changes to the usage data. Check the Factors Printout to assure
   inclusion of all condemnations file maintained by the ES. If the ES determines that any condemna-
   tions are not representative of normal anticipated usage, they should be excluded from the Factors/
   Usage Printout and not be used to project future condemnations. However, these condemnations rep-
   resent valid losses to the inventory and should be included in the asset reconciliation process. When
   an asset is condemned for reasons other than normal wear-out, and thus is not included in the condem-
   nation lines of the Factors/Usage Printout, the loss will be recorded as a loss to condemnation on the
   asset reconciliation. Document the cause of any such condemnations on the online notepads. For
   example, "4 each condemnations excluded from Factors/Usage Printout because items were destroyed
   in warehouse fire on 1 Jan 99."
   28.5.2. Install. Installation losses are assets issued for initial installation in a weapon system or next
   higher assembly. These are reported by D035A and appear on the SUD screen, DIS SIRS DTI SUD
608                                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      (Figure 16.1.), as INITIAL INST ISS (see paragraph 16.2.). Also include issues on Project Code 428
      (SPRAM) having an "N" demand code, signifying a new issue. The IMS should keep track of the
      shipment of Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance (SPRAM) assets by recording
      them as losses. SPRAM replenishment shipments should not be recorded as losses as they should have
      a corresponding condemnation or NRTS action. Generally, initial/new SPRAM should be procured
      with initial provisioning or follow-on spares funds and be direct shipped to the using base. If this is the
      case, neither the SPRAM due-in procurement nor the SPRAM losses should be included in the asset
      reconciliation process or in the computation worksheet. If initial/new SPRAM requirements are pro-
      cured with MSD funds and enter the depot warehouse, shipments of these assets to the using base will
      be counted as losses as should shipments ‘out-of-stock’ for initial/new SPRAM requirements.
      28.5.3. On Loan (Formerly Bailment). This line is to be used only for issues of on loan assets when
      it is determined that the assets will not be returned to Air Force inventory. If on loan assets are
      reported and included in the computation, they do not apply to this line. (On loans used to be reported
      on the D104 IM Quarterly Worldwide Assets and Levels Report, purpose code "OL"). Bailment is an
      obsolete term, formerly used for loans to contractors. Since entries in this field should be rare, docu-
      mentation should be detailed and specific. This field is only updated through IMS file maintenance, as
      there is no mechanical source for the data.
      28.5.4. FMS. These are the assets issued to FMS from Air Force stock. These shipments are reported
      by D035A, however, not all reported shipments to FMS constitute losses. A loss is recorded only
      when a shipment is made from the spares inventory (assets included in Total Acquired). An example
      of a shipment that is "a loss " is the filling of a requisition from a country, which has a stock level case,
      recorded in the computation. Another example of a shipment that is "a loss" is the filling of an FMS
      unprogrammed requisition with Air Force excess stock. An example of a shipment that is not a loss is
      the filling of an H-coded requisition. Do not include non-programmed FMS procurement shipped
      direct from the contractor. If the valid losses are numerous and would require an intensive amount of
      annotation, identify the appropriate requisitions on either the Quarterly ILP & Other Services requests
      listing (PCN A-D035A.-1L2-Q1-GAN), which shows all candidates for procurement using BP 18
      funds. No documentation is required if the quantity reported from D035A is not changed. However,
      the overlay should be reviewed because it may include shipments to FMS H-coded requisitions. Doc-
      umentation is required if the IMS changes the quantity. The document number, which shipped the
      asset(s) from stock, is considered proper documentation.
      28.5.5. NRA. These are assets shipped to Non Reporting Activities. These are assets shipped to the
      Materiel Utilization Control Office (MUCO) "FN" accounts and all other non-reporting activities
      other than Foreign Military Sales and Security Assistance. They are reported by D035A and appear on
      the SUD screen, DIS SIRS DTI SUD (Figure 16.1.), as SHIP TO NRA (see paragraph 16.2.). The
      data from D035A includes shipments to other services, which will need to be removed from the losses
      when assets are expected to be returned as unserviceable, and exchanged for serviceable. Examples:
      Do not include shipments to activities (such as SICA services, FAA, NASA) when assets are expected
      to be returned as unserviceable and exchanged for serviceable. Do not include shipments to other ser-
      vices for repair under a depot maintenance interservice support agreement (DMISA). Losses to
      non-reporting activities require specific documentation on the online notepads. By definition, visibil-
      ity is totally lost for assets shipped to these activities. Except for "FX" and "FN" accounts, most ship-
      ments will not be made on a requisitioning document number, but on an FDxxxx document number.
      Documentation should be retained which identifies the requester, location, purpose, and dates.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              609


  28.5.6. Specl Proj. Include all assets issued in support of Special Projects only when they will not be
  returned to Air Force spares inventory. Losses to special projects should be documented with the doc-
  ument number and the official project code. This field is only updated through IMS file maintenance
  because there is no mechanical source for the data.
  28.5.7. Mod. These are assets that have lost their identity through the modification process and are no
  longer interchangeable with the SGM. If items are linked (or should be linked) within the same I&S
  subgroup master, the loss from modification should not be shown. Only one asset reconciliation
  should be maintained for the entire I&S subgroup master and only gross quantities reflected. Docu-
  mentation should identify the gaining national stock number. An entry on this line should result in a
  corresponding entry in the ASSET GAINS section of the gaining NSN. This field is only updated
  through IMS file maintenance because there is no mechanical source for the data.
  28.5.8. Min IAV. This line is for accumulating all asset losses, which resulted from inventory adjust-
  ment vouchers. While Minus IAV quantities are reported by D035A each quarter, they are not placed
  in this field. All IAVs should be researched to verify an "actual" gain or loss has occurred and is not
  already counted as a gain or loss above. When using an IAV adjustment reported by a depot account,
  documentation will include the IAV document number, which can be found in the weekly transaction
  register (document identifier code D8A for a gain and D9A for a loss). There will be a nine in each of
  the last four digits of the document number. When using a reported IAV to a base account, document
  the base SRAN. Since inventory adjustments at base level have different criteria than depot adjust-
  ments, validation is required before this loss is recorded. AFMAN 23-110, Vol 1, Part One, Chapter 6,
  provides the required level of management, record retention policy, and OPR for processing IAVs.
  When there are both "plus" and "minus" IAVs being used in the same quarter, only the "net" IAV
  quantity should be recorded. When an IAV loss/gain is netted, it should be documented as in the fol-
  lowing example:
     Minus IAV       -10     FB204972119999
     Plus IAV        +5      SRAN FB2319
     NET IAV         -5
  If the result is a net plus IAV, it should be entered under asset gains.
  28.5.9. Trans DRMO. These are transfers of quantified excesses sent to Defense Reutilization and
  Marketing Office (DRMO) and items coded for disposal. These are reported by D035A each quarter
  and are displayed on the SRD screen, DIS SIRS DTI SUD (Figure 16.1.) as TRAN TO DRMO (see
  paragraph 16.2.). When assets are transferred to disposal as a result of management decisions (not
  condemnations), the IMS should record the loss on this line. No documentation is required if the quan-
  tity reported by D035A is not changed. Documentation is only required if the IMS updates this field.
  The document number(s) which transferred the asset(s) should be recorded as supporting documenta-
  tion.
  28.5.10. Other. This is reserved for all other valid asset losses that do not conform to the above defi-
  nitions. Unexplainable, unverified losses may not be included. Examples of other losses are: gifts to
  the Air Force Museum, items donated to State or County governments. Any losses reported in this
  field must be thoroughly documented. In addition, the two other types of losses that had their own line
  on the old AFMC Form 247 should be reflected under ‘Other’. They are:
610                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         28.5.10.1. Mockups. Assets issued for permanent display or to be used as a standard by a repair
         facility (contract or organic). In the past few years, many such assets have become subject to Spe-
         cial Purpose Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance (SPRAM) reporting and should be
         recorded on the Installations line above. These issues should be supported by written documenta-
         tion. There should also be written documentation verifying that these losses do not duplicate
         reported SPRAM losses.
         28.5.10.2. Test Equipment. Issues to repair facilities to be used for testing or check out purposes
         or to fill a table of allowance requirement. (Assets acquired on Tables of Allowance TAs) are
         reported, but to the D039/D200C Equipment Item system and not to SIRS.)Most issues to repair
         facilities to support testing are currently being included in SPRAM. Losses recorded in this field
         should be supported by written documentation verifying that these losses do not duplicate reported
         SPRAM losses.
      28.5.11. Plus IAV. IAV gains will be file maintained in this field. Although Plus IAV quantities are
      reported by D035A each quarter they are not placed in this field. Instead, they are displayed as memo
      entries on the bottom of the Asset Reconciliation report (see paragraph 28.10.). If an IAV does not
      reflect a change in the actual accountable assets balance or is already included as a gain or loss, it
      should not be used here. (See paragraph 28.5.8. Minus IAV).
      28.5.12. Modification. Assets that were gained through the modification of an item, aircraft, or sys-
      tem during the time period being reconciled are reported here. They have either gained the identity
      and/or became interchangeable with the NSN on this form. If items are linked (or should be linked)
      within the same I&S subgroup, the gain from modification should not be shown here. Only one asset
      reconciliation should be performed for the entire I&S subgroup and only gross quantities reflected.
      Include all assets modified since the last reconciliation to the asset cutoff date. Potential sources for
      data are D035A and IMS records. Documentation for gains from modification should identify the los-
      ing NSN and be input on the online notepads. An entry on this line should have a corresponding entry
      in the "ASSET LOSSES" of the losing NSN.
      28.5.13. Other. All assets gained since the last reconciliation to the asset cutoff date that are not
      reported in Plus IAV or Modification. Assets from reclamation found to be in condition code A, B, C,
      D, E, or F after the condition check will be reported as other gains after the condition check. Unser-
      viceable returns from the SICA returned for repair and return will not be recorded as asset gains.
      Examples: Do not include shipments from activities (such as SICA services, FAA, NASA) when
      assets are expected to be returned as unserviceable and exchanged for serviceable. Do not include
      shipments from other services for repair under a depot maintenance interservice support agreement
      (DMISA). In some cases assets are removed from a higher assembly, condemned and turned into sup-
      ply and there are no serviceable assets available or unserviceable assets available for repair to serve as
      a replacement for the asset removed. In such instances, the asset condemned is actually a gain to the
      assets reported in supply as an asset was not removed from supply to replace the item. Incases where
      documentation is available to prove this has happened input the asset as a gain. This will counterbal-
      ance the condemnation loss reported. Potential sources for data are D035A and IMS records. Since
      this is a general category, detailed documentation is mandatory for any entries on this line.

28.6. Asset Reconciliation Computational Results (ARCR) Screen. This screen (Figure 28.5.) dis-
plays the results of the asset reconciliation and is not file maintainable. If accessed from the FM SIRS
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                    611


SND selection screen, only the View function can be used. This screen displays four quarters of computa-
tional results. The following data elements are reflected on the ARCR screen.

Figure 28.5. Display ARCR A-R Computational Results Screen.




   28.6.1. Starting Position. Reflects the quantities that were file maintained on the ARD screen (Fig-
   ure 28.1.). To identify when the starting position was last changed, and the starting position used in
   the past 3 quarters, it also has a display of the year and quarter date and to the right of that the starting
   position for each of the 4 quarters displayed.
   28.6.2. Total Asset Losses. Total of all losses reported above. SIRS will develop this field by adding
   the quantities from each of the individual fields identified above. Asset losses are accumulated from
   cycle to cycle for the life of the item. Reflects the quantities that are displayed on the ARD screen, as
   file maintained on the ARLG screen (Figure 28.3.).
   28.6.3. Total Asset Gains. This is the sum of assets gained from plus IAV, modifications and other
   gains for the computation cycle being reconciled. Reflects the quantities that are displayed on the
   ARD screen, as file maintained on the ARLG screen (Figure 28.3.)
   28.6.4. Bal Accountable. This field reflects the quantity of accountable assets that should be in the
   AF inventory. It is computed by subtracting losses and adding gains from the starting asset position.
   28.6.5. Tot Rpt Assets. This is the sum of the updated on hand assets as reflected on the ISA screen.
   28.6.6. Total Non/Acct. This is the non-accountable assets and is a total of the DOTM and the
   H-Coded Reps quantities.
612                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      28.6.7. Net Rpt Assets. This is the updated Total Reported Assets minus the updated Total
      Non-Accountable Assets (DOTM plus H-Coded Requisition quantities).

28.7. Asset Reconciliation On Order (AROO) Assets Screen. The AROO screen (Figure 28.6.) dis-
plays 4 quarters of On Order assets, totaled for the SGM, that were used in the asset reconciliation. Two
values are displayed for each asset type. The column INPUT displays the values from J018R. The column
UPDATE is the latest file maintained value, if the asset was file maintained. These On Order assets cannot
be file maintained on the AROO screen, and only the View function can be used on this screen. The On
Order assets are file maintained by the CSN, on the TPAD screen, FM SIRS SND TPAD (see paragraph
26.9.). This AROO screen can be accessed from both Display and File Maintenance. The screens are alike
except that the file maintenance AROO screen has a "Time Phased Assets" selection box in the lower
right corner. After viewing the data, put "X" in the "Time Phased Assets" box, to go to the TRAD screen.
Since the On Order assets are file maintained at the CSN level, each data element may have more than one
element notepad associated with it. The following data elements are reflected on the AROO screen.

Figure 28.6. Display AROO A-R On Order Assets Screen.




      28.7.1. All Unfunded Fields. Are to be zero since Unfunded PR assets are not to be in the SIRS com-
      putation.
      28.7.2. Funded PR OWRM. The on order assets that have been placed on PR in support of the Other
      War Reserve Material (OWRM) requirement where funds have been committed.
      28.7.3. Funded PR WRM. The on order assets that have been placed on PR in support of the RSP
      requirement where funds have been committed.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                613


   28.7.4. Funded PR POS. The on order assets that have been placed on PR in support of the POS
   requirement where funds have been committed.
   28.7.5. Contract OWRM. The on order assets where funds have been obligated and a contract has
   been awarded in support of the OWRM requirement.
   28.7.6. Contract WRM. The on order assets where funds have been obligated and a contract has
   been awarded in support of the RSP requirement.
   28.7.7. Contract POS. The on order assets where funds have been obligated and a contract has been
   awarded in support of the POS requirement.

28.8. Asset Reconciliation Due In (ARDI) Assets Screen. The ARDI screen (Figure 28.7.)displays the
Due In assets, totaled for the SGM, that were used in the asset reconciliation. Two values are displayed for
each asset type. The column INPUT displays the values from J018R. The column UPDATE is the latest
file maintained value, if the asset was file maintained. These Due-In assets cannot be file maintained on
the ARDI screen, and only the View function can be used on this screen. The Due-In assets are file main-
tained by the CSN, on the TRAD screen, FM SIRS SND TPAD (see paragraph 26.9.). This ARDI screen
can be accessed from both Display and File Maintenance. The screens are alike except that the file main-
tenance ARDI screen has a "Time Phased Assets" selection box in the lower right corner. After viewing
the data, put "X" in the "Time Phased Assets" box, to go to the TPAD screen. Since the Due-In assets are
file maintained at the CSN level, each data element may have more than one element notepad associated
with it. The following data elements are reflected on the ARDI screen.
   28.8.1. DIA SVC Othr. The serviceable assets due in from other sources.
   28.8.2. DIA UNSVC Othr. The unserviceable assets due in from other sources.
   28.8.3. DIA TOC Othr. The Technical Order Compliance (TOC) assets due in from other sources.
   28.8.4. DIA SVC Recl. Included in this field are the projected serviceable assets to be retrieved from
   reclamation as of the asset cutoff date. These are the reported due in assets from a programmed recla-
   mation project. These are input to SIRS from J018R and are annotated by the IMS on the AFMC Form
   318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintained in a location readily available for audits/
   inspections. Reclamation due ins also include anticipated due ins from Class IV and V modification
   removals, which should be manually file maintained during the correction cycle between the initial &
   final computation quarter until delivered. Since the potential yield and condition of assets from recla-
   mation projects varies greatly including the due-in could pose unacceptable risk to weapon system
   support, the IMS/MM should not load the due-ins in the requiremeneets computation. This field
   should be blank. Reclamation due-ins will not be posted.
   28.8.5. DIA UNSVC Recl. Included in this field are the projected unserviceable assets to be
   retrieved from reclamation as of the asset cutoff date. These are the reported due in assets from a pro-
   grammed reclamation project. These are input to SIRS from J018R and are annotated by the IMS on
   the AFMC Form 318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintained in a location readily available
   for audits/inspections. Reclamation due ins also include anticipated due ins from Class IV and V mod-
   ification removals, which should be manually file maintained during the correction cycle between the
   initial & final computation quarter until delivered. Since the potential yield and condition of assets
   from reclamation projects varies greatly including the due-in could pose unacceptable risk to weapon
   system support, the IMS/MM should not load the due-ins in the requiremeneets computation. This
   field should be blank. Reclamation due-ins will not be posted.
614                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      28.8.6. DIA TOC Recl. Included in this field are the projected TOC assets to be retrieved from rec-
      lamation as of the asset cutoff date. These are the reported due in assets from a programmed reclama-
      tion project. These are input to SIRS from J018R and are annotated by the IMS on the AFMC IMT
      318 or another paper or a compact disc and maintained in a location readily available for audits/
      inspections. Reclamation due ins also include anticipated due ins from Class IV and V modification
      removals, which should be manually file maintained during the correction cycle between the initial &
      final computation quarter until delivered. Since the potential yield and condition of assets from recla-
      mation projects varies greatly including the due-in could pose unacceptable risk to weapon system
      support, the IMS/MM should not load the due-ins in the requiremeneets computation. This field
      should be blank. Reclamation due-ins will not be posted.
      28.8.7. DIA SVC Term. The serviceable assets to be received from contract termination as of the
      asset cutoff date. This does not refer to contract termination generated by the IMS. Entries on this line
      are for assets being obtained from contracts terminated by other activities. (Requests for the items
      would be processed on DD Form 1149, Requisition & Invoice/Shipping Document.)
      28.8.8. DIA UNSVC Term. The unserviceable assets to be received from contract termination as of
      the asset cutoff date. This does not refer to contract termination generated by the IMS. Entries on this
      line are for assets being obtained from contracts terminated by other activities. (Requests for the items
      would be processed on DD Form 1149).
      28.8.9. DIA TOC Term. The TOC assets to be received from contract termination as of the asset cut-
      off date. This does not refer to contract termination generated by the IMS. Entries on this line are for
      assets being obtained from contracts terminated by other activities. (Requests for the items would be
      processed on DD Form 1149, Requisition & Invoice/Shipping Document).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              615


Figure 28.7. Display ARDI A-R Due In Assets Screen.




   28.8.10. DIA SVC FMS. The projected serviceable assets that are excess to a FMS country. This
   data is usually not reported in J018R and should be manually file maintained each quarter by the IMS.
   If the assets are not received within 6 months after the IMS approval date the DIA record should be
   deleted and the quantity removed from the Total Acquired and Starting Position fields. (See para-
   graph 28.8.1.3.).
   28.8.11. DIA UNSVC FMS. The projected unserviceable assets that are excess to a FMS country.
   This data is usually not reported in J018R and should be manually file maintained each quarter by the
   IMS. If the assets are not received within 6 months after the IMS approval date the DIA record should
   be deleted and the quantity removed from the Total Acquired and Starting Position fields. (See para-
   graph 28.8.1.3.).
   28.8.12. DIA TOC FMS. The projected TOC assets that are excess to a FMS country (see para-
   graph 28.8.1.3.). This data is usually not reported in J018R and should be manually file maintained
   each quarter by the IMS. If the assets are not received within 6 months after the IMS approval date the
   DIA record should be deleted and the quantity removed from the Total Acquired and Starting Position
   fields.
   28.8.13. OO/DIA TOTALS. This field is computed by SIRS and is the total of all the On Order and
   Due-In assets listed above.

28.9. Asset Reconciliation On Hand (AROH) Assets Screens. The AROH screen (Figure 28.8.) dis-
plays the On Hand assets and Total Reported Assets and the AROH screen (Figure 28.9.) displays the
616                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


DOTMs, and H-Coded Reps that were used in the asset reconciliation. Use the scrolling commands (FOR
and BAC) to see both pages. Two values are displayed for each asset type. The column INPUT displays
the values from D035A (totaled to SGM level). The column UPDATE is the latest file maintained value,
if the asset was file maintained. These On Hand assets cannot be file maintained on the AROH screen,
and only the View function can be used on these screens. Changes to the On Hand assets and DOTM
must be made on the NTPD screen, FM SIRS SND NTPD (see paragraph 26.6.). Changes to the
H-Coded Reps must be made to the FM H-CD BO on the ADRQ screen, FM SIRS SND ADRQ screen
(see paragraph 25.4.16.). These AROH screens can be accessed from both Display and File Mainte-
nance. The screens are alike except that the file maintenance AROH screens (pages 1 and 2) have a "Non
Time Phased Assets" selection box in the lower right corner. After viewing the data, put "X" in the "Non
Time Phased Assets" box, to go to the NTPD screen. Also, page 2 of the file maintenance AROH screen
has an "Additive Requirements" selection box in the lower left corner. After viewing the data, put "X" in
the "Additive Requirements" box, to go to the ADRQ screen. Since the On Hand assets are file main-
tained at the CSN level, each data element may have more than one element notepad associated with it.
Obsolete current stock number asset balances are not used in SIRS processing. Assets in condition codes
H, P, S and 2 are not used in SIRS and the IMS will not include them in the reported assets on the asset
reconciliation as they cannot be repaired or are uneconomical to repair. Recoverable assets that have been
installed are not included in the reported assets. The following data elements are reflected on the AROH
screen.
      28.9.1. SVC BASE DEPOT. Represents the aggregate serviceable asset balance that has been
      reported by the individual base and depot bases. The D035A asset data will be used for the asset rec-
      onciliation process during the initial computation. Any file maintained asset data will used for the
      asset reconciliation process during the final computation and summary computation.
      28.9.2. SVC WRM BASE. The serviceable assets that have been prepositioned at the bases in sup-
      port of the WRSK/BLSS requirement.
      28.9.3. SVC OWRM DEPOT. The serviceable assets that are at the depot in support of the Other
      War Reserve Requirement (OWRM).
      28.9.4. SVC INTRANSIT. The serviceable intransit assets provided by D035A. SIRS receives ser-
      viceable asset quantities based on actual intransit asset data from RAMPS via D035A. Assets can be
      reported intransit and also on hand on the same date, due to timing in the system from which the data
      is input to D035C & D035A.
      28.9.5. SVC CONTRACT. The serviceable assets that are located at contractor sites.
      28.9.6. SVC ON LOAN. The serviceable assets that are loaned to a contractor in support of Air
      Force work for which the IMS file maintains a matching additive requirement (see paragraph
      25.5.2.). GFAE/GFM/GFP assets (see paragraph 25.4.4.) for production contacts that have been
      shipped to contractors are recorded as an asset loss. The quantity reflected as serviceable on loan
      assets, will automatically appear as an on loan additive requirement.
      28.9.7. TOC. These assets include the total of all condition codes D, Q, R, and 3 assets reported as on
      hand at depot accounts on the asset cutoff date. TOC assets are almost serviceable but require testing,
      adjustment or other minor work before they can be reissued. These assets aren't netted by the MISTR
      condemnation percent during determination of the total available for repair, which are used to deter-
      mine the Third Over/Short Position on the computation.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             617


  28.9.8. OWO. These are the unserviceable On Work Order assets that are reported to SIRS by
  G019C. These are assets undergoing organic repair. OWO assets affect the computation of MISTR
  lines and the resulting DPEM budget. OWO is removed from peacetime repair input line as previously
  obligated. The reported OWO quantities are compared to the reported DIOH quantities from D035A.
  The DIOH is the condition code M balance and should include the sum of OWO, Awaiting Parts
  (AWP), and Awaiting Maintenance (AWM). If the reported DIOH is greater than the OWO from
  G019C, the difference is added to the reported unserviceable depot assets. If the reported DIOH is less
  than the reported OWO, the reported OWO will be reduced to the number of reported DIOH assets
  and an error message will appear on the IMS Item Review List (IRL) screen (see paragraph
  13.2.8.11.).
  28.9.9. UNSVC BASE. Represents the aggregate unserviceable asset balance that has been reported
  by the individual bases.
  28.9.10. UNSVC DEPOT. The aggregate unserviceable asset balance that has been reported by the
  individual depot activities.
  28.9.11. UNSVC INTRANSIT. SIRS receives unserviceable asset quantities based on actual intran-
  sit asset data from RAMPS via D035A. Assets can be reported intransit and also on hand on the same
  date, due to timing in the system from which the data is input to RAMPS/D035A. Unserviceable
  assets on NIMSC 5 items are passed by D035A but SIRS does not use the assets.
618                                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 28.8. File Maintenance AROH A-R On Hand Assets Screen (page 1).




      28.9.12. UNSVC Contractor. Unserviceable Contractor Unscheduled Assets from D035A are all
      unserviceable assets held at a contractor SOR site. Unserviceable contractor scheduled assets are not
      reported by D035A. Contractors do not report how many assets are in overhaul in their shops and how
      many are on their shelves awaiting repair. The IMS cannot file maintain contractor scheduled assets
      into SIRS.
      28.9.13. UNSVC OWRM Dep. The unserviceable assets that are at the depot in support of the
      OWRM.
      28.9.14. Tot Rpt Assets. This is the sum of the on hand assets.
      28.9.15. DOTM. A Due Out To Maintenance (DOTM) action occurs when maintenance turns in an
      unserviceable item (including condemned items) and does not receive a serviceable item in return,
      therefore the debit/credit accounting action is incomplete. The unserviceable asset is then reported as
      if it were a spare asset although it is not; it has created a hole (temporarily) in the aircraft or end item..
      This causes the spares inventory to be overstated in D200A unless the install asset was condemned..
      DOTM is input to SIRS from D035A and processed in SIRS in the same manner as the on hand assets
      described in paragraph 28.9., above. The IMS/MM must not increase the DOTM reported in D200A
      from D035A. The IMS/MM will use the backorder list as of the end of quarter to validate the DOTM
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              619


   circling the DOTM quantities on the backorder list. If the reported DOTM quantity in D200A (ISA
   screen or the SRAN Asset Listing) exceeds the total Air Force Priority 1-10 backorder quantity
   reported in D035A as of the cutoff date for the item, the IMS/MM must reduce the DOTM quantity to
   a quantity equal or lower than the total Air Force Priority 1-10 backorder quantity as there should be
   some reasonable correlation between DOTM quantities and MICAPs and firm due-out backorders.
   Priority11-15 backorders are for stock levels. Exclude stock level backorders priority 11-15. The
   backorders must be from the SRAN(s) reporting the DOTM. The IMS should validate the DOTM
   with the reporting activity when possible. When validating DOTM, the IMS should ensure that the
   validation is done as of the asset cutoff date. The DOTM quantities shown on the ISA screen, DIS
   SIRS DTI ISA (see paragraph 26.4.1.) indicate that, as of that date, there were install assets in the
   repair cycle for which a serviceable asset had not been received. File maintenance to the DOTM is
   done on the NTPD screen, FM SIRS SND NTPD (see paragraph 26.6.). For consumable items
   (ERRC N and P), follow procedures in paragraph 25.6. and subparagraphs.

Figure 28.9. File Maintenance AROH A-R On Hand Assets Screen (page 2).




   28.9.16. H Coded Reps. H-coded FMS requisitions indicate that there are FMS reparable assets
   included in the reported spares. H-coded requisition quantities do not generate until a reparable asset
   is received in the distribution system. Therefore, the presence of an FMS H-coded requisition on back-
   order as of the asset cutoff date means that an asset owned by an FMS country is included in the AF
   spares inventory. As in the case of DOTM assets, this causes the spare inventory to be overstated. To
   offset this overstatement, the H-coded requisition should be added to the reported FMS H-CD BO
   additive. Use only the H-coded requisitions (both programmed and unprogrammed) still on the back-
   order list as of the computation cutoff date. H-coded backorders received after the computation cutoff
620                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      date may only be added to the first quarter input and output requirements in the apportionment year of
      the Family Stratified Repair Requirement portion of the ARRCS B21 to ensure timely repair. This
      data element can be file maintained as the FM H-CD BO on the ADRQ screen, FM SIRS SND ADRQ
      (see paragraph 25.4.16.).
      28.9.17. Tot Non/Acct. This is the non-accountable assets and is a total of the DOTM and the
      H-Coded Reps quantities.

28.10. The Asset Reconciliation Report.
      28.10.1. The AD200.AKAA#8AK report (Figure 28.10.) is in sequence by ALC, DIV, IMS and
      SGM. It is "pushed" to the IMS for items requiring review or action from the initial, final and sum-
      mary computations. The product can be requested by IMS code using the OP SJR SIRS PPS screen
      (see paragraph 13.5.), or by an OPR using the OP SJR SIRS OPSS screen (see paragraph 5.2.).
      Change the AS OF DATE to request a product from a previous cycle.
      28.10.2. A zero means the item was not re-computed. The SGM, ALC, IMS (3-position item manage-
      ment specialist code) and Item Category Code (IAC) are displayed at the top of the page.
      28.10.3. The report contains 4 consecutive cycles of data for the selected AS OF date and three previ-
      ous time periods. This report contains a summary section followed by a detailed breakout. The sum-
      mary section provides the users with the STARTING POSITION, TOTAL ASSET LOSSES, TOTAL
      ASSETS GAIN, TOTAL OO/DIA, NET BALANCE ACCOUNTABLE and the NET REPORTED
      ASSETS. The summary also contains the computed VARIANCE QUANTITY, VARIANCE PER-
      CENT and VARIANCE $ VALUE. ASSET LOSSES is the first section below the summary. Losses
      for the individual quarter and cumulative value are shown. Negative values may be shown for the
      quarterly losses. ASSET GAINS are reported in the second section, which displays only quarterly val-
      ues. The third section is the ON ORDER/DUE IN ASSETS, which have an INPUT field displaying
      the actual values and an UPDATE field displaying the file maintained data. The fourth section is the
      ON HAND assets (the Non Time-Phased assets), which have an INPUT field displaying the actual
      values and an UPDATE field displaying the file maintained data. The TOTAL RPT ASSETS is a sum-
      mation of the ON HAND ASSETS. Next, actual and file maintained data are displayed for DOTMS
      RPT and H-CODED B/O RPT, with their totals displayed as TOTAL NON/ACCT. The last line is the
      NET REPORTED ASSETS which is the difference between TOTAL RPT ASSETS and TOTAL
      NON/ACCT. This value can be negative if the non- accountable assets are greater than total on hand
      assets. The last page(s) are the Notepad text for each cycle shown on the report. The general documen-
      tation ("remarks") notepad is printed first, if it exists. The element notepads for the TOTAL
      ACQUIRED ASSETS, STARTING POSITION, and the individual losses and gains are shown next.
      This is followed by the Notepad text for the elements file maintained at CSN level. Multiple CSNS
      may be listed under these element notepads
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                              621


Figure 28.10. Asset Reconciliation Report (Page 1).
622                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 28.11. Asset Reconciliation Report (Page 2).




Figure 28.12. Asset Reconciliation Report (Page 3).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                623


                                               Chapter 29

                                    SAFETY LEVELS PRODUCTS

29.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the SIRS screens and products that display information from
the Aircraft Availability Model (AAM) computation and the Variable Safety Level (VSL) computation.
These products are usually provided to the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR.

Figure 29.1. Display SIRS Recoverables Menu.




29.2. Aircraft Availability Model Products. From the RDB-FOE Menu (Figure 2.7.), select Display,
then select the Recoverables (Figure 29.1.), then select Aircraft Availability Model Data Menu (Figure
29.2.). The display AAMD menu allows the user to select and view any of the screens listed (see para-
graphs 29.2.1., 29.2.2., 29.2.3., 29.2.4., and 29.2.5. below). From the RDB-FOE Menu (Figure 2.7.),
select Output Products, then select Submit Job Request, then select Recoverables, then select Aircraft
Availability Model product selection screen to request a hard copy product using the selection criteria dis-
played on this screen (Figure 29.8.). The hard copy products are described in paragraphs 29.2.6. through
29.2.12. below.
   29.2.1. Display AMD AAM OWRM Summary Results Screen (Figure 29.3.). This screen dis-
   plays the Other War Reserve Material (OWRM) data that is updated by the Aircraft Availability
   Model during the initial, pre-final, final, pre-summary and summary computations. Enter the AS OF
   date, TM PER (time period), MD (Mission Designator such as C005, blank for all MDs), RUN PT (the
   computation cycle), and 3 targets. Four of the seven availability targets are displayed at a time. The
624                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      user may select the three targets to be displayed by entering 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, or 7. The defaults are 1, 2 and
      3. The fourth target is always displayed. Press ENTER and SIRS will display the data. Use the scroll-
      ing commands to see all the data. The WRM is computed by subtracting the POS BUY (peacetime
      buy) from the TOT CST FOR ACFT AVAL (total cost for aircraft availability). OWRM is computed
      by subtracting W-B BUY (War Readiness Spares Kits and Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares) from
      WRM. On the last page, "ALL AIRCRAFT" will be displayed, and the $/PER ADD AFCT (dollars
      per additional aircraft) and CO MARG AVAL are not displayed.

Figure 29.2. Display AAMD Aircraft Availability Model Data Menu.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               625


Figure 29.3. Display AMD AAM OWRM Summary Results Screen.




  29.2.2. Display BYMD Aircraft Availability By MD Screen (Figure 29.4.). This screen displays
  the number of available aircraft, goals percentages and dollar costs calculated by the AAM by MD
  (mission designator such as C005). This data is not available on the initial computation. Enter the AS
  OF date, RUN PT (the computation cycle), FND ENVIR (Funding Environment which is LIM for
  limited funding, or the default FULL, or WAR1 through WAR7), TM PER (time period), MD and
  PEACE/WAR IND ("W" for war, or "P" for peace, the default). The war funding levels (WAR1,
  WAR2, etc.,) are calculated only for the pre-final and pre-summary computations. If the Peace/war
  indicator is equal to "P", then the TM PER can only be "2ND" for second quarter data, "BUY for buy
  point data (the default), "TERM" for termination point data, or "POM" for Program Objective Memo-
  randum point data. If the Peace/war indicator is equal to "W", then the TM PER can only be "1ST",
  "4TH", "7TH" or "10TH" (the default). Press ENTER. If the MD field is blank, all MDs can be
  viewed by using the scrolling commands. The screen will display a message is no data is found for the
  criteria entered. The projected number of aircraft is the NR ACFT multiplied by the decimal format
  ACFT AVAL. NON SFTY LVL INIT CST is the sum of NON NEG LVL INIT BUY CST and the MD
  PL INIT CST and the MD SPCL LVL INIT COST and MD INS-NSO INIT CST.
  29.2.3. Display MDFR Aircraft Availability Fill Rate Goals Screen (Figure 29.5.). This screen
  displays the list of peacetime and wartime aircraft availability full and limited funding fill rate goals
  which are updated during the initial, pre-final, final, pre-summary and summary computations. When
  the peace/war indicator is equal to "P", then the headers are "2ND QUARTER", "BUY POINT",
  "TERM POINT", and "POM POINT". If the peace/war indicator is equal to "W", then the headers are
  "MONTH 1 ", "MONTH 4", "MONTH 7" and "MONTH 10". The ACFT AVAL GOAL is a fill rate
626                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      goal for a MD (mission designator, such as C005). The data is arranged by MD (mission designator
      such as C005) in ascending order. Use the scrolling commands to view all data.
      29.2.4. Display OPT One Percent Table Screen (Figure 29.6.). This screen displays the one per-
      cent table for full and limited funding that is updated during the initial, pre-final, final, pre-summary
      and summary computations. One asterisk displayed in the SEL AVAIL field denotes full funding and
      2 asterisks denote limited funding. Three asterisks are displayed in the SEL AVAIL field when both
      Full and Limited funding are equal. Enter the AS OF date, MD (or blank for all Mission Designators),
      TM PER (time period), RUN PT (the computation cycle), and PEACE/WAR IND ("W" for war, or "P"
      for peace, the default). If the peace/war indicator is equal to "P", then the TM PER can only be "2ND"
      for second quarter data, "BUY for buy point data (the default), "TERM" for termination point data, or
      "POM" for Program Objective Memorandum point data. If the peace/war indicator is equal to "W",
      then the TM PER can only be "1ST", "4TH", "7TH" or "10TH" (the default). Press ENTER and SIRS
      will display the data. Use the scrolling commands to see all the data.
      29.2.5. Display PIL Problem Item List Screen (Figure 29.7.). This screen displays the problem
      item list for a MD (mission designator such as C005) and time period combination that is updated dur-
      ing the pre-final, final, pre-summary and summary computations. No data is available from the initial
      computation. All items are displayed for the MD with a component availability (CMPNT AVAIL) less
      than or equal to a standard component availability cutoff (CO CMPNT AVAIL). This standard compo-
      nent availability cutoff is displayed at the top of screen and can be file maintained on the SDT Stan-
      dard Data Table (see paragraph 6.17.) Also displayed are the Line Replacement Units (LRUs) and
      Shop Replacement Units (SRUs) based on the value in the LRU/SUR IND field. An "L" indicates an
      LRU and an "S" indicates an SRU. If an LRU/SUR group is continued on more than one screen, the
      data for the LRU is displayed as the first data line of the following screen. The data for the remaining
      SRUs is displayed after the data for the LRU. The user may also view the Indenture Level (INDENT
      LVL) and CMPNT AVAIL for each item. If no records are found for the selection criteria, a message
      is displayed indicating no data found. Enter the AS OF date, RUN PT (the computation cycle), TM
      PER (time period), MD (or blank for all MDs), and PEACE/WAR IND ("W" for war, or "P" for peace,
      the default). If the Peace/War indicator is equal to "P", then the TM PER can only be "2ND" for sec-
      ond quarter data, "BUY for buy point data (the default), "TERM" for termination point data, or
      "POM" for Program Objective Point data. If the Peace/war indicator is equal to "W", then the TM
      PER can only be "1ST", "4TH", "7TH" or "10TH" (the default). Press ENTER and SIRS will display
      the data. Use the scrolling commands to see all the data.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                        627


Figure 29.4. Display BYMD Aircraft Availability By MD Screen.
628                                                             AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 29.5. Display MDFR Aircraft Availability Fill Rate Goals Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                             629


Figure 29.6. Display OPT One Percent Table Screen.
630                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 29.7. Display PIL Problem Item List Screen.




      29.2.6. Output Products AAMR Aircraft Availability Model Reports Product Selection Screen
      (Figure 29.8.). Each of the following products are automatically generated from the final and sum-
      mary computations and provided to the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. Any of the products can be selected,
      one at a time, using the AAMR screen (Figure 29.8.). Type "X" in the block by the product. The One
      Percent Table Plot and the OWRM Summary Results report can only be selected by the HQ AFMC
      SIRS OPR. The Run cycle is "F" for final and "S" for summary computation. Change the AS OF Date
      to get a product from a previous cycle. Leave the MD field blank to get all MDs, or type a mission des-
      ignator such as C005. The PEACE/WAR IND can only be "W" for war, or "P" for peace, or blank the
      default, which provides data for both war and peace. If the Peace/War indicator is equal to "P", then
      the TM PER can only be "2ND" for second quarter data, "BUY for buy point data, "TERM" for termi-
      nation point data, "POM" for Program Objective Memorandum point data, or blank (the default) for
      all data points. If the Peace/war indicator is equal to "W", then the TM PER can only be "1ST",
      "4TH", "7TH", "10TH", or blank (the default) for all data points. FND ENVIR if the Funding Envi-
      ronment. When the Peace/War indicator is "P", then the Funding Environment can be LIM for limited
      funding, FULL for full funding, or BOTH (the default). When the Peace/War indicator is "W", then
      the Funding Environment can be LIM for limited funding, FULL for full funding, BOTH (the
      default), or WAR1 through WAR7. The war funding levels (WAR1, WAR2, etc.,) are calculated only
      for the pre-final and pre-summary computations.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           631


Figure 29.8. Output Products AAMR AAM Products Selection Screen.




   29.2.7. Aircraft Availability and Fill Rate Goals Product. This product lists the peacetime and
   wartime aircraft availability and fill rate goals by mission designator (MD) for the time periods of
   "2ND QUARTER", "BUY POINT", "TERM POINT", and "POM POINT", "MONTH 1 ", "MONTH
   4", "MONTH 7" and "MONTH 10". The full funding goal is listed with the limited funding goal in
   parentheses. This product looks like the MDFR screen described in paragraph 29.2.3. Options for
   AAM products are described in paragraph 29.2.6.
   29.2.8. One Percent Table Product. This product lists the one percent table for an MD (mission des-
   ignator such as C005) from lowest to highest availability. The peace/war status is displayed in the
   third line of the report title as PEACE or WAR. A new page is printed after the maximum number of
   lines allowed per page is exceeded, or after a new MD, TM PER, or PEACE/WAR indicator. This
   product looks like the OPT screen described in paragraph 29.2.4. The user can select MD, TM PER
   (time period) and PEACE/WAR IND. Options for AAM products are described in paragraph 29.2.6.
   29.2.9. One Percent Table Plot Product. This product shows a graphic representation of one per-
   cent table Aircraft Availability (TOT ACFT AVAL) versus the total cost (TOT CST FOR ACFT
   AVAL) in thousands, millions, or billions of dollars for an MD (mission designator such as C005).
   There can be more than one TOT ACFT AVAL for a given TOT CST FOR ACFT AVAL, but only the
   first TOT ACFT AVAL is plotted. A new page is printed after a new MD. The peace/war status is dis-
   played in the third line of the report title as PEACE or WAR. The user can select MD, TM PER and
   PEACE/WAR IND. Select one of the horizontal axis options, by typing "X" by only one of the
   options: $THOUSANDS, $MILLIONS, $BILLIONS or SYSTEM DERIVED AXIS (the dollars
   based on the most appropriate for the data).
632                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      29.2.10. Aircraft Availability By MD Product. This product lists the ACTUAL and PROJECTED NR
      OF ACFT (actual and projected number of aircraft) and cost by MD versus the actual aircraft avail-
      ability (ACTUAL ACFT AVAIL) and cost. The report shows the availability for second quarter, buy
      point, term point, and POM point for peacetime and first, fourth, seventh, and tenth months for war.
      The peace/war status is displayed in the third line of the report title as PEACE or WAR. A new page
      is printed after 3 MD records, or after a new MD or peace/war indicator. The user can select MD TM
      PER, PEACE/WAR IND and FND ENVIR. This product looks like the BYMD screen described in
      paragraph 29.2.2. Options for AAM products are described in paragraph 29.2.6.
      29.2.11. Problem Item List Product (Figure 29.20.). This product looks like the PIL screen described
      in paragraph 29.2.5. Options for AAM products are described in paragraph 29.2.6.
         29.2.11.1. The product automatically produced from the final & summary computations, lists all
         the problem items for second quarter, buy point, term point, Program Objective Memorandum
         (POM) point for peacetime, and 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th months for war. With each MD, the LRU/
         SRU groups are listed in the order of the Line Replacement Units (LRUs) component availability,
         from lowest to highest. The LRU data appears first, then the Shop Replacement Units (SRUs)
         appear in ALC and NSN order. A bland line separates each LRU/SRU group from the next one.
         The LRU data is repeated if the SRU data takes more than one page. Also listed are the ALC SITE
         ID, SGM, SMC (system management code for the item), LRU/SRU IND ("L" indicates an LRU
         and an "S" indicates an SRU), INDENT LEVL (indenture level), CMPNT AVAIL (component
         availability), SYS EBO (system estimated back order), INV LEV (investment level), and U-P
         FCST (forecasted unit price). A new page is printed after a new TM PER, FUND EVIR, MD or a
         new Peace/war indicator.
         29.2.11.2. When this product is selected by the user, the report shows all items for the MD with a
         component availability (CMPNT AVAIL) less than or equal to a standard component availability
         cutoff (CO CMPNT AVAIL). If the user selects a CO CMPNT AVAIL greater than the standard
         component availability cutoff that was file maintained on the SDT Standard Data Table (see para-
         graph 6.17.), the value on the SDT table is used. The list is in indenture level/component avail-
         ability sequence The user can select MD (mission designator such as C005), TM PER (time
         period), PEACE/WAR IND, FND ENVIR (funding environment) and CO CMPNT AVAIL.
      29.2.12. AAM OWRM Summary Results Product. This product lists the Other War Reserve
      Material (OWRM) aircraft availability versus cost by MD (mission designator, such as C005) which
      contain a breakdown of the total cost for seven availability targets. A new page is printed after the
      maximum number of lines allowed per page is exceeded by TM PER (time period) and after 3 MDs.
      The summary report only applies if the user leaves the MD field blank. The user requested OWRM
      aircraft availability versus cost by MD summary report is specific to the TM PER value. The user can
      select MD and TM PER. The TM PER can only be "1ST", "4TH", "7TH", "10TH", or blank. The
      default is a blank representing all TM PERs (time periods, which are the limited funding, full funding,
      and the 7 war funding levels. The war funding levels are only calculated for the pre-final and pre-sum-
      mary computations.)This product looks like the Display AMD AAM OWRM Summary Results
      Screen described in paragraph 29.2.1. Options for AAM products are described in paragraph
      29.2.6.

29.3. Variable Safety Level Products. From the RDB-FOE Menu (Figure 2.7.), select Display, then
select the Recoverables (Figure 29.1.), then select Variable Safety Level Data Menu (Figure 29.9.). The
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              633


display VSLD menu allows the user to select and view any of the screens listed (see paragraphs 29.3.1.
through 29.3.6. below). From the RDB-FOE Menu (Figure 2.7.), select Output Products, then select Sub-
mit Job Request, then select VDA, Variable Safety Level products Selection Screen, to request a hard
copy product using the selection criteria displayed on this screen (Figure 29.19.). The hard copy products
are described in paragraphs 29.3.7. through 29.7.14. below.

Figure 29.9. Display VSLD Variable Safety Level Data Menu.




   29.3.1. Display ANSN VSL Analysis Summary By BP/SMC Screen (Figure 29.10.). T h e u s e r
   can enter any Recoverable Budget Program (BP) Code & associated System Management Code
   (SMC) to view results from the final or summary computation. Change the AS OF Date to view data
   from a previous quarter. All counts displays are for the 4th (target) Budget Support Objective (BSO)
   key only.
       29.3.1.1. No Of Items. The total number of items within the BP/SMC.
       29.3.1.2. No Of MA Items. The total number of items, which were processed using Marginal
       Analysis (MA).
       29.3.1.3. Normal Dist. The number of items the normal distribution method was used in comput-
       ing the VSL.
       29.3.1.4. Negative Binomial The number of times the negative binomial technique was used in
       computing the VSL.
       29.3.1.5. Buy Items. The number of items, which were in a buy, position and not constrained by
       assets or the minimum or maximum stock levels.
634                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         29.3.1.6. Repair Items. The number of items, which were in an unconstrained repair position.
         29.3.1.7. Maximum Constrained Solutions. The number of items whose computed solution were
         greater than the maximum solution, and the maximum solution was used.
         29.3.1.8. Minimum constrained solutions. The number of items for which one or more segments
         were less than the computed pipeline requirements and the minimum solution was used.
         29.3.1.9. SEV Assets’ Constrained Solution. The number of items for which the computed solu-
         tion was adjusted by the serviceable asset check.
         29.3.1.10. Total Assets Constrained Solutions. The number of items for which the computed solu-
         tion was adjusted by the total asset check.
      29.3.2. Display RBRA VSL Results By BP/ALC Summary Screen (Figure 29.11.). The user can
      enter any Recoverable Budget Program (BP) Code and ALC to view results from the final or summary
      computation. Change the AS OF Date to view data from a previous quarter. Four of the seven Budget
      Support Objective (BSO) keys are displayed at a time. The defaults are the 1st, 5th and 7th BSO keys.
      The fourth BSO key is always displayed with the word "TARGET" as a heading. The user may select
      the three BOS keys to be displayed by entering 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, or 7. The values displayed are percentage.
      The BUY DOLLAR SHORTAGE, WRM SHORAGE and REPAIR DOLLAR SHORTAGE fields
      display dollar values . The values displayed in the DEPOT MA ITEMS and BASE MA ITEMS fields
      correspond only to the 4th (target) BSO keys.
      29.3.3. Display RBBD VSL Results By BP-Dollars Screens (Figure 29.12., Figure 29.13., Figure
      29.14.). The user can enter any Recoverable Budget Program (BP) Code to view results from the final
      or summary computation. Change the AS OF Date to view data from a previous quarter. Four of the
      seven Budget Support Objective (BSO) keys are displayed at a time. The defaults are the 1st, 5th and
      7th BSO keys. The fourth BSO key is always displayed with the word "TARGET" as a heading. The
      user may select the three BOS keys to be displayed by entering 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7. All the values displayed
      are in millions of dollars. On page 3, the values displayed for System Backorder Level, Average Delay
      per Demand and System Fill Rates are percentages. The values displayed in the DEPOT MA ITEMS
      and BASE MA ITEMS fields correspond only to the 4th (target) BSO keys. Use the paging commands
      or click on the page number (GUI) to transfer between the 3 screens.
      29.3.4. Display RBBP VSL Results By BP-Assets Screen (Figure 29.15. and Figure 29.16.). T he
      user can enter any Recoverable Budget Program (BP) Code & ALC to view results from the final or
      summary computation. Change the AS OF Date to view data from a previous quarter. Four of the
      seven Budget Support Objective (BSO) keys are displayed at a time. The defaults are the 1st, 5th and
      7th BSO keys. The fourth BSO key is always displayed with the word "TARGET" as a heading. The
      user may select the three BOS keys to be displayed by entering 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, or 7. Use the paging com-
      mands or click on the page number (GUI) to transfer between the 2 screens.
      29.3.5. Display RSSA VSL Results By BP/SMC/ALC Screen (Figure 29.17.). The user can enter
      any Recoverable Budget Program (BP) Code & associated System Management Code (SMC) along
      with an ALC to view results from the final or summary computation. Change the AS OF Date to view
      data from a previous quarter. Four of the seven Budget Support Objective (BSO) keys are displayed at
      a time. The defaults are the 1st, 5th and 7th BSO keys. The fourth BSO key is always displayed with
      the word "TARGET" as a heading. The user may select the three BOS keys to be displayed by enter-
      ing 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, or 7. The values displayed for System Backorder Level, Average Delay per Demand
      and System Fill Rates are percentages. The Buy Dollar Shortage, WRM Shortage and Repair Dollar
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           635


   fields display dollar values. The values displayed in the DEPOT MA ITEMS and BASE MA ITEMS
   fields correspond only to the 4th (target) BSO keys.
   29.3.6. Display RBSB VSL Results By BP/SMC Dollars Screen (Figure 29.18.). T h e u s e r c a n
   enter any Recoverable Budget Program Code (BP) & associated System Management Code (SMC) to
   view results for all ALCs from the final or summary computation. Change the AS OF Date to view
   data from a previous quarter. Four of the seven Budget Support Objective (BSO) keys are displayed at
   a time. The defaults are the 1st, 5th and 7th BSO keys. The fourth BSO key is always displayed with
   the word "TARGET" as a heading. The user may select the three BOS keys to be displayed by enter-
   ing 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, or 7. The values displayed for System Backorder Level, Average Delay per Demand
   and System Fill Rates are percentages. The Buy Dollar Shortage, WRM Shortage and Repair Dollar
   fields display dollar values . The values displayed in the DEPOT MA ITEMS and BASE MA ITEMS
   fields correspond only to the 4th (target) BSO keys.

Figure 29.10. Display ANSN VSL Analysis Summary By BP/SMC Screen.
636                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 29.11. Display RBRA VSL Results By BP/ALC Summary Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                637


Figure 29.12. Display RBBD VSL Results By BP-Dollars Screen (page 1).
638                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 29.13. Display RBBD VSL Results By BP-Dollars Screen (page 2).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                639


Figure 29.14. Display RBBD VSL Results By BP-Dollars Screen (page 3).
640                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 29.15. Display RBBP VSL Results By BP-Assets Screen (page 1).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                               641


Figure 29.16. Display RBBP VSL Results By BP-Assets Screen (page 2).
642                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 29.17. Display RSSA VSL Results By BP/SMC/ALC Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                           643


Figure 29.18. Display RBSB VSL Results By BP/SMC Dollars Screen.
644                                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 29.19. Output Products VDA Variable Safety Level Data Product Selection Screen.




      29.3.7. Output Products VDA Variable Safety Level products selection screen (Figure 29.19.).
      Each of the following products are automatically generated from the final and summary computations.
      Any of the products can be selected using the VDA screen (Figure 29.19.). The Run cycle is "F" for
      final and "S" for summary computation. Change the AS OF Date to get a product from a previous
      cycle.
      29.3.8. BP/SMC/BSO List. This product lists all budget program codes & associated system man-
      agement codes with the budget support objective for that BP/SMC combination.
      29.3.9. VSL Results By BP - ALC Summary Product. This product lists the VSL results by budget
      program code by ALC. When all the data is zero, a report saying data is not available is printed. If no
      data is found for one of the budget program codes or if the quantities are zero, the next record is pro-
      cessed. A new page is printed for each BP. The product looks like the RBRA screen (Figure 29.11.)
      except that the data for all 7 BSO keys are displayed across the page.
      29.3.10. VSL Results By BP/SMC/BSO - ALC Summary Product. This product lists the VSL
      summary data for that ALC, sorted by budget program code and system management code. When all
      the data is zero, a report saying data is not available is printed. If no data is found for one of the budget
      program code/system management code combinations, or if the quantities are zero, the next record is
      processed. A new page is printed for each BP/SMC. This product looks like the RSSA screen (Figure
      29.17.), except that the data for all 7 BSO keys are displayed across the page.
      29.3.11. VSL Results By BP/SMC/BSO - Dollars Product. This product lists the VSL dollar data
      sorted by budget program code and system management code. When all the data is zero, a report say-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                645


   ing data is not available is printed. If no data is found for one of the budget program code/system man-
   agement code combinations, or if the quantities are zero, the next record is processed. A new page is
   printed for each BP/SMC. This product looks like the RBSB screen (Figure 29.18.) except that the
   data for all 7 BSO keys are displayed across the page.
   29.3.12. VSL Analysis Summary By BP/SMC Product. This product lists the VSL analysis data
   shown on the ANSN VSL Analysis Summary By BP/SMC Screen (Figure 29.10.). When all the data
   is zero, a report saying data is not available is printed. If no data is found for one of the budget pro-
   gram code/system management code combinations, or if the quantities are zero, the next record is pro-
   cessed. A new page is printed after five BP/SMC. This product looks like the ANSN screen (Figure
   29.10.).
   29.3.13. VSL Results By BP - Dollars Product. This product lists the VSL dollar data sorted by
   budget program code. When all the data is zero, a report saying data is not available is printed. If no
   data is found for one of the budget program code, or if the quantities are zero, the next record is pro-
   cessed. A new page is printed for each BP. This product looks like the 3 RBBD screens (Figure
   29.12., Figure 29.13. and Figure 29.14.), except that the data for all 7 BSO keys are displayed across
   the page.
   29.3.14. VSL Results By BP - Assets Product. This product lists the VSL asset data sorted by bud-
   get program code. When all the data is zero, a report saying data is not available is printed. If no data
   is found for one of the budget program code, or if the quantities are zero, the next record is processed.
   A new page is printed for each BP. This product looks like the 2 RBBP screens (Figure 29.15. and
   29.16), except that the data for all 7 BSO keys are displayed across the page.

Figure 29.20. Problem Item List.
646                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                              Chapter 30

                                       ANALYSIS PRODUCTS

30.1. Introduction. This chapter describes products that display trend analysis for items and weapon
systems. From the RDB FOE Main Menu (Figure 30.10.), select Display, then Recoverables. From the
Display Recoverable menu (Figure 30.1.), selection SND Stock Number Data to get to the trend analysis
screens for the data for individual items (see paragraph 30.2.) or select DDBS Depot Data Bank to get to
the trend analysis screens for all items by ERRC (see paragraph 30.4.). From the RDB FOE Final Oper-
ating Environment Menu (Figure 30.10.), select Trend Analysis to get to the trend analysis screens for
SGM’s (see paragraph 30.3.).

Figure 30.1. Display SIRS Recoverable Main Menu.




30.2. Trend Analysis Screens For Items. From the Display Recoverable menu (Figure 30.1.), selection
SND Stock Number Data to get to the trend analysis screens for items. The first Trend Analysis screen
displayed allows the user to type the SGM. Press ENTER. If the SGM is not valid, an error message will
display. The first Trend Analysis screen (figure 30..) will display again, this time with the data for the
selected SGM. Data from the most recently completed summary computation and the 4 previous quarters
are displayed. Source Reference Codes are displayed by some data elements. If there is no data, spaces are
displayed. The user can only enter another SGM on page 1. Use the paging commands to view pages 2
though 7 (Figure 30.4. through Figure 30.9.). Page 7 has 2 screens. Displayed are the Mean Time
Between Demands (MTBD) and the Total OIM Demand Rate (TOIMDR) for the current and 5 forecast
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                         647


periods, and variance values that display the differences between the TOIMDR for the current forecast
period and the values for computed 24 month, 12 month, PRELOG , exponential smoothing and estimated
TOIMDR (see paragraph 17.1.3.). On page 7, use the FORW and BACK commands to display the sec-
ond screen of page 7 containing the rest of the factor data.

Figure 30.2. Display SND Stock Number Data Menu.
648                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.3. Display Trend Analysis Basic Management Data Screen.




In Figure 30.3., the standard price (STD PRC) is not on the SIRS database.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                    649


Figure 30.4. Display Trend Analysis Pipeline Data Screen.
650                                                           AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.5. Display Trend Analysis Requirements At Buy Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                    651


Figure 30.6. Display Trend Analysis Assets At Buy Screen.
652                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.7. Display Trend Analysis MISTR Input Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                   653


Figure 30.8. Display Trend Analysis MISTR Output Screen.
654                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.9. Display Trend Analysis Factors Screen.




30.3. Trend Analysis Screens for Weapon Systems' Programs. From the RDB FOE Main Menu (Fig-
ure 30.10.) select Trend Analysis. One screen will be displayed, the PRGM Programs Trend Analysis
Menu (Figure 30.11.). Select TAC to compare projected program data from one cycle to another. Select
TAP to compare past actual programs to what was projected. When the TAC (Figure 30.12.) or TAP (Fig-
ure 30.13.) screen appears, type the SPD (standard program designator), program type, and service (= A),
and press ENTER. For information on SPDs and program types see paragraphs 18.7., 18.8., 18.9., and
18.20.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008           655


Figure 30.10. RDB FOE Main Menu.
656                                                AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.11. TRND Trend Analysis Programs Menu.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                657


Figure 30.12. Trend Analysis TAC Current Projected To Past Projected Programs Screen.
658                                                              AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.13. Trend Analysis TAP Past Projected To Past Actual Programs Screen.




30.4. Depot Data Bank Screens. From the RDB FOE Main Menu (Figure 30.10.) , select Display, then
Recoverables. From the Display Recoverable menu (Figure 30.1.), select DDBS Depot Data Bank. The
DDBS Menu (Figure 30.14.) allow the user to select 11 screens that display information for all ERRC
"C" and "T" items on the SIRS database as of the most recent summary computation. These screens are
shown in Figure 30.15. through Figure 30.25. and are self-explanatory.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                   659


Figure 30.14. Display DDBS Depot Data Bank Summary Menu.
660                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.15. Display ACAA Airlift Code A Analysis Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                          661


Figure 30.16. Display CDA Code Analysis Screen.
662                                                               AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.17. Display FDAE Frequency Distribution By ALC and ERRC Screen.




Percentages displayed may add up to less than 100% due to rounding.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                          663


Figure 30.18. Display FDBB Frequency Distribution By BP Screen.
664                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.19. Display ICA Item Category Analysis Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                          665


Figure 30.20. Display MCA MIEC Analysis Screen.
666                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.21. Display NOUA Number of Users Analysis Screen.




The NOUA screen displays the range of number of users. The screen allows the user to select data for one
ALC or all ALCs, ERRC of C or T or blank for both, and all budget program codes (BP = blank), or for a
specific BP.
The PLAN screen displays the number (NUM) of pipeline days (see Chapter 23) by source reference
code (actual, estimated and standard/default values). The average values (AVG) are also displayed. The
user can select items for one ALC or all ALCs and for only Airlift coded items (=A) or for only non-airlift
coded items, or blank.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                               667


Figure 30.22. Display PLAN Pipeline Analysis Screen.
668                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.23. Display RAFA Rates and Factors Analysis Screen.




The RAFA screen displays number of items with that factor and the average values. The screen allows the
user to select data for one ALC or all ALCs, ERRC of C or T or blank for both, only airlift coded items
and for all budget program codes (BP = blank), or for a specific BP.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                            669


Figure 30.24. Display SPA Standard Price Analysis Screen.




The SIRS database does not contain standard prices so this screen will be zeroes.
670                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 30.25. Display ACAA Airlift Code A Analysis Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 671


                                               Chapter 31

           INSURANCE ITEMS AND NUMERIC STOCKAGE OBJECTIVE ITEMS

31.1. Introduction.
   31.1.1. This chapter describes the policy and procedures to be used by the Inventory Management
   Specialist (IMS) and the Equipment Specialist (ES) for the management of "non-demand" based
   items, also called insurance and Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO) items. These are Air Force items
   that experience demand patterns that are incompatible with the demand-based methodology of SIRS.
   The ES decides during the provisioning process (see AFMCI 23-106) which items should be managed
   as demand based or non-demand based (insurance or NSO). Requirements for these items are com-
   puted by SIRS using the computational method explained in paragraph 31.4. When file maintenance
   is done, the IMS must document their rationale using the notepad.
   31.1.2. Rates and percents are computed for all items, including insurance and NSO. However, insur-
   ance items do not use usage in the calculation of their buy, repair and retention levels. The usage print-
   out is no longer produced for insurance and NSO items as a factors/usage printout is produced for all
   items. The results of the insurance and NSO computation are displayed on the DIS SIRS CW INIS
   screens (See Figure 31.1., Figure 31.2., and Figure 31.3.) and are also printed on the INS/NSO Item
   Status Listing that is produced from the initial, final and summary computation (See Figure 31.7.).
   31.1.3. Stocks of insurance and NSO items are normally maintained at depot level only. Under spe-
   cific circumstances NSO items may be allowed to have minimum quantities at base level based on
   various Adjusted Special Levels (ASLs) such as on items selected during initial provisioning for Ini-
   tial Spares Support Lists (ISSLs). (See paragraph 24.6.1. and paragraph 24.4.)
   31.1.4. The insurance or NSO code is not assigned solely to retain assets. AFMC policy prohibits the
   use of these codes when the basic intent is to retain assets that might otherwise be in a computed long
   supply or excess position.
   31.1.5. The insurance code is input from D043 to RIID to SIRS and has precedence over the other
   values that could be input for the item category code (see paragraph 14.6.). This will cause an “I” in
   the item category code on the SGM Computation Worksheets and the INS/NSO Item Status Listing.
   Conversely, the only way to remove the “I” is to initiate a cataloging action in D143C to pass to D043
   to remove the code.
   31.1.6. SIRS does not compute levels for insurance and NSO items with a Compute code of "B", "N"
   and "P", “R” and “X” (see paragraph 14.14.3.).

31.2. Definition of Insurance Item.
   31.2.1. An Air Force Insurance Item is a non-demand based, stocked, essential item for which no fail-
   ures are predicted through normal usage, but if a failure is experienced, or loss occurs through acci-
   dent, abnormal equipment system failure, or other unexpected occurrences, lack of replacement would
   seriously hamper the operational capability of a weapon or weapon system. Retail stockage of insur-
   ance items are not authorized; minimal quantities (normally not more than two per depot), however,
   may be stored at the wholesale level.
   31.2.2. Items identified as insurance are stock listed in D043 with an Acquisition Advice Code of ‘Z’.
   The IMS and ES should conduct a review of an insurance item whenever a failure is reported. This
672                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      review should include an investigation of the mode of failure. Any item that experiences systematic
      usage should be considered for a catalog change to remove the insurance code if the Air Force is the
      PICA.

31.3. Definition of Numeric Stockage Objective Item.
      31.3.1. An NSO item is a non-demand base, stocked, essential item for which low failures may be
      predicted but the probability of a demand is so low that no meaningful demand rates can be computed
      and therefore the item would not be stocked. Since the lack of a replacement item would seriously
      hamper the operational capability of a weapon or weapon system, the item is stocked, but as
      non-demand based. Also included in this category are:
         31.3.1.1. Items, such as containers (stock class 8140 and 8145), that would have no program to
         compute requirements against even if the application data was complete. (See Chapter 18).
         31.3.1.2. Items with sporadic demand patterns (all usage appears in one quarter or no usage
         appears in within the most recent four quarters) that make any computed rates meaningless.
         31.3.1.3. Items, such as containers, that would have no program to compute requirements against
         even if the application data was complete. (See Chapter 18).
         31.3.1.4. Items that are within one year of being taken out of the AF inventory. This does not
         include items transferring to another service for management as the Primary Inventory Control
         Activity (PICA).
         31.3.1.5. Items with only base Repaired This Station (RTS) usage. However, these items must be
         reviewed periodically to make certain that they should remain XD1 or XD2 items and not be con-
         verted to XF3 items. If the depot can do no additional repair, beyond what is accomplished at the
         bases, then the ERRC for the item should be changed to ERRC “P”.
         31.3.1.6. Items with sporadic demand patterns (all usage appears in one quarter or all usage
         appears in the oldest year) that make any computed rates meaningless.
      31.3.2. All NSO items require periodic reviews to determine if the NSO code should be retained or
      removed. The ES will do the review of the item category code when a Factor/usage Printout is
      received and when the item is reviewed in accordance with the item activity code and inform the IMS/
      MM of any items needing to be changed to NSO or changed from NSO to computing.. The Factor/
      usage Printout will be signed by the ES when the ES has completed the review and a copy forwarded
      to the IMS when any changes are recommended to the item category code as well as specified in
      Chapter 1, paragraph 1.4.2. NSO items currently in the AF inventory are reviewed jointly by the
      IMS and ES to determine if an NSO code is appropriate. During the review, the IMS and ES will
      review past usage to make sure the NSO code is valid. The IMS is responsible for the file maintenance
      of the item category code in SIRS.
      31.3.3. Use the following criteria to identify items that qualify for management under the NSO con-
      cept (applies to the non-demand base items that do not meet the specification for management as
      insurance). Do not code AF SICA NIMSC 5 items as NSO.
         31.3.3.1. All items that compute a Total Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance Demand
         Rate (TOIMDR) of less than .0005, have Next Higher Assembly (NHA) Management of Items
         Subject to Repair (MISTR), Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM), and Engine Overhaul (ENG
         OH) Non Job Routed (NJR) replacement percents less than 1%) and have NHA MISTR, PDM,
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                673


      and ENG OH JR condemnation percents less than 1% (with no projected increase in usage), will
      be coded NSO except for AF or other service SICA NIMSC 5 items (see paragraph 31.5.1.).
      31.3.3.2. An item experiencing a TOIMDR of .0005 or greater or a NHA MISTR, PDM or EOH
      NJR Replacement Percent of 1% or greater, or a NHA MISTR, PDM, or EOH Job Routed (JR)
      Condemnation Percent of 1% or greater must be computed as demand based item and will not be
      coded NSO unless the usage is sporadic or meets paragraph 31.3.1.1. criteria. Sporadic usage is
      all usage appears in one quarter or no usage appears within the most recent four quarters.
      31.3.3.3. NSO codes are never assigned to preclude the output of computation worksheets and
      other products.
      31.3.3.4. Since D200A allows the file maintenance of the NSO code by individual Current Stock
      Number, it is possible to have some items within a two way interchangeable group to be coded
      NSO and the Sub Group Master (SGM) to be coded as a computing item. When this occurs, the
      message "not an INS/NSO item" will appear on the Insurance/NSO comp screen (CW INIS, when
      in reality the item is coded as an NSO item. This is because the system has rolled to the SGM
      which is coded as a computing item.
      31.3.3.5. NSO codes are never assigned to preclude the output of computation worksheets and
      other products.
      31.3.3.6. Since D200A allows the file maintenance of the NSO code by individual Current Stock
      Number, it is possible to have some items within a two way interchangeable group to be coded
      NSO and the Sub Group Master (SGM) to be coded as a computing item. When this occurs, the
      message "not an INS/NSO item" will appear on the Insurance/NSO comp screen (CW INIS, when
      in reality the item is coded as an NSO item. This is because the system has rolled to the SGM
      which is coded as a computing item.

31.4. Levels For Insurance and NSO Items.
   31.4.1. SIRS will automatically calculate the INS/NSO levels. Adjustments to the levels calculated
   by SIRS are attained by file maintaining adjustments to those areas effecting the requirements lines
   used in the computation--additives, adjusted levels, factors, etc. The IMS can manually lower the INS/
   NSO levels calculated by SIRS by dropping the MIN DEP STK LVL on the BMD screen to zero (0),
   but SIRS will not allow the IMS to increase the levels calculated by SIRS. SIRS will automatically
   calculate buy and repair levels for the Current Year (CY), Apportionment Year (AY), Budget Year
   (BY) and Extended Year (EY) as well as the retention level.
   31.4.2. If a NSO item has an Acquisition Advice Code of “T” or “Y”, which means the item is obso-
   lete, then SIRS will automatically change the Item Category Code to blank, and overlay all buy, repair
   and retention levels and quantities with zeroes. If an insurance item has an Acquisition Advice Code
   of “T” or “Y,” the buy, repair and retention levels and quantities will be set equal to zero. SIRS cannot
   change the Item Category Code from "I" to blank, as this is a cataloging action. In addition, if the
   obsolete item is a current stock number that is part of a subgroup master family which is NSO, the cur-
   rent stock number’s item category code is set to blank. The levels are set to zero. The Source Refer-
   ence Codes (SRC) are set to “C." The current stock number’s data, including assets, is not used in the
   subgroup master’s computation of the NSO levels.
   31.4.3. SIRS will output the Item Category Code for items coded insurance or NSO on the IMS
   Review List and on the ES Review List when the computed TOIMDR is greater than the
674                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      NSO-TOIMDR-MIN and/or when the computed DLM NJR Replacement Percent and/or JR condem-
      nation percent is greater than the NSO-NJR-REPL-PCT-MIN. The IMS and ES should review the
      item. The SIRS OPR will determine, establish and file maintain the NSO-TOIMDR-MIN and the
      NSO-NJR-PEPL-PCT-MIN on the Standard Data Table. (See paragraph 6.17.).

31.5. Special Rules for Items Managed by Multiple Services.
      31.5.1. Items cataloged with a Nonconsumable Item Materiel Support Code (NIMSC) of 5, whether
      the Air Force is NIMSC 5 or the other service is NIMSC 5, are not coded NSO. SIRS will automati-
      cally change the Item Category Code of “S” or “Z” for NIMSC 5 items to blank for "computing"
      items. This allows an Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) transaction to be received by the Air Force
      when it is the Primary Inventory Control Activity (PICA) or to be generated to the other service when
      the other service is PICA.
      31.5.2. When an AF SICA NIMSC 5 item has been cataloged as an insurance item due to the use by
      the PICA of “Z” for the Acquisition Advice Code, SIRS will output a notice to the IMS and ES saying
      “NIMSC 5 AND ITEM CATEGORY CODE ‘I’ ARE INCOMPATIBLE.” The IMS can change the
      Item Category Code to blank only if the Item Category Code is an “S”. (See paragraph 14.6.). By
      changing the AF SICA NIMSC 5 insurance item to computing within SIRS, the RDE will automati-
      cally be passed to the PICA. This item should have a JLC Form 19 on file requesting that the PICA
      change the Acquisition Advice Code.

31.6. The INS/NSO Item Status Listing.
      31.6.1. Requirements are computed by SIRS to determine the Buy, Termination, Excess, and Repair
      quantities, using the methods included in the INS/NSO Item Status Listing. When an insurance or
      NSO item is established in SIRS (the item category code is set to “I” or “S”), SIRS will automatically
      compute the item using the INS/NSO Item Status Listing computational method. When an item cate-
      gory code of “I” or “S” is removed through either a cataloging action or by IMS file maintenance in
      SIRS, the computation of requirements will automatically be done using the normal computation
      methods described in Chapter 9.
      31.6.2. The INS/NSO Item Status Listing AD200.ANBAX82B or ANBA#82K is the computation
      worksheet that provides computational results for items that have an Item Category code of "I" for
      Insurance, or an "S" for NSO. The computation worksheet provides a limited set of computational
      lines to display the Buy and Repair quantities for the CY, AY, BY, and EY pick-off points. The hard
      copy (Figure 31.7.) is automatically produced from the initial, final and summary computations. This
      listing also provides a summary of the Buy, Termination, Excess, and Repair quantities and dollars.
      Each data element displayed is described in paragraphs 31.7. and 31.8. All this same data can be
      viewed online (Figure 31.1. - Figure 31.5.), using the DIS SIRS CW INIS command. Historical data
      can be viewed online, by entering a valid AS OF date. There can be 4 or more screens: Summary of
      the Buy, Termination, Repair, Excess quantities (page 1), Repair Detail (page 2), Buy/Retention Detail
      (page 3) and the I&S family (page 4). The Repair Detail page can take more than 1 screen to display
      all data. The Buy/Retention Detail page can take more than 1 screen to display all data. Type the SGM
      in the SGM field, then after page 1 displays, use the paging commands to transfer to the other pages.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 675


Figure 31.1. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Summary Screen.




31.7. INS/NSO Item Status Listing General Data Elements. The AS OF date identifies the quarterly
date of the computation cycle in the format dd mmm yy. A two position Cycle Indicator is displayed to the
right of the AS OF field. The first position identifies the computation cycle ("I" for Initial, "F" for Final
and "S" for Summary). The second position represents the number of times that item was recomputed dur-
ing that computation cycle. A zero means the item was not re-computed. The following data elements are
displayed across the top of the page:
   31.7.1. SGM. The subgroup master stock number.
   31.7.2. ALC. The two position Air Logistic Code where this item is managed (see paragraph
   14.14.2.)
   31.7.3. IMS. The 3 position Item Management Specialist code for this item (see paragraph 14.14.7.)
   31.7.4. ES. The 2 position Equipment Specialist code for this item (see paragraph 14.14.6.).
   31.7.5. PMS. The 3 position Production Management Specialist for the item.
   31.7.6. NAME. The Name of the item (see paragraph 14.7.).
   31.7.7. ITEM CAT. The Item Category Code (see paragraph 14.6.).
   31.7.8. ERRC. (see paragraph 14.14.5.)
676                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      31.7.9. ALT. Administrative Lead Time (see paragraph 22.2.)
      31.7.10. PLT. Production Lead Time (see paragraph 22.3.).
      31.7.11. PCLT. Procurement Lead-Time which is the total of ALT plus PLT (see Chapter 22).
      31.7.12. ACTUAL UNIT PRICE (see paragraph 14.11.1.).
      31.7.13. DOLP. Date of Last Procurement (see paragraph 14.12.).
      31.7.14. FORECAST UNIT PRICE (see paragraph 14.11.2.).
      31.7.15. REPAIR COST (see paragraph 15.7.13.).

31.8. INS/NSO Item Status Listing Computation Lines. The following data are displayed for Repair
for the CY, AY, BY, and EY, and for Buy for the CY, AY, BY and EY and a final column for Retention.
      31.8.1. AF Recurring Requirement. This is equal to (Usage times Months) divided by the Base
      Period.
         31.8.1.1. Usage. The sum of the past eight quarters Base NRTS, Base Condemnations, and Depot
         Reparable Generations. (If the Base RTS Exclusion Indicator is on, Base RTS and Base Condem-
         nations will not be used).
         31.8.1.2. Months. Represents the number of months in the given forecast period. When comput-
         ing the Repair requirements this is the number of months from the AS OF Date to the end of the
         CY, AY, BY, and EY. When computing the Buy requirements, this is Procurement Lead time
         (PCLT) months plus the number of months from the AS OF Date to the end of the CY, AY, BY, and
         EY.
         31.8.1.3. Base Period. The number of months between the oldest Application Program Begin
         Date and the AS OF (Asset Cut Off Date), up to a maximum of 24 months.
         31.8.1.4. The Termination Period value is equal to the BY Buy value. For Insurance items, these
         fields are set equal to zero. The number of months in the retention period for SIRS is a variable
         established by the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR and the Usage data is adjusted by series of risk factors
         established at weapon system level.
      31.8.2. RDE Recurring Requirement. This is equal to the accumulated RDE Recurring Require-
      ment for each of the time periods. If the PCLT is not evenly divisible by three, the value will be pro-
      rated. The Termination Period value is equal to the BY Buy value. The Retention Period value is the
      accumulated RDE Recurring Requirement through the end of the 38-quarter time span.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               677


Figure 31.2. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Repair Screen.




   31.8.3. Non-Recurring Requirement. This is equal to one plus the Total Additive Requirements
   (which includes Due Out To Maintenance (DOTM)(see paragraph 25.5.1.), Readiness Spares Pack-
   ages (RSP) W-B Requirement from D087H (see paragraph 25.4.1.), and Total Adjusted Stock Level
   (see Chapter 24) at each of the time periods. The Termination Period value is the greater of the AY
   Buy value or the BY Buy value. The Retention Period value is developed by adding one to the sum of
   the maximum value for each of the Total Additive Requirements, W-B Requirement, and Total
   Adjusted Level.
   31.8.4. XX YYY ZZZZ Requirement. This is the I&S deficit (also called the 3rd SHORT) passed
   up from the lesser preferred SGM for each of the time periods. The lesser preferred SGM may be
   another insurance/NSO item or a normal computing item. The “XX YYY ZZZZ” is the NIIN of the
   lesser preferred SGM in the I&S family that passed the deficit. If the item is a bachelor item, then the
   NIIN of the bachelor item will display here. The Termination Period value is equal to the BY Buy
   value.
   31.8.5. LEVEL. This is the sum of the AF Recurring Requirement, RDE Recurring Requirement,
   Non-Recurring Requirement, and I&S Requirement for each of the time periods. If the SGM is a ter-
   minal item where the Acquisition Advice Code is equal to “V”, then the Buy levels are set equal to
   zero. If the SGM is obsolete, (the Acquisition Advice Code is equal to “T” or “Y”), then all levels are
   set equal to zero.
678                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      31.8.6. SERVICEABLE ASSETS. This is equal to the sum of Serviceable On Hand, Serviceable On
      Order, and Serviceable Due In Assets available at each of the time periods. All On Order and Due In
      Assets scheduled to be delivered after the AY Buy Period are brought back to the AY Buy Period.
      31.8.7. GROSS REQUIREMENT. This is equal to the LEVEL (paragraph 31.8.5.) minus the Ser-
      viceable Assets. The first 4 values are the Gross Repair Requirement for each time period (CY, AY,
      BY, and EY). Values 5 - 8 are the Gross Buy Requirement for each time period (CY, AY, BY, and EY).
      There are no CY values developed during the 30 September and 31 December cycles. The last value
      is the Gross Retention Requirement. The line heading displays as "Gross Repair Requirement".
      31.8.8. UNSERVICEABLE ASSETS. This is the sum of the Unserviceable On Hand Assets and the
      Unserviceable-TOC Due In Assets available at each time period.

Figure 31.3. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Repair Detail Screen.




      31.8.9. AF Reparable Generations. For Insurance items, these fields are set equal to zero. For NSO
      items, this is computed in the same manner as the AF Recurring Requirement defined above, except
      that the value for Usage has the number of JR Condemnations over the past eight quarters removed
      since no reparable asset will be turned into supply. NOTE: For all ERRC “N” and “P” items this is set
      to zero (0).
      31.8.10. RDE Reparable Generations. This is equal to the accumulated RDE Reparable Returns for
      each of the time periods. If the PCLT is not evenly divisible by three, the value will be prorated. The
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           679


  Termination Period value is equal to the BY Buy value. The Retention Period value is the accumulated
  RDE Reparable Returns though the end of the 38-quarter time span.
  31.8.11. TOTAL Unserviceable Assets. This is the sum of the Unserviceable Assets, AF Reparable
  Returns, and RDE Reparable Generations computed above for each time period.
  31.8.12. Anticipated Condemnations. This is derived by multiplying the computed 8 Quarter
  MISTR Condemnation Percent times each of the Unserviceable Assets, AF Reparable Returns, and
  RDE Reparable Generation values separately, then rounding each of results before adding them
  together. (This method is consistent with the way condemnations are developed for computing items)
  31.8.13. Net Unserviceable Assets. Subtracting the Anticipated Condemnations from the Total
  Unserviceable Assets for each of the time periods derives this.
  31.8.14. TOC Assets. The on hand Technical Order Compliance Assets. The same value is displayed
  in each of the time periods.
  31.8.15. Assets Avail From Repair. This is the Net Unserviceable Assets added to the TOC Assets
  computed above for each time period.
  31.8.16. Deficit Position. This is derived by subtracting the Assets Available From Repair from the
  Gross Repair Requirements computed above for each time period. If the result is less than zero, it is
  set equal to zero.
  31.8.17. Adjusted Buy Requirements/Excess. The EY Adjusted Buy Requirement is equal to the
  EY Buy Deficit. The BY Adjusted Buy Deficit is equal to the lesser of the EY Buy Deficit and the BY
  Buy Deficit. The AY Buy Deficit is equal to the lesser of the BY Adjusted Buy Deficit and the AY
  Buy Deficit. The CY Adjusted Buy Deficit is equal to the lesser of the AY Adjusted Buy Deficit and
  the CY Buy Deficit.
680                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 31.4. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Buy/Retention Screen.




      31.8.18. Input Repair Rqmt (ACC). This is derived after the Output Repair Requirement (Accumu-
      lated) developed below by subtracting any On Work Order (OWO) quantity from the Output Repair
      Requirement (ACC) for each of the repair time periods. If any of the values are less than zero, they are
      set equal to zero. (Unlike normal computing items, Repair Lead Time Days are not used in the calcu-
      lation of this requirement.)
      31.8.19. Input Repair Rqmt (D-AC). This is the de-accumulated Input Repair Requirement (ACC)
      computed above.
      31.8.20. Output Repair Rqmt (ACC). This is derived beginning with the CY Repair Period as the
      lesser of the Gross Repair Requirement and the Assets Available From Repair. The AY, BY, and EY
      values are then developed one at a time and compared to the previous time period value. If the com-
      puted value is less than the previous time periods value it is set equal to the previous time periods
      value. (The rationale is that it is not possible to “un-repair” an asset).
      31.8.21. Output Repair Rqmt (D-AC). This is the de-accumulated Output Repair Requirement
      (ACC) computed above.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             681


Figure 31.5. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing Detail Screen.




   31.8.22. BUY QUANTITY/DOLLAR VALUE. The Buy Quantity is equal to the AY Adjusted Buy
   Quantity except on the March cycle when it equals the CY Adjusted Buy Quantity. The Buy Dollar
   value is equal to the Buy Quantity times the Forecast Unit Price.
      31.8.22.1. Similar to R coded retention policy, rationale for retaining the item in the stocklist
      without buying must be approved through your Supply Chain Management Group commander
      and coordinated with your local D200A Functional OPR. A consolidated set of rationale for the
      ALC (list each basic rationale and number of items in each group using that rationale) will be pro-
      vided to 401 SCMS/GUMD by the local D200A Functional OPR annually.
      31.8.22.2. Items retained in the stocklist without buying will be assigned a Deferred Disposal
      Code of M. This will prevent them from computing buys in D200 and ABCS.
   31.8.23. TERM QUANTITY/DOLLAR VALUE. The Termination Quantity is developed if there
   are On Order Assets and the Serviceable Assets and Assets Available From Repair computed above
   are greater than the computed Termination Level. The Term Quantity is that difference. The Term
   Dollar Value is equal to the Term Quantity times the Actual Unit Price.
   31.8.24. EXCESS QUANTITY/DOLLAR VALUE. If the sum of the Serviceable Assets and
   Assets Available From Repair computed above is greater than the Retention Period Level, the Excess
682                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      Quantity is equal to that difference. The Excess Dollar Values is equal to the Excess Quantity times
      the Actual Unit Price.
      31.8.25. REPAIR QUANTITY/DOLLAR VALUE. The Repair Quantity is equal to the Input
      Repair Requirement (ACC) for the AY Repair Period. The Repair Dollar Value is equal to the Repair
      Quantity times the Weighted Unit Repair Cost.
      31.8.26. Page 4 - I & S Family Members. Displays the entire Interchangeability and Substitutability
      (I & S) family group, including the order of use code. The middle digit of the order of use code desig-
      nates the Sub Group. The highest middle digit is the most preferred and I & S family master. Addi-
      tional members of a Sub Group are offset under the Sub Group Master (SGM). It is possible to change
      the order of use using the I&S Structure file maintenance screen (see paragraph 14.15.).

Figure 31.6. Display INIS INS/NSO Item Status Listing I&S Family Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                          683


Figure 31.7. Insurance/NSO Item Status Listing.
684                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                 Chapter 32

                                     INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS

32.1. Introduction. This chapter provides guidance for the Inventory Management Specialist (IMS) on
the requirements actions that support the International Logistics Program. It supplements DOD
5105.38-M, AFMAN 16-101, AFI 23-501 and AFMAN 23-110, Vol. 3 and Vol. 9. The Cooperative
Logistics Supply Support Arrangements (CLSSA) program provides customer countries access to the
USAF logistics system.

32.2. CLSSA Foreign Military Sales Order I (FMSO I). The FMSO I represents the range and depth
of spares to be maintained in the USAF supply system to support projected country requisitions. Gener-
ally, the FMSO I level represents procurement lead-time plus 5 months' of projected requirements.
      32.2.1. AFMAN 23-110, Vol. 9 outlines the responsibilities and procedures for determining the range
      and depth of spares to be included in FMSO I recommendations. It may necessary to use SIRS rates
      and factors for performing this task. However, SIRS will not compute the recommended requirement.
      32.2.2. FMSO I stock level case input. The W001 Security Assistance Management Information Sys-
      tem (SAMIS) passes the approved FMSO I stock level to SIRS, which includes the level in the com-
      putation as a FMS additive requirement. The IMS initiates acquisition action to support the FMSO I
      requirement according to the computed buy deficit and buy guidelines issued by HQ AFMC. Any
      changes to the additive quantity provided by SAMIS requires complete justification and documenta-
      tion.
      32.2.3. Adjustments to the additive quantity to reflect backordered quantities is not authorized. How-
      ever, the IMS is authorized to recommend that the FMSO I level be reviewed or revised if there is rea-
      son to believe that the current level will not provide adequate support. These recommendations are
      forwarded to the country manager at the Air Force Security Assistance Center (AFSAC). Adjustments
      to additive requirements are not authorized until the AFSAC accepts the recommendations and adjusts
      the quantity in the SAMIS.
      32.2.4. FMSO I stock levels are included in the CLSSA Requirements Listing output by the W001
      system. This report should be reviewed quarterly for changes and adjustments. It should be retained as
      documentation for the FMS additive used in the SIRS computation.

32.3. Requirements Support for Programmed and Unprogrammed FMS Requisitions. A n F M S
requisition may be coded as programmed or unprogrammed in the SAMIS. FMS countries are not
required to obtain MOE Rule registration prior to requisitioning items from the USAF inventory. The
SAMIS edits against FMS requisitions prior to passing them to D035A for support. To preclude an exces-
sive drain of USAF assets by FMS countries, SAMIS codes requisitions as programmed or nonpro-
grammed based on an Eligibleto be Programmed Quantity (EPQ). Programmed requisitions contain a "D"
in record position 30 with a "1" in record position 72, while nonprogrammed requisitions contain a "D" in
record position 30 with an alpha, 2, or a blank in record position 72. When a programmed FMS requisition
appears in D035A it will have a “V” in the sixth digit of the document number and a “1” (one) in the man-
agement code on the DODA screen in D035A.
      32.3.1. A requisition is coded as programmed for CLSSA FMSO II requisitions when the following 4
      conditions are met. First, the requisition is for a recurring demand. Second, the item is part of the
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                685


   CLSSA stock level (FMSO I) case. Third, the item has been part of the FMSO I case for the specified
   lead-time. Fourth, the requisition quantity is equal to or less than the EPQ. The EPQ is initialized at
   zero but will be revised to equal the FMSO I stock level after the specified lead-time. As programmed
   requisitions are processed, the quantity requisitioned is subtracted and a new EPQ is computed.
   32.3.2. Requisitions exceeding the EPQ are coded as unprogrammed. Also, all requisitions that are
   not part of the CLSSA are coded as unprogrammed.
   32.3.3. D035A processes programmed FMS requisitions using the same logic that is used for USAF
   requisitions. If the FMS requisitions are backordered, either automatically or manually, they should be
   filled with the first available assets according to UMMIPS priority. It should not be necessary to ini-
   tiate acquisition action to fill a requisition since the computation displays the FMSO I requirement as
   an additive. Since the programmed requisition is part of the computed requirement, assets available
   from repair, wholesale stock, or on order should be used to fill the requisition.
   32.3.4. D035A automatically releases assets to fill unprogrammed requisitions when assets in excess
   of the control level are available. D035A will provide the IMS with a notice for every unprogrammed
   FMS requisition that goes on back order because no serviceable assets are available above the control
   level. These requisitions are identified with "NP" in positions 4 and 5 of the requisition record. The
   IMS supports these requisitions either through repair or new acquisition. The IMS schedules repair of
   unserviceable assets to satisfy unprogrammed requisitions only when unserviceable long supply
   assets are available. Otherwise the IMS prepares a Purchase Request (PR) to support requisitions
   received. PRs must be initiated within 90 days after the receipt of any FMS unprogrammed requisi-
   tion.
   32.3.5. The IMS may receive unprogrammed requisitions to support some FMS cases. The IMS may
   release on hand assets above the control level to fill these requisitions. If no assets above the control
   level are available, acquisition action is authorized. Quantities acquired to support unprogrammed
   backorders from FMS customers are not included in the SIRS computation, since the case require-
   ments are not part of the requirement computation. The IMS file maintains a Requirements Computa-
   tion Suppression Code (RCSC) of “S” in KEYPLUS when inputting an automated PR to fill
   unprogrammed FMS requisitions. Or the IMS annotates “RCSC S” on a manual PR to fill unpro-
   grammed FMS requisitions. Once the “RCSC S” is loaded into J023 and J018R, it prevents these on
   order assets from passing to SIRS. Consequently, assets bought for unprogrammed FMS backorders
   are not included in the Total Acquired Assets or Starting Position of the Asset Reconciliation. FMS
   unprogrammed requisitions are put on the PR for direct shipment to the FMS customer.

32.4. FMSO I Reduction/Deletion Processing. When a FMSO I stock level is reduced or deleted, assets
acquired and held in wholesale stock to support that level may be offered to the USAF. An FMS customer
will submit assign a disposition code (A, B, C, D, E or F) to indicate an intention to delete or reduce a
level. The IMS should receive a 9P exception and a drawdown requisition that has a “V” in position 11 of
the document number. The IMS indicates an intent to accept or reject the assets by coding the controlled
exception. AFMAN 23-110, Volume 9 describes disposition codes. AFMAN 23-110, Volume 3, Chapter
9 provides additional IMS instructions. The following policies apply when an FMS customer offers assets
to the Air Force:
   32.4.1. Assets may be absorbed if an item has a third short at the termination position. The FMSO I
   stock level must be included in the computation when determining this position. If for some reason the
   FMSO I stock level is not included in the computation, it should be added to the termination quarter.
686                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      New acquisition is authorized only when the customer has assigned disposition code "E" to the draw-
      down requisition. The quantity that may be absorbed will be the lesser of the adjusted termination def-
      icit (third short at the termination position) minus any unfunded Other War Reserve Materiel
      requirement or the quantity being offered by the FMS customer.
      32.4.2. Exception to the policy in paragraph 32.4.1. is authorized when:
         32.4.2.1. A FMS customer reduces or deletes a FMSO I stock level that was never input to SIRS.
         This can occur since a customer can add, change, or delete levels daily but SIRS only receives lev-
         els from SAMIS at the end of each quarter. When the IMS receives a reduction/deletion action for
         a level that was never input to SIRS, the assets will be absorbed regardless of the computed item
         position.
         32.4.2.2. Insufficient wholesale assets are available to fill the drawdown requisition and new
         acquisition would be required to fill all or part of the requisition quantity. The IMS may absorb
         quantities that have assigned disposition codes A, B, C, or D. New acquisition is authorized only
         to support quantities assigned disposition code E. If the disposition code is F, the drawdown requi-
         sitions will remain on backorder until an asset becomes available to fill it.
         32.4.2.3. All decisions regarding reduction and deletion processing must be documented on the
         requirements computation work sheet used to make the decision.
         32.4.2.4. No special disposal action will be initiated for assets that the Air Force cannot absorb
         and the FMS customer refuses to receive them. Subsequent computations will consider the
         reduced FMS requirement. If the item computes into an excess position these assets will be con-
         sidered for disposal.

32.5. Excess Offers from CLSSA and non-CLSSA Customers. The IMS may be offered serviceable
or unserviceable assets that are excess to a customer's requirements. These offers are identified on the
Report of Customer Excess Material (FTE) and Reply to Report of Excess Material (FTR) procedures.
Acceptance of these assets equates to an acquisition action. Buy back of FMS excesses is not authorized
if the assets reporting in the CSIS are equal to or greater than the AA0. FMS excess with a line item value
of $50 or less will not be accepted. FMS excesses with a line value between $50-250 may only be
accepted for filling critical item requirements. FMS excesses of $250 and more are authorized to fill def-
icits in the AAO. (Reference AFMAN 23-110, Vol. 3, Chapter 9)Funds availability will be determined,
using the same procedures that apply for purchase requests. The proper funds citation will be annotated on
the FTE or FTR. If the assets being accept will support a customer outside of the Air Force, citation of
Budget Program 18, 28, or 87 will be appropriate. Use of these Budget Program codes must be docu-
mented. The SIRS computation should display the accepted assets as due-in from FMS.

32.6. FMS Engine Overhauls. Engine managers will negotiate repair to support FMS cases. These are
valid engine overhaul programs and can be included in the SIRS computation by adding the programs as
type 6 in the Application, Programs Indentures (API) system. (See paragraph 18.12.).

32.7. Repair and Replace Reparable Returns. FMS customers are authorized to return reparable
assets to the Air Force when a serviceable replacement is required. The customer furnishes a Materiel
Repair Requirements List (MRRL) for the Air Force to use to approve the items and quantities to be
returned. Items on the MRRL may or may not be returned, therefore inclusion of assets accepted from the
MRRL in the SIRS computation are not necessary. An "H" in position 11of the document number identi-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               687


fies it as a replacement requisition. When the unserviceable asset is received and reported in depot supply
records, it loses its accountability as an FMS asset. A H-coded requisition is not input into D035A until
the FMS reparable asset is received. H-Coded FMS requisitions are provided to SIRS by D035A each
quarter and are included in the Additive Requirement. These additives are displayed on the DIS SIRS
SND ADRQ screen and can be file maintained, if necessary, on the FM SIRS SND ADRQ screen with the
FMS H-CD BO additive (see paragraph 25.4.16.). When the FMS reparable is received, an imbalance
may occur and the following logic applies:
   32.7.1. When the reparable asset is received and the resulting H-coded FMS requisition is received by
   the next computational cut off date, no action is required. The application of the FMS asset received
   to the SIRS requirements is correct.
   32.7.2. When the reparable asset is received and the resulting requisition is not on backorder as of the
   asset cut off date, assets for which the IMS are not accountable will be sent to SIRS from D035A. The
   following manual actions are required to offset these assets:
       32.7.2.1. The FMS unserviceable assets received for repair must be offset in the SIRS computa-
       tion by the FMS H-CD BO additive to prevent the repair requirement from being understated. For
       example, D035A may give SIRS an FMS H-CD BO additive requirement of 5. But, as of the asset
       cut off date, a quantity of 7 unserviceable FMS assets are in supply. The FMS H-CD BO additive
       of 5 must be changed to 7 in SIRS by file maintenance to cover the FMS unserviceable assets. An
       IMS file maintained FMS H-CD BO meeting this criteria must be supported by a D035A daily or
       weekly transaction register, a one year history or a data query that shows the receipt of the FMS
       reparable return(s).
       32.7.2.2. If the requisition is unprogrammed, the Nonprogrammed Suspense Date is adjusted to
       equal 180 days beyond the D035A processing date.
       32.7.2.3. In no case will any backorder with "H" in column 40 of the requisition be used to justify
       new acquisition or replenishment authority.
       32.7.2.4. H-coded requisitions received after the computation cutoff date will be added to the
       negotiation quarter of the A-D075.ABCS-REP-P-B21 Quarterly Projection Worksheet (B21) to
       schedule them for repair without delay. All after-cutoff H-coded backorders added to the B21 will
       be listed by document number and quantity on either the SIRS computation repair page or on the
       B21. Do not add any H-coded requisitions to the negotiation quarter that meet the criteria in para-
       graph 32.7.2.1. and that were file maintained into SIRS. Doing so would duplicate requirements.

32.8. FMS Retention. A FMS Retention Levels product is provided by W001. SIRS automatically
inputs the FMS RetentionLevel in the retention segment of the FMS additive. (See Figure 14.1.)
688                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                 Chapter 33

                                       TERMINATION ACTIONS

33.1. Introduction. Mission changes or adjustment to item requirements occasionally reduce or elimi-
nate the need to commit funds for or accept delivery of spare parts that the Air Force has already ordered.
Consequently, these quantities must be considered for reduction and, if necessary, contract termination.
The decision to reduce or terminate a quantity on contract is not automatic; it involves evaluation of eco-
nomic and mission related factors. This is because termination often involves a considerable cost to the
government to compensate vendors for resources they have committed to the contract. In many cases it is
more advantageous for the government to accept delivery of the assets rather than pay termination costs.
This chapter provides Inventory Management Specialists (IMS), Production Management Specialists
(PMS), system program directors and managers, Requirements Control Officers (RCOs), division ana-
lysts, ALC SIRS termination analysts, budget analysts, and HQ AFMC and ALC SIRS analysts with the
procedures and tools to make a decision to terminate a contract or to accept delivery of on order assets.
      33.1.1. Items considered for reduction or termination actions are items on production contracts, items
      on Purchase Request (PR) or Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) but not yet on firm
      contract, Technical Order Compliance (TOC) kit spare parts, and acquisitions from other government
      agencies.
      33.1.2. Items excluded from consideration of reduction or termination are complete aircraft and mis-
      sile engines; items on AFMC Form 326, Provisioned Items Exhibit that are being processed to estab-
      lish, confirm, or change contractor interim release actions; and items ordered under the Spares
      Acquisition Integrated with Production (SAIP) program, unless the items will become obsolete.
      Interim release is authorization given a contractor to release support items to production or procure-
      ment simultaneously with production requirements for like items prior to submission of a provisioned
      item order.

33.2. Definitions.
      33.2.1. A termination is an action to reduce or cancel an undelivered quantity of assets that are on a
      firm contract.
      33.2.2. A reduction is an action to reduce or cancel quantities that have been requested for purchase
      on a purchase request (PR) or Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR) but are not yet on
      a firm contract or priced exhibit. A reduction is accomplished with an amendment to the PR or MIPR.
      33.2.3. A Reduction in Requirements (RIR) is an official request from the IMS asking the contracting
      activity to terminate quantities that are on a firm contract.
      33.2.4. On Order Excess are assets on an unfunded PR that exceed the SIRS worldwide buy operating
      level, or assets on contract or funded PR that exceed the SIRS worldwide termination level.
      33.2.5. The Worldwide Buy Operating Level is the basic operating requirement (condemnations,
      replacements, and additive requirements) at the buy point in the requirements computation. See
      Chapter 9, paragraph 9.13.6. for a complete description.
      33.2.6. The Worldwide Termination Level is the result of a comparison of basic operating require-
      ment at the buy point and the termination point in the computation. See Chapter 9, paragraph
      9.13.8. for a complete description.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               689


   33.2.7. Estimated Termination Costs is an informal estimate of costs to terminate all or part of a con-
   tract. The contracting activity provides this estimate to the item manager, usually without contacting
   the contractor, as an initial assessment of the benefits of terminating a contract.
   33.2.8. The Termination Model is an automated tool that helps determine if termination is economi-
   cal. The model is available for download at https://www.ripit.wpafb.af.mil/A4YR/D200A.asp.
   33.2.9. The Termination Authority Template is the instrument that the IMS uses to request the con-
   tracting activity to initiate termination action.

33.3. Policy.
   33.3.1. Every computation cycle the IMS/MM will work as many of their items reported on the Item
   Review Listing computing in termination as pssible starting their review with the highest termination
   dollar valued items and working down the list. This policy ensures that (1) efforts to avoid unneces-
   sary costs to the government focus on items with the highest termination value mostly likely to pro-
   vide the largest recovery of dollars if terminated and (2) less emphasis is placed on lower value
   termination quantities more likely to be found uneconomical to terminate by the termination model.
   33.3.2. The recommended tool is the Interactive Requirements Information Services (IRIS) ALC
   reports at https://www.iris.wpafb.af.mil/ALC.html. IRIS includes ALC reports for all management
   actions (buy, termination, repair, and excess) that can be downloaded to Microsoft Excel® and sorted
   by dollar value. Contact the command termination OPR at 401 SCMS/GUMD for assistance in using
   IRIS.
   33.3.3. Review all on order purchase request quantities not yet on contract, regardless of dollar value,
   and consider reduction to these quantities.
   33.3.4. Terminations are time sensitive. Delay of even a single day can significantly increase the cost
   to terminate. Therefore, management efforts must emphasize early identification of potential excess
   on order quantities. The initial requirements computation cycle is the logical starting point to review
   items with on order quantities that may exceed Air Force needs and is the first opportunity to recover
   or avoid spending limited procurement funds. It is Air Force policy to respond to and take action on
   any changes in Air Force missions, programmed objectives, consumption factors, authorizations, etc,
   that reduce requirements. Consideration for termination action begins as soon as the IMS becomes
   aware of information that may make on order quantities excess to immediate needs. The IMS should
   not wait until the item computes in the next quarterly cycle. This chapter and AF Federal Acquisition
   Regulation (FAR) Supplement Part 5349 provides policy and guidance to effect timely termination
   actions. The term "termination" should be used to refer to termination actions and to PR reduction and
   cancellation actions except when the policy or procedures apply exclusively to PR reductions.
   33.3.5. The IMS determines if termination action is to be taken. The IMS who decides not to termi-
   nate prepares documentation to certify and explain the reasons for accepting the assets. The documen-
   tation will include a statement of facts, considerations, sources of information, and the logic used to
   arrive at the decision. The originating activity keeps the documentation for AFMC and inspection
   agency review. Consider the following circumstances when deciding to terminate, defer a termination
   decision, or accept delivery of on order assets that compute into termination:
       33.3.5.1. Technical complexity that may require costly reprocurement.
690                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      33.3.5.2. Increasing operating programs or escalating condemnation rates that would necessitate
      a buy in the foreseeable future. An item would fall into this category if the computation worksheet
      displays a “3rd Short” after the termination period and through the Retention period.
      33.3.5.3. Known increases to Foreign Military Sales (FMS) requirements. These quantities should
      be integrated into the SIRS computation to account for the requirements. NOTE: The Arms
      Export Act prohibits inclusion of non-programmed FMS requirements in the D200A computation
      for which the FMS customer has not established an FMS FMS01 case level or Materiel Repair
      Requirements List.
      33.3.5.4. New applications that were not considered in the most recent SIRS computation. These
      would justify deferral of a termination decision until a later cycle when the new applications
      would be integrated into the computation.
      33.3.5.5. Projected increases or decreases in demands in the near future that are not yet reflected
      in the SIRS computation. These would justify deferral of a termination decision until a later cycle
      when the demand projection would be integrated into the computation.
      33.3.5.6. Items with short shelf lives.
      33.3.5.7. Items that apply to recently fielded systems and still use estimated demand rates. This
      would authorize deferral of a termination decision until a later cycle when the demand projection
      is based on mature rates.
      33.3.5.8. The Termination Model concludes that termination is not in the best interests of the gov-
      ernment.
      33.3.5.9. Any of the following factors are grounds for termination without regard to economic
      considerations:
          33.3.5.9.1. The item has declining programs and no reprocurement predicted in the SIRS
          computation (i.e., no third over position through the retention period).
          33.3.5.9.2. An item has declining programs and no projected condemnations.
          33.3.5.9.3. An engineering change proposal or modification enhances the item’s reliability or
          availability.
          33.3.5.9.4. The item is, or will soon be, obsolete or its next higher assembly will be obsolete.
          33.3.5.9.5. The item’s mandatory removal time recently increased or was eliminated.
          33.3.5.9.6. The contractor was unable to perform, default termination is possible, and another
          source is preferred.
          33.3.5.9.7. Organic manufacturing or repair capability is preferred.
          33.3.5.9.8. Interchangeable items have been found in the Air Force inventory. This should
          result in an adjustment to the computation that would reflect the availability of these assets.
          33.3.5.9.9. This item is available from other services or agencies through the Defense Reuti-
          lization and Marketing Service.

33.4. Procedures.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               691


  33.4.1. When the IMS and ES review the IMS Review Listing and the ES Review Listing before the
  initial cycle they will focus first on items that have Compute Code B, N, P, R, or X (“no compute”
  items) with on order quantities. The IM and ES will add values to the critical elements to ensure the
  system produces a computation worksheet in the initial computation (see paragraph 14.14.3.). The
  IMS Review Listing (see paragraph 13.2.) and the ES Review Listing (see paragraph 12.2.) are dis-
  played on the DIS RCVS PFI IRL screen.
  33.4.2. The IMS will review the initial Index of Actions from the initial computation and determine if
  any of the “no compute” items computed items reviewed and updated according to para 33.4.2. fell
  into termination. The IMS Review Listing and the ES Review Listing display items in termination,
  which are also displayed on the IRL screen (navigation DIS RCVS PFI IRL). The IMS will determine
  if the item has a Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) program (“X” in position 2, 3 or 4 of the item pro-
  gram select code), has depot reparable generations, or has depot condemnations that exceed MISTR
  condemnations.
  33.4.3. If the item does not have a DLM program the IMS will notify the ES that the item is in termi-
  nation and enter corrections on line. The ES enters any corrections and notifies the IM after review
  and corrections are complete. The IMS requests an item recomputation (“for real” recomputation --
  see Chapter 10). If the item is still in termination the IMS advises the contracting activity that an
  amendment may be forthcoming to reduce or cancel the PR quantity and that contract award should be
  delayed until after the final SIRS computation when a definite termination quantity will be known.
  33.4.4. If the item has a next higher assembly (NHA) MISTR program (“X” in the third position of
  the item program select code) the IMS will advise the item ES and the IMS and ES(s) responsible for
  each NHA that the item is in termination.
     33.4.4.1. If the NHA is a secondary item managed in SIRS, the IMS and NHA IMS(s) will review
     the SGM Computation Worksheet(s) or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing(s) from the initial SIRS
     computation to ensure that the repair projection is correct. The ES and NHA ES(s) will review the
     Factors Printout or the Usage Printout to ensure that the data are correct.
     33.4.4.2. If the NHA is a primary item managed in the D200C system, the NHA IMS and ES will
     verify the NHA overhaul program and the inventory data.
     33.4.4.3. If the initial data are not correct, the IMS, NHA IMS(s), ES and NHA ES(s) will correct
     the elements for which they have capability during the initial review cycle. After the NHA IMS(s),
     ES(s) and NHA ES(s) have reviewed their items and made corrections, they will notify the com-
     ponent IMS. The IMS requests an item recomputation (“for real” recomputation -- see Chapter
     10). If the item is still in termination the IMS advises the contracting activity that an amendment
     may be forthcoming to reduce or cancel the PR quantity and that contract award should be delayed
     until after the final SIRS computation when a definite termination quantity will be known.
  33.4.5. Immediately after receiving the Index of Actions from the final SIRS computation, the IMS
  will review the listing for any items that are in termination. The IMS will review the SGM Computa-
  tion Worksheet or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation to ensure that the data
  are correct. If the data are not correct, the IMS and ES will correct the erroneous data and request an
  item recomputation (“for real” recomputation). If the item is still in termination, the IMS will initiate
  action to reduce or cancel the purchase request quantity or to request the contracting activity to termi-
  nate all or part of a contract quantity.
692                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      33.4.5.1. If the on order excess quantity is not yet on contract, the IMS initiates an amendment to
      reduce or cancel the purchase request.
      33.4.5.2. If the on order excess quantity is on a firm contract the IMS will run the termination
      model, If the termination model recommends termination the IMS initiates a termination authority
      template.
         33.4.5.2.1. A termination authority template is a means of communication between the prod-
         uct directorate that initiates a procurement action and the contracting office responsible for
         negotiating and award of the contract for that action. The template can be in hard copy or elec-
         tronic form. The purpose of a termination authority template is to provide an auditable record
         of a product directorate request to terminate on order asset quantities and the contracting activ-
         ity’s response to that request. See Figure 33.1. and Figure 33.2. for a sample termination
         authority template.
         33.4.5.2.2. The termination authority template must include the following information to
         enable the IMS to initiate a termination request. ALCs may add or tailor information to suit
         local conditions:
             33.4.5.2.2.1. The procuring contracting office.
             33.4.5.2.2.2. The item management organization.
             33.4.5.2.2.3. The name and location of the contractor.
             33.4.5.2.2.4. The contract number.
             33.4.5.2.2.5. The desired date the termination is to be effective.
             33.4.5.2.2.6. The justification for termination.
             33.4.5.2.2.7. Information specific to the item or items to be terminated, including the con-
             tract line number, quantities, nomenclature, unit of issue, and dollar value.
             33.4.5.2.2.8. Indication of coordination and approval in accordance with ALC signature
             policy.
             33.4.5.2.2.9. Space for remarks. The Reduction in Requirements (RIR) number goes in
             this space.
         33.4.5.2.3. The termination authority template must include the following information to
         enable the contracting office to respond to a termination request. ALCs may add or tailor
         information to suit local conditions:
             33.4.5.2.3.1. The requesting activity.
             33.4.5.2.3.2. The procuring activity.
             33.4.5.2.3.3. Date and time the termination template was received at the procuring activ-
             ity.
             33.4.5.2.3.4. Date and time the termination template was forwarded to the TCO.
             33.4.5.2.3.5. Verification that the contract information the requesting activity submitted is
             correct.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                693


             33.4.5.2.3.6. Type of termination recommended -- for the convenience of the government
             or contractor default -- and full or partial termination.
             33.4.5.2.3.7. Termination clause number.
             33.4.5.2.3.8. Date of award.
             33.4.5.2.3.9. The full contract amount.
             33.4.5.2.3.10. The value of the quantity being terminated.
             33.4.5.2.3.11. The modification number for the termination notice.
             33.4.5.2.3.12. Indication of coordination and approval in accordance with local policy.
     33.4.5.3. All these actions and decisions should be completed within 10 working days after the
     IMS receives the SGM Computation Worksheet or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final
     computation. The PR amendment or the termination authority template will be initiated within this
     10 working day period if the decision is made to terminate. If the decision and PR amendment or
     termination authority template (if appropriate) cannot be completed within ten working days,
     explain why on the final SGM Requirements Worksheet or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing and
     on the general notepad for the item.
  33.4.6. Follow these steps when deciding to terminate or reduce on order quantities:
     33.4.6.1. Validate all data elements in the SIRS computation that could affect the termination
     quantity. If erroneous data caused a termination, make corrections during the initial cycle or
     request a “what if” recomputation after the final computation. Analyze the quantity that remains in
     termination to determine the causes of termination.
     33.4.6.2. Determine if some or all of the on order quantity was delivered after the asset cutoff
     date. If so, decrease the on order quantity and increase the on hand assets during the initial cycle
     or request a “what if” recomputation after the final computation.
     33.4.6.3. If a contract quantity was terminated, but the computation still includes on order assets,
     they should be removed from the SIRS computation.
         33.4.6.3.1. Research the item to determine if the quantity was in termination during a prior
         cycle and what action was taken. If termination action is in progress, reduce or remove the on
         order quantity. Annotate the notepad and the SGM Computation worksheet or the INS/NSO
         Item Status Listing to indicate the reduction. Also ensure that the Total Acquired and the Start-
         ing Position on the Asset Reconciliation screen (see Chapter 28) have been reduced to reflect
         the anticipated termination. If a termination authority template was sent to the contracting
         activity and the termination was determined to be uneconomical, document this in the notepad
         before the final computation and on the SGM Computation Worksheet or INS/NSO Item Sta-
         tus Listing.
         33.4.6.3.2. If a decision was made not to terminate during a previous cycle, research the item
         to determine if the justification is still valid. If so, annotate the notepad before the final com-
         putation and the SGM Computation worksheet or INS/NSO Item Status Listing with the date
         and computation cycle of the previous decision.
     33.4.6.4. Run the termination model if termination is appropriate (see paragraph 33.3.11.5.). If
     the model indicates that termination is uneconomical, annotate the SGM Computation Worksheet
694                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         or INS/NSO Item Status Listing accordingly and cite the termination model. If the model recom-
         mends termination, submit a termination authority template to the contracting office and attach a
         copy of the termination model. See the termination model section below for instructions on com-
         pleting the termination model and termination authority template. Retain a copy of Part One and
         Part Two of the model for documentation (see paragraph 33.6. below). Keep these documents for
         two years or until after the termination is completed, whatever is longer. The SGM Computation
         Worksheet or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing used as a basis for the termination model should be
         retained for the same period.
         33.4.6.5. Termination action is normally initiated if obsolete items are involved or if a “no cost”
         termination settlement can be obtained. To facilitate processing, the IMS should indicate the rea-
         son delivery is not desired on the Termination Authority Template (Figure 33.1.).
         33.4.6.6. Under some circumstances the IMS shall request termination without regard to termina-
         tion costs and without consulting the Termination Model. Reasons are listed in paragraph
         33.3.6.9. above. In such cases send a termination authority template to the procuring office with
         the reason annotated (e.g., "Declining program”) and request termination regardless of cost."
         33.4.6.7. The same logic applies to items with on order purchase request quantities. Take imme-
         diate action to cancel or reduce PR quantities for these quantities.
      33.4.7. Under exceptional circumstances it may not be in the best interest of the government to termi-
      nate some quantities of items with declining programs. In these cases the ALC commander has the
      authority to deviate from the above policy. The documentation must include a copy of the termination
      model and clear, auditable evidence from an engineering activity or program office that the assets will
      have a specific need after delivery. The purpose of this policy is to allow for the use of good judgment
      in exceptional situations and to prevent actions that could waste public funds. If feasible, the SIRS
      computation should be adjusted to display the future need.
      33.4.8. In some cases a Principal Contracting Officer (PCO) or a Termination Contracting Officer
      (TCO) may receive a termination authority template and determine that termination costs are signifi-
      cantly higher than first estimated. In such cases the contracting officer should contact the IMS and
      request an economic re-evaluation.
      33.4.9. Remove from the initial computation any quantities from the SIRS computation for which ter-
      mination action has been requested via a termination authority template. Take this action as soon as
      the termination authority template has been submitted and before the final computation. Remove par-
      tial termination quantities from the on order assets at the end of the projected delivery schedule. Also
      ensure that the Total Acquired and the Starting Position on the Asset Reconciliation screen (see Chap-
      ter 28) have been reduced to reflect the anticipated termination.
      33.4.10. If the contracting officer returns the termination authority template without action after the
      IMS has taken the above actions, the IMS must reinstate the assets in the computation and make cor-
      responding adjustments to the asset reconciliation worksheet. These actions must be clearly annotated
      on the AFMC Form 318 or other paper or electronic record. Keep the termination authority template
      available for audit or inspection.
      33.4.11. If an amendment was initiated to reduce or cancel a purchase request quantity, remove the
      assets from SIRS. Also ensure that the Total Acquired and the Starting Position on the Asset Recon-
      ciliation screen (see Chapter 28) have been reduced to reflect the anticipated termination. If termina-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               695


   tion quantities were delivered after the current cycle asset cutoff date, remove the on order quantities
   and show the assets as on hand.
   33.4.12. Remove the on order quantity during the initial cycle if assets are diverted to other uses in
   lieu of termination. The asset reconciliation will require correction. Attach documentation to the SGM
   Computation Worksheet or INS/NSO Item Status Listing substantiating the diversion and identifying
   the customer.
   33.4.13. Items that compute termination quantities and their stock-listed next higher assemblies must
   be worked each cycle.
   33.4.14. The Termination Model must be used on all terminations except:
      33.4.14.1. When information in the SIRS computation is adjusted or corrected in a way that elim-
      inates the termination quantity.
      33.4.14.2. A termination decision is deferred pending research because of (1) suspect data in
      SIRS, (2) HQ AFMC directive, (3) expected new applications, or (4) an anticipated program
      increase that is not yet reflected in the latest USAF Program Authority document.

33.5. Reporting and Anaysis.
   33.5.1. OC-ALC developed the Automated Budget Compilation System-Terminations
   (ABCS-Terms) as a tool to on order excess. Use of this system requires the following procedures to be
   performed by item managers, RCOs, division analysts, ALC SIRS termination analysts, and budget
   analysts as applicable to local procedures.
      33.5.1.1. The IMS determines the appropriate two-digit ABCS termination code(s) to assign to
      each item that computes a termination quantity in the final computation. These two digit codes
      describe both the status and the cause of the termination. Annotate this code on the SGM Compu-
      tation Worksheet or on the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation or the latest
      "what if" recomputation.
          33.5.1.1.1. The code will also be annotated on the ABCS – Uncoded Terms List product.
          More than one code can apply to an item, in which case each code will be broken down by
          quantity.
          33.5.1.1.2. Procedures for terminations with a value of $1 million or more: The Requirements
          Control Officer (RCO) or division analyst requests a Format 4 report (Figure 33.3.) for each
          termination with a value of $1 million or more and passes it to the IMS. The IMS adds a nar-
          rative that explains the reasons the item computed into termination and the terminiation deci-
          sion for every termination with code 04, 05, 06, 11, and 12. See paragraph 33.5.4. for code
          definitions.
      33.5.1.2. RCOs, division analysts, or other designated personnel are responsible for verifying that
      the codes chosen by the IMS reflect the situation. They will also enter the codes into
      ABCS-Terms. ABCS-Terms will be coded every cycle by the ALC personnel designated to do the
      data entry. RCOs or division analysts should also provide item managers with Format 4 reports for
      all items over $1 million for the addition of a narrative. Copies of item level Format 4 reports with
      codes 04, 05, 06, 11, and 12 should be forwarded to the ALC termination analysts.
696                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         33.5.1.3. ALC termination analysts or budget analysts are responsible for providing narratives by
         Budget Program (BP) and System Management Codes (SMC) (see paragraph 14.2.) at each ALC
         when directed by HQ AFMC. These reports, including item level reports, should be forwarded to
         the HQ AFMC SIRS OPR. Termination analysts and budget analysts are responsible for maintain-
         ing the proper SMCs on items placed in the FM division account.
      33.5.2. The termination quantity in ABCS is from the CSIS that is updated from the final SIRS com-
      putation and includes terminations and “no compute” items with on order assets. Termination quanti-
      ties stratify as On Order Contract assets (Column 7) in Potential DoD Excess (Line 21) in the Budget
      Item Detail AAO position.
      33.5.3. If the code indicates that a reduction or termination action has been or will be taken (code 02
      or 03), note the the RIR log number (paragraph 33.4.5.) in the documentation.
      33.5.4. Termination Codes. The following list of codes and their definitions explain the reason for
      making a termination decision. Use of several codes per item is allowed. Contact the HQ AFMC Ter-
      minations OPR for assistance in coding terminations that are not covered by the following codes.
         33.5.4.1. CODE 02. CONTRACT ELIGIBLE FOR TERMINATION: A quantity on contract is
         eligible for termination action, the termination model has been run, and a termination authority
         template has been submitted. The item appears in ABCS because the on order quantity could not
         be adjusted before the final computation. Use local signature level policy to approve the SGM
         Computation worksheet, the “what if” recomputation, or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing. Pro-
         curement cannot legally terminate a delinquent contract. Procurement has to extend the delinquent
         contract first prior to terminating it. Therefore in cases where the IMS wants to terminate a delin-
         quent contract the IMS will first request in writing for procurement to do an amendment to the
         contract extending the delivery schedule on the contract before submitting the termination author-
         ity template.
         33.5.4.2. CODE 03. PR ELIGIBLE FOR REDUCTION OR CANCELLATION: A quantity on
         purchase request is eligible for reduction or cancellation, the termination model has been run, and
         a PR amendment has been submitted. The item appears in ABCS because the on order quantity
         could not be adjusted before the final computation. Use local signature level policy to approve the
         SGM Computation worksheet, the “what if” recomputation, or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing.
         33.5.4.3. CODE 04. WILL NOT TERMINATE DUE TO HQ AFMC DIRECTION: Item is not
         eligible for reduction or termination action due to HQ AFMC direction.
             33.5.4.3.1. Attach a copy of the HQ AFMC direction to the SGM Computation Worksheet, the
             INS/ NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation, or the latest "what if" recomputa-
             tion. Use local signature level policy to approve the SGM Computation worksheet, the “what
             if” recomputation, or the INS/NSO Item Status Listing. Repeat terminations require same sig-
             nature level on budget cycles.
             33.5.4.3.2. This code also applies to consumable items for which the effective date of transfer
             to the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) falls within a computation cycle--between the
             Requirements Item Identification Data (RIID) snapshot and the running of the final/summary
             comp if the term model results say to terminate/cancel.
             33.5.4.3.3. This code will be used for items on Performance Based Logistic contracts on
             which the contractor is doing all the demand and supply planning for the items.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              697


        33.5.4.3.4. This code also applies to items for which the effective date of transfer to another
        service or agency falls within a computation cycle--between the Requirements Item Identifica-
        tion Data (RIID) snapshot and the running of the final/summary comp if the term model results
        say to terminate/cancel.
     33.5.4.4. CODE 05. WILL NOT TERMINATE – SPARES ACQUISITION INTEGRATED
     WITH PRODUCTION (SAIP). Termination model has been run. (If the termination model deter-
     mined it was uneconomical to terminate, use Code 08, Code 09 or Code 10 as applicable). The
     program manager approved production of spare parts to be concurrent with production of parts to
     the support production of the end item. Although this may result in production of spare parts that
     exceed the requirement projected through the apportionment year, there is a considerable price
     advantage for doing this. Use local policy for signature level for signing, but as a minimum the
     IMS/MM and supervisor will sign the SGM Computation Worksheet , the INS/NSO Item Status
     Listing from the final computation, or the latest "what if" recomputation. Repeat terminations
     require same signature level on budget cycles.
     33.5.4.5. CODE 06. WILL NOT TERMINATE, ADDITIONAL APPLICATION ANTICI-
     PATED: Termination action will not be taken because additional applications not reflected in the
     most recent SIRS computation will be added. This code allows a termination decision to be
     deferred for one cycle. Approval no lower than Group level is required on the SGM Computation
     Worksheet, the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation, or the latest "what if"
     recomputation.
     33.5.4.6. CODE 07. DATA ERROR ADJUSTMENTS: Item does not require reduction or termi-
     nation when data are corrected. Corrections in the final SIRS computation could not be done dur-
     ing the file maintenance cycle. If the data were not corrected before the final SIRS computation
     and the code 07 was entered after the final CSIS, code 07 will remain in ABCS to explain on order
     excess quantities in the CSIS. An explanation of the error will be annotated on the SGM Compu-
     tation Worksheet, the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation, or the latest "what
     if" recomputation. This code includes contract deliveries that occur after the asset of cut off date
     and the IMS was not aware of them until after the final computation processed. Use of this code
     requires a recomputation showing the item is no longer in termination when the data is corrected.
     Use of this code as a minimum requires IMS/MM and supervisor signature.
     33.5.4.7. CODE 08. TERMINATION UNECONOMICAL –REPROCUREMENT ANTICI-
     PATED: The termination model has been run, termination was found to be uneconomical, and
     reprocurement is anticipated. The SIRS computation displays a third short quantity between termi-
     nation point and the retention period. Follow local signature level policy for approval of the SGM
     Computation Worksheet , the INS/ NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation, or the lat-
     est "what if" recomputation and dollar threshold for authorizing a decision not to terminate.
     Repeat terminations require same signature level on budget cycles. Run the termination model on
     repeat terminations every cycle.
     33.5.4.8. CODE 09. TERMINATION UNECONOMICAL – NO REPROCUREMENT ANTICI-
     PATED: Termination model has been run and it found termination to be uneconomical. No repro-
     curement is anticipated, i.e., the SIRS computation displays a third over quantity in at least one of
     the 38 future quarters. Follow local signature level policy for approval of the SGM Computation
     Worksheet , the INS/ NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation, or the latest "what if"
     recomputation and dollar thresholds for authorizing non-termination decision. Repeat termina-
698                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      tions require same signature level on budget cycles. Termination model is run on repeat termina-
      tions every cycle.
      33.5.4.9. CODE 10. TERMINATION UNECONOMICAL – INITIAL PROVISIONING FUND-
      ING USED: The termination model was run, termination was found to be uneconomical, and ini-
      tial provisioning funds were used to procure assets. Follow local policy for signature level for
      signing the SGM Computation Worksheet, the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final com-
      putation, or the latest "what if" recomputation and dollar threshold for authorizing non-termina-
      tion decision. Repeat terminations require same signature level on budget cycle. Termination
      model is run on repeat terminations every cycle.
      33.5.4.10. CODE 11. WILL NOT TERMINATE, DATA SUSPECT PENDING RESEARCH:
      Use when the final computation could not be adjusted. Limited to the following data elements:
      programs, Readiness Spares Packages, or contractor data. This code allows a termination decision
      to be deferred for one cycle. Approval no lower than Group level is required on the SGM Compu-
      tation Worksheet, the INS/NSO Item Status Listing from the final computation, or the latest "what
      if" recomputation.
      33.5.4.11. CODE 12. OTHER, WILL NOT TERMINATE: This code is used when a decision not
      to terminate does not fall under codes 02 through 11 or 13 through 15. The termination model has
      been run. Explain and justify the decision not to reduce or terminate an item. Approval no lower
      than Group level is required on the SGM Computation Worksheet, the INS/NSO Item Status List-
      ing from the final computation, or the latest "what if" recomputation.. Decisions not to terminate
      actions with a value greater $1,000,000 require approval of the ALC vice commander or staff
      director. Repeat terminations requires review and approval at the same signature level as the initial
      termination.
      33.5.4.12. CODE 13. FINAL COMP –FINAL CSIS VARIANCE: Used when (1) the final SIRS
      computation does not compute a termination but the CSIS displays a termination quantity in the
      Budget Item Detail (S01), AAO Position, Column 7, Line 21 or (2) the quantity in the Budget Item
      Detail (S01), AAO Position, Column 7, Line 21 is larger than the computed termination quantity
      in SIRS. Include the quantity and dollar amount from the CSIS under this code. Follow local sig-
      nature level policy for approval of the SGM Computation Worksheet, the INS/ NSO Item Status
      Listing from the final computation, or the latest "what if" recomputation.
      33.5.4.13. CODE 14. ECONOMIC ORDER, WILL NOT TERMINATE: This code is used for
      purchases on which contractor will only bid on a minimum quantity or on which the contractor bid
      a quantity discount price and for which the purchase was approved at section level or higher. The
      termination model was run and it recommended termination. If the termination model recom-
      mended “Do not terminate,” use termination codes 08, 09 or 10. Repeat terminations require same
      signature level on budget cycle. Termination model is run on repeat terminations every cycle.
      33.5.4.14. CODE 15. VSL CHANGE ON FINAL: Used when the Variable Safety Level (VSL) is
      different on the final computation than it was on the initial computation and the fluctuation in VSL
      put the item into termination on the final computation. When annotating the Uncoded Terms List
      from ABCS, indicate the quantity and dollar value attributable to this on the product. Follow local
      signature level policy for approval of the SGM Computation Worksheet , the INS/ NSO Item Sta-
      tus Listing from the final computation, or the latest "what if" recomputation.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            699


     33.5.4.15. CODE 49. Unit Cost Change. Use this code when the unit price was not corrected prior
     to the end of the file maintenance cycle.
  33.5.5. Repeat terminations. Annotate the date, code, and computation cycle on which the decision
  was made not to terminate. With the exception Code 12, it is not necessary to resubmit documentation
  as long as the conditions, code, quantity and dollar value do not change. Code 12 requires full docu-
  mentation every cycle.
  33.5.6. Electronic Termination (RIR) Log. Each inventory control point, supply chain manager, item
  management division or branch (level to be determined by ALC policy) will maintain an electronic
  termination log and assign a monitor who to oversee RIR log number assignment and periodically
  review the status of each termination.
     33.5.6.1. The log will have separate fields for:
     RIR log number.
     National Stock Number.
     Contract number.
     Contract line number.
     Comp Cycle (on which termination is based, i.e. Dec 2004)
     The print date of the requirements computation or Insurance/NSO Item Status Listing
     Termination quantity.
     Termination value.
     Date the RIR number is issued.
     Manager Designator Code or other manager identification.
     The date the termination request is submitted to PK.
     The date termination action is completed by the contracting activity
     The date the contracting activity determined termination to be uneconomical, if applicable. This
     information is annotated on the returned termination authority template.
     33.5.6.2. The RIR log number includes the Federal Supply Class, the fiscal year, and a numeric
     sequence number. Examples are RIR-1560-91-001, RIR-6625-91-002. The IMS annotates the
     RIR number in the remarks block of the termination authority template.
  33.5.7. Procedures for assets acquired as follow-on spares: if the computed termination quantity
  meets the criteria in paragraph 33.3.6 and the termination model recommends termination, initiate
  RIR action within one workday and send the termination authority template to the contracting activity.
  Electronic transmission via email is highly encouraged. This RIR is sufficient to initiate termination
  action.
  33.5.8. Procedures for assets acquired as initial spares: review the index of actions, the Initial
  Requirements Determination computation, the SIRS computation, and all other pertinent documents
  to validate the termination quantity. Run the termination model to determine if termination is econom-
  ical. If so, the IMS initiates the RIR and annotates the RIR number on AFMC IMT 326, Provisioned
  Item Order within one workday. Forward the RIR to the provisioning activity at the end article item
700                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      manager’s (EAIM) or system program director's (SPD) ALC. The EAIM or SPD notifies the Admin-
      istrative Contracting Officer (ACO) of the RIR via electronic means within one day of receipt, provid-
      ing information copies to the provisioning procurement contracting officer (PPCO) and principal
      contracting officer (PCO). The confirming AFMC Form 326 should be sent to the PPCO as soon as
      possible. The IMS will receive a confirmation AFMC Form 339 with an adjusted asset quantity to
      indicate completion of termination.
      33.5.9. Procedures for termination and reduction of contract repair workload: the IMS should hold a
      joint contract review with the production management specialist to determine necessary action. Ter-
      mination decision will be a mutual agreement between the IMS and the production management spe-
      cialist. The production management specialist prepares the termination authority template or the PR or
      MIPR amendment. If workload acquired through a MIPR is to be terminated or reduced, use the ter-
      mination authority template to initiate RIR action with a confirming MIPR amendment.
      33.5.10. Procedure for termination and reduction of quantities acquired to support FMS customers:
      Annotate "FMS Case Termination" in the remarks section of the RIR. FMS termination costs will be
      reported to HQ AFMC.

33.6. The Termination Model.
      33.6.1. Overview. The termination model is an off-line tool to help the IMS make a decision to pro-
      ceed with a termination action. Its use is mandatory in most cases. The model allows the IMS to enter
      essential item information, most of which is readily available. The model is available for download at
      https://www.ripit.wpafb.af.mil/A4YR/D200A.asp. The 401 SCMS/GUMD updates the model each
      quarter.
      33.6.2. The Termination Model is in Microsoft Excel® format and has three worksheets—“Opener,”
      “Computing,” and “INS/ NSO.” It includes data security features that allow only the HQ AFMC OPR
      to update the model or change embedded formulas. Color-coding shows where users must input posi-
      tive (not blank) values -- these are the worksheet cells with yellow backgrounds. Optional fields have
      powder blue backgrounds. Values copied from the SIRS computation must be positive. Prices and
      dimensions are non-integer values greater than 0.
         33.6.2.1. The “Opener” worksheet includes the instructions and explains the color coding.
         33.6.2.2. The “Computing” worksheet contains the elements that the IMS needs to run the termi-
         nation model and displays the results and recommendation. It has two parts. Part One has the Con-
         tract Information, Administrative Lead Time (ALT), Production Lead Time (PLT), dimensions,
         weight, and computation entries. Part Two is the Termination Model results and recommendation.
             33.6.2.2.1. Contract Information. Seventeen separate rows are available for PR or Contract
             numbers and the associated data. Use the following methodology to populate these input
             fields. Enter the appropriate data from the most current PR or Contract into the first row. If
             the sum of PR Unfunded, PR Funded, and Undelivered is less than the Termination Quantity,
             go to the next row and enter the data from the next most recent PR or Contract. Repeat this
             process until the sum of the PR Unfunded, PR Funded and On Contract Undelivered equals or
             exceeds the Termination Quantity. Remaining rows need not be populated.” This portion of
             the spreadsheet allows the IMS to enter up to seventeen (17) contracts or purchase requests for
             one item. Enter only contract or PR numbers that include at least part of the termination quan-
             tity. For each contract or PR line, the IMS is expected to enter the following: funded PR quan-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               701


        tity, unfunded PR quantity, undelivered On Contract quantities, delivered contract quantities,
        unit price, and Free on Board (FOB) data. The FOB field will only accept “origin” or “destina-
        tion” as entries.
        33.6.2.2.2. The repair cost and termination quantity may be found on the SGM Computation
        Worksheet. Termination costs, settlement costs, and new unit cost are not required entries and
        need only be input if the contracting activity returned a termination authority template or other
        written communication with the information.
        33.6.2.2.3. Termination costs should only refer to the costs to cancel the termination quantity.
        When the IMS has completed this portion of the spreadsheet, the IMS will need to scroll to the
        right to complete the ALT, PLT, dimension, and weight blocks.
        33.6.2.2.4. Procurement Lead Time and Item Characteristics. Enter the ALT and PLT in
        month.
        33.6.2.2.5. Item dimension characteristics. Length, width, and depth values are listed under
        the “UNITPACKSIZE/ LGTHWDTHDPTH” heading on the automated Purchase Request
        (PR). The value in this field is expressed in inches with an implied decimal before the last
        position. That means if the value of the UNIT LGTH field is 0185 the value to be entered in the
        model is 19. The same is true of the UNPCK/WEIGH field on the PR, which is expressed in
        pounds. If the value under WEIGH is 00055, the value to be entered in the model is 6. The
        dimensions and weight are also available on the PTQH screen in on line D035T system. If you
        use D035T information, use the unit pack dimensions and unit pack weight. After completing
        these cells, scroll left and down to the Computation Entries portion of the spreadsheet.
     33.6.2.3. Computation Entries. This portion of the spreadsheet is designed to include information
     from the SGM computation worksheet. It allows the user to input for Serviceable On Order (SVC
     ON ORDER), Total Available from Depot Repair (TOT AVAIL FROM DEP RPR), Third Over
     (Full) and Third Short (Full). Entries are mandatory in all fields – no cell can be blank. If the com-
     putation worksheet displays no value, enter “0” (zero) in the corresponding cell in the model. The
     Third Short cells cannot have negative values.
     33.6.2.4. Termination Model Results. This portion of the spreadsheet displays the results of the
     termination model. It also displays a recommendation based on the results.
     33.6.2.5. The “INSNSO” worksheet contains the elements that the IMS needs to run the termina-
     tion model for insurance and NSO items. It also displays the results and recommendation for these
     items. It has two parts. Part One has the Contract Information, Administrative Lead Time (ALT),
     Production Lead Time (PLT), dimensions, weight and computation entries. Part Two is the Termi-
     nation Model results and recommendation.
        33.6.2.5.1. Contract Information. This portion of the worksheet is the same as for computing
        items. See paragraph 33.6.2.2.1. for a full description.
        33.6.2.5.2. Procurement Lead Time and Item Characteristics. This portion of the worksheet is
        the same as for computing item, except the total Procurement Lead Time (ALT + PLT) is
        entered rather than separate entries for ALT and PLT. Enter the quantity as months.
        33.6.2.5.3. Computation Entries. Enter the CY, AY, BY, EY and Retention numbers. Use the
        following references:
702                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


             33.6.2.5.3.1. Buy and Retention Level: enter the numbers from BUY/RENTENTION
             DETAIL on the INIS display screen in SIRS or from the INS/NSO Item Status Listing.
             33.6.2.5.3.2. Serviceable Assets: enter the numbers from BUY/RETENTION DETAIL on
             the INIS display screen in SIRS or from INS/NSO Item Status Listing.
             33.6.2.5.3.3. Total Unserviceable Assets: enter the number from BUY/RENTENTION
             DETAIL on the INIS display screen in SIRS or from the ASSETS AVAIL FROM REPAIR
             from the INS/NSO Item Status Listing.
             33.6.2.5.3.4. Total On Order: enter the numbers from the Consolidated Assets and
             Requirements screen in SIRS (Navigation FOE DIS SIRS SND CARD). Be sure to read
             the delivery schedule information for insurance and NSO items on the “Opener” page.
         33.6.2.5.4. Termination Model Results. This portion of the worksheet displays the results of
         the termination model and a recommendation based on those results.
      33.6.2.6. Printing the Termination Model: to print the Termination Model click the print icon or
      on the File option in the toolbar and select Print from the drop-down menu.
         33.6.2.6.1. Part One prints on two separate pages. The TERM MODEL CONTRACT AND
         WAREHOUSING ENTRIES prints the Contract Information portion of the model and the
         ALT, PLT, dimensions, and weight. COMPUTATION ENTRIES is a print of that portion of
         the spreadsheet.
         33.6.2.6.2. Part Two of the Termination Model is the Cost-Benefit Analysis. It is broken into
         four parts and includes the costs associated with continuing the contract and the costs associ-
         ated with terminating the contract and possibly buying again in the future. The NSN and
         MMAC are displayed on this page.
             33.6.2.6.2.1. COST TO CONTINUE CONTRACT. This part determines the cost to con-
             tinue the contract, the storage costs, and the transportation costs.
                 33.6.2.6.2.1.1. Cost of Items to Continue is the termination quantity cost (termination
                 quantity times the contract unit price). The cost is discounted to show approximately
                 when it will be paid. This is based on the assumption that the contractor is paid when
                 the assets are delivered.
                 33.6.2.6.2.1.2. Storage Costs are the costs to store the assets in the warehouse. It is
                 based on the maximum floor space required to store the assets times the cost per square
                 foot for storage. The model calculates the cost to store quantities on contract that are
                 excess to the projected need of the item and then discounts the costs. The storage
                 cost-per-squar- foot is inflated according the Inflation Indices.
                 33.6.2.6.2.1.3. Transportation Costs represents the total cost to transport the assets
                 from the contractor plant to the ALC or other designated site. It is based on the average
                 weight of per asset times the cost per pound to transport. If the item has a FOB “desti-
                 nation” the cost is zero since the cost of transportation is already included in the con-
                 tract unit price. The cost used is discounted to show approximately when it will be
                 incurred, based on the projected delivery schedule of the termination quantity. The
                 transportation cost-per-pound is inflated in accordance with the Inflation Indices.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            703


             33.6.2.6.2.1.4. Total Cost to Continue is the sum of the storage costs and the transpor-
             tation costs.
             33.6.2.6.2.1.5. Cost to Terminate is the cost to terminate and reprocure.
             33.6.2.6.2.1.6. Cost/Benefit is the “Total Cost to Continue” minus the “Cost to Termi-
             nate.”
          33.6.2.6.2.2. Termination Model Results. The termination model supplies a recommenda-
          tion based on the information input and formulas within the model. The recommendations
          are:
          Option 1 - Do not take termination or cancellation action.
          Option 2 - Cancel all PRs up to termination quantity.
          Option 3 - Do not terminate items on contract.
          Option 4 - Check local policy.
          Option 5 - Cancel all PRs up to termination quantity.
          Option 6 - Cancel PRs, then check local policy.
          Option 7 - Take termination action on contract items.
          Option 8 - Cancel PR(s), then fill out a termination authority template. Send the template
          to the contracting activity and request that the total value of the termination action not
          exceed the Maximum Economical Termination Cost.
          Option 9 - Cancel PRs, then terminate quantities on contract until termination quantity is
          satisfied.
          Option 10 - Cancel Unfunded PRs up to termination quantity.
          Option 11 - Cancel Funded PRs up to termination quantity.
          Option 12 - Cancel all PRs up to termination quantity.
          33.6.2.6.2.3. The “termination authority template Information” on the right side of the
          “Termination Model Results” lists information that can be annotated on the termination
          authority template.
             33.6.2.6.2.3.1. Undelivered Balance. This is the total dollar value on contract that has
             not yet been delivered.
             33.6.2.6.2.3.2. Total $ Value to be Terminated. This is the weighted average unit price
             multiplied by the termination quantity in the “TERM MODEL CONTRACT AND
             WAREHOUSING ENTRIES” block. If there is only one contract or if several con-
             tracts have the same unit price, this will be total dollar value to be terminated. If there
             are multiple contracts with different unit prices, this will approximate the total dollar
             value to be terminated. Annotate this entry on the termination authority template.
             33.6.2.6.2.3.3. Maximum Economical Termination Cost. It would be uneconomical to
             terminate a contract when the termination costs exceed this value. If this value is neg-
             ative, it is uneconomical to terminate the contract. Annotate this entry on the termina-
             tion authority template if the termination model recommends termination of all or part
704                                                            AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         of a contract quantity. Annotate the Remarks with this statement: “If the sum of the ter-
         mination costs and settlement costs exceed the maximum economical termination cost
         of _________ dollars, do not terminate.”
      33.6.2.6.2.4. Cost to Terminate and Reprocure. This part determines the contractor costs,
      the termination settlement costs, the increased unit price costs, administrative costs, repro-
      curement costs, transportation costs, and repair dollars costs.
         33.6.2.6.2.4.1. Contract Costs are the maximum contractor termination costs. They are
         discounted by the value in the “Present Value of Discounted Costs” cell on the left side
         of the worksheet.
         33.6.2.6.2.4.2. Termination Settlement Costs are the maximum settlement cost. They
         are discounted by the value in the “Present Value of Discounted Costs” cell on the left
         side of the worksheet.
         33.6.2.6.2.4.3. Increased AF Unit Price Costs are the additional dollars that will be
         paid for the remaining assets on contract. This factor applies if the user has entered a
         value in the “New Unit Costs” cell on the left side of the worksheet that is greater than
         the aggregate value of all purchase request and undelivered contract quantities. It is the
         remainder of the total weighted average unit price(cell H26) minus the New Unit Cost
         times the weighted average unit of price of the PR funded quantity, the PR unfunded
         quantity, and undelivered contract quantity. This condition rarely occurs. Therefore,
         this cost is not discounted.
         33.6.2.6.2.4.4. AF Administrative Termination Costs are the costs to process the paper
         work to terminate. This cost is relatively low and determining when the bulk of this
         money is expended is very difficult. Therefore, this cost is not discounted.
         33.6.2.6.2.4.5. AF Administrative PR Costs is the average cost to process the paper-
         work for a PR quantity being reduced or canceled or a PR quantity that has been
         awarded and is being considered for termination. This value is not increased for multi-
         ple PRs or contract. If SIRS does not project reprocurement (i.e., no third short quan-
         tity beyond the end of the Budget Year) this value is $500. If SIRS projects
         reprocurement then $500 is added to the cover part of the costs to initiate a new PR.
         Therefore, the minimum AF Administrative PR Costs is $500 and the maximumis
         $1000. This cost is relatively low and determining when the bulk of this money is
         expended is very difficult. Therefore, this cost is not discounted.
         33.6.2.6.2.4.6. The model calculates Reprocurement Costs by multiplying the smallest
         third short quantity between the termination and retention points by the transportation
         costs. This quantity this entry is zero if there is no reprocurement. This entry is also
         zero if the FOB is "destination" since the unit price already includes transportation
         costs. This quantity is discounted to the approximate time the quantity will be deliv-
         ered if reprocurement were initiated. The transportation cost-per-item is inflated
         according to the Inflation Indices.
         33.6.2.6.2.4.7. Repair Dollars Incurred is the cost to repair available unserviceable
         assets one time if the contract is terminated. It is the result of the repair cost times the
         projected repair quantity. The cost is discounted to quarter when these costs will be
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                        705


            incurred and is based on the projected delivery schedule of the termination quantity.
            The repair cost is inflated according the Inflation Indices.
            33.6.2.6.2.4.8. Total is the sum of the termination contract costs, the termination set-
            tlement costs, the increased AF Unit Price Costs, the AF Administrative Termination
            Costs, the AF Administrative PR Costs, the Reprocurement Costs, the Reprocurement
            Transportation Costs, and the Repair Dollars Incurred.
706                                            AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 33.1. Termination Authority Template.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                  707


Figure 33.2. Termination Authority Template 19920801 (REVERSE) (EF-V3).
708                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 33.3. ABCS Format 4 Report.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                               709


Figure 33.4. Term Model, Part One, Contract and Warehousing Entries.
710                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 33.5. Term Model, Part One: Computation Entries.




Figure 33.6. Term Model, Part One: Computation Entries for Term Model (INS/NSO).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                        711


Figure 33.7. Term Model, Part Two: Termination Model Results.
712                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                 Chapter 34

                          MATERIEL SUPPORT DIVISION (MSD) PRICING

34.1. General. This chapter describes the processes and procedures to be used by the Inventory Manage-
ment Specialist (IMS) and Production Management Specialist (PMS) for the development and file main-
tenance of actual and estimated unit prices, repair prices, Date of Last Procurement (DOLP) and
Forecasted Unit Prices (FUP) for MSD items. Also, included is an explanation of the relationship between
unit price (a.k.a. Latest Acquisition Cost (LAC) and Latest Repair Cost (LRC), a description of the Item
Pricing System (IPS), an explanation of Iterative Pricing (IP), and a description of the Pricing Analysis
and Report Tool (PART).

34.2. Pricing Flow when the AF is the PICA (Primary Inventory Control Activity). The actual unit
price in the Secondary Item Requirements Systems (SIRS) is updated quarterly in the recoverable item
snapshot process. The actual unit price is obtained from the D200E (Requirements Item Identification
(RIID) process. D200E receives this price from either D043 (Master Item Identification Control System
(MIICS) or J018R (Contracting Information Database System (CIDS). When contract data is not yet
available from J018R, D200E will get the catalogued standard price and LAC from D043 and pass one of
them to D200A. D043A’s Standard Price has been inflated by adding a Business Overhead Cost Recovery
(BOCR) to the LAC if the item has cataloging budget code 8, and each year at the beginning of the fiscal
year the Standard Price is rolled to the LAC for these items without a price from J018R. By passing this
inflated LAC price to D200E, additional BOCR will further inflate the price once it’s passed into the Item
Pricing System (D200N). In D200A, review any NSN with a Source Reference Code (SRC) D and cata-
loging budget code 8 and verify the LAC represents the true procurement cost from the procurement doc-
ument. If in error, file maintain the correct unit price into D200A and use the correct date for the
Date-of-Last-Procurement (DOLP).When the item is finally procured and contract data is available in
J018R, D200E will get the latest purchase price from J018R and pass it to D200A. Once contract data has
been received from J018R for an item, D200E will no longer use the catalogued price from D043. The
unit price, the FUP and the LRC are passed from D200A to the CSIS after each D200A final comp cycle.
IPS gets this data (minus the FUP) quarterly, after the CSIS re-stratification. Recoverable IMS also have
the ability to file maintain the actual unit price directly in D200A.
      34.2.1. Why Prices Differ. Prices may differ between D200A, D200E, J018R and D043 due to the
      selection process in D200E, the file maintenance of price directly in D200A, or the application of the
      75% rule within IPS. For each item record D200E determines whether there is any procurement data
      available from J018R. If there is no procurement history, D200E will take the standard price from
      D043 as the unit price. If procurement history is available in J018R, D200E will compare the Date of
      Last Procurement (DOLP) in J018R to the DOLP in D200A. If the DOLP in J018R is more recent
      than the DOLP in D200A, D200E will take the unit price from J018R as the LAC. Every March IPS
      identifies those LRCs that are greater than the LAC. If the LRC is greater than the LAC, IPS invokes
      the 75% rule and inflates the LRC by a factor of 1.3334. This becomes the inflated LAC. IPS sends the
      inflated LAC to D043 as the official price for that fiscal year. This price is not fed back into D200A.
      34.2.2. Source Reference Code (SRC). The SRC in D200A is used to indicate the origin of the unit
      price. This field is updated quarterly in the D200A recoverable item snapshot process. An SRC equal
      to “D” indicates the D043 catalogued standard price was received from D200E. An SRC equal to “A”,
      “M” or “T” indicates the J018R last purchase price was received from D200E. An SRC equal to “E”
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                   713


   indicates the IMS has file maintained the price directly into D200A. An SRC equal to “C” indicates
   that the system computed the price as in the case of a weighted LRC.

34.3. Pricing Flow when the AF is the Secondary Inventory Control Activity (SICA).
   34.3.1. SICA Prices. For a SICA item the only price in the Federal Catalog is the standard price,
   which is maintained by the Primary Inventory Control Activity (PICA). Unit prices for all new items
   and updated unit prices for Non-Consumable Item Material Support Code (NIMSC) 5 items are
   passed to D200E from D043 and then on to D200A. Most of the NIMSC 5 item price updates are pro-
   vided for the D200A September initial cycle. Any file maintenance of SICA unit prices in D200A
   must be done during the September corrective file maintenance cycle and normally will not be
   changed for the balance of the year. The IMS must contact the PICA IMS for the correct unit price that
   the PICA IMS will update into D043.
   34.3.2. DOLP. No DOLP is required and should not be file maintained. However, once a DOLP has
   been entered, it must be kept updated because it is not possible to change the DOLP to blanks. This
   update is done once a year by file maintaining the current Julian date for October 1 (See paragraph
   14.12.).
   34.3.3. Default Repair Cost. If an actual repair cost is not available (i.e. no production information is
   available), a ‘99999’ value is assigned on the MISTR (Maintenance Items Subject to Repair) Repair
   and Repair (MRPR) screen in D200A. The system will default to a Latest Repair Cost (LRC) of 35%
   of the FUP on SICA items.
   34.3.4. D200A File Maintenance. Changing the prices in D200A only affects budgeting since D043
   passes SICA item unit price and LRC to Stock Number Users Directory (SNUD) and bypasses AF
   requirements systems.

34.4. New Item Pricing. If a new item is to be established in D043, then the unit price will be the price
reflected on provisioning documentation and will equal the FUP for that Fiscal Year. The LRC will be
developed by either using the default URC percent from Table 34.1. times the unit price or by using the
repair cost of a like item. At the current time, there is no way to enter an estimated repair cost in the cata-
loging system. If there is a representative repair cost available on a like item, file maintain that into
D200A in order to effect prices for the next fiscal year. Document the rationale for using the repair cost of
a like item. Keep that documentation in the item folder until two years after the price has been superseded.
714                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Table 34.1. Default Estimated Repair Cost Percent
   FUP Lower            FUP Higher         Default
     Tier                  Tier            URC %
               $0.01        $1,000.00        37 %
          $1,000.01         $5,000.00        40 %
          $5,000.01        $10,000.00        35 %
         $10,000.01        $25,000.00        29 %
         $25,000.01        $50,000.00        26 %
         $50,000.01       $100,000.00        22 %
        $100,000.01       $250,000.00        19 %
        $250,000.01       $500,000.00        17 %
        $500,000.01             and up       16 %

34.5. Forecasted Unit Price (FUP). The FUP was developed to be used in Variable Safety Level (VSL)
processing and Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS) buy budget projections. D200A computes
the FUP by multiplying the unit price by the appropriate inflation factor (See paragraph 14.11.2.).

34.6. Latest Repair Cost (LRC). A LRC is required for every reparable item computed in D200A.
Actual organic repair costs come from G019C (End Item Sales Price [EISP]) and G004L (EISP and pro-
duction data) and contract repair costs come from G072D/I. In the absence of actual data, D200A com-
putes the repair cost using a tiered percentage of the item’s FUP (see Table 34.1.) except for SICA items
(see paragraph 34.3.3.).
      34.6.1. Weighted Repair Cost. When there is more than one source of repair, including Interim Con-
      tractor Support (ICS), D200A will calculate a weighted repair cost. D200A will use repair data from
      all sources including Aerospace Guidance and Metrology Center (AGMC), Defense Maintenance
      Interservice Support Agreement (DMISA), Overseas Workload, and ICS. When calculating a
      weighted repair cost, zero will be used for repair costs for 100% ICS. The repair cost will be multi-
      plied by the amount produced for each line reported. Then the total sum of all costs will be divided by
      the total amount produced. This weighted repair cost will be calculated quarterly and stored in
      D200A. It is important to validate all repair costs, especially in a weighting situation. If a change in
      repair source is anticipated for next year, file maintains the appropriate SOR percentage in D200A
      (See paragraph 15.5.4.).
      34.6.2. ICS Items. Repair costs passed from D200A to IPS with a “C” for the ICS code are prorated
      (based on ICS/RIW [Reliability Improvement Warranty] expiration date) for customer price develop-
      ment (See paragraph 14.4.).
      34.6.3. Organic End Item Sales Prices (EISP). Organic EISP are approved once a year and are to
      remain constant throughout the fiscal year. Any change to the approved EISP must meet criteria as
      cited in AFMCI 21-111 or be approved by HQ AFMC/A4P. Repair costs are included in the data from
      the March D200A comp cycle to IPS. IPS uses this data to develop stock fund prices, which are
      passed every July to D043. During other quarters only prices for new items or items that previously
      had no prices, are passed to IPS.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  715


   34.6.4. Contract Repair Prices. For contract repair prices D200A will automatically select the most
   recent repair cost on a multiple year contract and will apply the inflation factor to bring the price up to
   the current fiscal year dollars. Since the cost of repairing an item may be divided out to several con-
   tract line items, The Production Management Specialist (PMS) is responsible for developing a con-
   tract repair cost that recoups the total cost of the repairs (See paragraph 34.9. for information on
   adding non-NIIN (National Item Identification Number) level costs to a contract repair cost).
   34.6.5. Manual LRC Changes. Manual LRC changes can be made in D200A on the MRPR screen.
   Validate the organic repair prices using the G019C report, contract repair prices using the G072D/I
   reports, and T-job prices using TANDEM. Verify the report as of date is the same date as the comp
   (i.e. for the September comp verify the validation date is as of September 30). Only change the price
   on a single Source of Repair (SOR) item if there is an error in the price passed from the maintenance
   data system. If the price was passed in error, then action should be taken to correct the source system’s
   data by working through the A4P team, and then if needed, correct D200A. Also, if the item is 100%
   contract repair the price may be adjusted to incorporate various contract fees (See paragraph 34.9.)
   34.6.6. Documentation of Price Changes. Document any price changes made and keep a copy of all
   back-up documentation in the item folder until 2 years after the price has been superseded. If an
   out-of-cycle price change needs to be made in IPS follow the guidance in Paragraph 34.11. for sub-
   mitting price change requests.

34.7. Relationship Between Unit Price and Latest Repair Cost. Under normal circumstances, the
repair cost should always be less than 75% of the FUP. However, some items may not have been procured
in the recent past, and may show a FUP or a repair cost that does not meet the above criteria. In this case,
follow the below procedures in order to determine a new more representative LAC. If the weighted unit
repair cost is greater than the actual unit price, the Item Pricing System (IPS) within D200N during the
March computation cycle will multiply 1.3334 times the weighted repair cost to produce a new Latest
Acquisition Cost so that negative price values are not computed. IPS does not feed this price back to
SIRS.
   34.7.1. It is preferable that a new contractor quote/estimate be obtained and file maintained in D200A
   (See paragraph 34.8.) If a contractor quote/estimate is not available, the item has no procurement
   history available and a like item exists, use the price from that like item to set the unit price. Document
   this rationale for each National Stock Number (NSN) on the item comp and the AFMC Form 318.
   Maintain the documentation until two years after the price has been superseded.
   34.7.2. If a like item does not exist, use the Latest Acquisition Cost and effective date from the oldest
   history on the P segment in D043 for cataloging budget code 8 items and use the current Standard Unit
   Price and effective date in D043 for non-budget code 8 items. Document this rationale for each
   National Stock Number (NSN) on the item comp and the AFMC Form 318 or another document or
   compact disc. Maintain the documentation until two years after the price has been superseded.
       34.7.2.1. If the above procedures are followed and the LAC/LRC relationship still falls outside of
       the 75% criteria, the Expendability, Repairability, Recoverability Category (ERRC) code needs to
       be reviewed for potential change to a consumable.

34.8. Contractor Quotes/Estimates. If a current contractor quote/estimate is received, the IMS should
file maintain it into D200A. Contractor quotes will not be file maintained into J018R. The IMS will anno-
tate the quoted/estimated price on the AFMC Form 318, and place a copy of the quote/estimate in the item
716                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


folder. This documentation must be kept until two years after the quote/estimate has been superseded. In
addition, whenever a current contractor quote/estimate is file maintained into D200A, the new DOLP
must also be file maintained so that the FUP will be calculated correctly. Accurate CSIS results for the
FUP depend upon maintaining the correct DOLP in D200A (See paragraph 14.12.). If a new contractor
quote/estimate is received by the IMS after the CSIS final cycle but before budget submission, a price
change should be entered into the Automated Budget Compilation System (ABCS). Otherwise, the FUP
will not accurately reflect funding needs. As soon as an actual contract price is determined, the AFMC
Form 318 must be updated with the new price and file maintained into D200A. All documentation con-
cerning the contract price must be placed in the item folder and kept until two years after the price has
been superseded.

34.9. Recovering Contract Incentive Award and Management Service Fees. Since the Working Cap-
ital Fund (WCF) must collect revenue to cover expenses through the price, it is imperative that contract
fees are included in the LAC and the LRC. Use the following assumptions and formulas to calculate a
fully loaded LRC/LAC.
      34.9.1. Contract Line Item Numbers (CLIN). Assume that the contractor will earn 100% of their
      contract fees and they are contained in a separate CLIN on the contract.
      34.9.2. Fixed Quantity Contract. For a fixed quantity contract: use the formula below to determine
      the new prorated fee that will be applied to the LRC/LAC in any given fiscal year.
                 Possible Award Fee ÷ Quantity = Prorated Fee + (LRC or LAC)
      34.9.3. Min/Max Contract. A min/max contract will require additional consideration. Use historical
      data to determine the approximate quantity that will be bought or repaired in the fiscal year for which
      prices are being developed. Then use the formula to calculate the prorated fee.
      34.9.4. Additional Considerations. Most contracts that have award fees contain more than one NSN
      and cover more than one fiscal year. Therefore, to determine the amount of the award fee that should
      be applied to each NSN each fiscal year, several other things must be considered. First, the length of
      the contract must be taken into consideration. For instance, on a five year contract the award fee must
      be calculated in such a way that the fee is gradually collected over all five years (i.e. $4800 award fee/
      2 years=$2400/yr). Second, the number of NSNs on the contract must be considered. The percentage
      of the award fee that should apply to each NSN should be calculated. This should not just be deter-
      mined using simple division (i.e. $2400/20 NSNs). Instead, the complexity of the production/repair of
      each NSN will need to be taken into account, as well as the quantity expected to be repaired/produced.
      These are decisions that must be made utilizing the expertise of your local PK staff as well as your
      local MSD pricing office.
      34.9.5. D200A File Maintenance. Once the correct LAC/LRC has been determined, file maintain
      that price into D200A during the file maintenance window. For the LAC, use the Basic Management
      Data (BMD) screen to file maintain the “unit price” (LAC) for the March SIRS comp cycle. For the
      LRC use the MRPR screen and accomplish this file maintenance during the September SIRS comp
      cycle. File maintain the new price on the affected contract number record. If the NSN does not end up
      being iteratively priced, do the LRC file maintenance again in the March cycle to ensure that incen-
      tive/award fees are included in the price for the next fiscal year. Any change must be documented on
      the notepad of the file maintenance screen. In addition, for all LAC changes, annotate the AFMC
      Form 318.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  717


34.10. Item Pricing System (IPS) Description. The IPS is a subsystem of the CSIS (D200N), which is
part of the Requirements Management System (RMS/D200). The purpose of the IPS is to compute stock
fund prices for D200A subgroup master items in Budget Program (BP) 15, 25, 82, 8M and 84. These
items are also called MSD items and do not include AF SICA items. Data from the March comp cycle is
used to compute prices for all stock fund items for the next fiscal year except for iterative repair prices,
which are developed from data in the September comp (i.e. March 2003 data was used to compute FY04
prices except September 2002 data was used to compute the iteratively developed FY04 repair prices).
IPS computes four prices: Standard Price, Exchange Price, Unserviceable Asset Price (UAP), Mark-Up
Price (MUP). In addition it computes four costs based on the LAC and LRC. Business Overhead Cost
Recovery (BOCR) @ LAC/LRC, Materiel Cost Recovery (MCR), and Carcass Cost for all stock fund
items as described in the subsequent paragraphs.
   34.10.1. Standard Price. A stock fund must charge for its expenses in order to remain solvent. Those
   expenses are the basis of the surcharge, which is a uniform method of recovering the costs from the
   customers. The standard price of an item is the LAC + BOCR@LAC. The BOCR recovers the costs
   associated with managing items. It includes the cost of transportation, storage, item management,
   etc… The BOCR is applied as a flat percentage.
   34.10.2. Exchange Price. Exchange Price consists of the BOCR@LRC+LRC+ MCR. This is
   charged up front to Due In From Maintenance (DIFM)/ Due Out to Maintenance (DOTM) customers,
   rather than waiting until an item is returned to give credit. If the customer does not return a reparable
   within a 60-day window, the customer is charged the MUP (Standard Price – Exchange Price), which
   brings the investment up to Standard Price. The MCR covers re-procurement costs and funds the
   replacement of items expected to be condemned. The MCR is also a flat percentage.
   34.10.3. Unserviceable Asset Price (UAP). When an item becomes unserviceable, it must be
   repaired to restore its usefulness as a stock fund asset. The item has lost some of its value as a result of
   becoming unserviceable. Thus the discounted value is the amount that must be spent repairing the
   item. IPS calculates the UAP by subtracting the LRC from the Standard price (also equal to adding
   BOCR to the Carcass Cost[LAC-LRC]). In the end, the customer is charged the cost of the unservice-
   able carcass plus overhead expenses.
   34.10.4. Mark-up Price. The MUP is the price charged to a customer if they fail to return a reparable
   asset within a 60-day window. The MUP is equal to Standard Price minus Exchange Price.
   34.10.5. Item Pricing System Procedures. Once a week, the IPS gives D043 a file by subgroup
   master stock number containing all of the price elements (Standard Price, Exchange Price, MUP, UAP,
   LAC, LRC, BOCR@LAC/LRC, MCR, and Carcass Cost). Changes will be passed to D043 weekly
   and are updated monthly in D043. In order to make the next monthly price change cycle in D043, an
   IPS price update must be done before the Thursday before the second Sunday before the end of a cal-
   endar month. Remember to update D200A with the new price after the correction is made in IPS. This
   update will ensure that the correct price is in the system for the next pricing/budget cycle.
       34.10.5.1. Weekly Price Corrections. Weekly price corrections are made based upon data from the
       cycle where the erroneous price occurs. IPS receives a weekly file from D043 containing new
       Budget Code 8 Items and those items whose ERRC code has changed. IPS computes the applica-
       ble prices, and sends the prices back to D043 along with the weekly price corrections.
718                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


34.11. Out of Cycle Price Changes. When an item has had a price challenge and the unit price or repair
cost is officially determined to be in error these prices can be corrected directly in IPS. A limited number
of people at each ALC have the capability to make changes to item prices through IPS. This is an excep-
tion process and is to be used only in an emergency. An emergency price problem is defined as one that
would have deleterious effect on the customer or the stock fund if it is not corrected immediately. Changes
to any iteratively priced LRC must be approved by AFMC/A4BW prior to being submitted to AFMC/
A4YF/FMRS for approval. This capability WILL NOT be used to change newly received contract prices
or maintenance prices, due to the stock fund price stabilization policy ( Reference DoD 7000.14-R Vol 2b
Ch.9). It is only to be used for correction of pricing errors approved by HQ AFMC/A4YF/FMRS.
      34.11.1. Price Change Template. The price data in Table 34.2. below contains the basic data ele-
      ments that must be included with any price change request. The following information must also be
      provided with any price change request: reason for price change; whether or not NSN has organic
      repair; whether or not NSN is iteratively priced; approval from DMAG if their EISP has changed; pro-
      jected sales at exchange and/or standard price for the affected fiscal year; impact price change will
      have on the Center NOR; list of other NSNs in the I&S group that will be affected; and a POC for the
      price change. In addition, if the price change is approved, the POC for the price change must send a
      letter to all impacted customers explaining the reasons for the price change. Please work with your
      Center level pricing OPRs to compile this data and submit price change requests to AFMC/A4YF/
      FMRS through the MSD Price Change Approval Team (PCAT) Community of Practice (CoP).

Table 34.2. Price Change Request Data Elements
Price Element                  Current Price      Proposed Price      Delta
LAC
BOCR@LAC
STANDARD PRICE
LRC
BOCR@LRC
MCR
EXCHANGE PRICE

34.12. Iterative Pricing (IP). Beginning with the pricing cycle to develop FY04 prices, Depot Mainte-
nance Activity Group (DMAG) and Supply Management Activity Group (SMAG) started developing
exchange prices iteratively. In the past, DMAG developed the exchange cost portion of the EISP using the
previous year’s prices with an inflation factor. Under iterative pricing, DMAG develops the exchange cost
portion of the EISP using exchange prices developed for the current execution year.
      34.12.1. September Comp File Maintenance. In order to facilitate the IP process, NIIN level data
      for items involved in this process will be taken from the September comp cycle of the previous year.
      It is imperative that IMSs review and file maintain data on the MRPR screen in D200A in order to
      ensure the correctness of the prices used in the IP process. Critical data elements are PDN/Contract #/
      T-Job numbers, SOR%, and contract repair prices. Ensure that the I&S structure in D200A is correct
      and current.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                719


   34.12.2. IP Process Flow. The IP process flow is as follows: the process starts with MSD developing
   exchange prices for non-DMAG repaired items (these are the Level 1 items). After the level one items
   are priced, DMAG pulls all the end items that have all the components priced and sends these (Level
   2) back to MSD to develop exchange prices. MSD develops the prices (Level 3) and sends them back
   to DMAG. Then DMAG once again pulls the end items that now have all their components priced
   (Level 4). The process continues until all end items have been priced. The iteratively developed prices
   are then “locked.” This means that they are not to be changed during the fiscal year unless a price
   change is approved by both DMAG and MSD.

34.13. Pricing Analysis and Report Tool (PART). The importance of accurate repair prices for the
September and March comp cycles, and unit prices for the March comp cycle, cannot be over-empha-
sized. It is imperative that the PMS and the IMSs work together to ensure that the prices in the system are
correct and accurate. All prices should be validated during the pricing cycle. However, due to time con-
straints, items do not receive the same emphasis during file maintenance and it can be difficult to deter-
mine which items should be reviewed first; PART was developed for this purpose.
Several reports are available in PART to assist the researchers in analyzing proposed prices and prioritiz-
ing any required changes they wish to make in D200A. The first report compares the proposed repair price
for the next fiscal year (from D200A) to the current fiscal year’s LRC (from the current D043 file). This
assists the researcher in identifying significant repair price changes. The second report compares the pro-
posed LAC (from D200A) for the next fiscal year to the current year’s LAC (from the current D043 file).
This assists the researcher in identifying significant purchase price changes. The third report compares the
proposed EISP to the current EISP from the G019C system. This assists the researcher in identifying sig-
nificant changes in the proposed organic repair prices. The final report compares the proposed unit repair
cost to the current unit repair cost from the G072D system. This assists the researcher in identifying sig-
nificant changes in the proposed contract repair prices. PART is posted on the HQ AFMC/A4YF web
page and can be found at the following location https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/HQ-AFMC/A4/
A4Y/A4YF/A4YF_Links.htm under the title “PART ‘MoYr’ I ‘DatePosted’”...(IP & Non IP Com-
bined)”. It is updated both at the beginning of the September and March initial comp cycles, for use dur-
ing the first file maintenance window, as well as at the end of the final comp cycle to provide a final
review opportunity.
720                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                  Chapter 35

          INTRODUCTION TO THE CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION

35.1. Introduction. Budget and Repair Stratification. In compliance with DoD 4140.1-M, Secondary
Item Stratification Manual, separate Central Secondary Item Stratification's (CSIS) are prepared for bud-
geting and repair. CSIS operates as the D200N system on the Requirements Data Bank (RDB) AMDAHL
computer at Hill AFB Ogden Utah. Viewing of CSIS data can be done using PCs at any site. The user-ids
control what data the user may change. Products are produced at each ALC and at HQ AFMC. CSIS prod-
ucts are produced quarterly; some are automatically produced in hard copy while all products may be
viewed on line. See Chapter 41 for how to use the online system.

35.2. Input. The Secondary Item Requirements Computation System (SIRS) provides all the input data
for CSIS. SIRS operates on an AMDAHL computer at Hill AFB Ogden Utah. SIRS computes buy and
repair requirements for all recoverable (ERRC codes XD1 (C) and XD2 (T)) and consumable (ERRC
codes XB3 or “N” and XF3 or “P”) Air Force managed items. SIRS operates on a quarterly schedule,
receiving asset data as of the last day of each calendar quarter: 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31
December. These dates are the Asset Cutoff Dates. SIRS normally runs 3 segments of the computation
each cycle called the initial, the final, and the summary computation. CSIS is updated after each SIRS
computation. All CSIS products are loaded on the CSIS data base for viewing and selected "push prod-
ucts" are sent to the ALCs. This database becomes the basis for budget analysis and submission.

35.3. Purpose.
      35.3.1. The purpose of the CSIS is to display budget and repair deficits for each requirements seg-
      ment by fiscal year. The CSIS provides data on asset distribution against requirements and is used as
      a baseline for inventory analysis.
      35.3.2. The function of the CSIS is to array all requirements and assets in a matrix format. Require-
      ments and assets are listed in a predetermined priority sequence, and assets are applied to each
      requirement in order of preference. When all available assets are exhausted before requirements have
      been satisfied, a deficit is displayed for each requirement and for each fiscal year. The deficits in the
      repair CSIS for recoverable items indicate how much repair is required to support each requirement.
      The deficits in the budget CSIS indicate how much acquisition is required to support each require-
      ment.
      35.3.3. A budget detail product (S01) and a repair detail product (S20) are produced for each item.
      The results are summarized to several iterations. Summary products available are listed in paragraph
      36.8. The budget and repair item detail products (S01 and S20) display requirements, deficits, and
      assets in units. The summary products display this information in thousands of dollars. There are four
      types of budget summary products produced for Budget Program (BP) 15, at standard and forecast
      unit price; each of those is in turn produced under full funding and limited funding summaries. All
      other BPs contain data at both standard and forecast unit price; however they contain no full/limited
      funding breakout. Standard unit price summaries are primarily used as a baseline for inventory analy-
      sis, while forecast unit price summaries are primarily used as a foundation for buy budget reports.
      35.3.4. The budget CSIS includes two tables and an information data section. Table I contains a strat-
      ification for the following positions: Opening,, Current Year (CY), Apportionment Year (AY), Budget
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  721


   Year (BY), and Extended Year (EY). Table II contains a stratification for the following positions:
   Readiness, Approved Force Acquisition Objective (AFAO) and Retention. Chapter 37 covers tables
   I and II of the budget stratification and Chapter 39 covers the information data.
   35.3.5. The repair CSIS also includes two tables and one information data section. Table IV summa-
   ries are computed by forecast unit cost and contain the following positions: Opening, Current Year
   (CY), Apportionment Year (AY), Budget year (BY), Extended Year (EY), and Readiness. Table V
   summaries contain the same positions as Table IV summaries, but are expressed by unit repair cost.
   Chapter 38 covers the repair stratification and Chapter 39 covers the information data. Total items
   are included in both the budget and repair stratification (with the exception of obsolete items and AF
   SICA NIMSC 5 items).
   35.3.6. Dollar summaries are developed from the individual item stratifications (item details), which
   are in turn based on the individual item computations. Four quarter's results may be viewed via the
   CSIS on line. These include the cycle currently being processed, the two March cycles prior to the
   current cycle, and the most recent September cycle. These are labeled CURRENT, PRIOR, PREVI-
   OUS, and CURRENT OFF-LINE. In addition, there are several years' worth of historical stratification
   cycles in OFF-LINE HISTORY. If the need arises, a cycle of OFF-LINE HISTORY can temporarily
   replace the CURRENT OFF-LINE file. These requests must be submitted to the HQ AFMC D200N/
   CSIS OPR (currently in LGYR). All cycles are retained because of budgetary significance.
   35.3.7. When an authorized user requests CSIS data from an off line history quarter, using the on line
   menu selection, the request is sent to the HQ AFMC CSIS OPR who will have the computer techni-
   cians load the appropriate file onto the system. It is then accessible to all users. This load process takes
   24 hours from the evening of the date of the request. This off cycle history file is available for the next
   72 hours, unless the user contacts the HQ AFMC CSIS OPR and requests an extension.

35.4. Simulations.
   35.4.1. Asset simulations are required when a given position, for example, budget year, begins at
   some point other than the asset cut off date. These simulations depict activity in terms of asset gains
   and losses over the prior time period so a beginning asset position can be developed for the subsequent
   year. Assets are simulated within each period according to the following process: assets at the begin-
   ning of the period plus asset gains during the period minus asset losses during the period equals assets
   at the end of the period. Assets are simulated for the beginning of the AY, BY, and EY, and are equal
   to the simulated assets at the end of the previous period, as stated above; i.e., assets at the end of the
   AY equal assets at the beginning of the BY, etc.
   35.4.2. Opening position, CY, AY, Readiness position and AFAO position beginning assets are equal
   to the assets used in the computation. Determination for asset gains and losses in individual categories
   of assets are discussed in Chapter 40, Asset Simulation/Buy Simulation. The simulation process is
   followed for serviceable assets, unserviceable, unserviceable unscheduled, and on order contract
   assets. Buys are also simulated as described in paragraph 40.4. Simulation of assets for demand
   based items is described in paragraph 40.1. Non-demand based items, which are insurance and
   Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO) items are covered in paragraph 40.5.

35.5. Budget & Repair Time Spans. The time spans for stratification positions are shown in Figure
35.1. and Figure 35.2. As shown, each position measures requirements over a particular year -- for exam-
ple, the current year -- plus the lead time. The only exceptions are the AFAO position, which measures
722                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


requirements from the start of the computation through the retention program segment, the opening posi-
tion, which measures requirements from the asset cut off date through lead time, and the readiness posi-
tion, which measures requirements at the asset cut off date.

35.6. Obsolete Assets. If a subgroup master stock number is coded obsolete, all the subgroup inter-
changeable stock number assets are considered obsolete. If an interchangeable stock number is coded
obsolete, only the assets pertaining to the interchangeable stock number are considered obsolete. Obsolete
assets are included only in the beginning of period balances for the AFAO and Retention period of the
Budget CSIS, but are not applied to requirements. They are considered excess, and applied to the Poten-
tial DOD excess (line 21, AFAO position, of the budget CSIS).

35.7. Outputs.
      35.7.1. Acquisition and Due-In System (J018R). CSIS provides J018R with file ISUA0, containing
      CSIS deficit item data. The file contains record identity, division designator, item manager designator,
      budget program code, system management code, subgroup master stock number, item category code,
      mission item essentiality code, forecasted unit price, five deficit quantities for the AY, BY, Extended
      Year (EY), Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable, and Other Acquisition War Reserve.
      35.7.2. ABCS. Each quarter, the CSIS provides files to the D075 Automated Budget Compilation
      System.
      35.7.3. GAO. CSIS provides files to the GAO.

Figure 35.1. CSIS Budget Time Span.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008              723


Figure 35.2. CSIS Repair Time Span.
724                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                 Chapter 36

                  CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION PRODUCTS

36.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the CSIS products. All products are unclassified. After the
SIRS final computation and after the summary computation, hard copy products containing that ALC’s
data are sent to the SIRS office at each ALC for distribution to the budget analysts and item managers. All
products except the S13 can be viewed on line via the D200N (CSIS) system (see Chapter 41).

36.2. Header Data. The following header data appear on the first line of all SIRS products (see Figure
37.1.).
      36.2.1. In the left most position, is the ASSET CUTOFF DATE in the format YY MM that is the year
      and month of the asset cutoff date of the computation that the product was produced from. The title of
      the product will appear in the middle of the first line. FUNDING is either full funding or limited fund-
      ing. Next is a date in the format DD MMM YY, which is the day, month and year the product was
      printed. PG is the page number. At the right hand side, is the Product Control Number (PCN) in the
      format A-D200N.-xxx, where xxx is the product ID. On the second line, in the left most position is
      XX-XXX-XX. The first 2 positions identify the site the item is managed at. The next 3 positions iden-
      tify the item management specialist. The last 2 positions identify the equipment specialist.
      36.2.2. MASTER STOCK NO is the Interchangeability and Substitutability (I&S) subgroup master/
      bachelor stock number.
      36.2.3. MMC is the Materiel Management Aggregation Code, also called the MMAC for the stock
      number on the product.
      36.2.4. ERRC is the code, XD1 or “C”, XD2 or “T”, XB3 or “N” and XF3 or “P”, applicable to the
      I&S subgroup master/bachelor stock number.
      36.2.5. UNIT PRICE. The first line is the unit price, with an "S" next to it. The second line is the
      Forecasted Unit Price, with a "F" next to it. On the S06, the price is not displayed to make room for
      CY information.
      36.2.6. REPAIR COST. The unit repair cost of the item listed. It is used for converting the quantita-
      tive data to dollar values.
      36.2.7. CD is usually "C" for computed repair cost.
      36.2.8. ACTY is the one position Item Activity Code used in SIRS to identify the cycle or cycles that
      the item must be reviewed. (See paragraph 14.5.).
      36.2.9. BP is the 2 position Budget Program that identifies the specific funds group within the budget.
      (See paragraph 14.2.1.).
      36.2.10. SMC is the 4 position System Management Code that what application(s) the item is used
      on. (See paragraph 14.2.2.).
      36.2.11. MPC is the 4 position Material Program Code that is used to distinguish between stock
      funded and non-stock funded items. “1N00” is a stock funded item and “2200” is a non-stock funded
      item. (see paragraph 14.2.3.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               725


   36.2.12. ICS/RIW Code and the Exp Dt. The Interim Contract Support/Reliability Improvement War-
   ranty code and expiration date are not used by SIRS, but are passed to D200N. D200N passes the ICS/
   RIW Code & Expiration Date to the Automated Budget Compilation System (ABCS) for Repair. The
   code is C to identify ICS items and "W" to identify RIW items. (See paragraph 14.4.).
   36.2.13. MIEC. The mission item essentiality code assigned to the stock number listed. On the S06,
   the MIEC is not displayed to make room for CY information. (See paragraph 18.28.).
   36.2.14. OBS. If blank, then the item is not obsolete.
   36.2.15. Itm Cat CD This code indicates if the listed item is an insurance item (I) or numeric stockage
   objective item (S) or blank for an active item. (See paragraph 14.6.).
   36.2.16. Def Disp. When the Deferred Disposal Code or Freeze code is blank the item’s excess assets
   can be disposed. (See paragraph 14.3.).
   36.2.17. New. Either blank or "N" for a new item. (See paragraph 14.14.9.).
   36.2.18. Compute Indicator. The compute indicator (CMP-IND) is passed to CSIS within record type
   7, which is only created for inactive items (NSO item category ‘S’, insurance item category ‘I’, NSO
   life of type buy item category ‘Z’, insurance life of type buy item category ‘Y’ or item deferred dis-
   posal code of ‘M’). Inactive items have a compute indicator of ‘Y’ assigned to them. Active items
   have a blank compute indicator within CSIS. The no compute code will show in this field for those
   items in a no compute status.

36.3. Budget CSIS Deficit Item Listing. This product (Figure 36.1.) provides management with
backup listings of items having asset deficits resulting from the computation or stratification application
process. This product will provide management data for review and adjustment to budget submissions.
Products are available only by ALC (no HQ product summaries). All products are accessible via the on
line RDB CSIS system (see Chapter 41). Automatic hard copies are produced at certain sites for all prod-
ucts except S13, by part number. Deficits resulting from the asset application process are shown for the
Current Year, Apportionment year (adjusted buy quantity), the Budget year, the Extended year, the W-B
and OWRM.
   36.3.1. Besides the header data described in paragraph 36.2., one of the following titles will appear
   in the upper left corner under the organization symbol. These titles identify the sort sequence of the
   product (actual product number is in parentheses): Budget Program XX (S04); Division X, Budget
   Program XX (S05); Division X, Manager XX, Budget Program XX, SMC XXXX (S06); Budget Pro-
   gram XX, SMC XXXX (S07); and Division X, Budget Program XX, SMC XXXX (S08), as well as
   Funding (type of funding, full or limited).
   36.3.2. MASTER STOCK NO is the I&S subgroup master or bachelor stock number.
   36.3.3. IN The following codes are used in this column: I equals Insurance item; S equals NSO item;
   Blank equals all items that are not “I” or “S”.
   36.3.4. MIEC. The mission item essentiality code assigned to the stock number listed. On the S06, the
   MIEC is not displayed to make room for CY information.
   36.3.5. Forecasted Unit Price. The forecasted unit price of the stock number listed, used for convert-
   ing quantitative data to dollar values. On the S06, the forecasted unit price is not displayed to make
   room for CY information.
726                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      36.3.6. Apportionment Year. The fiscal period for which the deficit quantity and dollar value are com-
      puted. Apportionment Year Quantity. The apportionment year peacetime buy quantity as developed
      on the computation work sheet (lesser of buy point or term point third short). Value. The quantity
      times the forecasted unit price.
      36.3.7. Budget Year. The fiscal period for which the deficit quantity and dollar value are computed.
      Budget Year Quantity. The total peacetime deficit quantity developed in the CSIS budget year posi-
      tion. Value. The quantity times the forecasted unit price.
      36.3.8. Extended Year. The fiscal period for which the deficit quantity and dollar value are computed.
      Extended Year Quantity. The total peacetime deficit quantity developed in the CSIS extended year
      position. Value. The quantity times the forecasted unit price.
      36.3.9. Prepositioned War Reserve. The PWR or W-B (War Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level
      Self-sufficiency Spares (WRSK/BLSS) 0r RSP in D200A, (called prepositioned in D041), for which
      the deficit quantity and dollar value are computed. Quantity. The total PWR balance deficit quantity
      developed in the CSIS AFAO position. Value. The quantity times the forecasted unit price.
      36.3.10. Other Acq War Res. The total Other Acquisition War Reserve balance deficit quantity devel-
      oped in the CSIS AFAO position. Value. The quantity times the forecasted unit price.
      36.3.11. Summaries. Summary data are provided for each of the products described above.
         36.3.11.1. Items with OWRM. This category summarizes the buy requirement for all items with
         other acquisition war reserve deficits.
         36.3.11.2. Items without OWRM. This category summarizes the buy requirements for all items
         that do not have other war reserve deficits.
      36.3.12. Totals. The total is given for all items within each product.
         36.3.12.1. MIEC. Within each category, subtotals are given by MIEC. Individual subtotals are
         given for items with MIECs ending in AE, BE, CE, AF, BF, or CF. Subtotals for all items with
         MIECs other than those listed are reflected in Other.
         36.3.12.2. Items. This shows the number of items with a deficit in each category.
         36.3.12.3. Dollar value. The total dollar value of the deficit in each category.
         36.3.12.4. Total. A grand total of all items and dollar value is given for each product.
         36.3.12.5. PR/MIPR. Total quantity and dollar value of all unfunded PR/MIPRs for the I&S sub-
         group. This is an information entry and should be zero since SIRS does not accept this data from
         J018R.

36.4. CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing By Part Number (S13), (Figure 36.4.). Is produced quarterly
for Small Business offices at each ALC. It displays AY, BY, and EY deficits in part number sequence. It
is not available on line.

36.5. Repair Requirement Item Listing. This product (Figure 36.5.) provides management with
backup listings of items that still have repair requirements after application of serviceable assets, procure-
ment receipts within the period, and unserviceable scheduled assets. This product provides management
with data for review and adjustments to repair negotiations and repair budget submissions. Products are
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              727


available only by ALC (no HQ product summaries). Repair deficits resulting from the asset application
process are shown for the Apportionment year, the Budget year, the Extended year, the PWR or W-B (War
Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares (WRSK/BLSS) 0r RSP in D200A, (called
prepositioned in D041), and Other Acquisition War Reserve (OWRM).
   36.5.1. Besides the common header data described in paragraph 36.2., one of the following titles
   will appear in the upper left corner under the organization symbol. These titles identify the sort
   sequence of the product (actual product number is in parentheses): Division X (S09); Division X,
   SMC XXXX (S10); and Funding (Type of funding, full or limited).
   36.5.2. Master Stock No. The subgroup master stock number of either the preferred item in an I&S
   subgroup or a bachelor item.
   36.5.3. IN The following codes are used in this column: I equals Insurance item; S equals NSO item;
   Blank equals all items that are not “I” or “S”.
   36.5.4. MIEC. The three position alphanumeric Mission Item Essentiality Code assigned to the item.
   36.5.5. Forecasted Unit Repair Cost. The forecasted unit repair cost of the item listed. It is used for
   converting the quantitative data to dollar values.
   36.5.6. Apportionment Year Quantity. The peacetime repair requirement for the apportionment year
   taken from the repair CSIS apportionment year (line 11, column 8).
   36.5.7. Apportionment Year Dollar Value. The quantity times the unit repair cost.
   36.5.8. Budget Year Quantity. The peacetime repair requirement for the budget year taken from the
   repair CSIS budget year (line 11, column 8).
   36.5.9. Budget Year Dollar Value. The quantity times the unit repair cost.
   36.5.10. Extended year Quantity. The repair requirement for the extended year taken from the repair
   CSIS extended year (line 11, column 8).
   36.5.11. Extended Year Dollar Value. The quantity times the unit repair cost.
   36.5.12. Prepositioned War Reserve Quantity. The PWR or W-B (War Readiness Spares Kits- Base
   Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041), repair requirement taken from the repair
   CSIS budget year (line 12, column 8).
   36.5.13. Prepositioned War Reserve Dollar Value. The quantity above times the unit repair cost.
   36.5.14. Other Acquisition War Reserve Quantity. The OWRM repair requirement taken from the
   repair CSIS budget year (line 13, column 8).
   36.5.15. Other Acquisition War Reserve Dollar Value. The quantity above times the unit repair cost.
   36.5.16. Summaries. Summary data are provided for each of the products described above. Summa-
   ries are provided for the following:
       36.5.16.1. Items with OWRM. This category summarizes repair requirements for all items with
       other acquisition war reserve repair requirements.
       36.5.16.2. Items without OWRM. This category summarizes the repair requirements for all items
       that do not have other acquisition war reserve repair requirements.
   36.5.17. Totals. Totals are given for all items within each product.
728                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


       36.5.17.1. MIEC. Within each category, subtotals are given by MIEC. Individual subtotals are
       given for items with MIECs ending in AE, BE, CE, AF, BF, or CF. Subtotals for all items with
       MIECs other than those listed are shown on Other.
       36.5.17.2. Items. The number of items with a repair requirement in each category.
       36.5.17.3. Dollar value. The total dollar value of the repair requirement in each category.
       36.5.17.4. Total. A grand total of all items and the dollar value are given for each product.

36.6. Budget Summary Products. The following budget summaries are produced. All products can be
viewed on line (see Chapter 41). Automatic hard copy products are produced at most sites for the T02,
T05 & T13.
       T01. Materiel Management Code (MMC) or Federal Stock Class (FSC).
       T02. Budget Program (BP) , System Management Code (SMC).
       T03. BP, SMC, Buy Items                              T04. BP, SMC, New Items.
       T05. BP                                              T06. BP, Buy Items.
       T07. BP, Insurance and NSO Items.*                   T08. BP, New Items.
       T12. BP, MMC, or FSC.                                T13. Total Items.
       T14. Total Buy Items                                 T15. Total Ins and NSO Items.
       T16. Total New Items
       T20. Division, Item Management Specialist (IMS), BP
       T21. Division, BP, SMC, MMC, or FSC.                 T22. Division, BP, SMC.
       T23. Division, BP                                    T24. Division Total.

36.7. Repair Summary Products. The following repair summaries are produced. All products can be
viewed on line (see Chapter 41). Automatic hard copy products are produced at most sites for the U06,
U08 and U09.
       U01. SMC                                      U02. Source of Repair (SOR) , Contractor.
       U03. SOR, Unidentified                        U04. SOR, Multiple.
       U05. SOR, Organic                             U06. Total Items.
       U07. Division, IMS                            U08. Division Total.
       U09. Division, SMC                            U10. MMC or FSC.

36.8. All CSIS Products.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                      729


Table 36.1. CSIS Products.
Product Number      Title               Recipients   Purpose
A-D200N.-S01        CSIS (Budget        OC-ALC       Display stratification of requirements and
                    Item Detail)        SA-ALC       assets for budget analysis (non-selected
                                                     items)
A-D200N.-S04        Deficit Item List   OC-ALC       Provide a listing of items having the
                    by BP               SA-ALC       greatest CSIS dollar value deficits.
                                        WR-ALC
A-D200N.-S05        Deficit Item List   OC-ALC       Provide a listing of items having the
                    by Division, BP     SA-ALC       greatest CSIS dollar value deficits.
                                        WR-ALC
A-D200N.-S06        Deficit Item List   OC-ALC       Provide a listing of items having the
                    by Division,        SA-ALC       greatest CSIS dollar value deficits.
                    Manager BP,         WR-ALC
                    SMC
A-D200N.-S07        Deficit Item List   OC-ALC       Provide a listing of items having the
                    by BP, SMC          OO-ALC       greatest CSIS dollar value deficits.
                                        SA-ALC
                                        WR-ALC
A-D200N.-S08        Deficit Item List   OC-ALC       Provide a listing of items having the
                    by Division BP,     SA-ALC       greatest CSIS dollar value deficits.
                    SMC                 WR-ALC
A-D200N.-S09        Repair              OC-ALC       Provide a listing of items having CSIS
                    Requirements        SA-ALC       repair requirements.
                    Listing by          WR-ALC
                    Division
A-D200N.-S10        Repair              OC-ALC       Provide a listing of items having CSIS
                    Requirements        SA-ALC       repair requirements.
                    Listing by          WR-ALC
                    Division, SMC
A-D200N.-S13        Deficit List by     Each ALC     Provide a listing for the Small Business.
                    Part Number
A-D200N.-S20        CSIS Repair         OC-ALC       Display a stratification of requirements
                    Item Detail         SA-ALC       and assets for repair analysis
                    Non-Selected                     (non-selected items).
                    Items
A-D200N.-T01        CSIS Budget         OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                    Summary by          SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                    MMC or FSC          WR-ALC       analysis.
730                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Product Number   Title            Recipients   Purpose
A-D200N.-T02     CSIS Budget by   OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 BP, SMC          OO-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                                  SA-ALC       analysis.
                                  WR-ALC
A-D200N.-T03     CSIS Budget      OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by BP,   SA-ALC       requirements for budget analysis.
                 SMC Buy Items    WR-ALC
A-D200N.-T04     CSIS Budget      OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by BP,   SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 SMC, New Items   WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-T05     CSIS Budget      OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by BP    SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                                  WR-ALC       analysis.
                                  AFMC/LGYR
A-D200N.-T05     CSIS HQ Budget   AFMC/LGYR    Display a summary of all ALCs
                 Summary by BP                 stratification of requirements and assets
                                               for budget analysis.
A-D200N.-T06     CSIS Budget      OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by BP    SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Buy Items        WR-ALC       analysis.
                                  AFMC/LGYR
A-D200N.-T06     CSIS HQ Budget   AFMC/LGYR    Display a summary of all ALCs
                 Summary by BP                 stratification of requirements & assets for
                 Buy Items                     budget analysis.
A-D200N.-T07     CSIS Budget      OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by BP,   SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Insurance, NSO   WR-ALC       analysis.
                 Items
A-D200N.-T07     CSIS HQ Budget   AFMC/LGYR    Display a summary of all ALCs
                 Summary by BP                 stratification of rqmts and assets for
                 Insurance, NSO                budget analysis.
                 Items
A-D200N.-T08     CSIS Budget      OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by BP    SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 New Items,       WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-T12     CSIS Budget      OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by BP,   SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 MMC or FSC       WR-ALC       analysis.
                                  AFMC/LGYR
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                 731


Product Number   Title              Recipients   Purpose
A-D200N.-T13     CSIS Budget        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary Total      SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Items              WR-ALC       analysis.
                                    AFMC/LGYR
A-D200N.-T13     CSIS HQ Budget     AFMC/LGYR    Display a summary of all ALCs
                 Summary by                      stratification of requirements and assets
                 Total Items                     for budget analysis.
A-D200N.-T14     CSIS Budget        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary Total      SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Buy Items          WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-T15     CSIS Budget        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary Total      SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 INS/NSO Items      WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-T16     CSIS Budget        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary New        SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Items              WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-T21     CSIS Budget        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by         SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Div, BP, SMC,      WR-ALC       analysis.
                 MMC or FSC
A-D200N.-T22     CSIS Budget        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by         SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Div, BP, SMC       WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-T23     CSIS Budget        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by         SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Div, BP            WR-ALC       analysis.
                                    AFMC/LGYR
A-D200N.-T24     CSIS Budget        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by         SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Div, Total         WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-U01     CSIS Repair        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by         SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 SMC                WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-U02     CSIS Repair        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by         SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 SOR (Contractor)   WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-U03     CSIS Repair        OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by         WR-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 (SOR Unidentified)              analysis.
732                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Product Number   Title           Recipients   Purpose
A-D200N.-U04     CSIS Repair     OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by      OO-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 SOR (Multi)     WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-U05     CSIS Repair     OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by      WR-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 SOR (Organic)                analysis.
A-D200N.-U06     CSIS Repair     OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary Total   OO-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 Items           SA-ALC       analysis.
                                 WR-ALC
                                 AFMC/LGYR
A-D200N.-U07     CSIS Repair     OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by      WR-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 DIV, MGR                     analysis.
A-D200N.-U08     CSIS Repair     OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by      SA-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 DIV             WR-ALC       analysis.
A-D200N.-U09     CSIS Repair     OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by      WR-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 DIV, SMC                     analysis.
A-D200N.-U10     CSIS Repair     OC-ALC       Display a summary stratification of
                 Summary by      WR-ALC       requirements and assets for budget
                 MMC or FSC                   analysis.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                        733


Figure 36.1. CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing.




Figure 36.2. CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing (Continuation).
734                                                             AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 36.3. CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing (Continuation).




Figure 36.4. CSIS Deficit Listing by Part Number.




Figure 36.5. CSIS Repair Requirements Listing.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                        735


Figure 36.6. CSIS Repair Requirements Listing (Continuation).
736                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                  Chapter 37

        CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION - BUDGET TABLES I AND II

37.1. Opening Position. The Opening Position (Figure 37.1.) presents the stratification of requirements
and assets needed to maintain operations through procurement lead-time.
      37.1.1. Column 1, Requirements.
         37.1.1.1. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the PWR or W-B (War
         Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares (WRSK/BLSS) or RSP, called prepo-
         sitioned in D041) requirement for the quarter procurement lead time beyond the asset cut off date,
         or the sum of WRM serviceable base and depot on hand assets as of the asset cut off date plus total
         WRM on order PR funded plus WRM on order contract as of the asset cut off date.
         37.1.1.2. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of: OWRM requirement,
         or WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement as determined in paragraph 37.1.1.1.
         37.1.1.3. Line 5, Stock Due Out. The DOTM quantity as of the asset cut off date.
         37.1.1.4. Line 6, Safety Level. The sum of the following for the quarter procurement lead time
         beyond the asset cut off date: total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level plus total
         overhaul stock level.
         37.1.1.5. Line 7, Numeric Stockage Objective. Applies only to insurance and NSO items and is
         equal to the buy level file maintained for the item.
         37.1.1.6. Line 8, Repair Cycle. The depot repair cycle requirement at the procurement lead time
         beyond the asset cut off date, computed as follows: net OIM reparable generations plus net NJR
         reparable generations minus net slipped OIM reparable generations minus net slipped NJR repara-
         ble generations.
         37.1.1.7. Line 9, Production Lead Time. The sum of total overhaul condemnations, base condem-
         nations, OIM reparable generation condemnations, NJR reparable generation condemnations and
         Foreign Military Sales (FMS) engine overhaul program requirements deaccumulated from the
         asset cut off date through production lead time.
         37.1.1.8. Line 10, Administrative Lead Time. The sum of total overhaul condemnations, base
         condemnations, OIM reparable generation condemnations, NJR reparable generation condemna-
         tions and FMS engine overhaul program requirements deaccumulated from the end of the produc-
         tion lead time through the end of the administrative lead time.
         37.1.1.9. Line 10a, LT Nonrecurring Demands. Air Force additive requirements for the quarter
         procurement lead time beyond the asset cut off date, minus DOTM.
         37.1.1.10. Line 11, Total Reorder Point. The sum of all the requirements in lines 3 through 10a.
         37.1.1.11. Line 12, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
         37.1.1.12. Line 13, Total Requirement Objective. Same as line 11.
         37.1.1.13. Assets, line 1. For the opening position, these are the assets as of the asset cut off date.
         37.1.1.14. Column 1, Requirement. Not applicable.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              737


     37.1.1.15. Column 2, Base Repairs. Not applicable to the opening position.
     37.1.1.16. Column 3, Serviceable On hand Assets. The sum of total serviceable on hand
     non-phased serviceable assets as of the asset cutoff date plus total due in serviceable assets.
     37.1.1.17. Column 4, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. The on work order as of the asset cutoff
     date.
     37.1.1.18. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. For active and insurance/NSO items,
     the sum of unserviceable base, unserviceable depot, unserviceable in transit, unserviceable con-
     tractor unscheduled, unserviceable on loan, unserviceable WRM depot, TOC assets, plus net due
     in unserviceable at retention (non-slipped) as of the asset cutoff date. For inactive items (items
     with a military contingency code, obsolete code or a compute code other than "Y") on hand assets
     are the same as active and INS/NSO; however, total due-in unserviceable assets should be used
     instead of net due-in unserviceable assets. The total (rather than net) balance is used for these
     items since they have no computation and thus no expected condemnations.
     37.1.1.19. Column 6, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Not applicable to the opening position.
     37.1.1.20. Column 7, On Order Contract. The on order contract plus WRM on order contract as of
     the asset cut off date.
     37.1.1.21. Column 8, On Order Commit. On order PR funded plus WRM on order PR funded as
     of the asset cut off date.
     37.1.1.22. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. In the opening position this applies to col-
     umns 4 and 5 only. It is determined by applying the MISTR condemnation percent to the
     non-phased unserviceable assets as follows: (a) Determine the condemnations against each seg-
     ment of the unserviceable assets by multiplying each one by the current MISTR percent. Round
     the answer to one decimal position. (b) Determine the total unserviceable condemnations by sum-
     ming the condemnations against each of the three segments of unserviceable assets. Round the
     results to the nearest whole integer. (c) The due in from overhaul (DIOH) portion of the total con-
     demnations is the result obtained in (a) above applied to the DIOH assets and rounded to the near-
     est whole integer.
        37.1.1.22.1. To determine the contractor-scheduled portion of the total condemnations, take
        the answer obtained in paragraph 37.1.1.22. line (a) against the contractor-scheduled assets
        and round it to the nearest whole integer. Compare this to the total condemnations minus
        DIOH condemnations. The lesser of the two is the contractor-scheduled condemnations.
        37.1.1.22.2. The DIOH condemnations as determined in paragraph 37.1.1.22. line(c), plus
        the contractor scheduled condemnations are the unserviceable scheduled assets anticipated
        nonapplicable for line 2, column 4. The depot unserviceable unscheduled asset condemnations
        will equal the total condemnations minus the DIOH and contractor scheduled condemnations.
        This will be applied on line 2, column 5. Total condemnations may round up to one more than
        the sum of DIOH, contractor scheduled, or depot unserviceable unscheduled. This is because
        the system rounds each condemnation segment individually and then totals the rounded
        results.
        37.1.1.22.3. To offset this anomaly, the system runs a check to determine which asset segment
        contributes the largest quantity to the condemnation total and sets this equal to one. If the con-
        demnation results for the individual segments are equal, and an additional condemnation must
738                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         be taken, it is deducted from due in from overhaul, first; then contractor scheduled, second;
         and the depot unserviceable unscheduled, last. This is done by comparing the largest equal
         condemnation segments as shown in the following examples:
              Item #1. DIOH = .4; Contr Sched = .4; Dep Unsv Unsch = .1.
                             Deduct from DIOH.

              Item #2. DIOH = .1; Contr Sched = .4; Dep Unsv Unsch = .4;
                             Deduct from Contr Sched.


              Item #3. DIOH = .4; Contr Sched = .1; Dep Unsv Unsch = .4;
                             Deduct from DIOH.
      37.1.1.23. Obsolete Assets. Obsolete assets are not included in the opening position.
      37.1.1.24. Application of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
      detailed beginning in paragraph 37.1.1.25.
      37.1.1.25. Column 2, Base Repairs. Not applicable in the opening position.
      37.1.1.26. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. Applies only serviceable on hand
      WRM base and depot, WRM on order PR funded, and WRM on order contract assets up to the
      W-B requirement.
      37.1.1.27. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable (OAWRP). Applies only the WRM
      serviceable on hand base and depot, WRM on order PR funded, and WRM on order contract assets
      that are excess to W-B requirements, Line 3, up to the OWRM requirement.
      37.1.1.28. Lines 5 through 10a. WRM assets in excess of WRM requirements and all other assets,
      except obsolete and nonapplicable, are applied in priority sequence; for example, starting with line
      5 column 3, and moving down and to the right until requirements are satisfied or assets are
      exhausted. Serviceable on loan assets are applied only to line 10a (LT Nonrecurring Demands).
      Requirements are either totally satisfied, in which case assets could remain, or assets are insuffi-
      cient to cover requirements, in which case a deficit exists. Anticipated nonapplicable assets and
      obsolete assets are deducted from the total, and are not applied to requirements.
      37.1.1.29. Line 11, Total Reorder Point. The sum of the assets in lines 3 - 10a.
      37.1.1.30. Line 12, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
      37.1.1.31. Line 13, Total Requirements Objective. Same as line 11.
      37.1.1.32. Column 3 through 8. Beginning with line 5 and moving down and to the right (across
      columns) assets are applied until requirements are satisfied or assets are exhausted. This applies to
      column 3- Serviceable Assets, column 4- Unserviceable On-Hand Scheduled, column 5 - Unser-
      viceable On-Hand, Unscheduled, column 7 - On Order Contract, and column 8 - On Order Com-
      mitted.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                739


       37.1.1.33. Column 9, Deficits. The difference between the requirements (column 1) and the
       applied assets (columns 2 through 8) for lines 3 through 10a. Lines 11 and 13 are the total of all
       deficits, lines 3 through 10a.
       37.1.1.34. Column 10, Item Counts. Item counts apply to summary products only and do not
       appear on item details. Item counts on summary products are: (a) Line 1-total subgroup master
       included in the stratification; (b) Line 2. not applicable; (c) Line 3 - a count is recorded for each
       NSN having a W-B requirement; (d) Line 4 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a OWRM
       Protectable requirement; Line 5 through 10a - a count is recorded when the first requirement defi-
       cit for an NSN appears (subsequent deficits for that NSN are not counted) ; Line 11 - the sum of
       all items with a recorded deficit in lines 5 - 10a; Line 13 - the same as line 11.

37.2. Current Year Position. This position (Figure 37.2.) represents those requirements and assets that
apply to the balance of the current year plus procurement lead-time. This position applies to the 31 March
and 30 June computation only and is always the first quarter of that cycle.
   37.2.1. Column 1, Requirements.
   37.2.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of PWR or W-B (War Readi-
   ness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) requirement for
   the quarter procurement lead time beyond the budget year; or the sum of WRM serviceable on hand
   base and depot plus WRM on order PR funded plus WRM on order contract as of the asset cut off
   date.
   37.2.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of: OWRM requirement,
   or WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement as established in paragraph 37.2.2.
   37.2.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. DOTM quantity as of the asset cut off date.
   37.2.5. Line 6A, Demands Recurring (memo entry). Total of total OIM operating requirement plus
   total NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS program engine over-
   haul requirements deaccumulated from the asset cut off date through the current year.
   37.2.6. Line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring (memo entry). Additive requirement minus DOTM from
   the quarter procurement lead time beyond the current year.
   37.2.7. Line 6C, Total Demands. Total of lines 6A and 6B above.
   37.2.8. Line 7, Safety Level. Total of total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level plus
   total overhaul stock level from the quarter procurement lead-time beyond the current year.
   37.2.9. Line 8, Numeric Stockage Objective. The insurance/NSO buy level that has been file main-
   tained for the item.
   37.2.10. Line 9, Repair Cycle. The depot repair cycle requirement from the quarter procurement
   lead time beyond the current year, computed as follows: net OIM reparable generation plus net NJR
   reparable generations minus net slipped OIM reparable generations minus net slipped NJR reparable
   generations.
   37.2.11. Line 10, Production Lead Time. Sum of the total overhaul condemnations plus OIM repa-
   rable generation condemnations plus NJR reparable generation condemnations plus base condemna-
   tions plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements deaccumulated from the end of the current
   year through the end of the production lead time.
740                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      37.2.12. Line 11, Administrative Lead Time. Sum of total overhaul condemnations plus OIM repa-
      rable generation condemnations plus NJR reparable generation condemnations plus base condemna-
      tions plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements deaccumulated from the end of the production
      lead time through the end of the administrative lead time.
      37.2.13. Line 12, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
      37.2.14. Line 13, Total Current Year. Total of all requirements in lines 3 - 11.
      37.2.15. Line 1, Assets. For the current year, the assets are computed as stated in the following para-
      graphs.
      37.2.16. Column 2, Base Repairs. The total base repairs deaccumulated from the asset cut off date
      through the end of the current year.
      37.2.17. Column 3, Serviceable On Hand Assets. The sum of total on hand non-phased serviceable
      assets plus due in serviceable assets as of the asset cut off date.
      37.2.18. Column 4, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. The sum of due in from overhaul plus
      unserviceable contractor scheduled as of the asset cut off date.
      37.2.19. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. For active items, the sum of the follow-
      ing, as of the asset cut off date: unserviceable base plus unserviceable depot plus unserviceable in
      transit plus unserviceable contractor unscheduled plus unserviceable on loan plus unserviceable
      WRM depot plus TOC assets plus net due in unserviceable and net due in TOC assets. For inactive
      items (insurance, NSO, items with a military contingency code, or a compute code other than "Y").
      The same as active items for on hand assets. Due in unserviceable is the total of all due in unservice-
      able and due in TOC, rather than net unserviceable, since there are no condemnations on these items.
      37.2.20. Column 6, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Sum of net OIM reparable generations
      (nonslipped) plus net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped) deaccumulated from the asset cut off
      date through the end of the current year.
      37.2.21. Column 7, On order Contract. The on order contract plus WRM on order contract as of
      the asset cut off date.
      37.2.22. Column 8, On order Commit. On Order PR funded plus WRM on order PR funded as of
      the asset cut off date.
      37.2.23. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. This applies to column 4 and 5 only. It is deter-
      mined by applying the MISTR condemnation percent to the nonphased unserviceable on hand assets
      as described in the opening position. See paragraph 37.2.22.
      37.2.24. Obsolete Assets. Obsolete assets are not included in the current year position.
      37.2.25. Application of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
      detailed beginning in paragraph 37.2.26.
      37.2.26. Column 2, Base Repairs. Apply to Demands Recurring, line 6A only. Include in total
      demands, line 6C.
      37.2.27. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. Apply only WRM serviceable on hand
      base and depot, WRM on order PR funded, and WRM on order contract assets.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 741


   37.2.28. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. Apply only WRM serviceable on
   hand base and depot, WRM on order PR funded, and WRM on order contract assets that are excess to
   W-B, line 3 (see paragraph 37.2.27.).
   37.2.29. Lines 5 through 11, Requirements. WRM assets exceeding protectable requirements
   (lines 3 and 4) and all other assets (except nonapplicable) in columns 3 through 8 are applied to
   requirements in lines 5 through 11. The assets are applied in descending sequence of priority begin-
   ning with lines 5, line 6, etc. Serviceable on loan assets are applied only to line 6b (Demands Nonre-
   curring). Assets are also applied in priority sequence beginning with column 3, 4, etc. In the
   application of assets, requirements are either totally satisfied and assets may remain or insufficient
   assets exist to cover requirements in which case a deficit results. Anticipated nonapplicable assets are
   deducted from the total assets, and are not applied to requirements.
   37.2.30. Procurement Cycle, Line 12. Not applicable.
   37.2.31. Total Current Year, Line 13. For columns 2 through 8, this is the sum of the assets applied
   to requirements in lines 3 through 11.
   37.2.32. Column 9, Deficits. This is the difference between the requirement (column 1) and the total
   applied assets (columns 2 through 8) for lines 3 through 11. Line 13 is the total of all deficits on lines
   3 through 11.
   37.2.33. Column 10, Item Counts. Lines 1 through 11 - Item counts apply to summary products
   only and do not appear on item details. They are: (a) Line 1. Total subgroup master NSNs included in
   the stratification; (b) Line 2. Not applicable; (c) Line 3. A count is recorded for each NSN having a
   W-B requirement; (d) Line 4. A count is recorded for each NSN having a OWRM protectable require-
   ment. (e) For lines 5 through 11, a count is recorded when the first requirements deficit for an NSN
   appears (subsequent deficits for NSN are not counted); (f)Line 13: the sum of all items with a
   recorded deficit in lines 5 - 11.

37.3. Apportionment Year Position. This position (Figure 37.3.) represents those requirements and
assets that apply to the apportionment year plus procurement lead-time. The time frames for this portion
of the stratification vary from cycle to cycle. They are: (a) 30 June cycle - the four quarters following the
current year; (b) 30 September cycle -the first four quarters of the computation; (c) 31 December cycle -
the first three quarters of the computation; and (d) 31 March cycle - the first two quarters of the computa-
tion.
   37.3.1. Column 1, Requirements.
   37.3.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the PWR or W-B (War
   Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) require-
   ment for the quarter procurement lead time beyond the budget year; or the sum of WRM base and
   depot serviceable on hand plus, WRM on order PR funded plus WRM on order contract as of the asset
   cut off date.
   37.3.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of OWRM requirement; or
   WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement as established in paragraph 37.3.2.
   37.3.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. For the 30 June cycle, the projected stock due out at the end of the
   current year as determined in the asset/buy simulation process (Chapter 40). For all other cycles, the
   DOTM as of the asset cut off date.
742                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      37.3.5. Line 6A, Demands Recurring (memo entry). Total of total OIM operating requirement plus
      total NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul pro-
      gram requirements deaccumulated from the beginning of the apportionment year through the end of
      the apportionment year.
      37.3.6. Line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring (memo entry). Additive requirement minus DOTM from
      the quarter procurement lead time beyond the apportionment year.
      37.3.7. Line 6C, Total Demands. Total of lines 6A and 6B.
      37.3.8. Line 7, Safety Level. Total of total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level plus
      total overhaul stock level from the quarter procurement lead-time beyond the apportionment year.
      37.3.9. Line 8, Numeric Stockage Objective. The insurance/NSO buy level which has been file
      maintained for the item.
      37.3.10. Line 9, Repair Cycle. The depot repair cycle requirement computed by adding net OIM
      reparable generations plus net NJR reparable generations minus net slipped OIM generations minus
      net slipped NJR generations from the procurement lead time beyond the apportionment year.
      37.3.11. Line 10, Production Lead Time. Sum of total overhaul condemnations plus OIM reparable
      generation condemnations plus NJR reparable generation condemnations plus base condemnations
      plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements deaccumulated from the end of the apportionment
      year through the end of the production lead time.
      37.3.12. Line 11, Administrative Lead Time. Sum of total overhaul condemnations plus OIM repa-
      rable generation condemnations plus NJR reparable generation condemnations plus base condemna-
      tions plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements, deaccumulated from the end of the production
      lead time through the end of the administrative lead time.
      37.3.13. Line 12, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
      37.3.14. Line 13, Total Apportionment Year. Total of all requirements in lines 3 through 11.
      37.3.15. Line 1, Assets. For the apportionment year, the assets are computed as stated in the follow-
      ing paragraphs.
      37.3.16. Column 2, Base Repairs. The total base repair deaccumulated from the beginning of the
      apportionment year through the end of the apportionment year.
      37.3.17. Column 3, Serviceable On Hand Assets. For cycles other than 30 June, the sum of total
      nonphased serviceable on hand plus due in serviceable assets as of the asset cut off date. For the 30
      June cycle, simulated on hand serviceable assets as determined at the end of the current year in the
      asset simulation process Chapter 40.
      37.3.18. Column 4, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. For cycles other than 30 June, the sum of
      due in from overhaul plus unserviceable contractor scheduled as of the asset cut off date. For the 30
      June cycle, unserviceable on hand scheduled as determined at the end of the current year in the asset
      simulation process.
      37.3.19. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. For cycles other than 30 June, the sum
      of unserviceable base plus unserviceable depot plus unserviceable in transit plus unserviceable con-
      tractor unscheduled plus unserviceable on loan plus WRM unserviceable depot plus TOC assets plus
      net due in unserviceable and net due in TOC assets as of the asset cut off date. For cycles other than
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              743


  30 June, inactive items (insurance, NSO, items with a military contingency code, or a compute code
  other than "Y"). The same as active items for on hand assets. Due in unserviceable is the total due in
  unserviceable and due in TOC in place of net since no condemnation percent is applied against these
  items. For the 30 June cycle, unserviceable unscheduled assets as determined at the end of the current
  year in the asset simulation process.
  37.3.20. Column 6, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Sum of net OIM reparable generations
  (nonslipped), plus net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped)deaccumulated from the beginning of
  the apportionment year through the end of the apportionment year.
  37.3.21. Column 7, On Order Contract. For cycles other than 30 June, the sum of the on order con-
  tract plus WRM on order contract as of the asset cut off date. For the 30 June cycle, the on order con-
  tract plus WRM on order contract at the end of the current year as determined in the asset/buy
  simulation process (chapter 56).
  37.3.22. Column 8, On Order Commit. For the 30 June cycle, on order committed assets are not
  applied. For cycles other than 30 June, the sum of the on order PR funded plus WRM on order PR
  funded, as of the asset cut off date.
  37.3.23. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. Not applicable during the 30 June cycle. For
  cycles other than 30 June, this information is reflected in columns 4 and 5 and is determined by apply-
  ing the MISTR condemnation percent to the nonphased unserviceable assets as described in the open-
  ing position paragraph 37.1.1.22.
  37.3.24. Obsolete Assets. Obsolete assets are not included in the apportionment year position.
  37.3.25. Application of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
  detailed beginning in paragraph 37.3.26.
  37.3.26. Column 2, Base Repair. Apply to Demands Recurring, line 6A, only. Include in line 6C,
  Total Demands.
  37.3.27. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. For cycles other than 30 June, apply only
  WRM serviceable on hand base and depot assets, WRM on order contract, and WRM on order PR
  funded as of the asset cut off date. For the 30 June cycle, apply simulated WRM assets as determined
  at the end of the current year in the asset/buy simulation as follows: (a) WRM serviceable on hand, (b)
  WRM on order contract.
  37.3.28. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. Apply WRM serviceable on hand
  assets, WRM on order contract, and WRM on order PR funded that are excess to the W-B as deter-
  mined in paragraph 37.3.27.
  37.3.29. Lines 5 through 11, all Other Requirements. WRM assets exceeding protectable require-
  ments (lines 3 and 4) and all other assets (except nonapplicable) in columns 3 through 8 are applied to
  requirements in lines 5 through 11. The assets are applied in descending sequence of priority begin-
  ning with line 5, line 6, etc. Assets are also applied in sequence beginning with column 3, 4, etc. Ser-
  viceable on loan assets are applied only to line 6b (Demands Nonrecurring). In the application of
  assets, requirements are either totally satisfied and assets may remain, or insufficient assets exist to
  cover requirements, in which case a deficit results. Anticipated nonapplicable assets are deducted
  from the total and are not applied to requirements.
  37.3.30. Line 12, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
744                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      37.3.31. Line 13, Total Apportionment Year. For columns 2 through 8, this is the sum of the assets
      applied to requirements in lines 3 through 11.
      37.3.32. Column 9, Deficits. This is the difference between the requirements (column 1) and the
      total applied assets (columns 2 through 8) for lines 3 through 11. Line 13 is the total of all deficits on
      lines 3 through 11.
      37.3.33. Column 10, Item Counts. Item counts apply to summary products only and do not appear
      on item details. Item counts on summary products are: (a) Line 1 - total subgroup master included in
      the stratification; (b) Line 2 - Not applicable; (c) Line 3 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a
      W-B requirement; (d) Line 4 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a OWRM protectable require-
      ment; Line 5 through 11 - a count is recorded when the first requirement deficit for an NSN appears
      (subsequent deficits for NSN are not counted) ; Line 13 - the sum of all items with a recorded deficit
      in lines 5 - 11.

37.4. Budget Year Position. This position (Figure 37.4.) represents those requirements and assets that
apply to the budget year plus procurement lead-time. This is the 4-quarter period following the apportion-
ment year.
      37.4.1. Column 1, Requirements.
      37.4.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the PWR or W-B (War
      Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) require-
      ment for the quarter procurement lead time beyond the budget year; or the sum of WRM base and
      depot serviceable on hand plus, WRM on order PR funded plus WRM on order contract as of the asset
      cut off date.
      37.4.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of OWRM requirement; or
      WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement as established in paragraph 37.4.2.
      37.4.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. The stock due out at the end of the apportionment year as determined
      in the asset/buy simulation process.
      37.4.5. Line 6A, Demands Recurring (memo entry). Total of total OIM operating requirement plus
      total NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul pro-
      gram requirements deaccumulated from the end of the apportionment year through the end of the bud-
      get year.
      37.4.6. Line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring (memo entry). Additive requirement minus DOTM from
      the quarter procurement lead time beyond the budget year.
      37.4.7. Line 6C, Total Demands. Total of lines 6A and 6B.
      37.4.8. Line 7, Safety Level. This is the sum of total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock
      level plus total overhaul stock level, from the quarter procurement lead time beyond the budget year.
      37.4.9. Line 8, Numeric Stockage Objective. The Insurance/NSO buy level that has been file main-
      tained for the item.
      37.4.10. Line 9, Repair Cycle. The depot repair cycle requirement is determined by adding net OIM
      reparable generations plus net NJR reparable generations minus net slipped OIM reparable genera-
      tions minus net slipped NJR reparable generations, all from the procurement lead time beyond the
      budget year.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                        745


  37.4.11. Line 10, Production lead-time. Sum of total overhaul condemnations plus OIM reparable
  generation condemnations plus NJR reparable generation condemnations plus base condemnations
  plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements, deaccumulated from the end of the budget year
  through the end of the production lead time beyond the budget year.
  37.4.12. Line 11, Administrative lead-time. Sum of total overhaul condemnations plus OIM repara-
  ble generation condemnations, NJR reparable generation condemnations, base condemnations and
  FMS engine overhaul program requirements, deaccumulated from the end of the budget year produc-
  tion lead time through the end of the administrative lead time.
  37.4.13. Line 12, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
  37.4.14. Line 13, Total Budget Year. Total of all requirements in lines 3 - 11.
  37.4.15. Line 14, Assets End of Budget Year. Not applicable to column 1.
  37.4.16. Line 15, Stock Due Out End of Budget Year. Stock due out at the end of the budget year
  as determined in the asset/buy simulation process.
  37.4.17. Line 1, Assets.
  37.4.18. Column 2, Base Repairs. The total base repair deaccumulated from the end of the appor-
  tionment year through the end of the budget year.
  37.4.19. Column 3, Serviceable On hand Assets. As determined at the end of the apportionment
  year in the asset/buy simulation process (see Chapter 40).
  37.4.20. Column 4, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. As determined at the end of the apportion-
  ment year in the asset/buy simulation process (see Chapter 40).
  37.4.21. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand, Unscheduled. As determined at the end of the appor-
  tionment year in the asset/buy simulation process.
  37.4.22. Column 6, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Sum of net OIM reparable generations
  (nonslipped) plus net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped) deaccumulated from the end of the
  apportionment year through the end of the budget year.
  37.4.23. Column 7, On Order Contract. As determined at the end of the apportionment year in the
  asset/buy simulation process (see Chapter 40).
  37.4.24. Column 8, On Order Commit. This is always zero for all items.
  37.4.25. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. Not applicable to the budget year.
  37.4.26. Obsolete assets. Obsolete assets are not included in the budget year position.
  37.4.27. Application Of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
  detailed beginning in paragraph 37.4.28.
  37.4.28. Column 2, Base Repair. Applies to Demands Recurring, line 6A, only. Included in line 6C,
  Total Demands.
  37.4.29. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. Applies simulated WRM assets as deter-
  mined at the end of the apportionment year in the asset/buy simulation process (see Chapter 40) as
  follows: (a) serviceable WRM on hand; (b) WRM on order contract.
746                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      37.4.30. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. Applies WRM assets, on hand ser-
      viceable WRM on order contract that are excess to the W-B requirement, as determined in paragraph
      37.4.29.
      37.4.31. Lines 5 through 11, all Other Requirements. WRM assets exceeding protectable require-
      ments (lines 3 and 4) and all other assets (except nonapplicable) in columns 3 through 8 are applied to
      requirements in lines 5 through 11. The assets are applied in descending sequence of priority begin-
      ning with line 5, line 6, etc. Assets are also applied in sequence beginning with column 3, 4, etc. Ser-
      viceable on loan assets are applied only to line 6b (Demands Nonrecurring). In the application of
      assets, requirements are either totally satisfied and assets may remain, or insufficient assets exist to
      cover requirements, in which case a deficit results.
      37.4.32. Line 12, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
      37.4.33. Line 13, Total Budget Year. For columns 2 through 8, this is the sum of the assets applied
      to requirements in lines 3 through 11.
      37.4.34. Line 14, Assets End of Budget Year. This applies to columns 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 and consists
      of the simulated assets at the end of the budget year as determined in the asset/buy simulation process
      (see Chapter 40).
      37.4.35. Column 9, Deficits. This is the difference between the requirements (column) and the total
      applied assets (columns 2 through 8) for lines 3 through 11. Line 13 is the total of all deficits on lines
      3 through 11.
      37.4.36. Column 10, Item Counts. Item counts apply to summary products only and do not appear
      on item details. Item counts on summary products are: (a) Line 1 - total subgroup master included in
      the stratification; (b) Line 2 - not applicable; (c) Line 3 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a
      W-B requirement; (d) Line 4 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a OWRM protectable require-
      ment; Line 5 through 11 - a count is recorded when the first requirement deficit for an NSN appears
      (subsequent deficits for NSN are not counted) ; Line 13 - the sum of all items with a recorded deficit
      in lines 5 - 11. Lines 14 and 15. Not applicable.

37.5. Extended Year Position. This position (Figure 37.5.) represents those requirements and assets
that apply to the extended year plus procurement lead-time. This is the 4-quarter period following the
budget year.
      37.5.1. Column 1, Requirements.
      37.5.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. This is the total PWR or W-B (War Readi-
      ness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) requirement for
      the quarter procurement lead-time beyond the budget year.
      37.5.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. This is the total OWRM requirement.
      37.5.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. The stock due out at the end of the budget year as determined in the
      asset/buy simulation process (see Chapter 40).
      37.5.5. Line 6A, Demands Recurring (memo entry). Total of total OIM operating requirement plus
      total NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul pro-
      gram requirements deaccumulated from the end of the budget year through the end of the extended
      year.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                         747


  37.5.6. Line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring (memo entry). Additive requirement minus DOTM from
  the quarter procurement lead time beyond the extended year.
  37.5.7. Line 6C, Total Demands. Total of lines 6A and 6B.
  37.5.8. Line 7, Safety Level. Total of total OIM base stock Level plus VSL depot stock level plus
  total overhaul stock level from the quarter procurement lead time beyond the extended year.
  37.5.9. Line 8, Numeric Stockage Objective. The Insurance/NSO buy level that has been file main-
  tained for the item.
  37.5.10. Line 9, Repair Cycle. The depot repair cycle requirement is determined by summing , net
  OIM reparable generations plus net NJR reparable generations minus net slipped OIM reparable gen-
  erations minus net slipped NJR reparable generations from the procurement lead time beyond the
  extended year.
  37.5.11. Line 10, Production lead-time. Sum of total overhaul condemnations plus OIM reparable
  generation condemnations plus NJR reparable generation condemnations plus base condemnations
  plus Foreign Military Sales (FMS) engine overhaul program requirements, deaccumulated from the
  end of the extended year through the end of the production lead time beyond the extended year.
  37.5.12. Line 11, Administrative lead-time. Sum of total overhaul condemnations plus OIM repara-
  ble generation condemnations plus NJR reparable generation condemnations plus base condemna-
  tions plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements deaccumulated from the end of the extended
  year production lead time through the end of the administrative lead time.
  37.5.13. Line 12, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
  37.5.14. Line 13, Total Extended Year. Total of requirements in lines 3 through 11.
  37.5.15. Line 1, Assets.
  37.5.16. Column 2, Base Repairs. The total base repair deaccumulated from the end of the budget
  year through the end of the extended year.
  37.5.17. Column 3, Serviceable On hand Assets. As determined at the end of the budget year in the
  asset/buy simulation process.
  37.5.18. Column 4, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. As determined at the end of the budget
  year in the asset/buy simulation process (see Chapter 40).
  37.5.19. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. As determined at the end of the budget
  year in the asset/buy simulation process (see Chapter 40).
  37.5.20. Column 6, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Sum of net OIM reparable generations
  (nonslipped) plus net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped) deaccumulated from the end of the bud-
  get year through the end of the extended year.
  37.5.21. Column 7, On Order Contract. As determined at the end of the budget year in the asset/
  buy simulation process (see Chapter 40).
  37.5.22. Column 8, On Order Commit. This is always zero for all items.
  37.5.23. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. Not applicable to the extended year.
  37.5.24. Obsolete assets. Obsolete assets are not included in the extended year position.
748                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      37.5.25. Application of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
      detailed beginning in paragraph 37.5.26.
      37.5.26. Column 2, Base Repair. Apply to Demands Recurring, line 6A, only. Include in line 6C,
      Total Demands.
      37.5.27. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable (PWRP). Apply assets as described
      below.
         37.5.27.1. Application of WRM serviceable assets to PWRP. The quantity to be applied to column
         3, line 3, is the lesser of the PWRP requirement as determined in paragraph 37.5.2. above; or the
         WRM on hand serviceable assets as determined in the asset/buy simulation process (see Chapter
         40).
         37.5.27.2. Application of WRM on order contract to PWRP. Compare the PWRP requirement,
         column 1, line 3, with the applied serviceable on hand, column 3, line 3. If the requirement is
         greater than the applied serviceable on hand, apply WRM on order contract assets, column 7. The
         quantity is the lesser of (a) the variance between the requirement and the applied serviceable on
         hand; or (b) the WRM on order contract as determined in the asset/buy simulation process (see
         Chapter 40).
         37.5.27.3. If PWRP requirement is greater than the applied assets in paragraphs 37.5.27.1. and
         37.5.27.2., apply peacetime on hand serviceable assets, then on order contract assets until the
         requirement is satisfied.
      37.5.28. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable (OAWRP). Apply a s s e t s                 as
      described below.
         37.5.28.1. Application of WRM serviceable assets to the OWRM requirement. The quantity to be
         applied is determined by comparing the WRM serviceable on hand assets excess to the W-B with
         the OWRM requirement, column 1, line 4. The lesser of the two is the serviceable on hand assets
         applied to the OWRM requirements, column 3, line 4.
         37.5.28.2. Application of WRM on order contract assets to OWRM requirement. Compare the
         WRM on order contract assets excess to the W-B with the remaining OWRM requirement. The
         lesser of the two is the on order contract assets applied to OWRM requirement, column 7, line 4.
         37.5.28.3. If the OWRM requirement is greater than the applied assets in paragraph 37.5.28.1. or
         paragraph 37.5.28.2., apply peacetime on hand serviceable assets, then on order contract assets
         until the requirement is satisfied.
      37.5.29. Lines 5 through 11, all other requirements. WRM assets exceeding protectable require-
      ments (lines 3 and 4) and all other assets in columns 3 through 8 are applied to requirements in lines 5
      through 11. The assets are applied in descending sequence of priority beginning with line 5, line 6, etc.
      Assets are also applied in sequence beginning with column 3, 4, etc. Serviceable on loan assets are
      applied only to line 6b (Demands Nonrecurring). In the application of assets, requirements are either
      totally satisfied and assets may remain, or insufficient assets exist to cover requirements, in which
      case a deficit results.
      37.5.30. Line 13, Total Extended Year. For columns 2 through 8, this is the sum of the assets
      applied to requirements in lines 3 through 11.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 749


   37.5.31. Column 9, Deficits. This is the difference between the requirements (column 1) and the
   total applied assets (columns 2 through 8) for lines 3 through 11. Line 13 is the total of all deficits on
   lines 3 through 11.
   37.5.32. Column 10, Item Counts. Item counts apply to summary products only and do not appear
   on item details. Item counts on summary products are: (a) Line 1 - total subgroup master included in
   the stratification; (b) Line 2 - not applicable; (c) Line 3 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a
   W-B requirement; (d) Line 4 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a OWRM protectable require-
   ment; Lines 5 through 11 - a count is recorded when the first requirement deficit for an NSN appears
   (subsequent deficits for NSN are not counted); Line 13 - the sum of all items with a recorded deficit in
   lines 5 - 11.

37.6. Readiness Position. The elements of this position (Figure 37.6.) comprise those requirements for
assets to be on hand as of the asset cut off date. The purpose of this position is to establish a gross mea-
surement of the capability of the supply system to satisfy logistics requirements as of a point in time by
measuring asset availability against on hand requirements.
   37.6.1. Column 1, Requirements.
   37.6.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the PWR or W-B (War
   Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) require-
   ment as of the first quarter of the computation; or the sum of the WRM base serviceable on hand plus
   WRM depot serviceable on hand plus WRM total on order contract plus WRM total on order
   PR-funded as of the asset cut off date.
   37.6.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the OWRM require-
   ment as of the first quarter of the computation; or the WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement
   as determined in paragraph 37.6.2.
   37.6.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. The DOTM quantity as of the asset cut off date.
   37.6.5. Line 6, Safety Level. Total of total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level plus
   total overhaul stock levels of the first quarter of the computation cycle.
   37.6.6. Line 7, Numeric Stockage Objective. The insurance/NSO gross requirement, which is the
   insurance/NSO buy level file maintained for the item.
   37.6.7. Line 8, Repair Cycle. The depot repair cycle requirement from the first quarter of the com-
   putation cycle, calculated as follows: net OIM reparable generations plus net NJR reparable genera-
   tions minus net slipped OIM generations minus net slipped NJR generations.
   37.6.8. Line 9, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
   37.6.9. Line 10, Balance Prepositioned War Reserve. The PWR or W-B (War Readiness Spares
   Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) requirements as of the first
   quarter of the computation minus the W-B war reserve protectable requirement as determined for the
   readiness position CSIS, line 3, described in paragraph 37.6.2.
   37.6.10. Line 11, Balance Other Acquisition War Reserve. The OWRM requirement as of the first
   quarter of the computation minus the OWRM protectable requirement as determined for the Readi-
   ness position CSIS, line 4, described in paragraph 37.6.3.
750                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      37.6.11. Line 11A, Total Readiness. The total of all requirements elements in CSIS, lines 3 through
      11.
      37.6.12. Line 12, Approved Force Retention. Not used.
      37.6.13. Line 1, Assets.
      37.6.14. Column 2, Base Repairs. Not applicable to the readiness position.
      37.6.15. Column 3, Serviceable On hand. The sum of serviceable base and depot assets, service-
      able WRM base and depot assets, in transit serviceable assets, contractor serviceable assets and total
      due in serviceable as of the asset cut off date.
      37.6.16. Column 4, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. The unserviceable due in from overhaul
      plus unserviceable contractor scheduled assets.
      37.6.17. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. The sum of unserviceable base and
      depot assets, unserviceable in transit, contractor unserviceable unscheduled assets, unserviceable on
      loan assets, unserviceable WRM depot assets, TOC assets, and net due in unserviceable and TOC
      assets, (except for insurance and NSO items which do not apply a condemnation percent) as of the
      asset cut off date.
      37.6.18. Column 6, Recoverable Unserviceable Return. Not applicable to the readiness position.
      37.6.19. Column 7, On Order Contract. On order contract plus WRM on order contract as of the
      asset cut off date.
      37.6.20. Column 8, On Order Commitment. On order PR-funded plus WRM on order PR-funded
      as of the asset cut off date.
      37.6.21. Line 7, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. For the readiness position, this line applies to
      columns 4 and 5 only. It is determined by applying the MISTR condemnation percent to the
      non-phased unserviceable on hand assets as described for the opening position (see paragraph
      37.1.1.22.).
      37.6.22. Obsolete Assets. Obsolete assets are not included in the Readiness Position.
      37.6.23. Application Of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
      detailed beginning in paragraph 37.6.24.
      37.6.24. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. Only serviceable WRM base and depot,
      WRM on order contract, and WRM on order PR-funded assets as of the asset cut off date are applied
      to this requirement.
      37.6.25. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. Only serviceable WRM base and
      depot, WRM on order contract, and WRM on order PR-funded assets in excess of the W-B require-
      ment as determined in paragraph 37.6.24. are applied to this requirement.
      37.6.26. Line 5 through 11. WRM assets exceeding protectable requirements and all other assets
      (except nonapplicable) are applied to lines 5 through 11 in descending sequence beginning with col-
      umn 3, 4, etc. In the application of assets, requirements are either totally satisfied and assets may
      remain, or insufficient assets exist to cover requirements, in which case a deficit results.
      37.6.27. Line 11A, Total Readiness. Total assets applied to requirements in lines 3 through 11.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  751


   37.6.28. Line 12, Approved Force Retention. Not a requirement, therefore assets are not applied to
   this line.
   37.6.29. Column 9, Deficits. The difference between the requirements in column 1 and the assets
   applied in columns 3 through 8.
   37.6.30. Column 10, Item Counts. Item counts apply to summary products and do not appear on
   item details. They are as follows: Line 1, Column 10 - total subgroup master NSNs included in the
   stratification; Line 2, Column 10 - not applicable; Line 3, Column 10 - a count is recorded for each
   item having a W-B requirement; Line 4, Column 10 - a count is recorded for each item having a
   OWRM protectable requirement; Lines 5 through 11, Column 1 - a count is recorded when the first
   deficit occurs; Line 11A, Column 10 - the sum of all items with a recorded deficit in lines 5 through
   11 and Line 12, Column 10 - no count is recorded since no deficit is computed for this line.

37.7. Approved Force Acquisition Objective (AFAO) and Retention Position. This position (Figure
37.7.) represent the stratification of requirements and assets for the total AFAO support period and pro-
vides the asset long supply position.
   37.7.1. Column 1, Requirements
   37.7.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of (a) W-B requirement pro-
   curement lead time beyond the budget year. (If lead-time is not in even quarters, do not prorate. Go to
   the end of the quarter in which the lead time falls); or (b) WRM serviceable base, plus total WRM ser-
   viceable depot assets, plus total WRM on order contract assets plus total WRM on order PR funded
   assets as of the asset cut off date. If (b) is greater than (a), the assets exceeding (a) are considered as
   OWRM assets in paragraph 37.7.3.
   37.7.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the OWRM require-
   ment or OWRM assets.
   37.7.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. The DOTM quantity as of the asset cut off date.
   37.7.5. Line 6, Demands Current Year. As determined for the current year position, line 6a,
   Demands Recurring (30 June cycle only).
   37.7.6. Line 7, Demands Apportionment Year. As determined for the apportionment year position,
   line 6a, Demands Recurring.
   37.7.7. Line 8, Demands Budget Year. As determined for the budget year position, line 6c, Total
   Demands, which includes nonrecurring.
   37.7.8. Line 9, Safety Level. As determined for the budget year position, line 7, Safety Level.
   37.7.9. Line 10, Numeric Stockage Objective. As determined for the budget year position, line 8,
   Numeric Stockage Objective.
   37.7.10. Line 11, Repair Cycle. As determined for the budget year position, line 9, Repair Cycle.
   37.7.11. Line 12, Production Lead-Time. As determined for the budget year position, line 10, Pro-
   duction lead-time.
   37.7.12. Line 13, Administrative Lead-Time. As determined for the budget year position, line 11,
   Administrative lead-time.
   37.7.13. Line 14, Procurement Cycle. Not applicable.
752                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      37.7.14. Line 15, Balance AFAO. 30 June cycle - Not applicable. 30 September cycle - Not applica-
      ble. 31 December cycle - Total of OIM operating requirement plus NJR reparable generations plus
      total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements deaccumulated from
      the end of the budget year total procurement lead time through the following 3 months. 31 March
      cycle - Total of OIM operating requirement plus NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul con-
      demnations plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements deaccumulated from the end of the bud-
      get year total procurement lead time through the following 6 months.
      37.7.15. Line 16, Balance Prepositioned War Reserve. The W-B (War Readiness Spares Kits-
      Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) requirement at the end of the bud-
      get year procurement lead time quarter minus the W-B war reserve protectable requirement as deter-
      mined for the budget year position.
      37.7.16. Line 17, Balance Other Acquisition War Reserve. The OWRM requirement minus the
      OWRM protectable requirement as determined for the Budget Year position.
      37.7.17. Line 17A, Total AFAO. The sum of all requirements elements in CSIS lines 3 through 17.
      37.7.18. Line 18, Approved Force Retention. Not used.
      37.7.19. Line 19, Economic Retention. For active items, economic retention requirement is com-
      puted by taking the select retention level as computed and subtracting the results of the following:
      total AFAO requirement, budget CSIS AFAO segment, column 1, line 17A (total AFAO memo)
      minus total base repairs accumulated from the asset cut off date through the BY plus balance AFAO
      period, CSIS AFAO segment line 1, column 2, minus total nonslipped net OIM and NJR reparable
      generations accumulated from the asset cut off date through the BY plus balance AFAO period, CSIS
      AFAO segment, line 1, column 6. For inactive items (item category code = "I" or "S"), the economic
      retention is always retention level minus the buy level.
      37.7.20. Line 20, Contingency Retention. Contingency retention applies only to items with disposal
      code = "C" or "P" or "R", or a compute code other than "Y". The following is used to compute the
      requirements:
         37.7.20.1. Disposal freeze coded C- or P-or R- items. For these items the contingency require-
         ment consists of the total net non-obsolete on hand assets minus [the total AFAO CSIS require-
         ments (lines 17a, 18, and 19), minus base repairs, minus applied on order contract and on order
         committed assets].
         37.7.20.2. Military contingency coded M-items. For these items compare the contingency
         retention level to the non-obsolete on hand assets, on order contract assets, and on order commit
         assets and use the lesser of the two.
         37.7.20.3. No Compute coded items. The non-obsolete on hand assets, on order contract assets,
         and on order commit assets are the contingency retention requirement.
      37.7.21. Line 21, Potential DOD Excess. Column 1, requirement entry not applicable.
      37.7.22. Line 21a, Total Long Supply. Column 1, requirement entry not applicable.
      37.7.23. Line 1, Assets.
      37.7.24. Column 1, Requirement, not applicable.
      37.7.25. Column 2, Base Repairs. Total base repairs are calculated below:
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            753


     37.7.25.1. For the 30 June and 30 September cycles, base repairs are accumulated from the asset
     cut off date through the budget year. These cycles do not have a balance AFAO period.
     37.7.25.2. For the 31 December cycle, base repairs are accumulated as in paragraph 37.7.25.1.,
     plus 3 months following the end of the BY procurement lead time.
     37.7.25.3. For the 31 March cycle, base repairs are accomplished as in paragraph 37.7.25.1.,
     plus the 6 months following the end of the BY procurement lead time.
  37.7.26. Column 3, Serviceable On Hand. Total nonphased serviceable assets as of the asset cut off
  date of the computation plus total due in serviceable through the buy point.
  37.7.27. Column 4, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. The unserviceable due in from overhaul
  plus contractor scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date, not netted by the MISTR condemnation
  percent.
  37.7.28. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. The total of unserviceable base assets,
  unserviceable depot assets, unserviceable in transit, unserviceable contractor unscheduled, unservice-
  able on loan, unserviceable WRM depot and TOC assets not reduced by the condemnation percent;
  ISSP TOC due in unserviceable, reclamation TOC due in unserviceable, termination TOC due in
  unserviceable, FMS program TOC due in unserviceable, ISSP due in unserviceable, reclamation due
  in unserviceable, termination due in unserviceable and FMS program due in unserviceable netted by
  the MISTR condemnation percent as of the asset cut off date.
  37.7.29. Column 6, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. The nonslipped net OIM and NJR repa-
  rable generations accumulated from the asset cut off date through end of the budget year plus the bal-
  ance AFAO period (immediately following the end of the BY procurement lead time). This consists of
  net nonslipped OIM reparable generations (NRTS) plus net nonslipped NJR Rep Generations. The 30
  June and 30 September cycles do not have a Balance AFAO period. For the 31 December cycle, the
  Balance AFAO period is the three months following the end of budget year procurement lead-time.
  For the 31 March cycle, the Balance AFAO period is the six months following the end of the budget
  year procurement lead-time.
  37.7.30. Column 7, On Order Contract. The on order contract as of the asset cut off date plus the
  WRM contract as of the asset cut off date.
  37.7.31. Column 8, On Order Commitment. The on order PR-funded as of the asset cut off date
  plus the WRM PR-funded as of the asset cut off date.
  37.7.32. Line 2, Assets Anticipated. Nonapplicable, columns 4 and 5. Assets anticipated nonappli-
  cable as computed for the opening position by applying MISTR condemnation percentage to on hand
  unserviceable scheduled and unscheduled. The assets are not applied to requirements.
  37.7.33. Obsolete Assets. If a master stock number is coded obsolete, all subgroup interchangeable
  stock number assets are considered obsolete. If an interchangeable stock number is coded obsolete,
  only the assets pertaining to the interchangeable stock number are considered obsolete. Obsolete
  assets are included in asset totals but are not applied to requirements. They are considered excess.
  37.7.34. Application Of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
  detailed beginning in paragraph 37.7.35.
  37.7.35. Total base repairs. Apply the base repairs applicable to the current year to line 6, Demands
  Current Year. Apply base repairs that apply to the apportionment year to line 7, Demands Apportion-
754                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      ment Year. Apply base repairs applicable to the budget year to line 8, Demands Budget Year. Apply
      base repairs applicable to the balance AFAO period to line 15, Balance AFAO.
      37.7.36. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. Only WRM serviceable and WRM on
      order assets are applied to line 3.
      37.7.37. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. Only WRM serviceable and WRM
      on order assets exceeding the CSIS Line 3 (PWRP) requirement are applied to line 4.
      37.7.38. Lines 5 through 17 and 19 through 21, (Line 17A is a subtotal of lines 3 through 17)
      Requirements. WRM assets exceeding the protectable requirements and all other non-obsolete assets
      (except nonapplicable) are applied to remaining requirements in the sequence listed. Serviceable, net
      unserviceable scheduled, net unserviceable unscheduled, recoverable unserviceable returns, on order
      contract, and on order commitment are applied in turn until exhausted or until requirements are satis-
      fied. Serviceable on loan assets are applied only to line 8 (Demands Budget Year). On order contract
      and on order commitment are not applied to line 19. Assets exceeding requirements and obsolete
      assets are applied to line 21, Potential DOD Excess.
      37.7.39. Line 21A, Total Long Supply. Applies to columns 3 through 8. These show the total assets
      in lines 18 through 21.
      37.7.40. Column 9, Deficits. Deficits for lines 5 through 17a are calculated by subtracting the total
      assets applied from the requirement. Deficits are not calculated for lines 19 through 21.
      37.7.41. Item counts. Applies to summary products only and does not appear on item details. Item
      counts on summary products are: (a) Line 1 - total subgroup master included in the stratification; (b)
      Line 2- not applicable; (c) Line 3 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a W-B requirement; (d)
      Line 4 - a count is recorded for each NSN having a OWRM protectable requirement; Line 5 through
      17a - a count is recorded when the first requirement deficit for an NSN appears (subsequent deficits
      for NSN are not counted) ; Line 17a - the sum of all items with a recorded deficit in lines 5 - 17a; Line
      19 through 20 - a count is recorded when the first requirements deficit occurs or when total non-obso-
      lete assets are exhausted. For example, if the last of the non-obsolete assets are applied to line 19, but
      there is no deficit on this line, a count is recorded; Line 21 - a count is recorded for each item having
      assets on this line. Aside from lines 3 and 4, the only case where an item can be counted twice is where
      an item is counted in lines 5 through 20 but has obsolete assets applied to line 21; Line 21a - total for
      lines 19 through 21.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                            755


Figure 37.1. CSIS Budget - Opening Position.




Figure 37.2. CSIS Budget - Current Year Position.
756                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 37.3. CSIS Budget - Apportionment Year Position.




Figure 37.4. CSIS Budget - Budget Year Position.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                             757


Figure 37.5. CSIS Budget - Extended Year Position.




Figure 37.6. CSIS Budget - Readiness Position.
758                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 37.7. CSIS Budget - AFAO & Retention Position.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              759


                                              Chapter 38

     CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION – REPAIR – TABLES IV AND V

38.1. Opening Position. The purpose of this position (Figure 38.1.) is to establish the requirements for
material to be on hand to sustain operations until repairs can be completed and to measure availability of
assets to meet requirements.
   38.1.1. Column 1, Requirements.
   38.1.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of (a) the PWR or W-B (War
   Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) require-
   ment for the quarter repair lead time beyond the asset cut off date, or (b) the sum of serviceable on
   hand WRM base and depot assets plus total WRM on order PR funded plus WRM on order contract
   repair lead time beyond the asset cut off date.
   38.1.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of OWRM requirement, or
   WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement as determined in paragraph 38.1.2.
   38.1.4. Line 5, Stock Due out. The DOTM quantity as of the asset cutoff date.
   38.1.5. Line 6, Safety Level. The sum of total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level plus
   total overhaul stock level for the quarter repair lead-time beyond the asset cut off date.
   38.1.6. Line 7, Numeric Stockade Objective. The Insurance/NSO repair level file maintained for
   the item.
   38.1.7. Line 8, Repair Lead-Time. The sum of the OIM operating requirement plus total NJR repa-
   rable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul program require-
   ments plus total additives from the quarter repair lead time beyond the asset cut off date, minus
   DOTM, deaccumulated from the asset cut off date through repair lead time.
   38.1.8. Line 9, Accumulation Time. Not applicable.
   38.1.9. Line 10, Total Requirements/Assets. The sum of the requirements in column 1, lines 3
   through 8.
   38.1.10. Assets, line 1.
   38.1.11. Column 2, Base Repairs. Base Repairs deaccumulated from the asset cut off date through
   repair lead-time.
   38.1.12. Column 3, Serviceable On hand Assets. For active items, sum of serviceable base and
   depot assets plus serviceable WRM base and depot assets plus serviceable in transit assets plus con-
   tractor serviceable and on loan assets plus total serviceable due in assets scheduled to be delivered
   from the asset cut off date through repair lead time, as of the asset cut off date. For inactive items
   (insurance, NSO, military contingency), same as active, except serviceable due in assets will be total
   since they are not phased.
   38.1.13. Column 4, Procurement Receipt Within the Period. Sum of the following scheduled for
   delivery from the asset cut off date through repair lead-time: (not applicable to inactive items): On
   order PR-funded plus On order contract plus WRM on order PR-funded plus WRM on order con-
   tract.
760                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      38.1.14. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. The sum of due-in from overhaul plus
      contractor unserviceable scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date.
      38.1.15. Column 6, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. For active items, the sum of the follow-
      ing: unserviceable base and depot assets plus unserviceable in transit assets plus unserviceable con-
      tractor-unscheduled assets plus unserviceable on loan assets plus unserviceable WRM depot assets
      plus TOC assets plus total net (unserviceable and TOC) due in assets deaccumulated from the asset
      cut off date through repair lead time. For inactive items (items coded as insurance, NSO, military con-
      tingency, and items with a compute code other than "Y"). The same as active items for on hand assets.
      Due-in unserviceable is the total of all due in unserviceable and due in TOC in place of net since there
      are no condemnations on these items.
      38.1.16. Column 7, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Not applicable to the opening position.
      38.1.17. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. Those assets anticipated to be nonapplicable,
      computed by applying the MISTR condemnation percent as described in the opening position of the
      budget CSIS (paragraph 37.1.1.22.). This line applies only to columns 5 and 6 in the opening posi-
      tion.
      38.1.18. Application Of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
      detailed beginning in paragraph 38.1.19.
      38.1.19. Column 2, Base Repairs. These assets are applied only to the repair lead time, line 8, in the
      opening position. Other assets are applied by column to the requirements in line number sequence
      with two exceptions. Only WRM serviceable and WRM procurement receipts within the period (see
      WRM on order contract and WRM on order p-r funded in paragraph 38.1.13.) are applied to line 3,
      Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable, and line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable.
      38.1.20. Line 10, Total Requirements/Assets. Sum of assets by column applied to lines 3 through 8.
      38.1.21. Column 8, Deficits/Repair Requirements. The unserviceable on hand unscheduled assets
      (column 6) applies to requirements in lines 5 through 8.
      38.1.22. Column 9, Item Counts. Applies to summary products only. (a) Line 1 - total subgroup
      master NSNs included in the stratification; (b) Line 2 - not applicable; (c) Line 3 and 54. A count is
      recorded for each item having a protectable requirement. Items with requirements on both lines are
      counted on both lines; (d) Lines 5 through 8. A count is recorded when the first application of assets
      in column 6 occurs; (e) Line 10. The sum of all items with a deficit/ repair requirement in lines 5
      through 8.

38.2. Current Year Position. This position (Figure 38.2.) represents those repair requirements and
assets that apply to the balance of the current fiscal year. This position applies to the 30 June computation
only.
      38.2.1. Column 1, Requirements.
      38.2.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the PWR or W-B (War
      Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) require-
      ment for the quarter repair lead time beyond the current year; or the sum of serviceable WRM base
      plus serviceable WRM depot as of the asset cut off date plus WRM on order PR funded and WRM on
      order contract scheduled to be delivered from the asset cut off date through repair lead time beyond
      the current year.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                761


  38.2.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of OWRM requirement, or
  WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement as established in paragraph 38.2.2.
  38.2.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. DOTM quantity as of the asset cut off date.
  38.2.5. Line 6A, Demands Recurring (memo entry ). The sum of OIM operating requirement plus
  total NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul pro-
  gram requirements deaccumulated from the asset cut off date through the end of the current year.
  38.2.6. Line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring (memo entry). Additive requirements for the quarter
  repair lead time beyond the current year minus DOTM quantity.
  38.2.7. Line 6C, Total Demands. The sum of: line 6A, Demands Recurring plus line 6B Demands
  Nonrecurring.
  38.2.8. Line 7, Safety Level. The sum of the following total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot
  stock level plus total overhaul stock level from the quarter at repair lead time beyond the current year.
  38.2.9. Line 8, Numeric Stockage Objective. The insurance/NSO repair level that has been file
  maintained for the item.
  38.2.10. Line 9, Repair Lead Time. The sum of OIM operating requirement plus total NJR repara-
  ble generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul program requirements
  deaccumulated from the end of the current year through repair lead time beyond the current year.
  38.2.11. Line 10, Accumulation Time. Not applicable.
  38.2.12. Line 11, Total Requirements/Assets. Total requirements as reflected in column 1 and is the
  sum of the requirements in lines 3 through 9.
  38.2.13. Line 1, Assets.
  38.2.14. Column 2, Base Repairs. The base repairs deaccumulated from the asset cut off date
  through repair lead time beyond the current year.
  38.2.15. Column 3, Serviceable On Hand. For active items, sum of the following, as of the asset cut
  off date: serviceable base and depot assets plus serviceable WRM base assets plus serviceable WRM
  depot assets plus serviceable in transit assets plus contractor serviceable and on loan assets plus total
  due in serviceable assets scheduled to be delivered from the asset cut off date through repair lead time
  beyond the current year. Inactive items (insurance, NSO and military contingency) same as active
  items, except due in assets will be totaled since they are not phased.
  38.2.16. Column 4, Procurement Receipts Within the Period. The sum of the following on order
  PR-funded, plus on order contract, plus WRM on order PR-funded, plus WRM on order contract plus
  scheduled deliveries from simulated buys as determined in the buy simulation process (Chapter 40).
  This data is deaccumulated from the asset cut off date through repair lead time beyond the current year
  (not applicable to inactive items).
  38.2.17. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. The due in from overhaul plus contractor
  unserviceable scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date.
  38.2.18. Column 6, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. For active items, the sum of the follow-
  ing as of the asset cut off date: unserviceable base and depot assets plus unserviceable in transit assets
  plus contractor unscheduled unserviceable assets plus unserviceable on loan assets plus unserviceable
  WRM depot assets plus TOC assets plus total net (unserviceable and TOC) due in assets deaccumu-
762                                                                         AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      lated from the asset cut off date through the current year. For inactive items (items coded as insurance,
      NSO, military contingency, or items with a compute code other than "Y") the same as active items for
      unserviceable on hand unscheduled assets. Due-in unserviceable is the total of all due in unserviceable
      and due in TOC. There is no total net since there are no condemnations on these items.
      38.2.19. Column 7, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Sum of net OIM reparable generations
      (nonslipped) plus net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped) deaccumulated from the asset cut off
      date through the current year.
      38.2.20. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. This applies to columns 5, 6, and 7 only. Col-
      umns 5 and 6 consist of condemnations as determined by applying the MISTR condemnation percent,
      and are computed as described in the opening position of the budget CSIS. (see paragraph
      37.1.1.22.).
      38.2.21. Column 7 Recoverable Unserviceable Returns for line 2 is computed as follows: C o m -
      pare the total available MISTR repairs at repair lead time beyond the current year to the total MISTR
      output accumulative at repair lead time beyond the current year.
         38.2.21.1. If they're equal, compute as follows: unserviceable unscheduled assets as determined
         for the repair CSIS current year, line 1, column 6; minus unserviceable unscheduled assets antici-
         pated nonapplicable as determined for the repair CSIS current year, line 2, column 6; plus net non-
         slipped OIM reparable generations and net nonslipped NJR reparable generations from the asset
         cut off date through the current year; minus MISTR input (total) accumulated at the end of the cur-
         rent year. (If the computation results in a negative value, the anticipated nonapplicable assets are
         zero).
         38.2.21.2. If they are not equal, compute by adding net OIM reparable generations (nonslipped)
         deaccumulated for the last quarter of the current year plus net NJR reparable generations (non-
         slipped) deaccumulated for the last quarter of the current year; multiplied by (retrograde time
         divided by 90). (Retrograde time = reparable in transit time plus base processing time).
      38.2.22. Application Of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
      detailed beginning in paragraph 38.2.23.
      38.2.23. Column 2, Base Repairs. These assets are applied to Demands Recurring, line 6A and
      Repair lead time, line 9, for the respective time periods; i.e., the quantity to be repaired during the cur-
      rent year (first quarter) is applied to line 6A, Demand Recurring, and the quantity to be repaired dur-
      ing repair lead time is applied to line 9, Repair lead time, as determined in paragraph 38.2.14.
         38.2.23.1. Only WRM base and depot serviceable assets, WRM procurement receipts within the
         period as determined in paragraph 38.2.16. are applied to lines 3 and 4, Prepositioned War Reserve
         Protectable and Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable.
         38.2.23.2. WRM assets in excess of WRM requirements and all other assets except obsolete and
         non-applicable are applied to lines 5 through 9, by column. (Serviceable on loan assets are applied
         only to line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring).
      38.2.24. Total Requirements/Assets, Line 11. Sum of the assets by column applied to requirements
      on lines 3 through 11.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               763


   38.2.25. Column 8, Deficits/Repair Requirement. The sum of the unserviceable on hand unsched-
   uled (column 6) plus the Recoverable Unserviceable Returns (column 7) applied to requirements on
   lines 5 through 9.
   38.2.26. Column 9, Item Counts. Applies to summary products only: (a) Line 1 - total subgroup
   master NSNs included in the stratification; (b) Line 2 - Not applicable; (c) Line 3 and 4. A count is
   recorded for each item having a protectable requirement. Items with requirements on both lines are
   counted on both lines; (d) Lines 5 through 9. A count is recorded when the first application of assets
   in column 6 or 7 occurs.

38.3. Apportionment Year Position. The time frame represented by the apportionment year (Figure
38.3.) varies for each computation cycle. They are: 30 June cycle - the four quarters following the current
year. 30 September cycle - the first four quarters of the computation. 31 December cycle - the first three
quarters of the computation. 31 March cycle -the first two quarters of the computation.
   38.3.1. Column 1, Requirements.
   38.3.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the PWR or W-B (War
   Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) require-
   ment for the quarter repair lead time beyond the apportionment year; or the sum of serviceable WRM
   base and depot assets as of the asset cut off date plus actual WRM on order PR-funded scheduled to be
   delivered from the asset cut off date through repair lead time beyond the apportionment year plus
   actual WRM on order contract scheduled to be delivered from the asset cut off date through repair
   lead time beyond the apportionment year plus simulated WRM on order contract scheduled to be
   delivered from the asset cut off date through repair lead time beyond the apportionment year as deter-
   mined in the asset/buy simulation process in Chapter 40.
   38.3.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of: OWRM requirement;
   or WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement as established in paragraph 38.3.2.
   38.3.4. Line 5, Stock Due out. For the 30 June cycle, the stock due out requirement at the end of the
   current year as determined in the asset/buy simulation computation in Chapter 40. For all other
   cycles, the DOTM as of the asset cut off date.
   38.3.5. Line 6A, Demands Recurring (memo entry). The sum of OIM operating requirement plus
   total NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul pro-
   gram requirements deaccumulated from the beginning of the apportionment year through the end of
   the apportionment year.
   38.3.6. Line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring (memo entry). The total additive requirement minus
   DOTM from the quarter repair lead time beyond the apportionment year.
   38.3.7. Line 6C, Total Demands. Total of lines 6A and 6B.
   38.3.8. Line 7, Safety Level. The sum of the total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level
   plus total overhaul stock level from the quarter repair lead time beyond the apportionment year.
   38.3.9. Line 8, Numeric Stockage Objective. The insurance/NSO repair level which has been file
   maintained for the item.
   38.3.10. Line 9, Repair Lead Time. The sum of OIM operating requirement plus NJR reparable
   generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul program requirement deac-
764                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      cumulated from the end of the apportionment year through repair lead time beyond the apportionment
      year.
      38.3.11. Line 10, Accumulation Time. Not applicable.
      38.3.12. Line 11, Total Requirements/Assets. The sum of lines 3 through 9.
      38.3.13. Line 12, Prepositioned War Reserve Balance. The W-B MISTR input accumulated from
      the asset cut off date through the apportionment year.
      38.3.14. Line 13, Other Acquisition War Reserve Balance. The OWRM MISTR input accumu-
      lated from the asset cut off date through the apportionment year.
      38.3.15. Line 14, Total Apportionment Year. Total requirements lines 11 - 13.
      38.3.16. Line 1, Assets.
      38.3.17. Column 2, Base Repairs. The base repairs deaccumulated from the beginning of the appor-
      tionment year through repair lead time beyond the apportionment year.
      38.3.18. Column 3, Serviceable On hand Assets. For cycles other than 30 June, serviceable assets
      are computed for the apportionment year as described in the opening position, paragraph 38.1.13.
      For the 30 June cycle, serviceable assets as determined at the end of the current year, in the asset sim-
      ulation process in Chapter 40.
      38.3.19. Column 4, Procurement Receipts Within Period. The sum of the following deaccumu-
      lated from the beginning of the apportionment year through repair lead time beyond the apportion-
      ment year (not applicable to inactive items): on order PR-funded plus on order contract plus WRM on
      order PR-funded plus WRM on order contract plus scheduled deliveries from simulated buys as deter-
      mined in the buy simulation procedure described in Chapter 40.
      38.3.20. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. For cycles other than 30 June, due in from
      overhaul plus contractor unserviceable scheduled as of the asset cut off date. For the 30 June cycle,
      unserviceable scheduled as computed at the end of the current year, in the asset simulation process in
      Chapter 40.
      38.3.21. Column 6, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. For the 30 June cycle, unserviceable
      unscheduled assets, as computed at the end of the current year in the asset simulation process. For
      cycles other than 30 June, the sum of the following as of the asset cut off date for active items: unser-
      viceable base and depot assets plus unserviceable in transit assets plus unserviceable contractor
      unscheduled assets plus on loan unserviceable assets plus unserviceable WRM depot assets plus TOC
      assets plus total net due in assets (unserviceable and TOC), deaccumulated from the asset cut off date
      through repair lead time beyond the apportionment year. For inactive items (items coded as insurance,
      NSO, military contingency, or items with a compute code other than "Y"), the same as active items for
      on hand assets. Due-in unserviceable is the total of all due in unserviceable and due in TOC in place
      of net since there are no condemnations on these items.
      38.3.22. Column 7, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Sum of net OIM reparable generations
      (nonslipped) plus net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped).deaccumulated from the beginning of
      the apportionment year through the end of the apportionment year.
      38.3.23. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable: For cycles other than 30 June, this applies to
      columns 5, 6, and 7. It consists of condemnations as determined by applying the MISTR condemna-
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                765


  tion percent for columns 5 and 6, and retrograde time for column 3. Columns 5 and 6 are computed as
  described in the opening position of the budget CSIS.
     38.3.23.1. For the 30 June cycle, line 2 applies only to column 7, which is computed as follows:
     (a) Compare the total available MISTR repairs at repair lead time beyond the apportionment year
     to the total MISTR output accumulative at repair lead time beyond the apportionment year. (b) If
     they are equal, compute as follows for cycle other than 30 June: unserviceable unscheduled assets
     as determined for the repair CSIS apportionment year, line 1, column 6; minus unserviceable
     unscheduled assets anticipated nonapplicable as determined for the repair CSIS apportionment
     year, line 2, column 6; plus net nonslipped OIM reparable generations and net nonslipped NJR
     reparable generations from the asset cut off date through the apportionment year; minus MISTR
     input (total) accumulated at the end of the apportionment year. If the computation results in nega-
     tive value, the anticipated nonapplicable assets are zero.
     38.3.23.2. If they are equal, compute as follows for the 30 June cycle: (If following computation
     results in negative value, the anticipated nonapplicable assets are zero). Sum of the following, net-
     ted by the MISTR condemnation percent, as of the asset cut off date. unserviceable base plus
     unserviceable depot plus unserviceable in transit plus contractor unscheduled plus unserviceable
     on loan plus WRM unserviceable depot ( not netted by MISTR condemnation percent) TOC assets
     as of the cutoff date plus net due in (unserviceable and TOC) accumulated through repair lead time
     beyond the apportionment year plus net nonslipped OIM reparable generations and net nonslipped
     NJR reparable generations accumulated from the asset cut off date through the apportionment year
     minus MISTR input (total) accumulated at the end of the apportionment year.
     38.3.23.3. If they are not equal, compute as follows for all cycles: net OIM reparable generations
     (nonslipped) deaccumulated for the last quarter of the current year plus net NJR reparable genera-
     tions (nonslipped) deaccumulated for the last quarter of the current year; multiplied by (retrograde
     time divided by 90)(Retrograde time = reparable in transit time plus base processing time).
  38.3.24. Application Of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
  detailed beginning in paragraph 38.3.25.
  38.3.25. Column 2, Base Repairs. These assets are applied to Demands Recurring, line 6A, Repair
  lead time, line 9, for the respective time periods; that is, the quantity to be repaired during the appor-
  tionment year is applied to line 6A and quantity to be repaired during the repair lead time is applied to
  line 9, as determined in paragraph 38.3.17.
     38.3.25.1. Only WRM base and depot serviceable assets and WRM procurement receipts within
     the period as determined in paragraph 38.3.19. are applied to lines 3 and 4, W-B war reserve pro-
     tectable and other acquisition war reserve protectable.
     38.3.25.2. WRM assets in excess of WRM requirement and all other assets except obsolete and
     nonapplicable are applied to requirements, lines 5 through 13, by column. (Serviceable on loan
     assets are applied only to line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring).
  38.3.26. Column 8, Deficits/Repair Requirement. The sum of the Unserviceable On Hand
  Unscheduled (column 6) plus the Recoverable Unserviceable Returns (column 7) applied to require-
  ments on lines 5 through 14.
  38.3.27. Column 9, Item Counts. Item counts apply to summary products only. (a) Line 1 - total
  subgroup master NSNs included in the stratification; (b) Line 2 - Not applicable; (c) Line 3 and 4. A
766                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      count is recorded for each item having a protectable requirement. Items with requirements on both
      lines are counted on both lines; (d) Lines 5 through 9. A count is recorded when the first application
      of assets in column 6 or 7 occurs. (e) Line 11. The sum of all items with a deficit/repair requirement in
      lines 5 through 9. (f) Lines 12 and 13. A count is recorded when the first application of assets in col-
      umn 6 or 7 occurs. (g) Line 14. The sum of all items with a deficit/ repair requirement in lines 11
      through 13.

38.4. Budget Year Position. This position (Figure 38.4.) represents those repair requirements and assets
that apply to the fiscal year which follows the apportionment year.
      38.4.1. Column 1, Requirements.
      38.4.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the PWR or W-B (War
      Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041) require-
      ment repair lead time beyond the budget year; or the sum of serviceable WRM base plus serviceable
      WRM depot as of the asset cut off date plus actual WRM on order PR-funded scheduled to be deliv-
      ered from the asset cut off date through repair lead time beyond the budget year plus actual WRM on
      order contract scheduled to be delivered from the asset cut off date through repair lead time beyond
      the budget year plus simulated WRM on order contract scheduled to be delivered from the asset cut
      off date through repair lead time beyond the budget year, as determined in the asset simulation process
      in Chapter 40.
      38.4.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of OWRM requirements;
      or WRM assets in excess of the W-B requirement as established in paragraph 38.4.2.
      38.4.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. The stock due out at the end of the apportionment year as determined
      in the asset simulation process in Chapter 40.
      38.4.5. Line 6A, Demands Recurring (memo entry). The sum of OIM operating requirement plus
      NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul program
      requirements deaccumulated from the end of the apportionment year through the end of the budget
      year.
      38.4.6. Line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring (memo entry). Total additive requirement minus DOTM
      from the quarter repair lead time beyond the budget year.
      38.4.7. Line 6C, Total Demands. The sum of line 6A, Demands Recurring and line 6B, Demands
      Nonrecurring.
      38.4.8. Line 7, Safety Level. The sum of total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level plus
      total overhaul stock level from the quarter repair lead time beyond the budget year.
      38.4.9. Line 8, Numeric Stockage Objective. The Insurance/NSO repair level that has been file
      maintained for the item.
      38.4.10. Line 9, Repair Lead Time. The sum of OIM operating requirement plus NJR reparable
      generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul program requirement deac-
      cumulated from the end of the budget year through repair lead time beyond the budget year.
      38.4.11. Line 10, Accumulation Time. Not applicable.
      38.4.12. Line 11, Total Requirements/Assets. The sum of lines 3 through 9.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                           767


  38.4.13. Line 12, Prepositioned War Reserve Balance. The W-B MISTR input accumulated from
  the asset cut off date through the budget year.
  38.4.14. Line 13, Other Acquisition War Reserve Balance. The OWRM MISTR input accumu-
  lated from the asset cut off date through the budget year.
  38.4.15. Line 14, Total Budget Year. Total requirements from lines 11 - 13.
  38.4.16. Line 15, Assets End of Budget Year.
  38.4.17. Column 3, Serviceable On Hand. As of the end of the budget year as determined in the
  asset simulation process in Chapter 40.
  38.4.18. Column 4, Procurement Receipts Within Period. The sum of the following deaccumu-
  lated from the beginning of the budget year through repair lead time beyond the budget year: on order
  PR-funded plus on order contract plus WRM on order PR-funded plus WRM on order contract plus
  scheduled deliveries from simulated buys as computed in the buy simulation procedures in Chapter
  40.
  38.4.19. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. As of the end of the budget year in the
  asset simulation process in Chapter 40.
  38.4.20. Column 6 Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. As determined in the asset simulation
  process at the end of the budget year in Chapter 40.
  38.4.21. Line 16, Stock Due Out End of Budget Year. Stock due out at the end of the budget year
  as determined in the asset/buy simulation process.
  38.4.22. Line 1, Assets.
  38.4.23. Column 2, Base Repairs. The base repairs deaccumulated from the beginning of the budget
  year through repair lead time beyond the budget year.
  38.4.24. Column 3, Serviceable On hand Assets. The serviceable assets as determined at the end of
  the apportionment year in the asset simulation process.
  38.4.25. Column 4, Procurement Receipts Within Period. The sum of the following deaccumu-
  lated from the end of the apportionment year through repair lead time beyond the budget year: on
  order PR-funded plus on order contract plus WRM on order PR-funded plus WRM on order contract
  plus scheduled deliveries from simulated buys as computed in the buy simulation procedures in
  Chapter 40.
  38.4.26. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. Unserviceable scheduled assets as deter-
  mined at the end of the apportionment year in the asset simulation process in Chapter 40.
  38.4.27. Column 6, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. Unserviceable unscheduled assets at
  the end of the apportionment year as determined in the asset simulation process in Chapter 40.
  38.4.28. Column 7, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Sum of Net OIM reparable generations
  (nonslipped) plus Net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped) deaccumulated from the end of the
  apportionment year through the end of the budget year.
  38.4.29. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. For the budget year, this applies only to col-
  umn 7, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. It is computed as described for the apportionment year
768                                                                        AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      position for the 30 June cycle, paragraph 38.3.23., using the MISTR output and available MISTR
      repairs at repair lead time beyond the budget year.
      38.4.30. Application of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
      detailed beginning in paragraph 38.4.31.
      38.4.31. Column 2, Base Repair. These assets are applied to Demands Recurring, line 6A, and
      Repair lead time, line 9, for the respective time periods; that is, the quantity to be repaired during the
      budget year is applied to line 6A and the quantity to be repaired during the repair lead time is applied
      to line 9, as determined in paragraph 38.4.23.
         38.4.31.1. Only WRM base and depot serviceable assets and WRM procurement receipts, within
         the period as determined in paragraph 38.4.25. are applied to lines 3 and 4, W-B War Reserve
         Protectable and Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable.
         38.4.31.2. WRM assets in excess of WRM requirements and all other assets except obsolete and
         nonapplicable are applied to Requirements, lines 5 through 13, by column.
      38.4.32. Column 8, Deficit/Repair Requirements. The sum of the Unserviceable On Hand
      Unscheduled (column 6) plus the Recoverable Unserviceable Returns (column 7) applied to require-
      ments on lines 5 through 14.
      38.4.33. Column 9, Item Counts , applies to summary products only. (a) Line 1 - total subgroup
      master NSNs included in the stratification; (b) Line 2 - Not applicable; (c) Line 3 and 4. A count is
      recorded for each item having a protectable requirement. Items with requirements on both lines are
      counted on both lines; (d) Lines 5 through 9. A count is recorded when the first application of assets
      in column 6 or 7 occurs. (e) Line 11. The sum of all items with a deficit/repair requirement in lines 5
      through 9. (f) Lines 12 and 13. A count is recorded when the first application of assets in column 6 or
      7 occurs. (g) Line 14. The sum of all items with a deficit/ repair requirement in lines 11 through 13.

38.5. Extended Year Position. This position (Figure 38.5.) represents those repair requirements and
assets that apply to the fiscal year which follows the budget year.
      38.5.1. Column 1, Requirements
      38.5.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the (a) the PWR or W-B
      (War Readiness Spares Kits- Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, called prepositioned in D041)
      requirement repair lead time beyond the extended year; or (b) the sum of the following: WRM base
      serviceable as of the asset cut off date plus WRM depot serviceable as of the asset cut off date plus
      W-B MISTR output at the end of the budget year plus OWRM MISTR output at the end of the budget
      year plus on order WRM PR-funded repair lead time beyond the extended year plus WRM on order
      contract repair lead time beyond the extended year plus scheduled deliveries from WRM simulated
      buys repair lead time beyond the extended year as determined in the buy simulation process.
      38.5.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the OWRM require-
      ment; or the WRM assets as determined in paragraph 38.5.2. in excess of the W-B requirement.
      38.5.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. The stock due out at the end of the budget year as determined in the
      asset/buy simulation process in Chapter 40.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             769


  38.5.5. Line 6A, Demands Recurring (memo entry). The sum of OIM operating requirements plus
  NJR reparable generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul program
  requirements deaccumulated from the end of the budget year through the end of the extended year.
  38.5.6. Line 6B, Demands Nonrecurring (memo entry). Total additive requirement minus
  DOTM, from the quarter repair lead time beyond extended year.
  38.5.7. Line 6C, Total Demands. The sum of Line 6A, Demands Recurring plus Line 6B, Demands
  Nonrecurring.
  38.5.8. Line 7, Safety Level. The sum of total OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level plus
  total overhaul stock level from the quarter repair lead time beyond the extended year.
  38.5.9. Line 8, Numeric Stockage Objective. The insurance/NSO repair level that has been file
  maintained for the item.
  38.5.10. Line 9, Repair Lead Time. The sum of OIM operating requirements plus NJR reparable
  generations plus total overhaul condemnations plus FMS engine overhaul program deaccumulated
  from the end of the extended year through repair lead time beyond the extended year.
  38.5.11. Line 10, Accumulation Time. Not applicable.
  38.5.12. Line 11, Total Requirements/Assets. The sum of lines 3 through 9.
  38.5.13. Line 1, Assets.
  38.5.14. Column 2, Base Repairs. Base repairs deaccumulated from the end of the budget year
  through repair lead time beyond the extended year.
  38.5.15. Column 3, Serviceable On Hand. The serviceable assets at the end of the budget year as
  determined in the asset simulation process in Chapter 40.
  38.5.16. Column 4, Procurement Receipts Within Period. The sum of the following deaccumu-
  lated from the end of the budget year through repair lead time beyond the extended year: on order
  PR-funded plus on order contract plus WRM on order PR-funded plus WRM on order contract plus
  scheduled deliveries from simulated buys as determined in the buy simulation process in Chapter 40.
  38.5.17. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. Unserviceable scheduled assets at the end
  of the budget year as determined in the asset simulation process in Chapter 40.
  38.5.18. Column 6, Unserviceable On Hand Unscheduled. Unserviceable unscheduled at the end
  of the budget year as determined in the asset simulation process in Chapter 40.
  38.5.19. Column 7, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Sum of net OIM reparable generations
  (nonslipped) plus net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped) deaccumulated from the end of the bud-
  get year through the end of extended year.
  38.5.20. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. This applies only to column 7 in the extended
  year. It is computed as described in the 30 June cycle apportionment year position, paragraph 38.3.23.,
  using the MISTR output and available MISTR repairs at repair lead time beyond the extended year.
  38.5.21. Application of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
  detailed beginning in paragraph 38.5.22.
  38.5.22. Line 2, Base Repairs. These assets are applied to Demands Recurring (line 6A) and Repair
  lead time (line 9) for the respective time periods; that is, the quantity to be repaired during the
770                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      extended year is applied to line 6A, Demands Recurring, and the quantity to be repaired during repair
      lead time is applied to Repair lead time, line 9, as determined in paragraph 38.5.14.
         38.5.22.1. Only WRM base and depot serviceable assets and WRM procurement receipts within
         the period as determined in paragraph 38.5.15. and 38.5.16. above, are applied to lines 3 and 4,
         W-B War Reserve and Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable.
         38.5.22.2. WRM assets in excess of WRM requirements and all other assets except obsolete and
         nonapplicable are applied to requirements, Lines 5 through 11, by column.
      38.5.23. Column 8, Deficit/Repair Requirements. The sum of the Unserviceable On Hand
      Unscheduled (column 6) plus the Recoverable Unserviceable Returns (column 7) applied to require-
      ments on lines 5 through 11.
      38.5.24. Column 9, Item Counts. Applies to summary products only. (a) Line 1 - the total subgroup
      master NSNs included in the stratification; (b) Line 2 - not applicable; (c) Lines 3 and 4. - a count is
      recorded for each item having a protectable requirement. Items with requirements on both lines are
      counted on both lines; (d) Lines 5 through 9. - count is recorded when the first application of assets in
      column 6 or 7 occurs; (e) Line 11 - the sum of all items with a deficit repair requirement in lines 5
      through 9.

38.6. Readiness Position. The elements of this position (Figure 38.6.) comprise those repair require-
ments for assets to be on hand as of the asset cut off date. The purpose of this position is to establish a
gross measurement of the capability of the supply system to satisfy logistic requirements as of a point in
time by measuring asset availability against the on hand requirement.
      38.6.1. Column 1, Requirements.
      38.6.2. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of (a) the W-B requirement at
      the first quarter of the computation; or (b) the sum of WRM base serviceable plus WRM depot ser-
      viceable as of the asset cut off date.
      38.6.3. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. The lesser of the OWRM require-
      ment or the WRM serviceable assets in excess of the W-B requirement.
      38.6.4. Line 5, Stock Due Out. The DOTM quantity as of the asset cut off date.
      38.6.5. Line 6, Safety Level. The sum of the following as of the first quarter of computation: total
      OIM base stock level plus VSL depot stock level plus total overhaul stock level.
      38.6.6. Line 7, Numeric Stockage Objective. The insurance/NSO repair level file maintained for
      the item.
      38.6.7. Line 8, Accumulation Time. Not applicable.
      38.6.8. Line 9, Prepositioned War Reserve Balance. The results of the W-B requirement as of the
      first quarter of the computation minus W-B war reserve protectable requirement from readiness CSIS,
      line 3.
      38.6.9. Line 10, Other Acquisition War Reserve Balance. The results of the OWRM requirement
      as of the first quarter of the computation minus other acquisition war reserve protectable requirement
      from readiness CSIS, line 4.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              771


  38.6.10. Line 11, Repair Cycle. The depot repair cycle requirement deaccumulated from the asset
  cut off date through the end of the first quarter of the computation cycle, calculated as: net OIM repa-
  rable generations (nonslipped) plus net NJR reparable generations (nonslipped) minus net slipped
  OIM generations minus net slipped NJR generations.
  38.6.11. Line 11A, Total Readiness. The sum of all requirements found in lines 3 through 11.
  38.6.12. Line 12, Approved Force Retention. Not used.
  38.6.13. Line 1, Assets.
  38.6.14. Column 2, Base Repairs. Not applicable to the readiness position.
  38.6.15. Column 3, Serviceable. Total on hand serviceable assets as of the asset cut off date. Due in
  serviceable assets are not included in the readiness position of the repair CSIS.
  38.6.16. Column 4, Procurement Receipts Within Period. Not applicable to the readiness posi-
  tion.
  38.6.17. Column 5, Unserviceable On Hand Scheduled. Sum of unserviceable due in from over-
  haul plus contractor scheduled as of the asset cut off date.
  38.6.18. Column 6, Unserviceable On hand Unscheduled. For active items, the sum of unservice-
  able base plus unserviceable depot plus unserviceable in transit plus contractor unscheduled plus bail-
  ment (on loan) unserviceable plus WRM serviceable plus TOC assets as of the asset cut off date.
  (Due-in unserviceable and due in TOC assets are not included in the readiness position of the repair
  CSIS.)For inactive items (items coded as insurance, NSO, military contingency, or items with a com-
  pute code other than "Y"), the same as active items for on hand assets. Due-in unserviceable and TOC
  are not included in the readiness position of the repair CSIS.
  38.6.19. Column 7, Recoverable Unserviceable Returns. Not applicable to the readiness position.
  38.6.20. Line 2, Assets Anticipated Nonapplicable. This applies only to columns 5 and 6 in the
  readiness position. It consists of condemnations as determined by applying the MISTR condemnation
  percent as described in the opening position of the budget CSIS. (See paragraph 37.1.1.2.)
  38.6.21. Application Of Assets. Assets are applied to requirements in a priority sequence and are
  detailed beginning in paragraph 38.6.22.
  38.6.22. Column 2, Base Repairs. Not applicable in the readiness position.
  38.6.23. Line 3, Prepositioned War Reserve Protectable. Only WRM serviceable is applied.
  38.6.24. Line 4, Other Acquisition War Reserve Protectable. Only WRM serviceable is applied.
  38.6.25. Lines 5 through 11, Other Requirements. Serviceable assets (including WRM serviceable
  assets excess to protectable requirements) are applied until exhausted or until requirements are satis-
  fied. Net unserviceable scheduled and unscheduled are applied to the line 11, Repair cycle, require-
  ment (remaining after application of serviceable assets) first, with remaining unserviceable applied to
  requirements in line number sequence, starting with line 5, Stock Due Out.
  38.6.26. Line 11A, Total Readiness. Total of all assets applied to lines 3 - 11.
  38.6.27. Line 12, Approved Force Retention. Not used.
772                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      38.6.28. Column 8, Repair Requirement. The difference between the requirement and total assets
      applied for lines 3 through 11A.
      38.6.29. Column 9, Item Counts. (a) Line 1 - total subgroup master NSNs included in the stratifica-
      tion; (b) Line 2 - Not applicable; (c) Line 3 and 4. A count is recorded for each item having a protect-
      able requirement. Items with req irements on both lines are counted on both lines; (d) Lines 5 through
      12. A count is recorded when the first asset deficit occurs; (e) Line 11A is the total number of items
      with a count recorded on lines 5 through 11.

Figure 38.1. CSIS Repair - Opening Position.




Figure 38.2. CSIS Repair - Current Position.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                  773


Figure 38.3. CSIS Repair - Apportionment Year Position.




Figure 38.4. CSIS Repair - Budget Year Position.
774                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 38.5. CSIS Repair - Extended Year Position.




Figure 38.6. CSIS Repair - Readiness Position.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                     775


                                                 Chapter 39

          CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION INFORMATION DATA

39.1. Introduction. CSIS information data (Figure 39.1.) is provided with each summary CSIS Tables I
and II are in acquisition cost. For each CSIS summary Table IV and Table V, the same information is pro-
vided by unit repair cost only. For the item details, the information is in quantity of assets.

39.2. Section A, Total Assets. As reported from D002A and D035A: Line 1, Depot - for the ALCs depot
accounts. Line 2, Base CONUS - as reported for bases located in the contiguous 48 states, including ALC
base support. Line 3, Base Overseas - as reported for bases located outside CONUS. Line 4, Contractor -
as reported in the contractor accounts. Line 5, WRM - as reported as WRM, all account codes.

39.3. Section B, Due-In Assets. This section shows all due in assets as of the asset cut off date, both ser-
viceable and unserviceable. It also portrays the due in assets applied to the requirement in the CY (30 June
cycle only) and in the AY. The various categories of due in assets appear on lines 1 through 4. Column 1
shows the total serviceable due in assets for each category; column 2 shows the unserviceable due in
assets and unserviceable TOC due in assets for each category. Line 5 is the sum of lines 1 through 4. Line
6 (30 June cycle only) shows the due in assets applied to CY requirements and line 7 shows the due in
assets applied to AY requirements. Line 6 and 7 are determined, as follows, using the applicable position
(AY or CY) of the budget CSIS. (See Figure 35.1.).
   39.3.1. Serviceable due in assets are applied to the CY (30 June cycle) using the CY position of the
   budget CSIS or AY (other than 30 June cycle) using the AY position of the budget CSIS as follows:
   (a) Subtract the total serviceables applied (line 13, column 3) from the total serviceable available (line
   1, column 3). (b) Subtract the answer, obtained in (a) above, from the total serviceable due in assets as
   of the asset cut off date. If this result is zero or negative, no serviceable due in assets are applied. If the
   result is positive, it is the entry on line 6, column 1 (30 June cycle) or line 7, column 1 (other than 30
   June cycle).
   39.3.2. Serviceable due in assets applied to the AY (30 June cycle) using the AY position of the bud-
   get CSIS: (a) Subtract the serviceable due in assets applied to the CY as developed in paragraph
   39.3.1. from the total serviceable due in as of the asset cut off date. (b) Next subtract the total service-
   able applied (line 13, column 3, AY Position) from the total serviceable assets available (line 1 col-
   umn 3, AY Position). Subtract this answer from the answer obtained in (a) above. If the result is zero
   or negative, no serviceable due in assets are applied to the AY. If the result is positive, it will be the
   entry on line 7, column 1 (30 June cycle).
   39.3.3. Unserviceable due in assets applied to the CY (30 June cycle) using the CY position of the
   budget CSIS or AY (other than 30 June cycle) using the AY position of the budget CSIS: (a) Subtract
   the total unserviceable unscheduled assets applied (line 13, column 5) from the total available unser-
   viceable unscheduled assets (line 1, column 5). (b) Subtract the answer obtained in (a) above from the
   net unserviceable due in assets as of the asset cut off date. If this result is zero or negative, no unser-
   viceable due in assets are applied. If it is positive, it will be the entry on line 6, column 2 (30 June
   cycle) or line 7, column 2 (other than 30 June cycle).
   39.3.4. Unserviceable due in assets applied to the AY (30 June cycle) using the AY position of the
   budget CSIS: (a) Subtract the unserviceable due in assets applied to the CY as developed in paragraph
776                                                                          AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      39.2.3 from the total unserviceable due in as of the asset cut off date. (b) Next, subtract the total unser-
      viceable unscheduled assets applied (line 13, column 5, AY position) from the total unserviceable
      unscheduled assets available (line 1, column 5, AY position). Subtract this answer from the answer
      obtained in (a) above. If the result is zero or negative, unserviceable due in assets are not applied to the
      AY. If the result is positive, it will be the entry on line 7, column 2 (June cycle).

39.4. Section C, Obsolete Assets. All assets reported against obsolete NSNs. If a master stock number is
coded obsolete, all subgroup interchangeable assets are considered obsolete. If an interchangeable stock
number is coded obsolete, only those assets pertaining to the interchangeable stock number are considered
obsolete.

39.5. Section D, WRM Assets. All WRM assets used in the item computation as follows: WRM - Base,
WRM - Depot and WRM - On order.

39.6. Section E, WRM Overages. All WRM assets that exceed the W-B (War Readiness Spares Kits -
Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, or WRSK-BLSS, or prepositioned in D041), and Other War Reserve
Material (OWRM) requirements procurement lead time beyond the budget year, are determined as fol-
lows:
      39.6.1. Line 1, WRM Base. Compare the WRM base serviceable assets to the sum of the following:
      W-B requirement in the quarter procurement lead time beyond the budget year plus the OWRM
      requirement. If the WRM base serviceable assets are greater, the absolute value of the variance
      becomes the WRM base overage (line 1). If the requirement is greater than or equal to the WRM base
      serviceable assets, there is no entry on line 1.
      39.6.2. Line 2, WRM Depot. Compare the WRM depot serviceable assets to the sum of the follow-
      ing: W-B requirement in the quarter lead-time beyond the budget year plus OWRM requirement
      minus WRM base serviceable assets. If the WRM depot serviceable assets are greater, the absolute
      value of the variance will be the WRM depot overage (line 2). If the WRM depot serviceable assets
      are less than or equal to the sum of the W-B requirement, OWRM requirement or WRM base service-
      able assets, there is no entry on line 2.
      39.6.3. Line 3, WRM - On Order. Compare the WRM on order PR-funded plus WRM on order
      contract to the sum of the following: W-B requirement in the quarter lead-time beyond the budget year
      plus OWRM requirement minus WRM base serviceable asset minus WRM depot serviceable assets.
      If the total WRM on order assets are greater, the absolute value of the variance will be the WRM on
      order overage (line 3). If the total WRM on order assets are less than or equal to the sum of the results
      above, there is no entry on line 3.

39.7. Section F, Procurement Initiation Requirement. This section shows the simulated buy initia-
tions for quarters 1 through 5 as determined under the asset simulation process. The initiation quarters are
determined as follows:
      39.7.1. Line 1, First Quarter. Go out through procurement lead-time beyond the first quarter of the
      computation cycle. Determine if any quarter in that period has a level adjusted third short. If so, go to
      the closest buy point starting with or following the end of procurement lead time beyond the first quar-
      ter. The level adjusted third short at that buy point is the entry for the first quarter, line 1. If no level
      adjusted third short is in that time period, there is no entry on line 1.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  777


   39.7.2. Line 2, Second Quarter. Go out through procurement lead-time beyond the second quarter
   of the computation. Determine if any quarter in that period has a level adjusted third short. If so, go to
   the closest buy point starting with or following that period and compare the level adjusted third short
   at the buy point with the quantity determined for initiation in the first quarter, paragraph 39.7.1. above.
   If the level adjusted third short at the buy point exceeds the first quarter initiation, the absolute value
   of the variance becomes the second quarter initiation, line 2. If the level adjusted third short at the buy
   point does not exceed the first quarter initiation, there is no entry in the second quarter, line 2.
   39.7.3. Line 3, Third Quarter. Go out through procurement lead-time beyond the third quarter. Fol-
   low the same procedure described for the second quarter, comparing the level adjusted third short at
   the buy point with the sum of the initiations for the first and second quarters.
   39.7.4. Line 4, Fourth Quarter. Go out through procurement lead-time beyond the fourth quarter.
   Follow the same procedure described for the second quarter, comparing the level adjusted third short
   at the buy point with the sum of the initiations for the first, second, and third quarters.
   39.7.5. Line 5, Fifth Quarter. Go out through procurement lead-time beyond the fifth quarter. Fol-
   low the same procedure described for the second quarter, comparing the level adjusted third short at
   the buy point with the sum of the initiations for the first, second, third, and fourth quarters.

39.8. Section G, Miscellaneous Data. Items with compute indicator not equal to "Y" are not included in
the elements in this section.
   39.8.1. Line 1, On Order Within Termination. Shows that portion of the total on order assets
   applied to requirements beyond the AY buy point but within the BY buy point (termination point).
   39.8.2. Line 2, Insurance Excess. Shows assets for insurance items that are not obsolete (excluding
   items with a disposal freeze code and items coded military contingency) and exceed the insurance
   retention level.
   39.8.3. Line 3, Numeric Stockage Objective Excess. Shows the non-obsolete NSO assets (exclud-
   ing items with a disposal freeze code and items coded military contingency) exceeding the NSO reten-
   tion level.
   39.8.4. Line 4, CY Buy Not Required. Shows that portion of the current year deficit not required in
   the AY. It is determined by subtracting the AY buy point adjusted third short position from the CY buy
   point adjusted third short position. If the result is negative, the quantity is considered zero.
   39.8.5. Line 5, AY Buy Not Required. Shows that portion of the AY deficit not required in the BY.
   It is determined by subtracting the BY unadjusted third short position from the AY unadjusted third
   short position. If the result is negative, the quantity is considered zero.
   39.8.6. Line 6, BY Buy Not Required. Shows that portion of the BY deficit not required in the EY.
   It is determined by subtracting the EY unadjusted third short position from the BY unadjusted third
   short position. If the result is negative, the quantity is considered zero.
   39.8.7. Line 7, Insurance Gross Requirement. This is the total buy level file maintained for insur-
   ance coded items prior to application of assets (column 1, line 10, AFAO position of the Budget Item
   CSIS Detail.)
   39.8.8. Line 8, Insurance Buy. The total deficit for insurance items, after application of assets (col-
   umn 9, line 10, AFAO position, budget CSIS).
778                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      39.8.9. Line 9, Numeric Stockage Objective Gross Requirement. The total buy level file main-
      tained, for NSO coded items prior to application of assets (column 1, line 10, AFAO position of the
      Budget Item CSIS Detail).
      39.8.10. Line 10, Numeric Stockage Objective Buy. The total deficit, for NSO code S items after
      application of assets (column 9, line 10, AFAO position of the budget Item CSIS Detail).
      39.8.11. Line 11, Apportionment Year Prepositioned Buy. The portion of the deficit at the AY buy
      point that pertains to W-B war reserve requirement. It is determined as follows: Subtract the WRM
      base and depot serviceable assets, WRM on order PR-funded, and WRM on order contract as of the
      asset cut off date from the W-B requirement at procurement lead time beyond the apportionment year
      (AY buy point). If the result is negative or zero, the AY prepositioned buy is zero. If the result of (a)
      above is not negative or zero, compare it with the third short at the AY buy point. The lesser of the two
      is the AY prepositioned buy.
      39.8.12. Line 12, Contingency Retention Requirement. The portion of the Contingency Retention
      Requirement (Line 20, column 1, AFAO Position, Budget CSIS) that applies to military contingency
      coded items. It is computed by comparing the total non-obsolete on hand and on order assets to the
      deferred disposal level that has been file maintained. The lesser of the two is the contingency retention
      requirement.
      39.8.13. Line 13, Disposal Freeze Requirement. That portion of the contingency retention require-
      ment (line 20, column 1, AFAO position, budget CSIS) which applies to items with a disposal freeze
      code of "C" and "P". It consists of the total net non-obsolete on hand assets minus (the total AFAO
      CSIS requirements [lines 17a, 18, and 19] minus base repairs, minus applied on order contract and on
      order committed assets). If the variance is zero or negative, the disposal freeze requirement is zero. If
      the result is positive, the absolute value of the variance is the disposal freeze requirement.
      39.8.14. Line 14, Deferred Disposal Requirement. That portion of the contingency retention
      requirement (line 20, column 1, AFAO position, budget CSIS) which applies to deferred disposal
      coded "R" items. It consists of the total net non-obsolete on hand assets minus (the total AFAO CSIS
      requirements (lines 17a, 18, and 19) minus base repairs, minus applied on order contract and on order
      committed assets). If the variance is zero or negative, the deferred disposal requirement is zero. If the
      result is positive, the absolute value of the variance is the deferred disposal requirement.

39.9. Section H, Item Counts. This section applies to summary products only and does not appear on
item details. Item counts are defined as follows:
      39.9.1. Line 1, Total Current National Stock Numbers. Total number of NSNs used in the sum-
      mary. This is not limited to master or subgroup master stock numbers but includes all interchangeable
      NSNs.
      39.9.2. Line 2, Items With WRM Requirements. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers
      that have a W-B or OWRM requirement at procurement lead time beyond the budget year.
      39.9.3. Line 3, Economic Retention. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers that have
      assets applied to economic retention, line 19, AFAO and retention position.
      39.9.4. Line 4, Contingency Retention. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers that do not
      have an obsolete code or a compute code other than "Y", but have a deferred disposal code of "M",
      "F" or "G" (see paragraph 14.3.2.1.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                779


   39.9.5. Line 5, Disposal Freeze. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers that have a dis-
   posal freeze code of "C" or "P".
   39.9.6. Line 6, Deferred Disposal. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers that have a
   deferred disposal code of "R".
   39.9.7. Line 7, Insurance Items. Total number of non-obsolete subgroup master stock numbers that
   have an item category code of "I" and a compute indicator = "Y".
   39.9.8. Line 8, Zero Demands One Year. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers that have
   had no OIM or NJR reparable generations in the 4 quarters preceding the asset cut off date.
   39.9.9. Line 9, Zero Demands Two Years. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers that
   have had no OIM or NJR reparable generations in the 8 quarters preceding the asset cut off date.
   39.9.10. Line 10, Readiness Asset Deficit. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers with a
   deficit in column 9, line 11a of the budget CSIS readiness position.
   39.9.11. Line 11, Readiness On hand Asset Deficit. Total number of subgroup master stock num-
   bers that have a requirement exceeding the on hand serviceable assets plus on hand net unserviceable
   assets in the budget CSIS readiness position, line 11a, column 1 minus line 11a, columns 3, 4 and 5,
   results in a positive number greater than zero.
   39.9.12. Line 12, Readiness Serviceable Deficit. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers
   with serviceable assets less than the total readiness requirement (line 11a, column 1) minus the depot
   repair cycle requirement (line 8, column 1) in the budget CSIS readiness position.
   39.9.13. Line 13, Items with On Order. Total number of subgroup master NSNs with on order con-
   tract or on order commitment assets.
   39.9.14. Line 14, On Order Within Termination. This is a count of the number of items with on
   order assets applied to requirements beyond the apportionment year buy point but within the budget
   year buy point.
   39.9.15. Line 15, On Order Excess. Total number of subgroup master stock numbers with on order
   assets above AFAO and retention level, (assets applied to line 21, columns 7 and 8 of the AFAO posi-
   tion).
   39.9.16. Line 16, Obsolete Items. Total number of obsolete subgroup master stock numbers.

39.10. Section I, Levels Analysis. This section contains a breakout of the various safety level segments
used in each position of the CSIS Tables I, II, IV & V.
   39.10.1. The following levels from the computation are included: Line 1 - OIM Base O&ST Require-
   ment, Line 2 - OIM Base Repair Cycle Requirement, Line 3 - OIM Base Safety Levels, Line 4 - Spe-
   cial Levels, Line 5 - VSL Depot, Line 6 - Total Overhaul Stock Level. (Depot Floating Level is not
   used in SIRS).
   39.10.2. Ten columns of information are included for each of the above levels, where applicable.
   Except for column 1, readiness position, all data from the repair stratification is extracted from repair
   lead-time beyond the position described; for budget stratification, all data is extracted from procure-
   ment lead-time beyond the position described. For each column of data, rows 1 through 6 will equal
   the safety level requirement of that position; i.e., rows 1-6 of column 6 will equal the AY safety level
780                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      requirement, line 7, column 1, of the AY budget stratification. They are from the following positions
      of the budget or repair CSIS. Column 1, Readiness Position - from the repair CSIS readiness posi-
      tion. Column 2, Opening - Proc - from the budget CSIS opening position. Column 3, CY - Repair
      (30 June cycle only) - from the repair CSIS, current year. Column 4, CY - Proc (30 June cycle only)
      - from the budget CSIS, current year. Column 5, AY - Repair - from the repair CSIS, apportionment
      year. Column 6, AY - Proc - from the budget CSIS, apportionment year. Column 7, BY - Repair -
      from the repair CSIS, budget year. Column 8, BY - Proc - from the budget CSIS, budget year. Col-
      umn 9, EY - Repair - from the repair CSIS, extended year. Column 10, EY - Proc - from the budget
      CSIS, extended year.

39.11. Section J, Levels Average Data. This section provides the average days pipelines which are used
in the item computations. Summaries contain an extra column to provide the dollar-weighted averages.
Insurance items, NSO items, military contingency items, and items with a compute code other than "Y"
are excluded. Items with zero pipelines are also excluded.
      39.11.1. Non-dollar-weighted and dollar-weighted averages are provided for the following pipelines
      as displayed on the SGM computation: Line 1, OIM Base O&ST. Line 2, OIM Base Repair Cycle.
      Line 3, Retrograde Time, difference between Total Depot Cycle days and Repair lead-time. Line 4,
      Repair lead-time. Line 5, TRAN Repair L-T, time-phased repair lead-time days. Line 6, Administra-
      tive lead-time. Line 7, Production lead-time.
      39.11.2. The value in each column is as follows: Column 1, Non-Dollar-Weighted is the total pipe-
      line time in each computation divided by the number of items with a pipeline time greater than zero.
      Column 2, Dollar Weighted is calculated by multiplying the number of days/months by the Unit Price
      to obtain the extended cost. The total of all extended costs is then divided by the total of all the unit
      costs as shown in the following example:



           A                     B                         C
      Days/months            Unit Price               Extended Cost
       10                     50                         500
       15                    500                       7500
        Total                550                       8000

      Total column C divided by total column B = dollar weighted average days: 8000 / 550 = 14.5

39.12. Section K, MISTR Input. This shows the deaccumulated MISTR input for the 1st through the
5th quarters of the computation, the 4th year and the 5th year for peacetime, W-B and OWRM.

39.13. Section L, MISTR Output. This shows the deaccumulated MISTR output for the current year,
apportionment year, budget, year, extended year, fourth year, and fifth year for peacetime, W-B and
OWRM.

39.14. Section M, MISTR Cost Data. This is the following information for the current year (30 June
cycle only), apportionment year, and budget year: MISTR Input Actual Repair Cost displays the total
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                781


dollar value of repair cost for all items with an actual repair cost, rounded to hundreds. MISTR Input
Estimated Repair Cost displays the total dollar value of repair cost for all items with an estimated repair
cost, rounded to hundreds. MISTR Input Constructed Repair Cost displays the total dollar value of
repair cost for all items with a constructed repair cost (based on a percentage of the acquisition cost),
rounded to hundreds.

39.15. Section N, MISTR Input by Location. This shows the value of the deaccumulated MISTR input
by location for the current year (30 June cycle only) , apportionment year, budget year, and extended year.
The locations are repair ALCs, contractor, and unassigned. Line 6, Other AFMC, is always blank. Items
that have more than one repair facility are prorated according to the repair percent.

39.16. Section O, Projected Requirements. This section shows the requirements projected in the item
computation. Nine columns of deaccumulated information representing the following periods of time are
included for each element: Column 1 - Six month Projection, Column 2 - Twelve month Projection, Col-
umn 3 - Current Year (30 June cycle), Column 4 - Apportionment Year, Column 5 - Budget year, Column
6 - Extended Year, Column 7 - Fourth Year, Column 8 - Fifth Year and Column 9 - Sixth Year. Elements
of information to be included are: Line 1 - OIM Operating Requirement, Line 2 - MISTR NJR Require-
ment, Line 3 - PDM NJR Requirement, Line 4 - Engine Overhaul NJR Requirement, Line 5 - MISTR JR
Requirements, Line 6 - PDM JR Requirement, Line 7 - Engine Overhaul JR Requirements, Line 8 - For-
eign Military Sales (FMS) engine overhaul program Requirements, Line 9 - Total Demands (total of lines
1 through 8), Line 10 - Base Condemnations, Line 11 - Base Repairs, Line 12 - OIM Reparable Genera-
tions (NRTS) and Line 13 - OIM Reparable Generation Condemnations.

39.17. Section P, Past Usage.. This section shows the past 6, 12, 18, and 24 months usage from the item
computation, as displayed on the Factors/Usage Printout, for the following elements of data: Line 1 - OIM
Base Reparable Generations is the sum of the base NRTS, base RTS, and base condemnations. Line 2 -
Depot Reparable Generations. Line 3 - Job Routed Condemnations. Line 4 - Total Demands the total of
lines 1, 2, and 3; however, only the total of lines 1 and 2 should be used since line 3 figures are included
in line 2. Line 5 - OIM Base Condemnations. Line 6 - OIM Base Repairs and Base RTS. Line 7 - OIM
Base NRTS and Base NRTS. Line 8 -MISTR Condemnations. Line 9 - MISTR Repaired.

39.18. Section Q, Additive Requirements Analysis. This section shows the additive requirements as
used in the item computation.
   39.18.1. Eight columns of information display the additive elements at different time periods as fol-
   lows:
        Column 1, Current Year Repair Additives. The additive requirement from the quarter repair
lead-time beyond the CY (30 June cycle only).
       Column 2, Current Year Procurement Additives. The additive requirement from the quarter
procurement lead-time beyond the CY (30 June cycle only).
        Column 3, Apportionment Year Repair Additives. The additive requirement from the quarter
repair lead-time beyond the AY.
        Column 4, Apportionment Year Procurement Additives. The additive requirement from the
quarter procurement lead-time beyond the AY.
782                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


        Column 5, Budget Year Repair Additives. The additive requirement from the quarter repair
lead-time beyond the BY.
      Column 6, Budget Year Procurement Additives. The additive requirement from the quarter pro-
curement lead-time beyond the BY.
        Column 7, Extended Year Repair Additives. The additive requirement from the quarter repair
lead-time beyond the EY.
       Column 8, Extended Year Procurement Additives. The additive requirement from the quarter
procurement lead-time beyond the EY.
      39.18.2. Types of additives are shown for each time period that has an entry file maintained. The
      types of additives are: Line 1 - Bench Mockup; Line 2 - Test Stand; Line 3 - TASK; Line 4 - HPMSK,
      high priority mission support kits; Line 5 - Retrofit-Modification; Line 6 - War Consumables; Line 7
      - GFAE/GFM/GFP; Line 8 - CAD/PAD. Line 9 - Training Guidance & Control Systems; Line 10 -
      Support Equipment; Line 11 - Special Projects; Line 12 - Mobile Training Units; Line 13 - Installa-
      tion; Line 14 - Mission Direct; Line 15 - Requirements Data Exchange (RDE) Additive; Line 16 -
      FMS Additive; Line 17 - Special Programmed Requirements, Planned; Line 18 - On Loan; Line 19,
      DOTM (Stock Due out) as it appears in the computation as of the asset cut off date. This element has
      an entry only in columns one and two on the 30 June cycle, and only in columns three and four on all
      other cycles). Line 20 - Total (Less DOTM). This is a total of lines 1 through 18.

39.19. Section R, NIMSC 5 Unserviceable Returns. Credit Allowance, AY. On item details, this will
be the unserviceable returns accumulated from the beginning through the end of the apportionment year.
On the summaries, this will represent the accumulated unserviceable returns for the apportionment year
(per above) times the credit allowance value (.65 times acquisition cost). Credit Allowance, BY, is calcu-
lated the same except that budget year unserviceable returns are used. Credit Allowance, EY, is the calcu-
lated the same except that extended year unserviceable returns are used. Credit allowance 4th year is
calculated the same except that 4th year unserviceable returns are used. Credit allowance 5th year is cal-
culated the same except that the 5th year unserviceable returns are used. (Unserviceable return quantities
can be obtained by totaling the computations D-AC UNSERV RETURNS for the fiscal year which is
being calculated.).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008              783


Figure 39.1. CSIS Information Data.
784                                               AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 39.2. CSIS Information Data (continued).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                          785


Figure 39.3. CSIS Information Data (continued).
786                                               AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 39.4. CSIS Information Data (continued).
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 787


                                               Chapter 40

              CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION SIMULATION

40.1. Asset Simulation/Buy Simulation. Serviceable Assets. Develop the WRM on hand serviceable
assets and WRM on order assets for the subsequent period before developing the simulated assets. This is
done as follows:
   40.1.1. WRM on hand serviceable assets for the subsequent period are the lesser of the W-B (War
   Readiness Spares Kits - Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares, or WRSK-BLSS, or prepositioned in
   D041) requirement PCLT beyond the budget year plus the Other War Reserve Material (OWRM)
   requirement, or the sum of WRM base and depot serviceable assets as of the asset cut off date plus
   actual WRM PR-funded scheduled to be delivered during the period plus actual WRM contract sched-
   uled to be delivered during the period plus simulated deliveries from simulated WRM on order con-
   tract, if applicable. (This element normally appears only at the end of the budget year (BY), but can
   also appear at the end of the AY if the procurement lead time is less than the AY time frame.).
       40.1.1.1. End of BY only - plus W-B MISTR output accumulated through the budget year.
       40.1.1.2. End of BY only - plus OWRM MISTR output accumulated through the BY.
   40.1.2. WRM on order assets for the subsequent period are computed by summing WRM PR-funded
   as of the asset cut off date plus WRM contract as of the asset cut off date minus actual WRM
   PR-funded scheduled to be delivered during the period minus actual WRM contract scheduled to be
   delivered during the period plus simulated WRM contract from the buy simulation procedure minus
   simulated deliveries of simulated WRM on order contract from the buy simulation procedure.
   40.1.3. Serviceable assets available at the end of the period (EOP) are computed by adding the ser-
   viceable on hand assets at the asset cut off date to the serviceable asset gains during the period and
   subtracting serviceable asset losses during the period. The result of this calculation is used as service-
   able on hand assets at the beginning of the subsequent period.
   40.1.4. For purposes of this simulation, on hand serviceable assets as of the asset cut off date consist
   of Budget CSIS - Total nonphased serviceable assets plus total due in serviceable and Repair CSIS -
   Total nonphased serviceable assets plus due in serviceable at repair lead time beyond the end of the
   next period.
   40.1.5. For purposes of this simulation, asset gains during the period consist of (a) base repairs; (b)
   MISTR output accumulated from the asset cut off date through the EOP; (c) for the CY and AY, use
   peacetime MISTR output only; (d) for the BY, use PT MISTR output plus W-B MISTR output plus
   OWRM MISTR output; (e) total actual on order assets scheduled for delivery through the EOP
   (PR-funded plus contractor plus WRM PR-funded plus WRM contractor). Deliveries from simulated
   buys at the EOP as developed in the buy simulation process described in this chapter.
   40.1.6. For purposes of this simulation, asset losses during the period consist of the following accu-
   mulated from the asset cut off date through the EOP: (a) OIM operating requirement; (b) NJR repara-
   ble generations; (c) total overhaul condemnations; (d) Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program engine
   overhaul requirement; and (e) DOTM as of the asset cut off date.
788                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      40.1.7. End of Period. The EOP differs for each segment of the CSIS depending on the computation
      cycle. EOP for the End of CY, always the first quarter of the computation and applies to the 30 June
      cycle only.
         40.1.7.1. EOP for the End of the AY varies with each computation cycle. For the 30 June cycle. -
         Fourth quarter following the current year; 30 September cycle - Fourth quarter following the asset
         cut off date; 31 December cycle - Third quarter following the asset cut off date; 31 March cycle -
         Second quarter following the asset cut off date.
         40.1.7.2. End of BY is always the four quarters following the AY.
      40.1.8. Serviceable Asset Simulation Procedure: (1) Determine the EOP according to paragraph
      40.1.7. (2) Determine the WRM on hand serviceable assets at the EOP according to paragraph
      40.1.1. (3) Determine the WRM on order assets at EOP according to paragraph 40.1.2. (4) Determine
      the total on hand serviceable assets as of the asset cut off date according to paragraph 40.1.4. (5)
      Determine the asset gains during the period (asset cut off date through EOP) according to paragraph
      40.1.5. (6) Determine the asset losses during the period (asset cut off date through EOP) according to
      paragraph 40.1.6. (7) Determine simulated on hand serviceable assets at EOP according to paragraph
      40.1.3.
         40.1.8.1. If the result of paragraph 40.1.8. line (7) above is positive, then compare that result to
         the lesser of (WRM on hand serviceable assets as developed in paragraph 40.1.8.1. line (2) or
         (PWRP [line 3, column 1] plus OAWRP [line 4, column 1] of the EY). The greater of the two
         becomes the serviceable on hand assets for the subsequent period (line 1, column 3).
         40.1.8.2. During the comparison in paragraph 40.1.8.1., if the simulated on hand serviceables
         are equal to or greater than the lesser of (WRM serviceable on hand assets), or (the total WRM
         requirement [PWRP plus OAWRP requirements]), and they are used as on hand serviceable, no
         further computation is necessary.
         40.1.8.3. If the lesser of total WRM requirements (as in paragraph 40.1.8.1.) or WRM on hand
         serviceable assets determined in paragraph 40.1.8. line (2) above is greater than the simulated
         serviceables and is used as on hand serviceable for the subsequent period, it is necessary to adjust
         the stock due out for the subsequent period. The adjustment quantity is the absolute value of the
         variance between (the assets developed in paragraph 40.1.8. line (7) and the lesser of (WRM on
         hand serviceable assets developed in paragraph 40.1.8. line (2), or (total WRM requirements as
         outlined in paragraph 40.1.8.1.). This quantity is the Stock Due out, line 5, column 1 of the subse-
         quent period.
         40.1.8.4. If the result of the procedures in paragraph 40.1.8. line (7) above is negative, the lesser
         of (total WRM requirements (paragraph 40.1.8.1.), or (WRM on hand serviceable assets as devel-
         oped in paragraph 40.1.8. line (2) are used as on hand serviceable for the beginning of the subse-
         quent period line 1, column 3. In this case the subsequent period stock due out on line 5, column
         1, must be adjusted by adding the absolute value of the negative quantity developed in paragraph
         40.1.8. line (7) above plus the value of the WRM on hand serviceable assets as developed in para-
         graph 40.1.8. line (2) above.

40.2. Unserviceable Assets Simulation. Unserviceable Assets Simulation are not performed for AF
SICA NIMSC 5 items.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               789


   40.2.1. Unserviceable assets at the end of the period will equal: Net depot and base unserviceable and
   TOC assets as of the asset cut off date plus net due in unserviceable and TOC due in unserviceable as
   of the asset cut off date. (This will equal the unserviceable assets from the opening position of the
   Budget CSIS, column 4, line 1, plus column 5, line 1, minus column 4, line 2, minus column 5, line
   2.). This is added to the net OIM reparable generations (nonslipped) at EOP plus net NJR reparable
   generations (nonslipped) at EOP minus peacetime MISTR output accumulated at EOP. For End of BY
   only - minus W-B MISTR output accumulated at EOP. For End of BY only - minus OWRM MISTR
   output accumulated at EOP.
   40.2.2. End Of Period (EOP) for the various segments of the CSIS are as follows:
       40.2.2.1. Current Year (CY) applies to the 30 June computation cycle only and EOP is always the
       first quarter of the computation.
       40.2.2.2. Apportionment Year (AY). For 30 June cycle, EOP is the fifth quarter of the computa-
       tion. For 30 September cycle, EOP is the fourth quarter of the computation. For 31 December
       cycle, EOP is the third quarter of the computation. For 31 March cycle, EOP is the second quarter
       of the computation. For the Budget Year (BY) end of period is always four quarters beyond the
       end of AY.
   40.2.3. Unserviceable Scheduled. After the unserviceable assets have been determined at the EOP
   according to paragraph 40.2.1., it is necessary to determine what part of the assets are scheduled. The
   procedure is the same for both the budget and repair stratifications. Compare the results of the follow-
   ing with the total unserviceable assets as computed in paragraph 40.2.1. The lesser of the two is used
   as unserviceable scheduled, line 1, column 4, for the subsequent period. Net on hand unserviceable
   scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date (due in from overhaul plus contractor-scheduled) plus
   peacetime MISTR input accumulated at EOP; (BY only) plus W-B and OWRM MISTR input accu-
   mulated at EOP; minus peacetime MISTR output accumulated at EOP; (BY only) minus W-B and
   OWRM MISTR output accumulated at EOP.
   40.2.4. Unserviceable Unscheduled assets are computed as follows:
       40.2.4.1. For the Budget Stratification, subtract the results of paragraph 40.2.3. above from the
       results of paragraph 40.2.1. above. The results of this are used on line 1, column 5 of the subse-
       quent period.
       40.2.4.2. For the Repair stratification, unserviceable unscheduled assets are computed as follows
       for each segment of the repair stratification. The End of CY (line 1, column 6 of AY) equals Bud-
       get stratification ending CY unserviceable unscheduled assets minus unserviceable net due in
       assets scheduled for delivery beyond the AY. The End of AY (line 1, column 6 of BY) equals Bud-
       get stratification ending AY unserviceable unscheduled assets minus unserviceable net due in
       assets scheduled for delivery beyond the BY. The End of BY (line 1, column 6 of EY) equals:
       Budget stratification ending BY unserviceable unscheduled assets minus unserviceable net due in
       assets scheduled for delivery beyond the EY.

40.3. On order Contract Assets. On order contract assets at the end of the period is computed as the
total actual on order as of the asset cut off date plus accumulated simulated total maximum on order at the
end of the period minus actual on order scheduled for delivery through the end of the period minus sched-
uled deliveries from simulated buys through the end of the period. (Simulated On Order Commit (PR
Funded) assets are always zero).
790                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


40.4. Buy Simulation.
      40.4.1. The computation third short position is the base line used for the buy simulation. To accom-
      modate the buy simulation, the third short position must be developed through procurement lead time
      beyond the BY.
         40.4.1.1. Because the procurement lead time is in months, while the computation is by quarter, it
         is possible for the CY, AY, or BY buy point to fall within a quarter. When this happens, it is possi-
         ble that the actual computed CY, AY, and BY buy points will be different than the third short for
         the quarter where the buy point falls. If this is the case, the buy point third short is computed and
         substituted for the quarter's third short for the CY. The AY buy point quantity is picked up from the
         computation buy point. The BY buy point quantity is picked up from the computation term point.
         40.4.1.2. The next step in the process is the adjustment of the third short position (after substitu-
         tion of the buy point quantities). The adjustment is made by subtracting the quarterly balance W-B
         and balance OWRM requirements from the quarterly third short requirement. Although the bal-
         ance W-B and balance OWRM requirements are carried through procurement lead time beyond
         the BY, this adjustment is made only through procurement lead time beyond the AY. This quantity
         can never be less than zero.
         40.4.1.3. The next step is to level the adjusted third short position. This is done as follows: Com-
         pare the adjusted third short quantity at the BY buy point to the same quantity at the AY buy point;
         the lesser of the two is used as the AY buy point quantity. Compare the AY buy point quantity, as
         determined in the line above, to the CY adjusted third short quantity; the lesser of the two is used
         as the CY buy point quantity. In applying the leveling technique, the adjusted third short will be
         allowed to increase or be level, but won't be allowed to decrease. The leveled third short quantity
         within a buy period (CY, AY, or BY) can't exceed the adjusted third short quantity at the buy point
         for that period (CY, AY, or BY).
         40.4.1.4. The simulated maximum on order quantity must then be determined. The simulated
         maximum on order quantity for a buy period will equal the total level adjusted third short at the
         buy point for the period.
         40.4.1.5. Next, the buy initiation quarter is determined using these procedures: For the current
         year (30 June cycle only) go out though procurement lead time beyond the current year, determine
         the quarter where the first level adjusted third short occurs. Back off procurement lead time from
         this quarter. The CY buy point level adjusted third short quantity will be simulated as placed on
         order in this quarter. If you back off beyond the asset cut off date, the first quarter of the computa-
         tion will be the buy initiation quarter. For the AY and BY, subtract the simulated on order from the
         previous period simulated buys from the level adjusted third short quantity to determine the quar-
         ter where the next deficit occurs. Back off procurement lead time from this quarter.
         40.4.1.6. Next, determine what part of the simulated on order assets are WRM. Subtract the AY
         buy point level adjusted third short from the BY buy point level adjusted third short. Compare the
         answer to the balance WRM requirement (sum of the balance W-B and OWRM requirement) at
         the BY buy point. The lesser of the two is the part of the BY simulated on order which is WRM.
         (No WRM on order is simulated through the AY buy point). The peacetime simulated on orders
         will equal the total simulated on order assets minus the WRM simulated on order assets.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                791


       40.4.1.7. Deliveries from simulated buys will start in the quarter procurement lead time beyond
       the first buy initiation quarter. The quarterly delivery quantity will be the lesser of the leveled
       adjusted third short or the total simulated maximum on order quantity.
       40.4.1.8. Finally, determine what part of the simulated deliveries is WRM. This is done as fol-
       lows: Subtract the AY buy point level adjusted third short quantity from the level adjusted third
       short quantity in each quarter between the AY buy point and the BY buy point. Compare the
       answer to simulated WRM on order quantity. The lesser of the two will equal the quarterly simu-
       lated WRM deliveries. The peacetime simulated deliveries will be the total deliveries minus the
       WRM simulated deliveries.
   40.4.2. Buy Simulation Chart (Figure 40.1.).
        Line 1, 3rd short from Computation. Third short quantities for each quarter through procurement
lead time beyond the BY.
          Line 2, CY, AY, BY 3rd Short at Buy Point. CY (30 June cycle only) , AY, and BY buy point quan-
tities. If procurement lead time is not in even quarters, this quantity may differ from the quantity on line
1. Determine according to paragraph 40.4.1.1.
        Line 3, Buy Point 3rd Short. Third short perpetuated from line one, substituting quantities on line
two at the buy point.
     Line 4, Balance WRM Requirement. This is determined by adding the W-B requirement and the
OWRM requirement for each quarter and subtracting the WRM assets (total on hand serviceable plus
WRM contract plus WRM PR funded).
       Line 5, Adjusted Third Short. This is line 3 minus line 4.
       Line 6, Level Adjusted Third short. This is determined according to paragraph 40.4.1.3.
       Line 7, Simulated On Order. To determine the quarter in which the buy will be initiated, and show
quantity simulated to be on order each quarter, see paragraph 40.4.1.5.
       Line 8, Peacetime On Order. This line shows the portion of simulated on orders in line 7, required
for peacetime. It is determined according to paragraph 40.4.1.6.
       Line 9, WRM On Order. This is determined according to paragraph 40.4.1.6.
        Line 10, Peacetime Deliveries. Determine when simulated peacetime deliveries will occur by
referring to paragraph 40.4.1.7. and 40.4.1.8.
      Line 11, WRM Deliveries. Determine when WRM simulated deliveries will occur by referring to
paragraphs 40.4.1.7. and 40.4.1.8.

40.5. Simulation of Assets, Buy And Repair for Insurance and NSO Items.
   40.5.1. Budget Stratification Assets for Insurance and NSO Items.
       40.5.1.1. Opening, Current Year, Apportionment Year (other than 30 June cycle) Readiness, and
       AFAO Positions. Use assets as of the asset cut off date.
       40.5.1.2. Apportionment Year (30 June cycle). Serviceable assets are the sum of the Serviceable
       assets as of the asset cut off date plus the Unserviceable scheduled assets as of the asset cut off
       date plus the Unserviceable unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS opening position.
792                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


         Unserviceable scheduled assets are zero. Unserviceable unscheduled assets equal the unservice-
         able unscheduled assets as of the asset cut off date minus the unserviceable unscheduled assets
         applied from the repair CSIS opening position. On order contract assets are the sum of the On
         order contract as of the asset cut off date plus On order commitment as of the cut off date plus the
         item deficit as computed in the budget CSIS opening position. On order commitment assets are
         zero.
         40.5.1.3. Budget Year. Serviceable assets are the sum of the Serviceable Assets as of the asset cut
         off date plus Unserviceable scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date plus Unserviceable
         unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS opening position. Unserviceable scheduled assets
         are zero. Unserviceable unscheduled assets equal the unserviceable unscheduled assets as of the
         asset cut off date minus the unserviceable unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS open-
         ing position. On order contract assets are the sum of the On order contract as of the asset cut off
         date plus On order commitment as of the cut off date plus the item deficit as computed in the open-
         ing position of the budget CSIS. On order commitment assets are zero.
         40.5.1.4. Extended Year. Serviceable assets are the sum of the Serviceable assets as of the asset
         cut off date plus Unserviceable scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date plus Unserviceable
         unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS opening position plus On order contract assets as
         of the asset cut off date. (e) On order commitment assets as of the asset cut off date plus the item
         deficit as computed in the opening position of the budget CSIS. Unserviceable scheduled assets
         equal zero. Unserviceable unscheduled assets equal the unserviceable unscheduled assets as of the
         asset cut off date minus the unserviceable unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS open-
         ing position. On order contract assets equal zero. On order commitment assets equal zero.
         40.5.1.5. Readiness Position. All assets are the same as the opening position.
         40.5.1.6. AFAO Position. All assets are the same as the opening position.
      40.5.2. Repair Stratification Assets for Insurance and NSO Items.
         40.5.2.1. Opening Position. Serviceable assets are the sum of these serviceable assets as of the
         asset cut off date: Base and depot, WRM base and depot, In transit, Contractor and Due in service-
         able. Procurement receipts within period equals zero. Unserviceable scheduled assets are the sum
         of the Due in from overhaul plus the Contractor-scheduled as of the asset cut off date. Unservice-
         able unscheduled assets are the sum of these unserviceable assets as of the asset cut off date: Base
         and depot, In transit, On loan, WRM depot, TOC, Due in unserviceable and Contractor unsched-
         uled.
         40.5.2.2. Current Year (applies to 30 June cycle only). All assets are the same as the opening posi-
         tion.
         40.5.2.3. Apportionment Year (all cycles except 30 June). All assets are the same as the opening
         position.
         40.5.2.4. Apportionment Year (30 June cycle). Serviceable assets are the sum of the Serviceable
         assets as of the asset cut off date, the Unserviceable scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date
         and the Unserviceable unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS opening position. Procure-
         ment receipts within period equal zero. Unserviceable scheduled assets equal zero. Unserviceable
         unscheduled assets equal the unserviceable unscheduled assets as of the asset cut off date minus
         the unserviceable unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS opening position.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                793


      40.5.2.5. Budget Year. Serviceable assets are the sum of the Serviceable assets as of the asset cut
      off date, the Unserviceable scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date and the Unserviceable
      unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS opening position. Procurement receipts within
      the period are the sum of the On order contract assets as of the asset cut off date, the On order com-
      mitment assets as of the asset cut off date and the item deficit from the budget CSIS opening posi-
      tion. Unserviceable scheduled assets equal zero. Unserviceable unscheduled assets equal the
      unserviceable unscheduled assets as of the asset cut off date minus the unserviceable unscheduled
      assets applied from the repair CSIS opening position.
      40.5.2.6. Extended Year. Serviceable assets are the sum of the Serviceable assets as of the asset
      cut off date plus Unserviceable scheduled assets as of the asset cut off date plus Unserviceable
      unscheduled assets applied from the repair CSIS opening position plus On order contract assets as
      of the asset cut off date plus On order commitment assets as of the asset cut off date plus the item
      deficit from the budget CSIS opening position. Procurement receipts within period equal zero.
      Unserviceable scheduled assets equal zero. Unserviceable unscheduled assets equal the unservice-
      able unscheduled assets as of the asset cut off date minus the unserviceable unscheduled applied
      from the repair CSIS opening position.

Figure 40.1. Buy Simulation Chart.
794                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


                                                 Chapter 41

              CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION ON LINE SYSTEM

41.1. Introduction. This chapter describes the procedures for viewing data from the Central Secondary
Item Stratification System (D200.N) within the Requirements Data Bank (RDB) system at OO-ALC. This
system includes data for both recoverable and consumable items. Additional descriptions of RDB on line
operating procedures are in the two RDB users manuals Central Secondary Item Stratification (CSIS),
Revision A, February 1994, and the RDB Users Manual Volume 1, Revision A, October 1993. CSIS data
elements and products are described in detail in Chapter 35 through Chapter 40 of this manual. Data
used for CSIS is unclassified and access to data is controlled by the user-id and password.

41.2. System Procedures.
      41.2.1. The procedures to log on to the RDB system differs depending on the type of equipment and
      the communications package used. See the D200N web page maintained by the CSIS OPR (401
      SCMS/GUMD).
      41.2.2. The next screen is the User-ID/Password screen which identifies users to the RDB system and
      limits access depending on the individual user profile. Type your user-id and password and press
      <ENTER>. At the RDB System News screen press <ENTER> to proceed to the RDB Main Menu.
      Choose IOE, then option 8, Recoverable Items which will then display the Main Menu for CSIS. The
      options are display (DIS), data query (DQ), job submission (JS) and file maintenance (FM). Option
      FM is not used for CSIS, since data cannot be file maintained in CSIS.
      41.2.3. To log off CSIS, the user can back out, screen by screen, using either the F10 or F2 key, or
      type DONE on the command line. Use local procedures to disconnect.
      41.2.4. Error Codes. The command line can also return error messages indicating problems process-
      ing commands that are input. When using some terminals, the message "INHIBIT-WAITING" indi-
      cates that a command is being processed and the keyboard is unable to accept keyboard input.

41.3. Display Menu. This menu has 4 options: the asset cutoff date menu (ACO), the budget products
menu (BUD), the repair products menu (RPR) and the Interim Pricing (IP) system (which is not described
in this manual). There are two basic methods of navigating through CSIS: "menu mode" and "command
mode." It is easier to use the menu mode, but experienced users can get to the selected screens faster by
using command mode.
      41.3.1. Menu Mode. To use menu mode, position the cursor in the entry blank preceding the desired
      option by using the <TAB> key. Type "X" and press <ENTER>. This action will bring up the next
      screen where the user can make another selection. While in menu mode, the cursor position for the ini-
      tial menu and following menus will default to the option at the top of the list. If double columns of
      menu picks are used, pressing <TAB> will allow the user to select the appropriate option.
      41.3.2. Command Mode. To use Command Mode, position the cursor in the entry blank following
      "CMD:" at the bottom of the screen, then type the command (or command string), and press
      <ENTER> to display the requested screen. A single command does not require a period, but a string
      of two or more commands must end with a "." (period). The command language used consists of the
      one to four character command names which are displayed next to each option on the menu. For
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 795


   example, to display the BP SMC Screen (T02 Budget Products) while at the CSIS main menu, enter
   "DIS BUD T02." at the command line. The individual commands in a command string should be in
   the same order as they would normally be made in a succession of separate menu option com-
   mand-entry actions. While in command mode the cursor will thereafter default to the command line.
   The user may return to menu mode by positioning the cursor next to a selection-by-cursor field, typing
   an "X", and pressing <ENTER>.

41.4. Asset Cutoff Dates Menu (Figure 41.1.). When "ACO" is selected on the DISPLAY menu, this
screen, which is for information only, displays all valid asset cutoff dates which are available for on line
access.

41.5. Budget Products Menu and Repair Products Menu. When BUD is selected on the DISPLAY
menu, the next screen displays all of the CSIS Budget Products that are available (Figure 41.2.). When
RPR is selected, the next screen displays all CSIS repair products that are available (Figure 41.7.) are dis-
played. Each screen selected from the budget products menu and the repair products menu consist of a
product header mask with various elements of data which must be input in order to retrieve the desired
CSIS product. The user must fill in the blanks and change the defaults (if desired) for each element in the
header. (Using the TAB will allow the user to see which fields can be changed.)Once all the fields are
filled or changed, press <ENTER> and the product will be displayed on the screen. To move from one
page to another in a multi-page report (such as AFAO and retention, or the information data section), the
user can type in "PX", where X is the page number. The fields which are common to most of the budget
and repair product screens are described below.
   41.5.1. HQ AFMC users must enter an ALC code. For the majority of users at the ALCs, this field
   will display their local ALC code and cannot be changed. A few ALC users, such as budget analysts,
   have the capability to change the data in this field so that they can retrieve data applicable to other
   ALCs. To enter or change the ALC code, position the cursor in the 2 position field at the far left hand
   side of the screen (the first field into which data can be entered, and type an ALC code (OC, OO, SA,
   WR or HQ).
   41.5.2. To select the desired position, move the cursor to the POSITION field, and type one of the fol-
   lowing position codes: OP (Opening Position), CY (Current Year, 30 June cycle only), AY (Appor-
   tionment Year), BY (Budget Year), EY (Extended Year), RP (Readiness Position), AF (AFAO and
   Retention, budget products only) or IN (Information Data).
   41.5.3. To change the funding level, move the cursor to the FUNDING field and type "F" for full
   funding or "L" for limited funding.
   41.5.4. To change the asset cutoff date, position the cursor in the AS OF DT or ASSET CUT-OFF
   DATE field and type a valid asset cutoff date (as displayed on the asset cutoff date screen).
   41.5.5. To produce a printed copy of the report, type "HARD" on the Command Line and press
   <ENTER>. The entire report containing all positions is printed, not just the position displayed on the
   screen.

41.6. Budget Item Detail (S01) (Figure 41.3.). This product is the budget item detail stratification for a
subgroup master stock number. The item detail stratification consists of the segmented requirements,
assets applied to these requirements in a priority sequence, and asset deficits for specified positions-open-
ing, CY (30 June cycle only), AY, BY, EY, readiness, and AFAO and retention. To enter the Stock Num-
796                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


ber, position the cursor in the MASTER STOCK NO field, and type the 9 position NIIN of the Subgroup
Master or Bachelor National Stock Number. Position the cursor in the CURRENT VALUE field, and type
"2" to access data as of the last budget submission.

41.7. Budget Deficit Item Listing (S04, S05, S06, S07, S08) (Figure 41.4.). These products list all def-
icit items applicable to a summary level and also include sections containing a summary of items by item
essentiality code. The item detail section lists items having AY, BY, EY, W-B or OWRM deficits by quan-
tity and acquisition dollar value. The summary sections are for items with other war reserve material
(OWRM), items without OWRM, and a total of items meeting either condition. The items are summa-
rized by selected item essentiality codes (AE, BE, CE, AF, BF, CF, and Other) by the number of items and
their acquisition dollar value. The third section lists items with uncommitted PR/MIPR quantities. To
select the type of report, position the cursor in the REPORT TYPE field, and type ITM for the item listing,
SUM for summary pages or MPR for the PR/MIPR section of the report. Key elements of data vary
according to the type of report and include one or more of the following: BP (Budget Program), SMC
(System Management Code), DIV (Division Code) and IMS (Item Manager Code). To enter this key data,
position the cursor in the appropriate fields and type the entries.

41.8. Budget Summary Products (T01 through T24) (Figure 41.5.). The summary stratification con-
sists of the segmented requirements, assets applied to these requirements in a priority sequence, and defi-
cits for specified positions - opening, CY (30 June cycle only), AY, BY, EY, readiness, AFAO and
retention. The budget summary products are summaries of all items with standard or forecasted unit price
(in thousands of dollars) for a selected summary level. To change the price code, position the cursor in the
PRICE field and type "S" for standard prices or "F" for forecasted prices. The T13 - T16 products provide
total items, or all items in a particular category such as buy items, insurance/NSO items, and don't require
any key data elements (Figure 41.6.). For the other products (Figure 41.5.), key elements of data vary
according to the type of report and may include one or more of the following: MMC (Material Manage-
ment Code), FSC (Federal Stock Class), BP, SMC, DIV, and IMS. To enter key data, position the cursor in
the appropriate fields and type the desired entries (See Figure 41.7.).

41.9. Repair Requirement Listing (S09, S10) (Figure 41.8.). These products list all repair requirement
items applicable to a summary level followed by sections containing a summary of items by item essenti-
ality code (Figure 41.8.). The item detail section lists items having AY, BY, EY, W-B war reserve, or
OWRM requirements by quantity and repair dollar value. The summary sections are for items with
OWRM, items without OWRM, and a total of items meeting either condition. The items are summarized
by selected item essentiality codes (AE, BE, CE, AF, BF, CF, and Other) by the number of items, and their
repair dollar value. To select the type of report, position the cursor in the REPORT TYPE field, and type
ITM for the item listing or SUM for summary pages. To enter key data (SMC, DIV), position the cursor
in the appropriate fields and type the desired data.

41.10. Repair Item Detail (S20) (Figure 41.9.). This product is the repair item detail stratification for a
subgroup master stock number (SGNSN). The item detail stratification consists of the segmented require-
ments, assets applied to these requirements in a priority sequence, and repair requirements (asset deficits
for readiness position) for specified positions - opening, CY (30 June cycle only), AY, BY, EY, and readi-
ness. To enter the SGNSN, position the cursor in the MASTER STOCK NO field, and type the 9 position
NIIN of the Subgroup Master or bachelor NSN. Position the cursor in the CURRENT VALUE field and
type "2" to access data as of the last budget submission.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                  797


41.11. Repair Summary Products (U01 through U10) (Figure 41.10. and Figure 41.11.). These prod-
ucts are summaries of all items in either repair or acquisition price (in thousands of dollars) for a selected
summary level. To change the price code, position the cursor in the COST field and type "A" for acquisi-
tion price (Unit Price), or "R" for repair prices. The summary stratification consists of the segmented
requirements, assets applied to these requirements in priority sequence, and repair requirements (asset
deficits for readiness position) for specified positions - opening, CY (30 June cycle only), AY, BY, EY,
and readiness (Figure 41.10.). Repair summary products do not contain an AFAO and retention position.
Some products provide total items, or all items with a particular source of repair such as contract, organic,
multiple, etc. The U02 - U06 products don't require any key data elements (Figure 41.11.). For the other
products (Figure 41.10.), enter key data (SMC, DIV, IMS, MMC, or FSC), by positioning the cursor in
the appropriate fields and type the key entries.

Figure 41.1. Asset Cutoff Dates Menu.
798                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 41.2. Budget Products Menu.




Figure 41.3. Budget Item Detail (S01) Screen.




Figure 41.4. Budget Deficit Item Listing (S06) Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                    799


Figure 41.5. Budget Summary (T21) Screen.




Figure 41.6. Budget Summary (T13) Screen.




Figure 41.7. Repair Products Menu.
800                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 41.8. Repair Requirements Listing (S10) Screen.




Figure 41.9. Repair Item Detail (S20) Screen.




Figure 41.10. Repair Summary (U09) Screen.




Figure 41.11. Repair Summary (U05) Screen.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                              801


                                              Chapter 42

       CENTRAL SECONDARY ITEM STRATIFICATION SPARES REQUIREMENTS
                      REVIEWBOARD INFORMATION

42.1. There are six screens in the D200N (CSIS) that reflect the Spares Requirements Review Board
(SRRB) initiatives. The screens are as follows:
   42.1.1. Default NSB Percentage (DNSB) Screen. This screen portrays the defaults for Non Sales.
   These defaults are file maintained by HQ AFMC and are passed to the Automated Budget Compila-
   tion System (ABCS) to be used in case an adjustment is made in ABCS that changes the item from a
   No Buy or Repair status, to a Buy or Repair status. If the ABCS is changed from a No Buy/Repair sta-
   tus, then the defaults are used. This percentage is only passed on items that do not compute a buy or
   repair, as applicable, in CSIS. The percentage is multiplied by the buy/repair requirement to determine
   the portion of the buy/repair that is Non-Sales based.

Figure 42.1. DNSB - Default NSB Percentages.




   42.1.2. DMAG Sales – SOR (DMAG) Screen. This is an information screen only for the MAJ-
   COMs. In order for data to be reflected on this screen, there must be Depot Level Maintenance (DLM)
   Job Routed (JR) and/or Non Job Routed (NJR) requirements projected. This screen is designed to
   show Depot Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG) how much they can expect to pay Supply Man-
   agement Activity Group (SMAG) for parts they will purchase in a given Fiscal Year (YR). This is the
   same basic function that the PMSI screen does for the MAJCOMs. The Source of Repair (SOR) is
   generally 100%, unless there is more than one SOR. JR and NJR are repair concepts that may be used
802                                                                  AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


      during the repair of a Next Higher Assembly (NHA) when lower assemblies are found unserviceable.
      The definitions of each of the repair concepts are as follows:
      Job Routed. this is when the lower assembly is removed from the NHA, repaired, and the repaired
      lower assembly replaced on the NHA.
      Non-Job Routed. this is when the lower assembly is removed from the NHA, turned into supply as
      unserviceable, a serviceable requisitioned from Depot Supply, and the requisitioned serviceable is
      replaced on the NHA.
      This screen may be accessed in D200N with the command: IOE 08 DIS SRRB DMAG.

Figure 42.2. DMAG - DMAG SALES – SOR.




      42.1.3. Other SVC Sales – ALC (OTHS) Screen. This is the Other Services Sales, by National
      Stock Number (NSN), by ALC, and by Fiscal Year. For NSNs that have Other Services Sales, the pro-
      jected sales quantity for the Fiscal Year, the Then Year (TY) Sales Price, and the Extended Dollar
      Value are displayed. These sales are basically the Other Services, Secondary Inventory Activity
      (SICA), NRTS and base condemnation projections for the Fiscal Year (FY) for Air Force managed
      recoverable and consumable items. Since Other Services do not have an exchange price, the Standard
      Price * .35 for NRTS requisitions is charged. For consumable items, only the Standard Price is
      charged. Inflation is also applied to both methods. This screen may be accessed in D200N with the
      command: IOE 08 DIS SRRB OTHS.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                       803


Figure 42.3. OTHS - OTHER SERVICES SALES – ALC.




  42.1.4. Projected MAJCOM – MAJCOM Screen (PMSM) Screen. This screen shows the total
  dollars each MAJCOM is expected to spend for all NSNs, by Weapon System or Non Aircraft, by type
  of usage, on each of their weapon systems for the type of usage (base NRTS, base condemnations,
  base RTS) selected and for the Fiscal Year (FY) selected. The weapon system with the highest
  Extended $ Value is shown first, with the remaining weapon systems shown in descending dollar
  value. This is an important “quick check” tool to make sure that the computed numbers are/are not
  where what was expected. The screen may be accessed in D200N with the command: IOE 08 DIS
  SRRB PMSM.
804                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 42.4. PMSM - PROJECTED MAJCOM –MAJCOM.




      42.1.5. Projected MAJCOM – MDS (PMSI) Screen. This screen shows the quantities and dollars,
      by NSN, that each MAJCOM is expected to spend by Weapon System or Non Aircraft, by type of
      usage, by Fiscal Year. Non Aircraft quantities and dollars result when the 7SC transactions do not
      indicate a weapon system for the reported usage data. The NSN with the highest Extended $ Value is
      shown first, with the remaining NSNs shown in descending dollar value. The Total NSN Qty is the
      total SIRS computed usage, either base NRTS, base condemnations, or base RTS that was computed
      for the fiscal year selected. The Overall Percentage is developed from the NSN’s usage data reported
      via the 7SC transaction, factored by the projected future program. The Total NSN Qty multiplied by
      the Overall Percentage results in the MAJCOM Qty for each individual NSN for the selected fiscal
      year. The Then Year (TY) Sales Price is applied to the MAJCOM Qty to arrive at the Extended $ value
      for each of the NSNs. The screen may be accessed in D200N with the command: IOE 08 DIS SRRB
      PMSI.
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                          805


Figure 42.5. PMSI – PROJECTED MAJCOM SALES – MDS.




  42.1.6. Projected MAJCOM – SGM (SGMS) Screen. This screen provides a summarized “all in
  one” product to show all of the SRRB data for a selected NSN. The screen shows, by NSN, fiscal year,
  type of usage, and MAJCOM, the following data:
  (1)MDS
  (2)Past Usage reported via the 7SC transaction
  (3)Past Flying Hours
  (4)Usage BKO Pct
  (5)Mean Time Between Demand (MTBD)
  (6)Future Flying Hours
  (7) Projected NRTS
806                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Figure 42.6. SGMS – PROJECTED MAJCOM – SGM.




                               DONALD K. KRINGEN
                               Acting Chief, Supply and Engineering Requirements Division
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                     807


                                              Attachment 1

                             SUBJECT INDEX
         (PARAGRAPH NUMBERS AND FIGURES ARE SHOWN IN PARENTHESIS)


–A–
AAM—(see Aircraft Availability Model)
AAM/VSL Code—(14.14.1.)
AAMR–Output Products AAM Selection Screen—(29.2.6.) (Figure 29.8.)
ABCS—(see Automated Budget Compilation System)
ABCS–Format 4 Report—(33.4.1.1) (Figure 33.3.)
Accessing the CSIS On Line System—(Chapter 41)
Accessing the SIRS On Line System—(Chapter 2)
Acquisition—(1.10.)
Acquisition Advice Code—(1.3.6.1.) (3.8.1.)
Acquisition and Due-In system—(see J018R)
Acquisition Method Code (AMC)—(9.3.25.)
Acquisition Cost—(see Unit Price)
Activity Code—(see Item Activity Code)
Actual Price—(see Unit Price)
Actual Programs—(see Past Actual Installed Programs)
Actual Stock Number—(1.9.2.)
Additive Requirements Non Recurring—(9.8.37.) (25.2.) (Figure 25.1.)
Additive Requirements Recurring—(9.8.40.)
Additive Requirements (ADRQ) Screen —(25.2.) (Figure 25.1.) (25.4.)
Additives—(1.5.7.) (9.7.) (Chapter 25)
Additives, File Maintenance—(25.3.) (Figure 25.2.)
Adjusted Stock Levels—(ASL) (Chapter 24)
Adjusted Stock Levels Categories—(24.6.)
Adjusted Stock Levels, file maintenance of—(24.5.)
Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet—(24.7.) (Figure 24.6.)
Adjusted Second Short Position—(9.9.3.)
Adjustments to Assets—(28.4.2.) (28.4.8.) (28.4.11.1.) (28.5.7.) (28.5.8.)
808                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Administrative Lead Time—(ALT) (3.8.4.) (22.2.) (22.5.)
ADRQ—(see Additive Requirements Screen)
AF Communication Agency Pre-Position stock levels—(24.6.7.)
AF Form 206, Temporary Work Request—(3.10.) (15.3.)
AF Form 1996—(24.4.) (24.5.11.) (24.6.3.) (24.7.3.)
AF Form 3056, Termination Authority Template—(Chapter 33) (Figure 33.1.)
AFMC Form 247—(28.4.3.)
AFMC Form 318, Item Contracting History Record—(22.2.) (28.1.4.) (28.3.2.) (28.4.4.) (28.8.4.)
(28.8.5.) (28.8.6.)
AFMC Form 326, Provisioned Items Exhibit—(33.1.2.) (33.4.6.2.)
AFMC Form 339—(Table 7.1.) (Table 7.2.) (14.12.) (33.4.6.2.)
AF SICA NIMSC 5—(Table 7.3.) (27.2.)
Afterburners—(1.3.8.)
Aircraft—(18.5.) (18.21.1.) (18.26.2.1.)
Aircraft Availability by MD—(29.2.2.) (29.2.10.) (Figure 29.4.)
Aircraft Availability by Fill Rate—(29.2.3.) (29.2.7.) (Figure 29.5.)
Aircraft Availability Model (AAM) Mission Design Series Table—(6.12.) (Figure 6.12.)
Aircraft Availability Model Data Screen—(Figure 29.2.)
Aircraft Availability Model Products & Display Screens—(29.2.) (29.2.6.) (Figure 29.8.)
Aircraft Availability Target Goals—(6.13.1.) (Figure 6.13.)
Air Force Requirements Forecasting System—(see D085)
Airlift Code—(4.5.2.)
Air Logistics Code—(ALC) (14.14.2.)
ALC Asset Condition Codes, defined—(26.3.)
ALC Asset Purpose Codes, defined—(26.2.)
ALC Review Team Summary—(Chapter 7) (Table 7.10.)
ALT—(see Administrative Lead Time)
ALVL–File Maintenance Adjusted Levels screen—(Figure 24.4.)
ALVW–Display Adjusted Level Verification Worksheet—(Figure 24.1.)
ALVW–File Maintenance Adjusted Level Selection screen—(Figure 24.3.)
AMC—(see Acquisition Method Code)
Ammunition Programs—(18.7.8.)
API (Application Program Indenture system)—(3.9.) (18.2.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                        809


API OPR—(18.4.2.)
API Program Products—(18.34.)
Application—(see also Standard Program Designator)
Application Data, displayed on SMCW screen—(9.2.2.) (Figure 9.20.) (9.15.)
Application Data, File Maintenance of—(18.26.) (Figure 2.17.) (Figure 18.12.) (Figure 18.13.)
Application Deferred Disposal Code—(see Deferred Disposal Code)
Application Essentiality Code—(see MIEC)
Application Percent —(18.26.5.) (18.31.)
Application Program Begin Date—(see Program Begin Date)
Application Program Data by Component/Item—(18.33.)
Application Program Data by SPD—(18.32.)
Application Program Designator—(see Standard Program Designator)
Application Program Development Code—(see Program Development Code)
Application Program Indenture (API) system—(see API)
Application Program Select Code—(see Program Select Code)
Application QPA—(see Quantity Per Application)
Application Tailored MODS—(see Modification (MOD) Application and Programs)
Apportionment Year, AY—(1.7.3.)
ARCR–Display Asset Reconciliation Computational Results screen—(Figure 28.5.)
ARD–Display Asset Reconciliation screen—(Figure 28.2.)
ARD–File Maintenance Asset Reconciliation screen—(Figure 28.1.)
ARDI–Display Asset Reconciliation Due In Assets screen—(Figure 28.7.)
ARLG–Display Asset Reconciliation Losses & Gains screen—(Figure 28.4.)
ARLG–File Maintenance Asset Reconciliation Losses & Gains screen—(Figure 28.3.)
AROH–File Maintenance Asset Reconciliation On Hand Assets screens—(Figure 28.8.) (Figure 28.9.)
AROO—Display Asset Reconciliation On Order Assets screen—(Figure 28.6.)
ARRCS—(see Automated Repair Requirements Computation System)
Asset Cutoff Date—(1.7.1.)
Asset Reconciliation File Maintenance—(28.2.) (Figure 28.1.)
Asset Reconciliation Report—(28.10.) (Figure 28.10. through figure Figure 28.12.)
Assets, definition —(9.6.) (Chapter 26)
Assets, file maintenance—(26.6.) (26.9.)
810                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Assets, input—(3.2.) (3.3.) (3.13.)
Assets Available for WRM Repair—(9.9.5.)
Assignment Code—(18.19.1.8.) (18.19.3.)
Authorized Load Date—(24.2.5.) (24.5.6.) (24.7.7.)
Automated Budget Compilation System (ABCS)—(15.2.1.) (15.2.9.) (35.7.2.)
Automated Repair Requirements Computation System (ARRCS)—(20.4.9.) (24.8.) (26.2.) (26.5.11.)
(28.9.16.)
Available Assets from Repair—(see Total Available from Depot Repair)
Average Unit Repair Man-hours—(see Unit Repair Manhours)
Awaiting Maintenance (AWM)—(26.5.12.)
Awaiting Parts (AWP)—(26.5.12.)
AY—(see Apportionment Year)


–B–
Bachelor Stock Number—(1.9.2.)
Backorders—(15.2.7.) (15.2.8.) (15.2.9.) (25.6.)
Backorders, Foreign Military Sales—(32.3.)
Bailment—(see On Loan Additive)
Balance OWRM Requirements—(9.9.2.)
Balance W-B Requirements—(9.9.1.)
Base Assets—(26.5.) (28.9.1.)
Base Condemnations—(3.2.) (9.4.4.) (9.8.52.) (16.7.)
Base Condemnation Percent—(9.5.7.) (17.7.)
Base Demand Level—(24.2.3.) (24.5.8.) (24.7.9.)
Base Level Authorized—(24.2.2.) (24.5.7.) (24.7.8.)
Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares (BLSS) (formerly prepositioned in D041)—(3.7.2.) (9.9.6.) (25.1.3.)
(29.2.1.)(36.3.9.) (see W-B Requirements)
Base Negotiated Stock Levels—(24.6.5.)
Base Not Reparable This Station—(see Not Reparable This Station NRTS)
Base NRTS Percent—(9.5.5.) (17.6.)
Base Order & Shipping Time Days—(see Order & Shipping Time Days)
Base Period—(16.1.2.) (see Usage Data)
Base Pipeline—(24.2.4.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                         811


Base Processed, used in the computation—(9.8.51.)
Base Processed Percent—(9.5.6.) (17.13.)
Base Processing Days—(3.5.) (9.4.2.1.) (23.9.)
Base Processing Days, Time Phased—(23.15.)
Base Repair Cycle Days—(3.5.) (Table 7.1.) (Table 7.3.) (9.4.1.4.) (9.4.2.1.) (10.10.) (16.13.1.22.)
(23.7.)
Base Repair Cycle Requirements—(see OIM Base Repair Cycle Requirements)
Base Repair, used in the computation—(9.8.53.)
Base Repair Processing Days—(10.10.)
Base Reparable Generations—(9.4.4.2.) (16.4.)
Base Reparable Intransit Days—(see Reparable Intransit Days)
Base Reparable This Station (RTS)—(see Reparable This Station)
Base Retention Factor—(6.11.)
Base RTS Exclusion Indicator—(9.3.21.) (16.13.1.20.)
Base Safety Level—(9.8.7.)
Base Serviceable Assets—(9.6.1.)
Base Stock Level—(see Total Base Stock Level)
Base Unserviceable Assets—(9.6.3.)
Basic Management Data Screen—(Figure 14.1.)
Batch Validation of Input Data—(Chapter 8)
Bench Mockup Additive—(25.4.3.)
BLSS Base Level Self-sufficiency Spares (BLSS)—(formerly prepositioned in D041) and (see W-B
Requirements)
BMD Basic Management Data—(see Basic Management Data Screen)
BP—(see Budget Program Code)
BP/SMC Table screen in API (6.20.)—(Figure 6.20.)
BSBT BP/SMC/BSO Table screen—(6.2.) (Figure 6.2.)
BSMDT BP SMC Pseudo MD Table screen—(6.3.) (Figure 6.3.)
BTRT BP SMC Target Fill Rate Table screen—(6.4.) (Figure 6.4.)
BVRT BSO Key/BSO Value Results Table screen—(6.5.) (Figure 6.5.)
Budget Deficit Item Listing—(36.3.) (Figure 36.1.)
Budget Deficit Item Listing By Part Number—(36.4.) (Figure 36.4.)
Budget Estimate Submission (BES)—(18.9.1.)
812                                                             AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Budget Item Detail CSIS products—(Chapter 37)
Budget Program Code (BP)—(1.3.6.) (14.2.1.)
Budget Requirements Review Summary Checklists—(figure 7.1) (figure 7.2)
Budget Summary Products—(36.6.)
Budget Time Span—(Figure 35.1.)
Budget Year, BY—(1.7.4.)
Budget Year Buy Point—(1.7.7.)
Buttons, Navigation—(2.6.) (Figure 2.6.)
Buy Deferral—(1.10.7.)
Buy, Definition—(1.6.2.)
Buy Initiation Date (PT)—(9.13.14.)
Buy Level, Insurance/NSO Items—(31.6.)
Buy Operating Level, Worldwide—(9.13.7.)
Buy Period Requirements—(1.7.6.) (9.8.)
Buy Quantity—(9.13.1.) (9.13.14.)
BY—(see Budget Year)


–C–
CAD/PAD Items—(25.4.6.)
Calendar–Time Change Items—(1.3.10.)
CARD–Display Assets screens (26.11.)—(Figure 26.7. through Figure 26.11.)
Carryover Indicator—(18.19.3.)
Cartridge Activated Devices/Propellant Activated Devices—(see CAD-PAD)
Catalog Management Data—(3.8.) (Chapter 14)
Categories of Requirements—(1.6.)
Central Secondary Item Stratification—(see CSIS)
C-Factor(24.2.4.) (24.5.5.) (Figure 24.5.)
CIT Contractor Identity Table screen—(6.6.) (Figure 6.7.)
CLSSA/Non-CLSSA Customers Offers—(32.2.) (32.5.)
Combat Ammunition System—(4.9.)
Command Code—(18.19.1.6.)
Command Negotiated Stock Levels—(24.6.4.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                     813


Committed Assets—(37.3.22.) (37.7.20.1.) (39.8.13.) (39.8.14.)
Communication Electronic—(C-E) Items (18.4.) (18.21.) (18.28.2.) (24.6.7.)
Computation Timespan—(1.7.) (Figure 1.1.)
Computation Worksheet, SGM, description of—(9.2.) (Figure 9.20.)
Computation Worksheet, SGM file maintenance screen—(2.11.4.) (9.16.) (Figure 27.2.)
Compute Code—(1.9.6.) (14.14.3.)
Condemnation Factor—(6.11.) (9.13.9.)
Condemnations—(1.5.2.) (28.5.1.)
Condition Codes for Assets—(26.3.)
Condition Code X Assets—(16.13.1.30.) (26.3.1.) (26.5.14.)
Consolidated Assets & Additives Product—(26.12.) (Figure 26.12. through Figure 26.14.)
Consumable Items—(1.9.) (17.3.) (18.3.2.)
Containers—(25.4.11.) (28.1.) (31.3.1.3.)
Contingency Code—(1.3.2.) (see Military Contingency Code)
Contingency Items—(1.3.2.) (14.3.1.3.1.) (14.3.1.3.4.) (14.3.2.2.) (14.5.5.) (14.12.)
Contract Assets—(26.8.2.) (28.7.) (28.9.5.) (28.9.12.) (Figure 28.6.)
Contract Deport Maintenance Production and Cost System—(see G072D)
Contract Incentive Award—(34.9.)
Contract Line Item Number (CLIN)—(3.10.) (3.12.) (15.5.) (15.6.) (15.7.18.) (Figure 15.1.)
Contract Repair Enhancement Program (CREP)—(23.12.2.)
Contract Repaired Items—(15.7.16.) (16.13.1.27.) 17.19.25.)
Contractor and Government Entity Code (CAGE)—(3.8.1.) (16.13.1.5.)
Contractor Assets—(3.3.7.) (Figure 3.2.) (9.6.1.) (9.6.3.) (26.5.)
Contractor Identity Table screen—(6.6.) (Figure 6.7.)
Contractor Output Table screen—(6.7.) (Figure 6.8.)
Contractor Overhaul Usage—(3.12.)
Contractor Quotes/Estimates—(34.8.)
Contractor Reporting of Data—(Figure 3.2.)
Control Level—(4.2.) (9.13.12.1.)
Cooperative Logistics Supply Support Arrangements—(CLSSA) (32.2.)
Cost Benefit Analysis Model (Termination model)—(33.5.)
COT Contractor Output Table screen(Figure 6.8.)
814                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


CPS Display Program Selection Data by Component—(Figure 18.15.)
Critical Items—(12.6.6.)
CSIS—(Central Secondary Item Stratification)—(4.15.) (35.3.)
CSIS Budget Deficit Item Listing—(36.3.) (Figure 36.1. through Figure 36.4.)
CSIS Budget products—(Chapter 37)
CSIS Information Data—(Chapter 39)
CSIS online system access—(Chapter 41)
CSIS Products, list of—(36.8.) (Chapter 36)
CSIS Repair products—(Chapter 38)
CSIS Repair Requirements Listing—(Figure 36.5.) (Figure 36.6.)
CSIS Simulation data—(Chapter 40)
CSN—(see Current Stock Number)
Current Factors—(see Factors)
Current Stock Number—(CSN) (1.9.2.)
Current Year, CY—(1.7.2.)
Cutoff Dates—(1.7.1.)
CW Display Computation Worksheet Menu—(Figure 2.10.)
CY—(see Current Year)


–D–
D002A–System Data—(3.2.) (5.4.1.)
D035A–System Data—(1.9.5.) (3.3.) (4.2.) (5.4.2.) (9.13.12.) (28.4.8.1.2.) (32.3.) (32.7.)
D035B–System Data—(3.4.) (5.4.3.) (27.3.3.)
D035C–System Data—(3.5.) (5.4.4.) (5.4.5.)
D035E–System Data—(3.6.) (4.3.) (5.4.11.) (24.2.)
D035G–System Data—(1.10.4.2.3.) (4.7.)
D037 System Data—(4.4.)
D043 System Data—(1.9.4.) (3.8.) (4.5.)
D064 System Data—(4.6.)
D075 System Data—(4.8.) (15.2.1.) (32.7.2.4.)
D078W System Data—(4.9.)
D085 System Data—(4.10.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                    815


D087E System Data—(4.11.)
D087H System Data—(3.7.) (4.12.) (21.2.) (25.4.1.) (25.4.18.) (25.4.19.)
D087W System Data—(4.13.)
D087X System Data—(4.14.)
D200C System Data—(2.4.) (18.3.4.) (18.13.) (18.19.3.)
D200E—(see RIID, Requirements Item Identification Data Base)
D200F—(see API, Application, Program, Indenture System)
D200H—(1.8.) (1.11.2.)
D200N—(see CSIS)
D357 System Data—(4.16.)
D363 Maintenance Planning and Executtion System (MP&E) (Modification System)—(18.15.)
Daily Demand Rate—(4.8.2.5.)
Data Review Lists—(see Quality Review Lists)
Date of Last Demand—(see Quarter of Last Demand)
Date of Last Procurement (DOLP)—(3.8.1.) (9.3.4.) (14.12.)
DD Form 1149—(28.8.7.) (28.8.8.) (28.8.9.)
Default Values—(see Standard Values) (Chapter 6)
Deferred Disposal Code—(3.8.1.) (7.1.2.2.) (9.3.17.) (14.3.) (18.24.) (32.8.)
Defense Inactive Item Program (DIIP)—(4.5.1.)
Defense Materiel Utilization & Disposition Program—(see D035G)
Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office (DRMO) Assets—(16.7.) (28.4.3.) (28.5.9.)
Deferred Disposal Code Level—(9.3.18.) (14.3.2.)
Delayed Discrepancy Backorder—(15.2.8.) (15.2.9.) (25.4.7.) (25.4.13.)
Delivery Schedule—(9.13.14.)
Depot Assets—(9.6.1.) (9.6.3.) (26.5.) (28.9.1.) (28.9.10.)
Depot Condemnations Total—(16.11.)
Depot Data Bank Trend Analysis Screens—(30.4.) (Figure 30.15. through Figure 30.25.)
Depot Floating Stock Level—(15.4.)
Depot Level Maintenance (DLM) Factors—(17.14.)
Depot Level Maintenance Programs—(2.10.3.11.11.) (18.7.) (18.19.1.4.) (18.21.)
Depot Maintenance Interservice Support Agreement Contract Data (DMISA)—(9.13.13.) (3.12.)
(27.3.1.) (28.5.5.) (28.5.13.) (34.6.1.)
Depot OH Cdms (Depot Overhaul Condemnations)—(see MISTR Condemnations)
816                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Depot OH Cdm Percent—(see MISTR Condemnations Percent)
Depot Overhaul Repairs—(see MISTR Repairs)
Depot Processing Days—(9.8.70.) (23.16.)
Depot Repair Cycle Days—(9.4.2.) (23.8.)
Depot Repair Cycle Days, Time Phased and Effective Date—(9.4.3.) (23.15.)
Depot Repair Cycle requirements—(see OIM Depot Repair Cycle and NJR Depot Repair Cycle)
Depot Repairs—(see MISTR Repairs)
Depot Reparable Generations—(4.8.2.6.) (16.8.)
Depot Reparable Intransit Days—(23.16.)
Depot Safety Level—(9.8.12.)
Depot Serviceable Assets—(9.6.1.) (see Serviceable Assets)
Depot Unserviceable Assets—(9.6.3.) (see Unserviceable Assets)
DIFM—(see Due In from Maintenance)
DIIP—(see Defense Inactive Item Program)
DIOH—(see Due In from Overhaul)
DIS Display Main Menu—(Figure 2.8.)
Display Screens, COMP (CW)—(2.10.)
Display Screens, List of—(Figure 2.9.)
Distribution Levels—(9.13.12.)
Division Designator Code—(16.13.1.8.) (17.19.6. and 17.19.7.) (18.25.2.)
DLM—(see Depot Level Maintenance)
DMISA—(see Depot Maintenance Interservice Support Agreement Contract Data)
Documentation Requirements Review—(Chapter 7) (table7.11)
Documentation, Retention of—(1.13.)
DOLP—(see Date of Last Procurement)
DOTM—(see Due Out to Maintenance)
DRMO—(see Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office)
Drone Application and Programs—(18.7.7.) (18.10.) (18.21.6.) (18.26.2.1.)
DTI Data Type Interrogations Menu—(Figure 2.11.)
Due In Assets—(3.13.) (9.6.4.) (9.6.5.) (26.8.1.) (26.9.) (28.8.)
Due In Assets, unserviceable—(see Unserviceable Due In/TOC Assets)
Due In Available From Repair—(9.8.80.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                   817


Due In Condemnations, used in the computation—(9.8.78.)
Due In From Maintenance (DIFM)—(3.2.) (3.3.) (5.4.2.24.) (26.3.) (27.2.4.) (34.10.2.)
Due In From Overhaul (DIOH)—(3.3.2.) (3.3.5.) (3.3.6.) (5.4.2.26.) (13.2.8.11.) (26.3.4.) (26.5.12.)
(37.1.1.) (37.2.18.) (37.3.18.) (37.6.17.) ((37.7.27.) (38.1.14.) (38.2.17.) (38.3.20.) (38.6.17.) (40.2.3.)
(40.5.2.)
Due Out To Maintenance (DOTM)—(3.2.) (3.3.2.) (9.7.1.) (25.5.1.) (26.5.16.) (26.6.) (28.9.15.)
Dyna-Metric System—(see D064)


–E–
Economic Procurement Quantities—(1.10.5.)
Edit Products of Interfacing Systems Data for ALC OPRS—(5.4.)
Edit Reports of Interfacing Systems Data For HQ AFMC OPR—(Chapter 8)
Effective Date—(see Depot Repair Cycle Days)
End Item—(18.3.4.) (18.4.1.)
End Item Sales Price—(see Repair Cost)
Engine Application and Programs—(18.5.) (18.21.2.) (18.26.2.1.)
Engine Operating Hours—(18.11.)
Engine Overhaul (EOH) Job Routed Condemnations—(see EOH JR Requirements)
EOH JR Condemnation Percent—(9.5.9.) (17.17.)
EOH JR Program—(9.8.22.)
EOH JR Requirements (condemnations)—(9.8.23.)
EOH NJR Program—(9.8.16.)
EOH NJR Program Percent—(9.5.11.) (17.15.)
EOH NJR Replacement Percent—(9.5.10.) (17.16.)
EOH NJR Requirements—(9.8.17.)
EOH Program—(18.7.6.) (18.12.)
Engine Overhaul Programs, Foreign Military Sales (FMS)—(32.6.)
Equipment Items Applications and Programs—(18.3.4.) (18.13.)
Equipment Item Managers—(18.4.5.)
Equipment Item System—(see D200C)
Equipment Specialist (ES)—(1.4.2.) (1.9.4.) (3.8.1.) (Chapter 12) (14.14.6.) (18.4.1.) (18.25.4.) (25.1.2.)
Equipment Specialist Validation Checklist—(12.7.)
ERRC—(1.2.4.) (1.9.1.) (3.8.1.) (9.3.12.) (14.14.5.)
818                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


EPSS Equipment Specialist Selection Screen (Output Products)—(Figure 12.3.)
ES—(see Equipment Specialist)
ES Quality Review Checklists—(Chapter 7)
Essentiality Code—(see System Essentiality Code and see MIEC)
Estimated Factors—(see Factors)
Estimated Termination Costs—(33.2.7.)
Excess, Definition—(1.6.4.)
Excess Level, Insurance & Numeric Stockage Objective Items—(31.6.)
Excess Quantity—(9.13.4.)
Excluded MMAC Table screen—(6.8.)
Execution and Prioritization of Repairs Support System—(see D087X)
Expendability Recoverability Repairability Category Code—(see ERRC)
Exponential Smoothing—(17.27.)
Extended Year—(1.7.5.)
Extended Year Buy Point—(1.7.8.)
EY—(see Extended Year)


–F–
FACD File Maintenance Factor Data Screen—(Figure 17.8.)
Factor Indicator—(9.4.4.8.) (16.13.1.19.) (17.26.)
Factor Indicator Codes (FIC)—(16.13.1.9.) (17.19.24.) (17.24.4.) (17.26.) (17.26.6.) (Table 17.1.)
(19.1.3.)
Factor Interpolation—(17.5.)
Factors—(9.5.) (16.13.2.) (Chapter 17) (Figure 9.4.)
Factors, file maintenance—(17.24.) (Figure 17.8.)
Factors screens FUD menu—(2.10.3.5.) (Figure 2.12.)
Factor/Usage Printout—(16.13.) (Figure 16.10. through Figure 16.13.)
Factors & Usage Quality Review Checklists—(Table 7.4.) (Table 7.5.)
FAD Display Factor Application Data Screen—(Figure 17.7.)
FBD–Display Factors Basic Screen—(Figure 17.2.)
Federal Stock Class (FSC)—(2.10.3.6.) (5.4.) (11.2.) (13.4.1.) (28.1.) (36.6.) (41.8.)
FIC—(See Factor Indicator Code)
Field Engine Exchangeable Management System (FEEMS) Indicator—(3.10.) (9.3.23.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                        819


File Maintenance Screens—(2.11.)
File Maintenance Recommended Sequence—(1.4.1.1.) (1.4.1.2.) (1.4.2.1.) (1.4.2.2.)
Fill Rates Goals, Aircraft Availability—(29.2.3.) (29.2.7.)
First Fiscal Year Forecast Factors—(see Factors)
First Over/Short Positions—(9.8.47.) (9.8.49.)
First Replenishment Actions—(1.10.)
Fiscal Year (FY)—(1.10.3.) (2.10.3.2.) (3.8.) (3.11.) (3.12.) (5.4.3.) (6.10.) (9.5.) (9.11.) (14.4.3.)
(14.11.2.) (15.2.) (17.4.) (17.5.) (18.9.) (27.7.) (34.2.1.) (34.4.) (34.11.) (35.3.) (38.2.) (38.4.) (38.5.)
Floating Stock—(see Depot Floating Stock)
Flying Hours—(18.7.1.) (18.8.) (18.9.3.)
FM–File Maintenance Main Menu—(Figure 2.17.) SND menu (Figure 2.20.)
FMS—(see Foreign Military Sales)
FMS Quantity—(2.11.4.) (3.4.) (3.8.4.) (3.15.) (5.4.10.) (9.7.) (9.13.6.) (9.16.) (10.4.) (32.2.) (32.4.)
(Chapter 32)
FMS Requisitions—(32.3.)
FMS Retention—(1.13.5.) (32.8.)
FMSO I Reduction/Deletion Processing—(32.4.)
FOE–Final Operating Environment Menu—(Figure 2.7.)
Forecast Factors—(see Factors)
Forecast Unit Price (FUP)—(6.10.) (9.3.4.2.) (14.11.2.) (34.1.) (34.5.) (35.7.) (36.2.) (36.3.) (41.8.)
Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Additive—(9.7.2.) (25.4.17.)
Foreign Military Sales Applications—(18.5.3.)
Foreign Military Sales Assets—(26.8.1.3.) (28.5.4.) (28.8.10.)
Foreign Military Sales Order I (FMSO I)—(32.2.)
Foreign Military Sales Materiel Repair Requirements List Back Order (FMS H-CD BO)—(3.4.)
(25.4.16.) (28.9.16.) (32.7.)
Forward Supply Support (FSS) HQ AMC—(24.6.8.)
FRAP–Display Forecast Rates and Percents Data Screen—(Figure 17.4.)
FRAP–File Maintenance Past Actual Program screen—(Figure 18.8.)
FRPR–File Maintenance Projected Program screen—(Figure 18.9.)
Freeze Code (for API: 4.5. and 18.24.)other:—(37.7.20.1.) (39.8.) (39.9.5.)
FRIR–For Real Item Recomputation Screen—(Figure 10.1.)
FSC—(see Federal Stock Class)
820                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


FUD–Factors/Usage Data Display menu—(Figure 2.12.)
FUD–Factors/Usage Selection screen—(Figure 16.4.)
Function Navigation Keys—(2.8.)
Future Programs—(see Projected Programs)
Function Keys—(2.8.)
FUP—(see Forecasted Unit Price)
FY—(See Fiscal Year)


–G–
G004L System Data—(3.10.) (5.4.6.)
G009—(28.4.8.1.1.)
G019C System Data—(3.8.5.) (3.11.) (5.4.8.) (8.10.) (Figure 8.9.) (8.12.) (83.2.11) (15.1.) (15.7.) (15.8.)
(17.19.28.) (23.12.1.) (26.5.12.) (28.9.8.) (34.6.) (34.12.)
G072D System Data—(3.12.) (5.4.7.) (Figure 5.11.)
G099 System Data—(18.8.)
Get Well Assessment Module (GWAM)—(see D087E)
GFAE—(see Government Furnished Aerospace Equipment)
GFM—(see Government Furnished Materiel)
GFP—(see Government Furnished Property)
Goals—(6.13.)
Government Furnished Aerospace Equipment (GFAE)—(25.4.4.) (26.5.)
Government Furnished Material (GFM)—(3.10.) (25.4.4.) (26.5.)
Government Furnished Property (GFP)—(25.4.4.) (26.5.)
Graphic User Interface (GUI)—(2.3.2.) (2.5.)
Gross Retention Level, Worldwide—(9.13.10.)
Gross Requirement—(see Total Gross Requirement)
GRPR–Group Recomputation Selection screen—(Figure 2.19.)
GUI—(see Graphic User Interface)
GUI navigation keys—(2.6.)


–H–
H036C Weapons Systems Cost Retrieval System Data—(4.17.)
H-Coded Foreign Military Sales Requisitions—(see Foreign Military Sales)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 821


High Priority Backorders for Consumable Items—(25.6.)
High Priority Mission Support Kits (HPMSK)—(3.7.2.) (10.4.) (21.2.) (25.3.) (25.4.18.) (39.18.2.)
HLFT High-Low Factors Table screen—(6.9.) (Figure 6.9.)
HQ AFMC Review Summary—(Chapter 7) (Table 7.9.)


–I–
IAC—(see Item Activity Code)
I&S—(see Interchangeability and Substitutability)
ICS—(see Interim Contract Support)
IMS—(see Item Management Specialist)
IMS Quality Review Checklists—(Table 7.1.) (Table 7.2.) (Table 7.3.)
IMS Review List—(13.2.)
IND–File maintenance Indentures screen for API—(Figure 18.12.)
Index of Actions Display Screens—(11.6.) (Figure 11.1. through Figure 11.3.)
Index of Actions Product, Buy/Term/Excess—(11.2.) (Figure 11.5. through Figure 11.13.)
Index of Actions Product, Repair—(11.3.) (Figure 11.14. through Figure 11.18.)
Index of Actions Product, RRRQ—(Figure 20.2.) (20.5.) (20.6.) (Figure 20.3.)
Inflation Index Table IIT—(6.10.) (Figure 6.10.)
INIS Report and Display screens for Insurance and NSO Items—(Figure 31.1. through Figure 31.6.)
Initial and Follow On Spares, General—(1.8.)
Initial On Order Assets—(26.8.2.1.)
Initial Requirements Determination (IRD) system—(see D200H)
Initial Spares Support Lists (ISSL)—(1.10.1.2.) (24.6.1.) (24.2.) (24.4.3.) (24.4.5.) (24.5.4.) (24.5.11.)
(24.8.) (27.2.4.)
In place Readiness Spares Packages (IRSP)—(24.6.9.) (25.4.1.) (see W-B Requirements)
INS—(see Insurance)
Installation Additive—(25.4.5.)
Installation Losses—(28.5.2.)
Insurance Code—(3.8.1.) (9.3.9.) (14.6.) (31.1.5.) (31.2.2.) (39.8.)
Insurance Items—(1.3.3.) (31.2.2.) (31.4.)
Insurance/NSO Item Status Listing—(2.10.3.2.1.) (31.6.) (31.7.) (31.8.) (Figure 31.7.)
Insurance/NSO Levels/Quantities—(31.4.)
Insurance/NSO Screens—(Figure 31.1. through Figure 31.6.)
822                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Insurance/NSO Status Listing—(Figure 31.7.)
Interchangeable Stock Number, Definition—(1.9.2.)
Interchangeability and Substitutability (I&S) Master Stock Number—(1.9.2.) (3.8.1.) (9.14.)
Interchangeability and Substitutability Data, file maintenance—(14.15.)
Interchangeability and Substitutability Data, Insurance & NSO Items—(31.8.26.)
Interface System Input Dates ISID screen—(8.1.) (Figure 8.1.)
Interfacing Systems—(Chapter 3)
Interfacing Systems, edits of data—(Chapter 8)
Interfacing Systems, list of—(Figure 3.1.)
Interim Contractor Support (ICS)—(9.3.14.) (14.4.) (15.8.8.) (16.13.1.28.) (23.2.3.) (23.15.)
International Logistics—(Chapter 32)
Interpolated Factors—(17.5.)
Interpolation Indicator—(17.5.3.)
Interservice Supply Support Program (ISSP) Assets—(9.6.4.) (9.6.5.) (37.7.28.)
Intransit Assets—(3.3.3.) (9.6.3.) (26.5.) (28.9.4.) (28.9.11.)
Inventory, types of—(18.7.3.) (18.9.3.)
Inventory Tracking System (ITS)—(15.7.21.2.)
IOA Index of Actions Selection screen—(Figure 2.13.)
IP—(see Iterative Pricing)
IPD–Display Item Future Program Peace screen—(Figure 18.5.)
IPD–Display Item Past Programs screen—(Figure 18.6.)
IPD–Display Item Program Product Selection screen—(Figure 18.4.)
IPD–Output Products Item Program Product Selection screen—(Figure 18.2.)
IPS—(see Item Pricing System)
IRFM–Item Recomputation menu screen—(Figure 10.3.)
IRIS—(See Interactive Requirements Information Service)
IRL–Display IMS/ES Review List Screen—(Figure 12.1.) (13.1.)
IRSP (In place Readiness Spares Package)—(24.6.9.) (25.3.1.) (25.4.) (25.6.8.2.3)
ISA–Display SRAN Assets Screens—(26.4.) (Figure 26.1.) (Figure 26.2.)
ISD Output Products Input Product selection data screen—(Figure 5.4.)
ISID Interface System Input Dates Display Screen—(Figure 8.1.)
ISS–I&S Structure File Maintenance screen—(14.15.) (Figure 14.2.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                             823


ISSL—(see Initial Spares Support Lists)
ISSP—(see Interservice Supply Support Program)
Item Activity Code(9.3.7.) (14.5.) (16.13.1.14.) (17.19.10.) (20.5.5.)
Item Application Data—(see Application Data)
Item Category Code—(9.3.9.) (14.6.) (16.13.1.16.)
Item Essentiality Code—(see MIEC)
Item Future Installed Program—(18.6.) (Figure 18.5.)
Item Installed Program—(18.3.7.) (18.17.)
Item or Inventory Management Specialist (IMS)—(1.1.) (1.4.1.) (1.9.5.) (3.8.1.) (Chapter 13) (14.14.7.)
(25.1.2.)
Item Manager Code—(see Item or Inventory Management Specialist)
Item Manager Wholesale Requisition Process—(see D035A)
Item Mission Item Essentiality Code—(see MIEC)
Item Name—(3.8.1.) (14.7.)
Item Past Installed Program—(see Past Actual Installed Program)
Item Pricing System—(2.7.8.) (14.4.3.) (15.8.) (15.8.10.) (34.1.) (34.2.) (34.6.) (34.7.) (34.10.)
Item Program Begin Date—(see Program Begin Date)
Item Program Select Code—(9.3.2.) (14.4.11) (18.3.9.) (20.3.1.) (20.4.4.)
Item Program Selection—(18.3.8.)
Item Recomputation screens—(Chapter 10) (Figure 10.1. through Figure 10.13.)
Items Excluded From SIRS—(1.3.6.)
Interactive Requirements Information System—(IRIS) (1.4.1.2.) (1.4.2.2.)
Iterative Pricing (IP)—(34.11.)
ITS—(See Inventory Tracking System)
ITT–Inflation Index Table screen—(6.10.) (Figure 6.10.)


–J–
J018R System data—(1.8.) (1.13.5.) (2.7.6.-2.7.7.) (3.1.3) (Table 3.1.) (3.8.4.) (4.15.) (5.4.9.) (8.12.)
(9.6.6.) (9.8.44.-9.8.45.) (Chapter 22) (Chapter 26) (Chapter 28) (32.3.5.) (33.4.6.2.) (34.8.) (35.7.1.)
(36.3.12.5.)
Job Designator Code—(3.10.) (3.11.)
Job Order Production Master System—(see G004L)
Job Routed Condemnations—(see Total JR Condemnations)
824                                                                      AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Job Routed Condemnation Percents—(17.17.)
Job Routed (JR) Repair, defined—(17.14.)
Job Routed Stock Level—(9.8.28.)
Job Routed Stock Level Days—(9.4.1.3.) (23.6.)
Job Routing Repair Concept—(17.14.)


–K–
Keys, Navigation Function—(2.6.) (2.8.)


–L–
Lead Time—(see Administrative Lead Time, Procurement Lead Time, Production Lead Time)
Lead Time Requirements—(1.5.3.)
Levels, input from the RBL D035E system—(3.6.)
Levels, Insurance & NSO Items—(31.4.)
Levels, output to D035A—(4.2.)
Life Limited Items—(12.6.9.) (25.4.)
Life Limited Replacement—(25.4.20.)
Life of Type Buys (LOTB)—(1.11.)
Life, Service or Operational—(1.11.) (12.5.) (12.5.2.) (12.5.7.) (12.6.2.4.) (12.7.4.) (17.2.4.) (26.3.)
Location of SIRS—(2.1.)
Logistics Management Data Base—(see D075)
Long Supply Position—(4.7.) (12.6.8.) (12.7.16.) (15.4.3.) (20.1.) (20.5.7.) (24.8.) (31.4.) (32.3.4.) (37.7.)
LOTB—(see Life of Type Buys)
Lot Size—(9.3.16.) (9.11.11.) (14.8.) (Figure 14.1.)
Low Failure Items—(see Numeric Stock Objective Items)
LRC—(see Material Support Division Latest Repair Cost)


–M–
M024B Data—(3.14.) (4.18.) (27.3.2.)
MAH—(see Moving Averaged History)
Maintenance Wing (formerly local LGP)—(15.8.2.) (34.6.5.)
Major Command Spares Support Lists (MSSL)—(24.6.3.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                                            825


MAMD Aircraft Availability Model (AAM) Mission Design Series Table screen—(6.12.) (Figure 6.12.)
Management of Items Subject to Repair—(see MISTR)
Management Service Fees—(34.9.)
Manager Designator Code (MDC)—(see Item or Inventory Management Specialist Code)
Manhours—(see Unit Repair Manhours)
Manufacturer's Part Number—(see Part Number)
Master Item Identification Control System—(see D043)
Master Stock Number—(see also Subgroup Master Stock Number (SGM)) (1.9.2.)
M a t e r i e l M a n a g e r ( M M ) — ( 1 . 4 . 1 . ) ( 1 . 1 0 . 4 . ) ( 1 . 1 0 . 5 . ) ( Ta b l e 7 . 1 . ) ( Ta b l e 7 . 8 . )
(15.7.21.2.)(15.8.2.)(25.1.2.) (25.4.19.) (25.4.20.) (33.4.3.4) (34.8.)
Materiel Management Aggregation Code (MMAC)—(1.3.6.) (6.8.)
Materiel Program Code (MPC)—(14.2.3.)
Materiel Programs—(see Programs)
Materiel Repair Requirements List (MRRL)—(15.2.3.) (32.7.)
Materiel Support Division (MSD) Forecasted Unit Price (FUP)—(34.5.)
Materiel Support Division (MSD) Pricing General—(34.1.)
Materiel Support Division (MSD) Latest Repair Cost (LRC)—(34.6.)
Materiel Support Division (MSD) Latest Repair Cost (LRC)Manual Changes—(34.6.5.)
Material Support Division (MSD) New Item Pricing—(34.4.)
Materiel Support Division (MSD) PICA Pricing Flow—(34.2.)
Materiel Support Division (MSD) SICA Prices—(34.3.)
Maximum OWRM Repair Requirement—(9.9.7.)
Maximum W-B Repair Requirement—(9.9.6.)
MDC (Management Designator Code—(see Item or Inventory Management Specialist Code)
MDS (Mission Design Series)—(18.15.1.) (18.26.2.1.) (Table 18.1.)
Mean Time Between Demands (MTBD)—(12.5.3.) (17.10.)
Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF)—(12.5.3.)
Mean Time to Failure (MTTF)—(12.5.2.)
Menu Navigation—(2.5.1.)
MGFT Mission Design Goal Floor Factor Table screen—(6.13.) (Figure 6.13.)
MICAP (Mission Capability)—(12.6.8.) (25.6.)
MIEC (Mission Item Essentiality Code)—(14.14.8.) (18.28.) (21.9.3.9.)
Military Contingency Code—(37.1.1.18.) (37.2.19.) (37.3.19.) 37.7.20.2.) (39.8.12.)
826                                                                     AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR)—(1.12.) (3.13.) (9.13.8.) (22.2.) (26.8.2.) (27.5.)
Military Routing Identifier Codes—(27.3.4.)
Minimum Retention Level, Worldwide—(9.13.9.)
MIRP—(see Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request)
MISC Display Miscellaneous Menu—(Figure 2.14.)
Missile Application and Programs—(18.5.1.) (18.10.) (18.21.3.) (18.26.2.1.)
Mission Capability (MICAP)—(12.6.8.) (25.6.)
Mission Design Goal Floor Factor Table screen—(6.13.) (Figure 6.13.)
Mission Design Series application—(see MDS)
Mission Direct Additive—(1.11.4.) (15.4.3.) (25.4.7.)
Mission Item Essentiality Code—(see MIEC)
MISTR (Management of Items Subject to Repair)—(3.10.) (3.11.) (3.12.) (Chapter 15)
MISTR Condemnations—(3.3.) (3.10.) (3.11.) (3.12.) (9.4.4.5.) (16.10.)
MISTR Condemnations Percent—(17.8.)
MISTR Input Requirement—(9.10.)
MISTR Job Routed Condemnations—(see MISTR JR Requirements)
MISTR JR Condemnation Percents—(9.5.9.) (17.17.)
MISTR JR Program—(9.8.24.)
MISTR JR Requirements (condemnations)—(9.8.25.)
MISTR NJR Program—(9.8.18.)
MISTR NJR Program Percents—(9.5.11.) (17.15.)
MISTR NJR Replacement Percents—(9.5.10.) (17.16.)
MISTR NJR Requirements—(9.8.19.)
MISTR Output Requirements—(9.9.)
MISTR Output, Total—(9.9.12.)
MISTR Programs—(18.7.9.) (18.13.) (18.14.)
MISTR Repair and Repair Data Product—(15.7.) (Figure 15.5.)
MISTR Repair Data screens—(2.10.3.5.4.) (Figure 15.1.) (Figure 15.2.)
MISTR Repair Quantity—(9.13.5.) (15.6.)
MISTR Repairs—((2.10.3.5.11.) (3.10.) (3.12.) (9.4.) (9.5.8.) (10.12.) (12.3.13.) (15.8.8.) (16.1.2.) (16.9.)
(17.8.) (38.2.21.) (38.3.) (38.4.) (38.5.)
MISTR Requirements Scheduling and Analysis System—(see G019C)
MM—(See Materiel Manager)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 827


MMAC—(see Materiel Management Aggregation Code)
MMC—(see Materiel Management Aggregation Code)
Mobile Training Unit Additive—(25.4.8.)
Mockups Assets—(28.5.10.1.)
Modification (MOD) Application and Programs—(18.15.) (18.21.) (18.26.2.1.) (18.34.4.)
Modification Assets—(1.10.4.1.) (12.6.1.5.) (18.1.) (18.7.3.) (26.8.1.1.) (28.5.7.) (28.5.12.) (26.8.1.1.)
Moving Averaged History (MAH)—(16.13.6.)
MPC—(see Material Program Code)
MRPR MISTR Repair Data Screens—(Figure 15.1.) (Figure 15.2.)
MRPR Review Checklist—(Chapter 7) (Table 7.8.)
MRRL—(see Materiel Repair Requirements List)
MSD—(see Material Support Division)
MTTF (Mean Time to Failure)—(12.5.2.)
Multiple Year Contracting (MYC)—(1.12.)
Multiple Year Procurement (MYP)—(1.10.5.) (1.12.)


–N–
Name—(see Item Name)
NASSL—(see New Activation Supply Support Lists)
National Item Identity Number (NIIN)—(1.3.6.) (3.5.) (3.7.) (3.8.6.) (5.4.) (9.8.31.) (34.6.4.)
National Stock Number (NSN)—(see Stock Number)
Navigation—(2.5.1.) (2.6.) (2.8.)
Negotiated Stock Levels—(see Base Negotiated Stock Levels & Command Negotiated Stock Levels)
Net Direct Product Standard Hours—(see Unit Repair Manhours)
Net Depot Unserviceable Assets—(9.8.61.)
Net Due-Ins, used in the computation—(9.8.79.)
Net NJR Reparable Generations—(9.8.69.)
Net OIM Reparable Generations—(9.8.64.)
Net RDE Reparable Generations—(9.8.74.)
Net Slipped Due-Ins—(see Due In Available from Repair)
Net Slipped Reparable Generations—(see OIM Generations Available from Repair)
New Activation Supply Support Lists (NASSL)—(24.6.2.)
828                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


New Item Code—(1.3.10.) (2.10.3.11.9.) (3.8.1.) (4.8.2.) (4.15.) (14.14.9.) (16.13.1.15.) (17.19.13.)
New Item Pricing—(34.4.)
Next Higher Assembly (NHA)—(1.10.4.2.) (18.3.5.)
NHA MISTR—(see MISTR)
NIIN—(see National Item Identity Number)
NIMSC—(see Nonconsumable Item Materiel Support Code)
NIMSC 5 SICA Requirements—(see Secondary Inventory Control Activities)
NJR (Non Job Routed) Depot Repair Cycle, requirements—(9.8.71.) (see OIM Depot Repair Cycle)
NJR Generations Available From Repair—(9.8.69.)
NJR Reparable Generations—(9.8.67.)
NJR Reparable Generations Condemnations—(9.8.68.)
NJR Stock Level—(9.8.27.)
NJR Stock Level Days—(9.4.1.2.) (23.5.)
No Compute Coded Items—(see Compute Code)
Nonconsumable Item Materiel Support Code (NIMSC)—(3.8.2.) (3.8.3.) (9.3.22.3) (Chapter 27) (31.5.)
(see Primary Inventory Control Activity & Secondary Item Control Activity)
Non Demand Items—(see Numeric Stock Objective Items)
Non Job Routed (NJR) Program Percents—(17.15.)
Non Job Routing Repair Concept—(17.14.)
Non Job Routed Replacement Percents—(17.16.)
Non-Recurring Demands—(see Projected Non Recurring Requirements)
Non Reporting Activities (NRA) Assets—(28.5.5.)
Non Time Phased Assets—(26.5.) (26.6.) (Figure 26.3.)
Notepad—(2.11.3.)
Not Reparable This Station (NRTS)—(3.2.) (3.3.) (9.4.4.3.) (16.6.)
NSN (National Stock Number)—(see Stock Number)
NSO Item—(see Numeric Stockage Objective and see Item Category Code)
NTPD–Display Non Time Phased Asset Data Screen—(26.7.) (Figure 26.4.)
NTPD–File Maintenance Non Time Phased Asset Data Screen—(26.6.) (Figure 26.3.)
Number of Users—(see Time Phased Users)
Numeric Stockage Objective Code—(14.6.) (31.1.)
Numeric Stockage Objective (NSO) Items—(1.3.4.) (31.3.) (31.4.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                                 829


–O–
O&ST Days—(see Order & Shipping Time days)
Obligated Assets—(see Contract Assets)
Obsolete Code—(3.8.1.) (4.5.) (4.8.2.1.) (4.15.) (13.4.3.5.) (14.15.1.) (16.13.3.2.) (37.1.1.8.) (39.9.4.)
Obsolete Items—(1.3.1.) (26.12.6.) (31.4.2.)
OIM—(See Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance)
OIM Base Order & Shipping Time Requirements—(9.8.5.)
OIM Base Repair Cycle Requirements—(9.8.6.)
OIM Base Repair Rate—(9.5.4.) (17.12.)
OIM Demand Rate—(12.5.7.) (also see TOIMDR)
OIM Depot Demand Rate—(9.5.3.) (17.11.)
OIM Depot Repair Cycle—(9.8.66.) (also see NJR Depot Repair Cycle Requirements)
OIM Generations Available From Repair—(9.8.65.)
OIM Operating Requirements—(9.8.4.)
OIM Program—(9.8.3.) (18.7.)
OIM Reparable Generations—(9.8.62.)
OIM Reparable Generations Condemnations—(9.8.63.)
OIM Repair Percent—(4.8.2.7.)
OIM Safety Level Requirements—(see Base Safety Level and Depot Safety Level)
Old Stock Number Additives Report—(13.3.)
Old Stock Number Usage Report—(12.3.) (Figure 12.5.)
One Percent Table—(29.2.4.) (29.2.8.) (Figure 29.6.)
On Loan Additive—(25.5.2.)—(26.5.6.)
On Loan Assets—(9.6.1.) (26.5.) (26.5.6.) (28.5.3.) (28.9.6.)
On Order Assets—(9.6.6.) (26.8.2.) (26.9.) (Figure 26.5.) (28.7.)
On Order Excess—(33.2.4.) (33.3.5.) (33.3.6) (33.4.1.) (33.4.3.6) (39.9.15.)
On Work Order (OWO)—(3.11.) (5.4.8.) (8.10.) (9.6.3.) (13.2.8.11.) (26.5.) (26.5.2.) (28.4.11.2.) (28.9.8.)
(31.8.18.)
OP Output Products Main Menu—(Figure 2.21.)
Operating Hours—(12.5.2.) (12.5.4.3.) (14.14.11.) (18.7.1.) (18.8.) (18.11.) (18.19.1.4.) (18.21.5.)
Operating Requirement—(1.5.1.)
OPSS Output Products OPR Reports Selection Screen—(5.2.) (Figure 5.2.)
Order & Shipping Time Days—(3.5.) (9.4.1.1.) (23.4.)
830                                                                       AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Order & Shipping Time Requirements—(see OIM Base O&ST Requirements)
Organic Repair—(1.4.) (1.10.4.7.) (3.11.) (9.4.4.) (9.4.7) (15.2.5.) (15.3.) (15.8.) (16.1.2.) (23.8.) (23.15.)
(26.5.12.) (28.9.8.) (34.6.)
Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance—(1.12.) (3.7.) (9.5.2.) (10.7.) (16.4.) (17.2.) (21.2.) (23.4.)
(23.4.2.) (25.1.2.) (31.3.3.)
OSTD–Display Other Services Total Requirements screen—(27.3.4.) (Figure 27.3.)
Other Due in Assets—(26.8.1.4.)
Other Services Requirements—(3.4.) (3.14.) (27.3.)
Other War Reserve Materiel—(see OWRM)
Output Files To Other Systems—(Chapter 4)
Output Products, General—(1.4.) (2.9.) (2.12.)
Output Products OPR Selection Screen—(5.2.) (Figure 5.2.)
Overhaul Condemnation Percent—(see MISTR Condemnations Percent)
Overhaul Stock Level—(see Total Overhaul Stock Level)
Overhaul Usage—(see MISTR Repaired and MISTR Condemnations)
Ownership Code—(18.19.1.7.) (18.25.1.)
OWO—(see On Work Order)
OWRM Computation Worksheet—(21.9.) (Figure 21.9.) (Figure 21.10.)
OWRM—(Chapter 21)
OWRM Depot Serviceable Assets—(9.6.1.) (26.5.) (28.9.3.)
OWRM Depot Unserviceable Assets—(9.6.3.) (26.5.) (28.9.13.)
OWRM Exclusion Code—(9.3.19.) (14.9.)
OWRM MISTR Input Requirement—(9.10.2.) (9.11.9.)
OWRM MISTR Output—(9.9.11.) (9.11.10.)
OWRM On Order Assets—(26.8.2.4.) (28.7.) (Figure 28.6.)
OWRM Requirements—(9.8.33.) (9.9.2.) (9.9.7.)
OWRM Second Short Requirement—(9.9.3.)
OWRM Summary Results, Aircraft Availability—(29.2.1.) (29.2.12.) (Figure 29.3.)
OWRM Table screen—(6.14.) (Figure 6.14.) (Chapter 21)


–P–
PA File—(see Program Authorized)
PAA Primary Aircraft Authorized—(18.9.3.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            831


PAFT Pipeline Adjustment Factors Table screen—(6.15.) (Figure 6.15.)
Part Number—(3.8.1.) (16.13.1.5.)
PART (see Pricing Analysis and Report Tool)
Past Actual Installed Programs(18.6.) (Figure 18.2.) (Figure 18.6.) (18.8.) (18.19.2.) (18.34.3.)
PCLT—(see Procurement Lead Time)
PDM—(see Programmed Depot Maintenance)
PDM JR Condemnations—(see PDM JR Requirements)
PDM JR Condemnation Percent—(9.5.9.) (17.17.)
PDM JR Program—(9.8.20.)
PDM JR Requirements—(9.8.21.)
PDM NJR Program—(9.8.14.)
PDM NJR Program Percent—(9.5.11.) (17.15.)
PDM NJR Replacement Percent—(9.5.10.) (17.16.)
PDM NJR Requirements—(9.8.15.)
PDM Programs—(18.7.4.) (18.12.)
PDPS–Display Program Selection Data by SPD—(Figure 18.14.)
Peacetime Buy Quantity and Initiation Date—(9.13.14.)
Peacetime MISTR Input—(see POS MISTR Input)
Peacetime MISTR Output—(see POS MISTR Output)
Peacetime Operating Stocks (POS) Level Authorized—(see Base Level Authorized)
PEC—(see Program Element Code)
PECT–PRELOG Error Level Conversion Table screen—(6.16.) (Figure 6.16.)
PF Display Past Factors Screens—(17.22.) (Figure 17.5.) (Figure 17.6.)
PF Keys—(see Function Keys)
PICA/SICA Additive—(see Requirements Data Exchange)
PICA—(see Primary Inventory Control Activity)
Pick Off Points—(9.2.3.) (9.8.)
PIO—(see Provisioning Item Order)
Pipeline Adjustment Factors Table—(6.15.) (Figure 6.15.)
Pipeline Days—(23.1.) (23.3.) (Figure 23.1.)
Pipeline Days File Maintenance—(23.3.) (Figure 23.2.)
Pipeline Quantity—(23.2.1.) (23.8.) (24.2.4.) (24.5.9.) (24.7.10.)
832                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Pipeline Requirements—(1.5.4.)
Planned Program Requirements—(25.4.11.)
PLT—(see Production Lead Time)
PMIC—(See Precious Metal Indicator Code)
PMS (Production Management Specialist)
POS MISTR Input Requirement—(9.10.) (9.11.5.)
POS MISTR Output—(9.9.8.) (9.11.6.) (Table 9.63.)
POS (Peacetime Operating Stocks) Indicator—(5.4.9.10.) (figure 3.13)
Possession Code—(18.8.)
PR—(see Purchase Request) Funded Assets (9.6.6.) (26.8.2.) (28.4.1.) (37.6.24.) (36.6.25) (37.7.2.)
(40.3.)
PRGM–File Maintenance Programs Menu—(Figure 18.7.)
PR/MIPR–Funding Status Code—(Table 3.1.) (3.13.2.)
Precious Metal Indicator Code (PMIC)—(3.8.1.) (9.3.24.) (16.13.1.12.)
Predictive Logistics (PRELOG)—(Chapter 19)
PRELOG Error Level Conversion—(Table (6.16.) (Figure 6.16.)
PRELOG Error Summary Screens/Products—(19.8.) (Figure 19.8.)
PRELOG screens—(2.10.3.5.5.) (2.10.3.8.) (Chapter 19) (Figure 19.5. through Figure 19.14.)
President's Budget (PB)—(18.9.1.)
Prices—(see Unit Price, Repair Cost)
Pricing Analysis and Report Tool (PART)—(34.12.)
Primary Aircraft Inventory—(18.9.3.)
Primary Inventory Control Activity (PICA)—(3.8.3.) (9.3.22.) (27.3.) (31.3.1.4.) (31.5.) (34.2.)
Problem Item List—(29.2.5.) (29.2.11.) (Figure 29.7.) (Figure 29.20.)
Processing Cycle—(2.2.)
Procurement Lead Time (PCLT)—(22.1.) (22.5.) (Figure 23.2.)
Procurement Source Code—(1.3.6.)
Product Retention—(1.13.)
Production Lead Time (PLT)—(3.8.4.) (9.3.11.3) (22.3.) (22.5.) (Figure 23.2.)
Production Management Specialist (PMS)—(1.1.) (3.8.1.) (3.8.5.) (11.4.6.) (14.14.10.) (15.7.11.)
(15.7.12.)
Production Number—(3.10.) (3.11.) (15.5.) (15.7.17.)
Program Authorized (PA) file—(18.9.2.) (18.19.3.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                               833


Program Begin Date—(16.13.1.3.) (18.26.4.) (18.30.)
Program Data, Shifting of—(18.16.)
Program Development Code—(18.29.)
Program Element Code—(18.12.) (18.21.4.) (18.26.2.2.)
Program Element (PE) Funding Code—(18.9.3.)
Program Expiration Date—(18.5.2.)
Program Objective Memorandum (POM)—(6.13.1.) (18.9.1.) (18.9.2.) (29.2.3.-29.2.7.)
Program Percents, NJR—(17.15.)
Program Select Code (PSC)—(14.14.11.) (16.13.1.18.) (18.27.) (21.9.3.)
Program Type Code—(18.7.) (18.19.1.4.)
Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM)—(1.3.7.4.) (2.10.3.5.) (4.2.1.3.) (9.5.9. thru 9.5.11.) (9.8.4. thru
9.8.5.) (12.7.6.) (16.3.3.) (17.14.) (18.12.) (18.15.2.) (18.21.3.) (18.27.) (20.3.1.) (20.4.10.) (21.2.2.)
(31.3.3.2.)
Programs—(3.9.) (18.3.6.) (18.8.) (18.9.) (18.19.)
Programs Calendar Year & Quarter—(18.19.1.2.)
Programs Definitions—(18.3.6.)
Programs, File Maintenance of—(18.19.) (Figure 18.8.)
Programs OPR—(18.4.3.)
Programs Products and Display Screens—(18.6.) (Figure 18.1.) (Figure 18.2.) (Figure 18.3. through
Figure 18.6.)
Projected Non Recurring Requirements—(9.8.87.1.) (27.2.5.) (27.3.6.) (see RDE)
Projected Programs—(3.9.) (14.2.2.) (18.9.) (18.19.3.) (18.34.1.) (30.3.)
Projected Recurring Requirements—(9.8.87.2.) (27.2.6.) (27.3.5.) (see RDE)
Projected Unserviceable Returns—(9.8.87.3.) (27.2.7.) (27.3.7.) (28.5.13.) (see RDE)
Projected Wartime Program—(18.19.4.) (Figure 18.10.) (21.2.2.)
Proration Technique—(Figure 9.21.)
Provisioning Item Order, PIO—(1.8.)
PS–File Maintenance Program Selection screen—(Figure 18.13.)
PSC—(see Program Select Code)
PSS–Item Manager Selection Screen—(13.5.) (Figure 13.4.)
Purchase Requests (PR)—(3.13.) (Figure 3.1.) (9.13.14.1.) (22.2.) (26.8.2.) (28.7.)
Purchase Requests, Foreign Military Sales—(2.11.4.) (Table 9.26.) (9.16.) (32.3.4.)
Purpose Codes——(26.2.) (26.6.1.) (26.7.1.) (26.11.2.) (26.12.3.) (28.4.11.) (28.5.3.)
834                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008



–Q–
QCC Quality Control Checklist Selection Screen—(Figure 5.3.)
QEC—(see Quick Engine Change Kits)
QPA—(see Quantity per Application)
Quality Control Checklist—(5.3.) (Figure 5.3.)
Quality Deficiency Report (QDR)—(16.6.1.)
Quality Review Checklists—(Chapter 7)
Quantity per Application (QPA)—(4.8.2.4.) (9.4.4.1.) (10.8.) (12.5.4.2.) (12.7.) (16.13.7.) (18.3.8.)
(18.11.) (18.14.3.) (18.14.3.) (18.26.all) (18.31.)
Quarter of Last Demand—(16.13.4.3.)
Quick Engine Change Kits—(QEC) (1.3.7.)


–R–
RAMP (Recoverable Assembly Management Process System)—(see D035C)
RAP Display Rates and Percentages Screen—(Figure 17.3.)
Rates and Percents—(see Factors)
RBL—(see D035E)
RCVS–Display Recoverables Main Menu—(Figure 2.9.)
RCVS–File Maintenance Recoverables Main Menu—(Figure 2.18.)
RCVS–Output Products Recoverable Main Menu—(Figure 2.23.)
RDB—(see Requirements Data Base)
RDE or RDEC or RDEL (Requirements Data Exchange)—(3.4.) (3.14.) (4.18.) (5.4.12.) (9.8.72.) (see
Projected Non Recurring Requirements, Projected Recurring Requirements, Projected Unserviceable
Requirements).
RDE Depot Repair Cycle requirements—(9.8.76.)
RDE, File Maintenance—(27.6.)
RDE, File Maintenance Screens—(Figure 27.4.) (Figure 27.5.) (Figure 27.6.)
RDE Generations Available From Repair—(9.8.75.)
RDEO Display RDE Data to Other Services screen—(Figure 27.1.)
RDE Reparable Generations—(9.8.72.) (27.3.7.)
RDE Reparable Generations Condemnations—(9.8.73.) (27.3.7.)
RDE Routing Identifiers—(27.7.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            835


RDE transactions formats—(27.7.)
RDFM–File Maintenance RDE Data screen—(Figure 27.5.)
RDSS–File Maintenance RDE menu—(Figure 27.4.)
Readiness Based Leveling System (RBL)—(see D035E)
Readiness Spares Packages (RSP)—(1.10.2.) (Figure 3.1.) (21.2.) 21.3.6.6.) (see IRSP & W-B)
REALM (Requirements Execution Availability Logistics Module)—(see D087H)
Reclamation Assets—(Figure 3.1.) (9.6.4.) (9.6.5.) (26.8.1.1.) (28.8.4.) (28.8.5.)
Recomputation of Items—(Chapter 10)
Recoverable Assembly Management Process System (RAMP)—(see D035C)
Recoverable I-S Indicator—(9.3.5.)
Recoverable Item—(1.9.) (18.3.1.)
Recurring Demands from Other Services—(see Requirements Data Exchange)
Reductions beyond safety levels—(25.8.)
Reduction, Definition—(33.2.2.)
Reduction Factor—(6.11.)
Reduction in Requirements—(33.2.3.)
Re-entry vehicles—(see Missile Application and Programs)
Reference Number—(see Part Number)
Reference Stock Number—(1.9.2.)
Relationship between Unit Price and Latest Repair Cost—(34.7.)
Reliability Improvement Warranty (RIW)—(9.3.14.) (14.4.) (15.8.7.) (16.13.1.28.) (23.2.3.) (23.12.2.)
(26.2.)
Rep Gens (Reparable Generations)—(see Base and Depot and NJR and OIM and RDE Reparable Gener-
ations)
Repair-AFMC Form 206—(15.3.)
Repair and Replace Reparable Returns, FMS—(32.7.)
Repair CSIS products—(Chapter 38)
Repair Cost—(3.10.) (3.11.) (3.12.) (15.7.13.) (15.7.19.) (15.8.)
Repair Cycle Requirements—(1.5.5.) (see OIM Base Repair Cycle Requirements)
Repair Data screens—(2.10.3.5.4.) (Figure 15.1.) (Figure 15.2.) (Figure 15.3.) (Figure 15.4.)
Repair, Definition—(1.6.1.)
Repair History—(15.7.23.)
Repair Lead Time—(9.4.2.7.) (23.14.)
836                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Repair Level, Insurance/NSO Items—(12.6.6.6.) (31.4.) (31.6.2.) (38.1.6.) (38.2.9.) (38.3.9.) (38.4.9.)
(38.5.9.) (38.6.6.)
Repair Manhours—(see Unit Repair Manhours)
Repair Quantity—(see MISTR Repairs)
Repair Quality Review Checklists—(Chapter 7) ( Table 7.6.)
Repair Requirements Listing—(36.5.) (Figure 36.5.) Figure 36.6.)
Repair Summary Products—(36.7.)
Repair Time Span CSIS—(Figure 35.2.)
Reparable Generations—(see Base and Depot and NJR and OIM and RDE Reparable Generations)
Reparable Intransit Days—(3.5.) (9.4.2.2.) (23.10.)
Reparable Intransit Days, Time Phased—(23.15.)
Reparable This Station (RTS)—(3.2.) (3.3.) (16.5.)
Repairability Forecast Model—(see D357)
Repeat Terms—(see Termination Repeat Terms)
Replenishment On Order Assets—(26.8.2.2.)
Requirements Data Base (RDB)—(2.1.)
Requirements Data Exchange—(see RDE)
Requirements Execution Availability Logistics Module (REALM)—(see D087H)
Requirements, Insurance & Numeric Stockage Objective Items—(31.6.)
Requirements Item Identification Data Base—(see RIID) (D200E)
Requirements Management System (RMS)—(2.1.)
Requirements Review Summary Checklists—(Chapter 7)
Requirements Segments, General—(1.5.)
Resupply Planning Factors System—(see D037)
Retail Economic Order Quantity—(25.4.19.)
Retention Level—(see Worldwide Minimum Retention Level and Worldwide Selection Retention Level)
Retention Level, Insurance/NSO Items—(31.6.)
Retention of Documentation—(1.13.)
Retention Level Adjustment Factor Table screen RLAF—(6.11.) (Figure 6.11.)
Retention Period—(1.7.10.)
Retention Program Quantity—(18.9.3.)
Retention Segment—(1.7.11.)
Retrofit/Modification additive—(25.4.9.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                 837


Retrograde Time—(39.11.1.)
Review and Adjustment Actions—(1.10.)
Risk Factor—(6.11.)
RIID (Requirements Item Identification Data) (D200E)—(1.9.4.) (2.4.) (3.8.) (15.8.10.)
RIW—(see Reliability Improvement Warranty)
RLAF–Retention Level Adjustment Factor Table screen—(6.11.)
RMS—(see Requirements Management System)
Rotatable Spares—(15.4.)
Routed Repair Replacement Quantity (RRRQ)—(4.2.) (9.13.12.3.) (Chapter 20)
Routing Identifiers Codes (RIC)—(27.2.) (27.3.2.) (287.3.4) (27.3.5.)
RQI Display RRRQ Items screen—(20.6.) (Figure 20.1. through Figure 20.4.)
RRRQ—(see Routed Repair Replacement Quantity
RSP—(see Readiness Spares Packages)
RTS—(see Reparable This Station)


–S–
Safety Level—(1.5.6.) (see Base Safety Level & Depot Safety Level)
Safety Level Exclusion Code—(9.3.20.) (14.10.) (16.13.1.21.)
Safety Level Products & Display Screens—(Chapter 29)
SAIP—(see Spares Acquisition Integrated with Production)
SAMIS (Security Assistance Management Information System)—(see W001)
SB&CR (Stock Balance & Consumption Report Data)—(3.3.)
SBSS (Standard Base Supply System)—(see D002A)
SC&D (Stock balance & Consumption report Data system)—(see D035A)
Schedule, D200A cycle—(2.2.)
Screening Assets—(1.10.4.)
SDT Standard Data Table screen—(6.17.) (Figure 6.17.)
SDTA Standard Data Table by ALC screen—(6.18.) (Figure 6.18.)
SDTE Standard Data Table by ERRC screen—(6.19.) (Figure 6.19.)
Secondary Item Control Activity (SICA)—(3.8.2.) (3.14.) (9.3.22.) (34.3.)
Second Fiscal Year Forecast Factors—(see Factors)
Second Over/Short Position—(9.8.54.) (9.8.56.)
838                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Second Replenishment Actions—(1.10.1.)
Security Assistance Management Information System—(see W001)
Security Assistance Program—(see FMS)
Selection Retention Level, Worldwide—(9.13.11.)
Service Code—(18.19.1.5.)
Service Life—(12.5.2.)
Serviceable Assets, definitions—(26.5.)
Serviceable Assets, used in the computation—(9.8.43.) (9.8.46.)
Serviceable Due In Assets, used in the computation—(9.8.44.)
Serviceable On Order Assets, used in the computation—(9.8.45.)
Serviceable Turn-in Days—(9.4.2.5.) (15.7.22.) (15.9.) (23.13.)
Serviceable Turn-in Days, Time Phased—(23.15.)
SGM—(see SubGroup Master Stock Number)
SGM Computation Worksheet—(9.2.) (Figure 9.22. through Figure 9.34.)
SGM OWRM Computation Worksheet—(see OWRM Computation Worksheet)
Shifting of Factors—(17.4.)
Shifting of Programs—(18.16.)
SICA—(See Secondary Item Control Activity)
Simulation Additives—(10.4.) (Figure 10.4.)
Shop Flow Days—(3.12.) (9.4.2.4.) (15.7.21.) (15.9.) (23.12.)
Shop Flow Days, Time Phased—(23.15.)
Secondary Item Control Activity (SICA)—(3.8.) (9.3.22.) (9.8.87.) (27.2.) (28.5.5.) (28.5.13.) (34.3.)
Simulation File Maintenance Screens for SIRS Items—(Chapter 10)
Simulations, CSIS—(35.4.)
SJR–Submit Job Request Menu—(Figure 2.22.)
Slipped Rep Gens—(see OIM Generations Available from Repair, NJR Generations Available from
Repair)
SMC—(see System Management Code)
SMC–BP/SMC Table screen—(6.20.) (Figure 6.20.)
SMCW Display Computation Worksheet screens—(27.2.) (Figure 9.2. through Figure 9.7.) (Figure
9.16. through Figure 9.20.) (Chapter 9)
SMCW File Maintenance Push RDE to PICA screen—(27.2.) (Figure 27.2.)
SND Display Stock Number Data menu—(2.10.3.11.) (Figure 2.15.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                        839


SND Stock Number Data File Maintenance menu—(2.11.6.) (Figure 2.20.)
SNIC Stock Number ID Cross Reference Screen—(13.4.2.) (Figure 13.2.)
SOCW–Display OWRM Computation Worksheet screens—(21.9.) (Figure 21.3. through Figure 21.8.)
SOR—(see Source of Repair)
Sorties, Aircraft—(18.7.5.) (18.8.) (18.9.3.)
Source Reference Codes—(SRC) (2.7.)
Source of Repair—(SOR) (3.10.) (3.11.) (9.13.13.) (15.5.) (15.7.16.) (15.8.)
Source of Repair Percents—(see Source of Repair)
Source of Supply Code—(1.3.6.) (3.8.2.)
Spares Acquisition Integrated with Production (SAIP)—(1.10.1.2.) (22.4.)
Spares Requirement Review Board (SRRB) Output Products screen—(16.14.)
SPD File Maintenance Standard Program Designator screen—(Figure 18.11.)
SPD Subtype—(18.22.)
Special Levels—(see Adjusted Stock Levels)
Special Level Justification—(13.2.8.18.) (24.2.) (24.2.5.) (24.5.3.) (24.5.11.) (24.7.12.)
Special Level Master Summary—(3.6.) (24.4.3.) (24.4.5.) (24.6.8.) (24.6.9.)
Special Levels, displayed on the Computation Worksheet—(9.8.9.) Chapter 24)
Special Programmed Requirement Additive—(25.4.10.)
Special Projects Additive—(1.5.7.) (15.2.3.) (25.4.11.) (25.7.3.) (28.5.6.) (39.18.2.)
Special Projects Assets—(28.5.6.)
SPRAM (Special Purpose Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance)—(3.3.2.) (24.8.) (25.4.3.) (25.4.7.)
(25.4.11.) (28.5.1.) (28.5.2.) (28.5.10.1.) (28.5.10.2.)
SRAN—(see Stock Record Account Number)
SRAN Assets screen ISA—(2.10.3.4.1.) (Figure 26.1. and Figure 26.2.)
SRAN Input Date—(24.7.11.)
SRAN Usage Data screen SUD—(2.10.3.4.2.) (Figure 16.1. and Figure 16.2.)
SRC—(see Source Reference Code)
Standard Base Supply System (SBSS)—(see D2002A)
Standard Data Table SDT—(6.17.) (Figure 6.17.)
Standard Data Table By ALC SDTA (6.18.) (Figure 6.18.)
Standard Data Table by ERRC STDE—(6.19.) (Figure 6.19.)
Standard End Item Sales Price—(see Repair Cost)
Standard Program Designator (SPD)—(18.20.) (18.21.) (18.25.5.) (18.26.)
840                                                                 AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Standard Values—(6.19.) (23.2.2.)
Stock Balance & Consumption Report Data system (SC&DR)—(see D035A)
Stock Fund Credit Indicator—(14.14.12.)
Stock Level Days—(9.4.1.) (see JR Stock Level Days and NJR Stock Level Days)
Stock Number—(1.9.) (3.8.1.) (18.21.5.) (18.26.2.2.)
Stock Number Data screens, list of—(2.11.6.) (Figure 2.20.)
Stock Number Identity Cross Reference Report—(13.4.) (Figure 13.2.)
Stock Record Account Number (SRAN)—(3.2.) (3.3.) (3.6.) (24.5.3.1.) (26.4.)
Subgroup Master Computation Worksheet screen (also see SMCW)—(2.10.3.2.2.) (Chapter 9)
Subgroup Master OWRM Computation Worksheet screen (also see SOCW)—(2.10.3.2.3.)
Subgroup Master stock number (SGM)—(1.9.2.) (3.8.1.)
Submit Job Request Menu—(2.12.) (Figure 2.22.)
Subsystem/Equipment Essentiality Code—(see MIEC)
SUD SRAN Usage Data screen—(2.10.3.4.2.) (Figure 16.1.) (Figure 16.2.)
Summary Statistics Reports of Interfacing Systems Data—(8.1.2.) (8.2.) (Figure 8.2. through Figure
8.12.)
Supply to Maintenance Days—(9.4.2.3.) (15.7.20.) (15.9.) (23.11.)
Supply to Maintenance Days, Time Phased—(23.15.)
Support Equipment Additive—(25.4.12.)
Support Level—(4.2.) (9.13.12.2.)
System Essentiality Code—(18.23.)
System Management Code (SMC)—(14.2.2.)
System Program Director—(18.4.4.)
System Program Manager Code—(18.25.3.)


–T–
Table Data—(Chapter 6)
Tailored Modification Programs—(see Modification Applications and Programs)
Tailored Modification Report—(18.34.4.)
Tanks, Racks, Adapters, and Pylon—(see TRAP)
Target Goals—(6.13.) (Figure 6.13.)
TASK (Turn Around Spares Kit) Additive—(25.4.13.)
TBLD Table Data menu—(Chapter 6) (Figure 6.1.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                            841


Technical Order Compliance—(see TOC Assets)
Temporary Work Request (AFMC 206)—(15.3.)
Terminations, ABCS Format 4 Report—(Figure 33.3.)
Termination Action Exclusions (33.1.2.)
Termination Assets—(9.6.5.) (26.8.1.2.) (28.8.7.)
Termination Authority Template—(see AF Form 3056)
Termination Codes—(33.4.3.)
Termination, Definition—(1.6.3.) (33.2.1.)
Termination Level, Insurance & Numeric Stockage Objective Items—(31.6.) (Figure 31.1.)
Termination Level, Worldwide—(9.13.8.)
Termination Model Exceptions—(33.3.33.5)
Termination Model Forms—(Figure 33.4. through Figure 33.7.)
Termination Period Requirements—(1.6.3.) (4.7.2.3.) (9.13.12.2.) (11.4.14.1.)
Termination Quantity—(9.13.3.)
Termination Reduction Defined—(33.2.2.)
Termination Repeat Terms—(33.4.3.)
Termination Review Checklist—(Chapter 7) ( Table 7.7.)
Test Equipment Asset losses—(28.5.10.2.)
Test Stand Additive—(25.4.14.)
Third Fiscal Forecast Factors—(see Factors)
Third Over/Short Positions—(9.8.82.) (9.8.84.)
Time Periods—(Figure 1.1.)
Time Phased Application Data—(18.181)
Time Phased Assets—(26.8.) (26.9.) (Figure 26.5.)
Time Phased Depot Repair Days and DRC Effective Date—(see Depot Repair Cycle Data, Time Phased)
Time Phased Program Data—(18.15.) (18.18.2.) (18.26.4.) (18.31.)
Time Phased Repair Lead Time—(see Repair Lead Time)
Time Phased Users—(24.5.13.) (24.7.14.)
TMS (Type Model Series) Engine—(18.3.9.) (18.21.) (18.26.)
TOC (Technical Order Compliance) Assets—(3.3.2.) (3.3.4.) (9.6.2.) (9.8.58.) (15.2.6.) (26.5.15.)
(26.8.1.) (28.8.3.) (28.9.7.)
TOC, Unserviceable—(see Unserviceable Due Ins/TOC Assets, used in the computation)
TOIMDR—(see Total OIM Demand Rate)
842                                                                   AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


Total Acquired Assets—(28.4.1.)
Total Aircraft Inventory—(18.9.3.)
Total Available From Depot Repair—(9.8.81.)
Total Base Stock Level—(9.8.10.)
Total Depot Repair Cycle Days—(see Depot Repair Cycle Days)
Total Gross Requirements—(9.8.41.)
Total JR Condemnations—(9.8.26.) (Table 9.19.)
Total MISTR Input—(9.10.) (9.11.1.)
Total MISTR Output—(9.9.12.) (9.11.3.)
Total OIM Demand Rate (TOIMDR)—(9.5.2.) (17.9.) (21.2.) (31.3.3.1.)
Total Organizational and Intermediate Maintenance Demand Rate—(TOIMDR-above)
Total Overhaul Condemnations—(see Total JR Condemnations)
Total Overhaul Stock Level—(9.8.29.)
Total Serviceable Assets—(9.8.46.)
Total Unserviceable Assets—(see Depot Unserviceable Assets)
TPAD–Display Time Phased Assets screen—(26.10.) (Figure 26.6.)
TPAD–File Maintenance Time Phased Assets screen—(26.9.) (Figure 26.5.)
Trainers Applications and Programs—(18.12.) (18.21.7.) (18.26.2.2.)
Training Guidance & Control Additive—(25.4.11.)
TRAP Additives—(25.4.15.)
Trend Analysis for All Items—(30.3.) (Figure 30.11. through Figure 30.13.)
Trend Analysis for Individual Items—(30.2.) (Figure 30.3. through Figure 30.9.)
Trend Analysis for Weapon Systems' Programs—(30.3.)
TSUH–Total SGM Usage History Data Screens—(Figure 16.7.)
Turn In Days—(see Serviceable Turn In Days)
Turnaround Spares Kit—(see TASK)
Type Indicator—(24.5.4.)
Type Model Series, Engine—(see TMS)
Type Program Code—(see Program Type Code)
Types of Item in SIRS—(1.3.)
AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008                                                                       843


–U–
UH–Usage History Data Screens—(Figure 16.5.) (Figure 16.6.)
Unit of Issue—(9.3.13.)
Unit Operating Hours—(12.5.4.2.)
Unit Price—(9.3.4.) (14.11.)
Unit Price and Unit Repair Cost Relationship—(34.7.)
Unit Repair Cost—(see Repair cost)
Unit Repair Manhours—(16.13.1.26.)
Unserviceable Assets—(9.6.3.) (26.5.)
Unserviceable Due Ins/TOC Assets, used in the computation—(9.8.77.)
Unserviceable Returns—(see Projected Unserviceable Returns)
Usage, input from—(3.2.) (3.3.)
Usage Data—(9.4.) (Chapter 16)
Usage Data screens—(2.10.3.5.) (Figure 2.12.) (Chapter 16)
Usage, file maintenance—(16.12.) (Figure 16.9.)
Usage MAJCOM reports—(Figure 16.13.) (Figure 16.14.)
Usage Printout—(see Factor/Usage Report)
Users—(see Time Phased Users)


–V–
Variable Safety Level Products & Display Screens—(29.3.) (Figure 29.10.)
Variable Safety Level (VSL) Requirements—(see Depot Safety Level)
Variance Percent—(28.4.9.)
Variance Quantity—(1.10.7.) (28.4.8.)
AAM/VSL Code—(14.14.1.)


–W–
W001 System Data—(3.15.) (4.19.) (4.5.10) (8.14.) (Figure 8.11.) (5.4.10.) (8.1.) (9.7.2.) (25.3.)
(25.4.17.) (32.2.4.) (32.4.) (32.8.)
W-B Assets—(26.5.) (26.8.2.3.) (28.7.)
W-B MISTR Input Requirement—(9.10.) (9.11.7.)
W-B MISTR Output—(9.9.10.) (9.11.8.)
844                                                                    AFMCMAN23-1 12 JUNE 2008


W-B Requirements—(9.8.30.) (9.9.1.) (25.4.1.) (29.2.2.) (36.3.9.) (36.5.) (37.1.1.1.1) (37.2.2.) (37.3.)
(37.6.2.)
War Adjustment Factor—(3.7.1.) (21.5.3.)
War Consumables Additives—(25.4.15.)
War Data, File maintenance—(21.4.)
WARD–War Data screen—(Figure 21.2.)
War Days—(6.14.) (Figure 6.14.6) (21.7.) (Figure 21.1.)
War Program Proration Percent—(6.14.) (21.2.2.)
War Readiness Spares Kits (WRSK)—(3.7.2.) (see W-B)
War Reserve Materiel (WRM)—(1.5.8.) (3.2.) (Chapter 21) (see W-B)
War TOIMDR—(3.7.1.) (21.2.1.2.) (21.5.)
WCDO (War Consumable Distribution Objective)—(25.4.15.)
Weapon System Cost Retrieval System—(see H036C)
Weapon System Life Code—(1.11.4.) (14.6.) (14.13.)
Weapon System Management Information System (WSMIS)—(see D087W)
Weapon Training Detachment Operating Spares (WTDOS)—(3.7.2.) (21.2.) (25.4.19.)
Weighted Repair—(see Repair Cost)
Weighted Shop Flow Days—(15.7.21.2.)
Wholesale Management and Efficiency Reports System—(see D035B)
Work Unit Code (WUC)—(3.7.1.) (21.1.2) (21.8.7.)
Worldwide Buy Operating Level—(9.13.6.)
Worldwide Gross Retention Level—(9.13.10.)
Worldwide Minimum Retention LeveL—(9.13.9.)
Worldwide Select Retention Level—(9.13.11.)
Worldwide Termination Level—(9.13.8.)
Worldwide Web, list of Aircraft & Engines—(18.5.)
WRM—(see War Reserve Materiel)
WRM Base Serviceable Assets, WRM Serviceable Assets—(9.6.1.)
WRSK—(see War Readiness Spares Kits)
WSMIS (Weapon System Management Information System)—(see D087H)
WTDOS—(see Weapon Training Detachment Operating Spares)
