BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                      MISSION DIRECTIVE 401

                                                                                 20 JUNE 2013

                                                            HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE
                                                        MATERIEL COMMAND (HQ AFMC)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/A1MO                                                 Certified by: HQ AFMC/A1M
                                                                           (Charlene R. Xander)
Supersedes:   AFMCMD401,                                                              Pages: 13
              3 December 2004


This mission directive defines the mission of HQ AFMC and implements Air Force Policy
Directive 10-1, Mission Directives. It does not apply to the Air National Guard or the US Air
Force Reserve.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the previous edition to reflect the A-Staff structure and changes the Chief
of Staff to Director of Staff.
1. Mission. Shape the workforce and infrastructure to develop, field, sustain war-winning
expeditionary capabilities.
2. Headquarters Staff:
   2.1. Commander (CC):
2                                                                 AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013


       2.1.1. Organizes, trains, equips, and commands Air Force Materiel Command. Provides
       superior military weapon systems to other Air Force (AF) Commands. Serves as Agile
       Combat Support Core Function Lead Integrator for the Air Force. Provides acquisition
       support to the AF Service Acquisition Executive (SAE). Manages research,
       development, and testing activities to maintain technology base, evolve system concepts,
       and mature system designs. Manages procurement of systems, equipment, and support
       items to field new military capabilities, upgrade existing capabilities, and support fielded
       systems. Manages depot repair, modification, supply, and distribution activities to
       support the fielding and sustainment of robust systems. Manages the transition of AF
       weapon systems from active status through disposal and/or storage for potential future
       use. Manages disposal and/or storage of all Department of Defense (DoD) aircraft.
    2.2. Vice Commander (CV):
       2.2.1. Assists in the discharge of the duties and responsibilities of the AFMC
       Commander. Advises in the formulation of policies, plans, and directives affecting the
       Command. Fulfills responsibilities of the CC in the CC’s absence.
    2.3. Executive Director (CA):
       2.3.1. In conjunction with the CC and CV, oversees and ensures the execution of all
       AFMC business responsibilities. Directs AFMC business activities and serves as the
       AFMC Services Advocate. Serves as a principal assistant to the CC for the overall policy
       dissemination, procedural guidance, and integrated resource management operations
       across AFMC. As the top ranking AFMC civilian, the CA works Command-wide
       civilian issues as well as interfaces with AFMC union counterparts.
    2.4. Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCC):
       2.4.1. Primary advisor to the CC, CV, CA and Directorates on all matters affecting the
       quality, welfare, morale, management, and leadership of enlisted personnel assigned to
       the Command. Travels extensively to visit Airmen and their families at AFMC
       installations and geographically separated units to assess factors impacting the quality,
       welfare, morale, management, well-being and leadership of the enlisted force and make
       recommendations accordingly. Serves as a member of the AFMC/CC's Executive Team
       and voting member on AFMC councils. Member of CMSAF Enlisted Board of Directors
       and voting member of several USAF councils reviewing policy impacting all AF enlisted
       personnel. Functional Manager for AFMC 8F000, 9E000 and 9G100 personnel.
       Coordinates AFMC/CC approval for nominative and other key strategic positions.
       Manages AFMC Stripes for Exceptional Performers (STEP) program.
    2.5. Air National Guard Advisor/Mobilization Assistant to the Commander (CG):
       2.5.1. Provides advice and assistance to AFMC/CC on Air National Guard and USAF
       Reserve acquisition, logistics, and operational support matters. Provides logistics
       interface between AFMC Directorates, National Guard Bureau, USAF Reserve, and
       gaining Commands to assure timely support necessary to accomplish mission tasking.
    2.6. Air Force Reserve Assistant/Advisor to the Commander (CR):
AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013                                                                    3


     2.6.1. Functions at the direction of AFMC/CC and augments the CC during emergency
     mobilization. Oversees Command staff management, personnel, and mobilization
     processes of the USAF Reserve program within AFMC.
     2.6.2. Principal advisor to AFMC/CC and the Command staff on Air Force Reserve
     (AFR) matters. Advises the CC and staff on matters affecting AFR operational and
     administrative capabilities. Advises and coordinates with AFMC Mobilization
     Assistants. Represents the Chief of the AFR to the Command and serves as a liaison to
     the Chief of the AFR. Where appropriate, integrates Reserve policy, oversight, and
     implementation into the active component (AC) organization strategy and visionary
     roadmap. Maintains liaison with HQ AF/RE Directorates, HQ AFRC Directorates,
     AFRC/RMG (Det 12), and HQ ARPC. Interprets and provides guidance on policies and
     programs affecting AFR resources. Facilitates Total Force Integration and assists with
     integrating and deploying AFR forces. Provides insight into Military Personnel
     Appropriation management supporting AC requirements. Represents AFMC at meetings
     and conferences relating to reserve component (RC) programs. Represents AFMC on the
     Air Reserve Forces Policy Committee (ARFPC).
  2.7. Director of Staff (DS):
     2.7.1. Serves as AFMC/CC’s primary interface with the staff for the daily operations of
     the Headquarters. Manages and integrates all facilities and activities of the Command
     Headquarters to include those of the Commander's Action Group, Protocol, Knowledge
     Operations, Executive Presentations and the Operations Support Staff. Coordinates with
     Command leadership and AFMC Centers' Directors of Staff.
     2.7.2. Provides administrative services for the office of AFMC/CC by developing,
     implementing and managing Command Section correspondence, meetings and workflow
     policy. Ensures suspense tracking and quality control. Maintains tasking system and
     provides Action Officer training.
     2.7.3. Manages Headquarters operating budget and accounting number (OBAN),
     including civilian pay and non-pay programs. Manages human resources program for
     Headquarters AFMC. Manages the Headquarters AFMC Civilian Employment Cost
     Management Committee (CECMC) and Civilian Employment Program (CEP).
     2.7.4. Provides direction and executive support, and shares leadership with 88 ABW, for
     execution of AF- and AFMC-level special events (e.g., CORONA Top, Heritage, USAF
     Marathon, AFMC Senior Leader Conferences (SLC), etc.).
     2.7.5. Commander's Action Group (CCX). Provides direct administrative support for
     AFMC/CC/CV/CA and DS. Facilitates on-time preparation for and suitable execution of
     internal and external meetings and video teleconferences (VTCs) for the
     AFMC/CC/CV/CA or DS, to include assisting Action Officers in scheduling, preparing
     read-ahead materials, formatting, building agendas, recording minutes, tracking action
     items and communicating meeting activities. Serves as the AFMC Council secretariat
     and assists the Chairperson (per AFMCI 90-601). Coordinates and executes conferences
     (e.g., CORONA Top, Acquisition and Sustainment Reviews, AFMC SLC, etc.). Acts as
     the integrator for HQ AFMC 2-letter directors; ensures timely cross-flow of functional
     information. Provides preparation for all speeches, remarks, presentations, ceremonies,
4                                                               AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013


       publications and engagements involving the AFMC/CC/CV/CA or DS. Serves as the
       lead for trip planning for AFMC/CC/CV/CA and DS; coordinates agendas, arranges
       accommodations, transportation and completes travel vouchers. Acts as the Legislative
       Liaison for AFMC (per AFI90-401_AFMCSUP_I); coordinates Congressional inquiry
       responses, manages Congressional visits and hearings, facilitates National, State and
       local political communication and handles legislative communications between AFMC
       and SAF/LL and SAF/FMB.
       2.7.6. Protocol (CCP). Supports and advises the AFMC/CC/CV/CA/DS/CCC and HQ
       Directors on all matters pertaining to protocol. Develops and implements directives and
       policy for Distinguished Visitor Reporting within the Command. Provides guidance and
       advice to AFMC field protocol offices.              Centrally manages Organizational
       Representation Funds (ORF) for the Command.
       2.7.7. Knowledge Operations (CCK). Responsible for DS and Command Section
       information processes to include correspondence central distribution point and Records
       Management. Manages DS equipment, supply, financial and COMSEC accounts.
       Executive Presentations provides scheduling, management and operation of three
       Command Section conference rooms.
       2.7.8. AFMC Headquarters Operations Support (DSH). Advises AFMC/CC/CV/CA/DS
       and Headquarters AFMC Directors on unit-level issues within HQ AFMC. Provides
       leadership for and implements enlisted programs and UCMJ/quality force issues; and
       administers fitness, leave (permissive, terminal, and convalescent) and pass (special and
       regular/liberty) programs. Develops, implements, and manages processes and procedures
       in the areas of Security, Safety, Emergency Management, Ancillary Training, Unit
       Deployment, Readiness and Real Property Building Management for Headquarters
       AFMC and associated Directorates. Plans, implements and directs policies and
       procedures required to fulfill responsibilities for the morale, welfare, health and
       discipline of assigned Headquarters AFMC military personnel. Manages the
       administration of all other unit-level programs in accordance with governing instructions
       and any supplements issued at MAJCOM level or below.
    2.8. Manpower, Personnel and Services (A1):
       2.8.1. Directs and oversees AFMC’s programs affecting Command personnel and their
       family members. Ensures a force ready and able to deliver war-winning expeditionary
       capabilities to the warfighter.
       2.8.2. Provides expertise in human capital advisory service and policy guidance; senior
       leader programs/matters; force development through education, training, and experience;
       Command manpower requirements determination, program allocation control and
       organizational structure; life-cycle management; workforce shaping; employee/labor
       management relations; evaluations; quality, force and infrastructure management; combat
       and community support through delivery by providing oversight of mission sustaining
       quality of life services; strategic planning; research and analysis; Command AEF policy;
       and contingency and exercise operations.
    2.9. Intelligence and Requirements (A2/5):
AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013                                                                       5


     2.9.1. Provides early and pervasive life-cycle integration of intelligence, surveillance,
     reconnaissance, and acquisition policy and processes in force modernization from
     concept development through sustainment. Leads, shapes and enables Air Force Materiel
     Command to develop technology and materiel solutions to warfighter requirements and
     deliver war-winning capabilities on time and on cost.
     2.9.2. As the Intelligence lead for AFMC Command senior leadership, responsible for
     orchestrating Command-wide ISR activities with AF and National intelligence
     communities by: choreographing Air Force Materiel Command HUMINT, SIGINT,
     MASINT, GEOINT, OSINT intelligence efforts as well as AFMC’s National Intelligence
     Program in support of the Military Intelligence Program; providing analytical expertise
     and tailored intelligence analysis in support of force protection and continuity of
     operations; developing assessments in support of capability planning, acquisition
     requirements, and integration efforts; ensuring ISR personnel professional development
     and readiness; and, providing MAJCOM and HQ level policy, guidance, and oversight
     for acquisition intelligence as well as Command sensitive compartmented information to
     include validation of facility and access requirements.
     2.9.3. As the requirements lead for AFMC Command senior leadership, responsible for:
     providing integrated and streamlined policies, planning, support services and resources to
     enable the development, fielding and sustainment of AF special programs; providing
     Command-level acquisition leadership as well as collaboration with SAF and AFSPC in
     developing and implementing integrated life-cycle management initiatives, policies,
     processes, tools, and metrics; providing direct support to HQ AFMC Top 3 for major
     acquisition program reviews; leading the Program Management (PM) functional office
     in the strategic development of the AFMC PM workforce; providing efficient/effective
     Command-level program support through management of the Capabilities Integration
     Panel (PPBE); leading the development of the AFMC Business Enterprise Architecture
     (ABE); enabling the ISR and Requirements mission through the efficient and effective
     management of Directorate operations; advocating for, developing and guiding Science
     and Technology policy and processes that foster AFMC enterprise-wide technology
     development and technology transition initiatives; and identifying and advocating for AF
     Agile Combat Support Core Function Lead integration capability requirements;
     monitoring and controlling requirements baselines from acquisition Milestone A through
     fielding from operational vision to prioritization of needs.
  2.10. Air, Space and Information Operations (A3):
     2.10.1. Enables effective test and support solutions to deliver decisive joint warfighting
     capability in support of national objectives.            Develops overarching AFMC
     Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E) policy and manages the Test & Evaluation
     (T&E) acquisition professional development workforce. Certifies AFTC POM to ensure
     inputs consider larger T&E infrastructure requirements, but reduce unnecessary
     redundancies and investments. Monitors, assesses, and reports on AFMC Cyber &
     Information Operations. Develops strategic policy and initiatives for AFMC network and
     information operations to maintain mission assurance. Ensures a safe flying environment
     through airfield and flight operations policy and oversight. Manages all AFMC Air and
     Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) processes. Supports operational readiness with
     adaptive command contingency planning, policy development, and strategy on counter-
6                                                                AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013


       proliferation of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear capabilities. Oversees
       AFMC arms control/treaty activities. Provides oversight, policy guidance, for AFMC
       command and control. Executes day-to-day command post, crisis action team, and
       transition to battlestaff operations.
    2.11. Logistics (A4):
       2.11.1. Shapes the workforce and infrastructure to provide logistics and sustainment
       support for Life Cycle Logistics, supply, depot maintenance, and base-level logistics
       operations resulting in war-winning expeditionary capabilities.
       2.11.2. Directs logistics activities in support of AF combat capabilities by setting policy
       for supply and depot maintenance activities to support health of fleet objectives.
       Manages policy for AF Depot Working Capital Fund activities, as well as sustainment for
       AF programs. Manages policy for AF Technical Order processes.                      Provides
       policy/support to enable efforts to continually improve products, services, and processes.
       Oversees AF munitions and nuclear weapons inventory and support programs in support
       of AFMC installations and missions.               Develops and implements Command
       transportation, vehicle management, supply, fuels, logistics planning, aircraft
       maintenance, and munitions policy. Provides logistics and maintenance policy and
       guidance for Command’s test and test support fleet. AF member on the Joint Group
       Depot Maintenance (JGDM). Responsible for Air Force Weapon System Sustainment
       (WSS) requirements development and execution via the Centralized Asset Management
       (CAM) process.
    2.12. Communications, Installations and Mission Support (A6/7):
       2.12.1. Delivers quality facilities, emergency services, communications and information
       systems, force protection and readiness, enabling AFMC to develop, field and sustain
       war-winning expeditionary capabilities and provide effective agile combat support.
       2.12.2. Enables AFMC to plan, develop, field and sustain war-winning capabilities.
       Manages the delivery and sustainment of quality facilities, safe working and living
       environments, secure installations, and effective communications and information
       systems. Promotes the well-being of all AFMC personnel, tenants, and other customers
       through comprehensive emergency and life sustaining community services.
    2.13. Strategic Plans, Programs, Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (A8/9):
       2.13.1. Develops comprehensive and definitive plans and programs for the Command
       and for the AF Agile Combat Support (ACS) Core Function Lead Integrator to execute
       the Command and Core Function worldwide mission.
       2.13.2. Provides strategic direction and Command integration for AFMC. Oversees and
       manages strategic planning, programming the Command's annual budget, base
       realignment and closure activities, Command participation in Title 10 and AF war games
       and exercises, enterprise analyses, Integrated Life Cycle Management policy, command
       process improvements, change management, business integration practices, strategic
       basing, and lessons learned management. Oversees and manages the Command
       management structure, including the AFMC Group and AFMC Council. Represents the
       Command in the AF Corporate Structure deliberations.
AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013                                                                      7


     2.13.3. Provides strategic direction and integration for the AF ACS Core
     Function. Oversees and manages ACS enterprise processes, strategic planning,
     programming of the ACS annual budget, enterprise analyses, process improvements, and
     inclusion of ACS Core Function principles in Title 10 and AF war games and exercises.
  2.14. Directorate of Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (A10):
     2.14.1. Principal staff advisor to AFMC/CC and senior staff on nuclear issues. Provides
     Command integration of nuclear policy, life-cycle management and sustainment of the
     AFMC nuclear enterprise with HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, AFMC Centers and Directorates.
     2.14.2. Plans and executes Nuclear Surety Staff Assistance Visit (NSSAV) support to
     AFMC nuclear-capable units.
     2.14.3. Responsible for management of the AFMC Nuclear Integration Council (NIC)
     and chairs the Nuclear Integration Working Group (NIWG). Represents the Command at
     the Nuclear Working Group (NWG) and serves as the OPR for the Nuclear Issues
     Resolution and Integration (NIRI) board and Nuclear Operations Board (NOB).
     2.14.4. Manages Nuclear Enterprise Management Tool (NEMT).
     2.14.5. Chairs AFMC’s Nuclear Panel and advocate for AFMC nuclear funding
     priorities.
     2.14.6. Command Manager of the Personnel Reliability Program (PRP).
  2.15. Engineering and Technical Management (EN):
     2.15.1. Shapes and enables AFMC to develop technology and materiel solutions,
     delivering war-winning capabilities on time, on cost and to sustain system capabilities
     over the life cycle. Provides early and pervasive integration of systems engineering
     processes in force modernization, from concept development through sustainment and
     decommissioning.
     2.15.2. Develops, deploys, and implements career management and force development
     processes used to organize, train, equip and sustain a world-class scientist and engineer
     (S&E) workforce for AFMC. Influences AF career management and force development
     policies and processes as they affect the S&E workforce. Provides functional support for
     S&Es in the Directorate and S&Es matrixed to support other HQ AFMC Directorates.
     Establishes, implements and improves manpower, financial and management processes
     that enable daily operation of the EN Directorate resources.
     2.15.3. Develops, implements and maintains systems engineering policies, processes,
     tools and training to enable the life-cycle management of technologically-superior
     weapon systems that are operationally safe, suitable, and effective (OSS&E). Develops,
     supports and maintains Defense Standardization Program (DSP) policies, procedures, and
     staffing to support the timely and efficient management of technical requirements and
     associated verification techniques used by DoD/AF programs. Provides Modeling,
     Simulation and Analysis (MS&A) policy, oversight and integration. Utilizes technical
     expertise and knowledge base of engineering best practices to assess technical issues for
     the Command and AF.
8                                                                AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013


       2.15.4. Develops, implements and maintains Scientific and Technical Information
       (STINFO) policies, processes, and tools to enable the effective management and proper
       protection of the Command’s scientific and technical knowledge.
    2.16. Financial Management and Comptroller (FM):
       2.16.1. Trusted and valued financial partners acting as force multipliers for combat
       effectiveness. In an economically challenged environment, we will embrace innovative
       practices to effectively resource AFMC’s war-winning capabilities.
       2.16.2. Our first priority is to push resources to the warfighter. In doing so, we are the
       Commander’s trusted advisor on financial matters; we provide high-quality decision
       support and responsive customer-focused financial services.
    2.17. Chaplain (HC):
       2.17.1. Facilitates religious accommodation and spiritual health within the AFMC
       community to enhance its ability to develop, field, and sustain war-winning expeditionary
       capabilities.
       2.17.2. Provides policy, guidance and staff oversight to installation Chaplain Corps
       functions. Provides coordination as needed between HHQ functionals and AFMC Center
       and Wing Commanders/Directors and Wing Chaplains concerning manpower, personnel,
       professional development, deployment issues and assignment actions.             Provides
       education and mentoring to chapel staffs via conferences, pastoral site visits and other
       means as deemed appropriate. Ensures AFMC Chaplain Corps personnel are able to
       provide religious ministries during war, contingencies, exercises and national
       emergencies. Advises AFMC/CC, CV, CA and Center and Wing CCs or Directors on
       Command-wide and base-level morale, religious, ethical and moral issues and on HC
       aspects of Core Functional Lead Integrator (CFLI) management of ACS resources for the
       AF.
    2.18. History (HO):
       2.18.1. Serves as functional manager for Command historical, museum and art activities
       by providing policy, guidance, oversight, assessment and technical control. Prepares the
       annual fiscal year history of HQ AFMC. Responds to historical inquiries from
       Commanders and staffs. Maintains the HQ AFMC historical archives. Manages the
       USAF heraldry program.
    2.19. Inspector General (IG):
       2.19.1. Organized, trained, and resourced to provide the CC tools to promote high
       standards and excellence through efficient, credible, independent evaluations and fair,
       timely complaints resolution to strengthen AFMC's ability to deliver to the warfighter
       war-winning expeditionary capabilities through Technology, Acquisition, Test and
       Sustainment.
       2.19.2. Conducts investigative services and evaluates Command mission readiness,
       compliance with critical items derived from safety, federal law, executive order, DoD,
       AF, or AFMC policy, directives and instructions including nuclear surety. Performs
       assessments of support contractor performance and inspects AF and Command special
       interest items. Provides AFMC/CC and subordinate unit CCs independent assessments of
AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013                                                                          9


     the Command's critical mission elements. Responsible for AFMC oversight activities,
     including senior official and fraud, waste and abuse investigations. Conducts other CC-
     directed inspections as required. On behalf of AFMC/CC, serves as the MAJCOM
     Gatekeeper authority to approve or disapprove, integrate, and deconflict all inspections,
     evaluations, assessments, staff assistance visits, and audits within AFMC.
  2.20. Information Protection (IP):
     2.20.1. Provides policy, guidance and staff oversight across the AFMC enterprise
     information protection functions including information, industrial, personnel, and
     operations security and military deception. Provides coordination as needed between
     HHQ functionals and AFMC Center and Wing Commanders/Directors, installation
     Information Protection Offices, and Center Senior Functionals concerning manpower,
     personnel, professional development, deployment issues and assignment actions.
     Provides education and mentoring to Information Protection Office staffs via
     conferences, site visits, and other means as deemed appropriate. Ensures those AFMC
     security specialists are able to provide converged, mission-focused information
     protection. Advises AFMC/CC, CV, CA and Center and Wing CCs or Directors on
     sensitive controlled unclassified and classified information protection issues Command
     wide and base level.
     2.20.2. Serves as functional manager of Command Information Protection activities by
     providing policy, guidance, oversight, assessment and technical control. Prepares the
     annual programming and budgeting activities to support HQ AFMC’s full-spectrum
     information threat mitigation and synergistic security controls. Conducts research
     projects and leads MAJCOM Security Advisory Group to conduct special studies,
     working groups and rapid improvement events to provide solutions on cross-function
     information protection issues. Provides Command Senior Security Official continuous
     updates on enterprise information protection posture, capabilities, and resources.
  2.21. Staff Judge Advocate (JA):
     2.21.1. Provides effective, timely and full-spectrum legal services to the CC and
     directors to enable them to shape the workforce and infrastructure to develop, field and
     sustain war-winning expeditionary capabilities. Responsible for legal services provided
     by the AFMC Law Office, a field operating agency.
  2.22. Public Affairs (PA):
     2.22.1. Shapes and develops PA to influence support for issues and programs, counsel
     and support field CCs and PAs and sustains the Command PA workforce in
     communicating and executing the AFMC mission.
     2.22.2. Manages the AFMC public affairs program consisting of media relations, plans,
     programs, resources, security and policy review, internal information, community
     relations and multi-media communications. Develops and implements AFMC public
     affairs policy and directives. Provides counsel to AFMC/CC and staff and conducts
     public affairs activities for issues directly involving the headquarters. Directs subordinate
     units in accomplishing Command public affairs activities and provides all public affairs
     support of AFMC peacetime/wartime missions. Monitors duties and responsibilities of
     the AF Band of Flight, a field operating agency.
10                                                             AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013


  2.23. Contracting (PK):
     2.23.1. Shapes AFMC’s Contracting workforce, processes, procedures and operations to
     develop, field and sustain expeditionary capabilities supporting US national interests.
     2.23.2. Provides contracting processes, training and guidance to AFMC contracting and
     strategic sourcing activities. Develops and manages processes and tools necessary to
     contract for science and technology, systems, sustainment, AF CONUS installation
     support and services. Exercises oversight of contracting operations and career field
     management to include AEF readiness. Primary advisor on contracting matters and
     major advisor on business and acquisition matters to AFMC/CC and staff. Manages the
     Command Competition and Commercial Items Advocacy Program.
  2.24. Safety (SE):
     2.24.1. Implements the Air Force Safety Program on behalf of the AFMC/CC. Evaluates
     the management, implementation and effectiveness of this program within the Command.
     2.24.2. Serves as the principal advisor to AFMC senior leaders and field safety staffs on
     safety matters to include flight, ground, systems, weapons, nuclear surety, directed
     energy, range and test safety.
  2.25. Small Business Office (SB):
     2.25.1. Implements the Air Force Small Business Program on behalf of the Commander.
     Primary advisor to Commander, staff and field personnel on all SB functional and
     execution-related matters affecting program implementation and SB utilization in the
     acquisition of goods and services via contractual methods. Primary advisor to higher
     headquarters, industry, congress, state and local governments, etc., on matters related to
     implementation of the Command-wide Small Business Program.
     2.25.2. Evaluates the management, implementation and effectiveness of this program
     across the Command consistent with laws and national policies. Formulates and
     implements policies and processes to overcome identified barriers or impediments to
     effective or efficient Program implementation to ensure fair acquisition/procurement
     processes enabling maximum practicable opportunities for SBs to compete for prime
     contracts and subcontracting opportunities. Participates in “execution” to assist and
     ensure acquisition planning and resultant acquisition strategies maximize SB utilization.
  2.26. Surgeon (SG):
     2.26.1. Principal medical advisor to the AFMC CC and directors, promoting the health
     and well-being of AFMC’s military and civilian personnel. Leads medical service
     implementation and execution of the AF Surgeon General’s policies and programs across
     AFMC’s medical treatment facilities to include the USAF School of Aerospace
     Medicine. Ensures medical personnel are ready to deploy and able to provide robust
     medical contingency support across the Command. Oversees environmental and
     occupational health support for AFMC’s industrial, research, development, testing and
     evaluation missions, to include all medical aspects of the nuclear and biological personal
     reliability programs.
AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013                                                                  11


3. Command. HQ AFMC is a MAJCOM reporting to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
   3.1. Organization Structure. The organization structures of HQ AFMC are according to the
   AF Objective Blueprint, AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, and HQ USAF approved
   variances to the structures. The approved Blueprint organization can be located at
   http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/?rdoFormPub=rdoPub&txtSearchWord=AFI38-
   101&client=AFPW_EPubs&proxystylesheet=AFPW_EPubs&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-
   8&output=xml_no_dtd&site=AFPW_EPubs&btnG.x=29&btnG.y=8
   3.2. Organization Changes. Requests to change the organization structures of HQ AFMC
   must be made according to AFI 38-101 and HQ AFMC/A1/A1M policy guidance. Requests
   must be approved by the HQ AFMC directorate and submitted, with justification, proposed
   mission statements and organization charts, to HQ AFMC/A1 for staffing and approval.




                                         JANET C. WOLFENBARGER, General, USAF
                                         Commander
 12                                                      AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFB—- Air Force Base
AFMAN—- Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—- Air Mobility Command
AMCI—- Air Mobility Command Instruction
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—- Information Management Tool (IMT’s have converted to “Forms”)
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule
AFMCMD401 20 JUNE 2013                        13


                             Attachment 2
                         ORGANIZATION CHART

Figure A2.1. ORGANIZATION CHART
