BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 32-1056

                                                                              17 OCTOBER 2012

                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 24 September 2014

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                 AIRFIELD OBSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
                                                                         PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A7NX                                                    Certified by: HQ AFMC/A7N
                                                                          (Mr. Ronald J. Onderko)
Supersedes:    AFMCI 32-1056,                                                            Pages: 16
               17 February 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities. This instruction is designed to supplement UFC 3-260-01 Airfield and Heliport
Planning & Design (current version published 17 Nov 08). It provides guidance and procedures
on managing and overseeing the AFMC Airfield Obstruction Management (AOM) Program.
This instruction does apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve units operating on
AFMC airfields. This AFMCI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that
directly implement this publication must be routed to AFMC/A7NX for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-
tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). The use of the
 2                                                           AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012


name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

AFMC Form 300 was added as a prescribed form in Attachment 1, GLOSSARY OF
REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION. A margin bar (|) indicates newly
revised material.
1. Policy. The HQ AFMC AOM Program Office sets policies and issues guidance for AFMC
Installations to include Duke Field and Air Force Plant 42 (Government Owned, Contractor
Operated Facility).
2. Definitions: This section provides definitions to terms that are either not defined in the
Glossary of UFC 3-260-01, or are defined but require greater definition. Terms that are also in
the UFC Glossary are noted accordingly.
     2.1. New Obstruction: An obstruction is considered new if it currently does not exist (i.e.,
     part of a design proposal) or is existing but not recorded in the installation’s airfield
     obstruction management system (maps and database). Furthermore, any obstruction listed in
     the installation’s obstruction management system that is required to have an approved waiver
     but no waiver exists, must be treated as a new obstruction until a waiver is granted. The
     processing of new obstructions is described in paragraph 4 below.
     2.2. Existing Obstruction: An obstruction is considered existing if it currently exists and is
     recorded in the installation’s airfield obstruction management system (maps and database).
     All obstructions shall be classified as exemption, permissible deviation, permanent waiver or
     temporary waiver. The management of existing obstructions is described in paragraph 5
     below.
     2.3. Exemption: An obstruction (facility or other item) constructed/sited under a previous,
     typically less stringent siting standard. No waiver is required. Facilities or other items
     constructed/sited under current standards that are behind and beneath a MAJCOM-approved
     Building Restriction Line (BRL) are considered exemptions and therefore do not require a
     waiver. Guidance for determining the BRL is found in UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Section
     18. (UFC Glossary)
     2.4. Permissible Deviation: An obstruction required to support airfield operations that is
     not required to meet airfield clearance criteria; however, it must meet siting criteria. No
     waiver is required. See UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Section B13-2. (UFC Glossary)
        2.4.1. (Added) MAJCOM-Unique Permissible Deviation: A MAJCOM approved
        permissible deviation that is not specifically listed in UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B,
        Section 13. See Attachment 2 below for approved MAJCOM-unique permissible
        deviations.
     2.5. Permanent Waiver: An approval document obtained for a proposed or existing
     obstruction that (a) violates airfield and airspace criteria in UFC 3-260-01, (b) cannot
     reasonably be corrected, (c) poses little or no threat to flying operations or (d) is expected to
     remain in place for more than 5 years. UFC 3-260-01 defines a correctible obstruction as one
     “that can be removed, modified or relocated to comply with airfield safety criteria with a
AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                                      3


   reasonable level of effort as determined by the MAJCOM”. Requests for permanent waivers
   must present compelling justification to violate criteria and clearly demonstrate no viable,
   practical alternative that meets criteria exists. Refer to UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Section
   13-1 for a list of airfield support systems and facilities that require a waiver. Multiple
   obstructions that are adjacent and interrelated may be grouped under one waiver, per UFC 3-
   260-01, Appendix B, Paragraph B1-2.1.2 (UFC Glossary).
   2.6. Temporary Waiver: A temporary waiver is obtained for a proposed or existing
   obstruction that (a) violates airfield and airspace criteria in UFC 3-260-01, (b) the obstruction
   is correctable, or (c) is expected to be in place for no more than 5 years. UFC 3-260-01
   defines a correctible obstruction as one “that can be removed, modified, or relocated to
   comply with airfield safety criteria with a reasonable level of effort as determined by the
   MAJCOM”. See paragraph 4.2.1.7 below for additional guidance on waiver length.
   Multiple obstructions may be grouped under one waiver if they are adjacent and interrelated,
   per UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Paragraph B1-2.1.2. (UFC Glossary)
   2.7. Construction Waiver: A construction waiver is obtained when one or more elements
   of a construction project (equipment, facilities, personnel, etc.) violate airfield and airspace
   criteria in UFC 3-260-01. Construction waivers (sometimes referred to as temporary
   construction waivers) should only be planned for the duration of the planned construction
   project unless circumstances dictate otherwise. When this waiver is drafted, additional time
   may be added to the waiver time period to allow for potential weather delays or other
   acceptable delays. Actual term (duration) is determined by the Installation Commander.
   (UFC Glossary)
   2.8. Air Show Waiver: An air show waiver is required for air show activities that violate
   airfield and airspace criteria in UFC 3-260-01. These waivers do not replace the requirement
   for Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) air show waivers.
3. Approval Authority. As required by UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Paragraph B1-2.3, all
permanent and temporary waivers and MAJCOM-unique permissible deviations must be
approved by the HQ AFMC Vice Commander or their delegated representative. For AFMC, this
approval authority has been delegated to the HQ AFMC Director of Communications,
Installations and Mission Support (HQ AFMC/A6/7). Construction and air show waivers may be
approved by the Installation Commander.
4. Processing New Airfield Obstructions. This section describes AFMC roles and
responsibilities for processing new airfield obstructions as defined by UFC 3-260-01 and
paragraph 1 above.
   4.1. HQ AFMC: The HQ AFMC Communications, Installations, and Mission Support
   Directorate (HQ AFMC/A6/7) is responsible for the AFMC AOM Program. The HQ
   AFMC/A7NX Planning Branch is the designated AOM Program Office. The HQ AFMC
   Air, Space & Information Operations (A3) and HQ AFMC Safety (SE) Directorates provide
   functional review of and coordination on new airfield waiver requests. The AOM Program
   Office designates a Program Manager (PM) who receives (1) requests for permanent and
   temporary waivers, (2) notifications of other new airfield obstructions (exemptions,
   permissible deviations, construction waivers, or air show waivers) and (3) requests for
   technical support and advice.
4                                                         AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012


       4.1.1. Permanent and Temporary Waiver Requests: The PM will process permanent and
       temporary waiver requests to HQ AFMC/A3, A6/7, SE, and other directorate functional
       as required, for review and coordination. If additional information is needed to support
       the request, the PM or higher authority (i.e. HQ AFMC/A7N) will notify the Base Civil
       Engineer (BCE) or equivalent and the installation program office if other than the BCE,
       within 5 work days. When the waiver request package is complete and ready for
       processing, the PM will obtain the necessary two-letter coordination prior to submitting
       to HQ AFMC/A6/7 for approval or disapproval. When a permanent or temporary waiver
       request is approved or disapproved, the PM or higher authority will notify the BCE (or
       program office) within 5 work days.
       4.1.2. Other Obstruction Notifications: When other obstruction notifications (item (2) in
       the above paragraph) are received, the PM will notify the HQ AFMC/A3 and SE
       functional managers and other appropriate directorates as necessary.
    4.2. AFMC Installations: Each applicable AFMC installation and industrial plant will
    designate a program office and an Action Officer (AO) for processing new airfield
    obstructions. Historically, the program office has been under the BCE and at most
    installations the AO is the Base Community Planner. The AO will initially classify all new
    airfield obstructions as an Exemption, Permissible Deviation, or Waiver. Waivers will be
    further categorized as one of the four applicable types defined in paragraphs 2.5 through
    2.8 above and then processed for approval. Any waiver classification is not official until the
    waiver is approved.
       4.2.1. Waiver Requests: The AO will prepare waiver requests using AFMC Form 300
       (see Attachment 5) and coordinate with all affected installation organizations, including
       those identified in UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Section B1-2. When coordination is
       received, the AO or BCE will send the request to the Installation Commander for either
       endorsement (permanent and temporary waivers) or approval (construction and air show
       waivers). When (or if) the waiver request is endorsed/approved by the Installation
       Commander, the AO will notify the PM within 10 work days (email notice is acceptable)
       that one of the following items has occurred: (a) the Installation Commander has
       endorsed a permanent or temporary waiver request and the waiver request package has
       been uploaded to the AOM Program website (see paragraph 5.3 below) for PM
       processing or (b) the Installation Commander has approved a construction or air show
       waiver request and the information has been uploaded to the appropriate installation
       folder on the AOM Program website. Specific requirements for air show and
       construction waiver submittal packages are determined by each installation, but must
       meet criteria established in UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Section 14 for construction
       phasing and notification. Permanent and temporary waiver packages shall include the
       following:
           4.2.1.1. Obstruction description: To include, but not limited to, dimensions,
           construction materials, frangibility, supporting equipment, utilities and
           appurtenances, height above ground level, facility use/contents and number of
           occupants. Include clear reasoning as to why the obstruction is considered permanent
           as opposed to temporary. If multiple obstructions are being grouped into one waiver
           request, be sure to describe all proposed obstructions.
AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 5


        4.2.1.2. Violation description: Thorough description of the noncompliance with
        airfield design criteria to include a clear statement of what the violations are with
        applicable UFC references. Provide distance(s) of new obstructions from runways,
        taxiways, aprons, or other applicable airfield clearances, imaginary surfaces, or
        prohibited land use areas. Provide all data for each criterion violated (e.g. show
        violations in the longitudinal and transverse directions for facilities sited in clear
        zones). If multiple obstructions are being grouped into one waiver request, be sure to
        describe all violations for all proposed obstructions.
        4.2.1.3. Waiver justification: Discuss all operational concerns that relate to the
        violation. Include an Operational Risk Analysis (ORA) completed in accordance with
        AFI 90-9012, Operational Risk Management. See Attachment 6 for additional
        guidance. The results shall include all known hazards associated with the proposed
        action, a risk code using the risk assessment matrix for each hazard and a description
        of all risk control measures needed to minimize the associated risk involved with the
        proposed action. Describe all safety precautions and mitigation measures that will be
        implemented to minimize the risks associated with the violation.
        4.2.1.4. Alternative analysis: The summary of the analysis needs to include a
        description of each alternative site considered, risks/benefits associated with each
        alternative and the reason for selecting an alternative that violates criteria over one
        that does not. Include all pertinent information relating to the final decision.
        4.2.1.5. Site plan(s): Provide in PDF, JPG, or PowerPoint format showing the
        location of the proposed obstruction(s) as well as existing waivered obstructions in
        the vicinity. The site plan(s) should portray all proposed and existing facilities,
        utilities, infrastructure and support equipment (concrete slabs, bollards, generators,
        AC units, external fuel tanks, etc.) with respect to regulated airfield surfaces and
        imaginary surfaces. Site plans must include all distances in feet from affected
        runways, taxiways and aprons. Depict obstructions protruding into transitional slopes
        in a graphic manner with dimensions in feet.
        4.2.1.6. Photographs: Provide one or more photographs, 3” x 5” minimum, showing
        the surrounding environment. If the obstruction(s) requiring a waiver is/are existing,
        provide one or more photos of the obstruction(s).
        4.2.1.7. Mitigation Plan: UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Paragraph B1-2.2.1.1 requires
        a mitigation (action) plan for all temporary waivers. Per paragraph 2.6 above, a
        temporary waiver can only be approved for up to 5 years. Therefore, the mitigation
        plan should be 5 years or less or provide strong justification why more than 5 years
        are needed. Mitigation schedules greater than 5 years must re-approved at the 5 year
        mark. Lack of funding is not solely a justification for mitigation plans greater than 5
        years. The plan must include a project number (where applicable), estimated start
        and completion dates and the estimated cost. The proposed project(s) to remove the
        obstruction must be properly programmed and identified in ACES-PM. Ensure
        information regarding airfield waivers and obstructions are fully and accurately
        populated in the ACES-PM Supplemental Tab.
 6                                                         AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012


            4.2.1.8. Installation Commander Endorsement Letter: Permanent and temporary
            waiver requests submitted to HQ AFMC for approval must include a copy of the
            Installation Commander’s waiver endorsement letter.
        4.2.2. Waiver Disapproval: If a waiver request for an existing obstruction is
        disapproved, the installation must take immediate action to remove the obstruction. If a
        waiver request for a proposed obstruction is disapproved, the requesting office must
        pursue a new course of action (redesign, re-siting, cancellation, etc.).
        4.2.3. Exemptions and Permissible Deviations: Existing but undocumented (not yet
        classified and processed) obstructions may qualify as exemptions if a MAJCOM-
        approved Building Restriction Line currently exists as defined in paragraph 2.3 above
        and UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Sections 1 and 18. If exemption status is desired,
        consult with the AOM Program Office. Obstructions qualify as permissible deviations if
        they meet the requirements of UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, Section B13-2. It is important
        to note that some obstructions which qualify as an exemption or permissible deviation
        may still require a waiver if certain conditions are not met, as explained in UFC 3260-01,
        Appendix B, Section B13-1. Obstructions that qualify as exemptions or permissible
        deviations must be fully identified on installation maps and in the installation’s
        obstruction database. Notify the PM within 10 work days when any new exemption or
        permissible deviation is identified and recorded. Along with the notification, the AO will
        update the obstruction database on the AOM Program website.
5. Managing Existing Airfield Obstructions. This section describes the roles and
responsibilities for managing existing airfield obstructions as defined by UFC 3-260-01 and
paragraph 4 above.
     5.1. HQ AFMC: The HQ AFMC/A7NX Planning Branch manages the AFMC AOM
     Program (see paragraph 4.1 above). The HQ AFMC Air, Space & Information Operations
     (A3) and HQ AFMC Safety (SE) Directorates provide functional review of existing airfield
     obstruction information and coordination on all related policy and guidance to the field.
        5.1.1. Airfield Obstruction Information: The AOM Program Office maintains an
        electronic database and summary reports of all AFMC obstructions and waivers. The
        database is in Microsoft Excel format. The AOM Program Office also monitors other
        pertinent information posted on the AOM Program, website, including maps and photos.
        See paragraph 5.3 below for additional information.
        5.1.2. Airfield Obstruction Program Reviews: HQ AFMC will periodically review each
        installation’s airfield obstruction information stored on the AOM Program website to
        ensure accuracy and completeness. Reviews will focus on temporary waivers in an effort
        to ensure projects are properly programmed and to advocate for funding to remove
        obstructions. Reviews will generally coincide with scheduled Airfield Operations
        Certification Inspection (AOCI) visits, formally known as Air Traffic Systems Evaluation
        Program (ATSEP) visits, led by HQ AFMC/A3O. The AOM Program Office may issue
        data calls to AFMC installations and applicable industrial plant locations in advance of
        AOCI visits or as needed, if the obstruction information on the AOM Program website is
        not up-to-date. Data calls may also be issued to installations if additional information or
        formatting (i.e. reporting) is required beyond what is stored on the AOM Program
        website. See Attachment 3 for typical reporting requirements. The AOM Program
AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                                7


     Office will ensure HQ AFMC functional have access to review documents, consolidate
     any review comments and provide feedback to installations based on functional
     comments. The airfield obstruction program review process is not the forum for
     requesting new waivers. New waivers are requested individually when required or
     discovered.
     5.1.3. Airfield Obstruction Reduction Program (AORP): UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B,
     Paragraph B1-2.5.3.7 requires MAJCOM Civil Engineers to implement an obstruction
     reduction program. The AOM Program Office will closely monitor the efforts of
     installations to program and execute the removal of obstructions as identified in waiver
     mitigation plans. The AOM Program Office in conjunction with the HQ AFMC/A7ND
     Programs Development Branch, will periodically review airfield obstruction reduction
     projects identified in ACES-PM and advocate for funding. Additional AORP guidance
     may be issued to establish priority zones to assist in the prioritization of projects and
     funding.
  5.2. AFMC Installations: Installation program offices required by paragraph 4.2 above
  will manage existing airfield obstructions.
     5.2.1. Airfield Obstruction Information: Installation Program Offices will maintain
     maps, photographs and a database of all current airfield obstructions, along with a copy
     of all waiver approval documents. As noted elsewhere in this document, installations
     will maintain up-to-date obstruction records on the AOM Program website.
        5.2.1.1. Maps: Installations typically use either AutoCAD or ArcView mapping
        software. Both are acceptable. Installations also have or should integrate existing
        obstructions into their GIS platforms and ensure secure web access is available to HQ
        AFMC. Digital maps shall also include one or more layers showing the various
        imaginary surfaces that determine UFC violations.
        5.2.1.2. Photographs: Photos should be in digital JPG or compatible format, and of
        medium to high resolution (min. 500KB). Multiple photos may be necessary to
        clearly show the existing obstruction in its environment. Photos shall be labeled or
        titled in such a way as to easily link to the obstruction in the database.
        5.2.1.3. Database: All existing airfield obstructions must be identified in one
        consolidated database. Do not include proposed obstructions requiring a waiver until
        the waiver is approved. However, a separate tab or table may be used to show a list
        of obstructions awaiting waiver approval. The database may be in Microsoft Access
        or Excel, Oracle or other formats, but must be capable of export to Microsoft Excel
        for review and use by other base personnel and the HQ AFMC AOM Program Office.
        A separate, archival database should be maintained of obstructions that no longer
        exist. The database shall have one line item for each obstruction and include all data
        items listed in Attachment 4. Some waivered obstructions may have the same
        waiver ID (alpha/numeric) if bundled with other obstructions into one waiver
        document.
        5.2.1.4. Waiver Approval Recordkeeping: Installations shall maintain an archival
        copy of all approved waiver documents in accordance with UFC 3-260-01, Appendix
        B, paragraph B1-2.5.4.6. As a minimum, maintain a scanned copy of all approval
8                                                         AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012


           documents containing the waiver approval authority signature and date. The archival
           record shall also show all required coordination (office symbols, initials or signatures
           and date). The record should also include all information provided in the original
           waiver request. Optionally, provide a one-page copy of the Air Force guidance in
           effect that states who the waiver approval authority is to ensure there is no question
           that the waiver was properly approved. The phrase “MAJCOM approved airfield
           waiver package” is not referring to an annual report of existing waivers previously
           approved annually by the MAJCOM, but is referring to an installation managed list or
           report identifying all airfield waivers previously approved by HQ AFMC.
       5.2.2. Inspections:     Installations are required to conduct an annual review of
       airfield/airspace obstructions in accordance with UFC 3-260-01. Semi-annual or monthly
       inspections are highly recommended. Installations also participate in AOCI site visits in
       accordance with AFI 13-204V2, Airfield Operations Standardization and Evaluations.
       AOCI inspections are conducted every 2-3 years at all applicable AFMC installations
       (see paragraph 5.1.1 above) except Arnold AFB.
       5.2.3. Airfield Obstruction Reviews: Installations will annually (as a minimum) review
       their existing airfield obstructions in conjunction with annual inspections. Ensure the
       obstruction database and all maps are complete, accurate and up-to-date. Annual reviews
       should revalidate all existing obstructions to ensure they still violate UFC 3-260-01
       criteria. Annual reviews shall check the status of temporary waivers to ensure mitigation
       plans are still valid and on track and all operational safety precautions and conditions of
       approval required by the waiver approval authority are being implemented. If any
       temporary waiver approval has expired or is expected to expire before the obstruction is
       removed, the temporary waiver will require re-approval with a new completion date and
       estimated cost. Brief the results of the annual review to the Airfield Operations Board
       and the base Facilities Board. Ensure the results are included in the respective meeting
       minutes. Installations may develop additional review procedures that meet the specific
       mission requirements of their installation.
       5.2.4. Project Programming: As stated in paragraph 4.2.1.7 above, all obstructions with
       an approved temporary waiver must be programmed for modification or removal to
       eliminate the UFC violation(s). If violations cannot be corrected with in-house resources,
       the installation must program and prioritize projects in ACES-PM and aggressively
       pursue funding to execute the required corrective actions. Projects programmed in
       ACES-PM must be kept up-to-date with accurate schedules, justifications, and cost
       estimates. Also, refer to UFC 3-260-01, Appendix B, paragraph B1-2.5.4.4 for additional
       guidance.
    5.3. AFMC Airfield Obstruction Management Program Website.
    5.3.1. Enterprise Information Management (EIM): The AOM Program Office currently
    uses the HQ AFMC EIM system to provide a web-based, collaborative environment for the
    processing and management of airfield obstructions. The AOM EIM web address is
    https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/AOM/default.aspx. AFMC installations shall use this site to
    submit new permanent and temporary waiver requests and to store existing information. The
    site contains a main folder for each applicable AFMC location and subfolders for the various
    types of information to be uploaded and stored, such new waiver actions, existing obstruction
AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                               9


  databases, maps, photos and other relevant information. The AOM Program Office PM
  manages the site.
     5.3.2. Document format: All uploaded documents must be viewable and readable by
     standard desktop configuration software such as Adobe Acrobat.
     5.3.3. Document Management: All Air Force personnel with a Common Access Card
     (CAC) can view and download documents stored on the AOM EIM site. EIM
     permissions are required to upload files to the site. The installation airfield manager,
     flight safety office, and others involved in the AOM Program will be granted member
     rights, when requested.




                                         JEFFREY M. TODD, Colonel, USAF, P.E.
                                         Command Civil Engineer
                                         Communications, Installations, and Mission
                                         Support
 10                                                       AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI13-204V2, Airfield Operations Standardization and Evaluations, 01 September 2010
AFI32-7063, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone Program, 17 November 2009
AFI90-901, Operational Risk Management, 01 April 2000
AFH32-7084, AICUZ Program Manager’s Guide, 01 March 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFI11-218_AFMCSUP, Aircraft Operations and Movement on the Ground, 07 December 2006
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 04 March 2010
DoDI4165.57, Air Installations Compatible Use Zones (AICUZ), 02 May 2011
MIL-STD-882E, Department of Defense Standard Practice for System Safety, 11 May 2012
UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning & Design, 17 November 2008
Prescribed Form
(Added) AFMC Form 300, Airfield Obstruction - Waiver Request, 24 October 2012
AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 11


                                        Attachment 2
                    MAJCOM-UNIQUE PERMISSIVE DEVIATIONS

A2.1. Aircraft Wingtip Clearances at Depot Operations. For AFMC locations with Depot
Maintenance, the depot operations will follow guidance established in AFMCI 11-218, Flying
Operations, AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS AND GROUND MOVEMENT ON THE GROUND.
As a minimum, standards in Table 1.2. “Minimum Allowable Taxi Distances” and Table 1.3.
“Minimum Allowable Towing Distances” will be followed.
A2.2. Snow Fencing. This type of structure may be installed within the Runway Primary
Surface or Transitional Surface(s) however it must be located outside of the Mandatory
Frangibility Zone. Fencing will be of a sturdy yet non-permanent construction, of a height not
exceed 6 feet tall and all fencing components will be removed during the season(s) when snow is
not probable. Snow fencing location(s) will be selected in coordination with the installation
Flight Safety and Airfield Management office concurrence. Snow fencing is not permitted in
any location that will violate aircraft wing-tip clearances criteria or that will interfere with
NAVAIDs or METNAV devices.
 12                                                      AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012


                                         Attachment 3
                    OBSTRUCTION REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

A3.1. Obstruction reports: shall be provided and maintained by the Installation AO on the
AOM Program website for review and use by other installation and HQ AFMC personnel.
Maintain one (minimum) Excel type spreadsheet per installation with the following worksheets
(tabs). File names should include the report date.
A3.2. Obstruction Summary Table: Show the total number of current obstructions broken out
by the four types: obstructions w/ temporary waiver, obstructions w/ permanent waiver,
permissible deviations and exemptions.
A3.3. Waiver Summary Table: Show the total number of current, approved waivers broken
out by the two main types: temporary waivers and permanent waivers. Construction and air
show waiver numbers may be included but are not required.
A3.4. Summary List of New Obstructions: List all new approved waivers, exemptions, and
permissible deviations since any previous report.
A3.5. Summary List of Eliminated Obstructions (corrected, removed): Show only
obstructions eliminated since any previous report. Provide one line for each eliminated
obstruction (ID, name, classification, date corrected). Group together like types of obstructions
(i.e., first show temporary waivered obstructions removed, then permanent waiver obstructions,
then exemptions, then permissible deviations). This shows base effort to reduce obstructions,
especially those with approved temporary waivers.
A3.6. Summary List of Changed Obstructions: This list shows installation effort to evaluate
and update obstructions. Show only obstructions changed since any previous report. Examples
include: regrouping individual items into a single group waiver, change in classification such as
from temporary waiver to permissible deviation, etc. Changes to existing obstruction
classification should be rare. No obstruction classification can be changed to waivered status
without going through the waiver approval process.
A3.7. Make sure all reports are clearly dated.
AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                                13


                                        Attachment 4
                     OBSTRUCTION DATABASE REQUIREMENTS

A4.1. The AOM Program Office: will ensure each installation’s data is listed in this order for
standardized viewing purposes and ease of use. A separate data file for each installation and
applicable industrial plant will be maintained on the AOM EIM website.
A4.2. Obstruction Naming Standards. To the maximum extent possible, installations shall
use a standardized obstruction designator made up of alphanumeric characters. Every
obstruction shall have its own unique identifier. The standard will be as follows:
   A4.2.1. First string: a maximum of 4 numbers as needed for sequencing. This string by
   itself can be used for simplified identification on maps.
   A4.2.2. Second string: a single alpha character based on obstruction location. A= Apron,
   C=Clear zone, R=Runway, T=Taxiway. If additional characters besides these 4 are used,
   provide a Legend. A maximum of 2 extra alpha characters may be used to further identify
   the location of the waiver on the airfield. Example: TDE=Taxiway Delta East. If used,
   provide a Legend.
   A4.2.3. Third string: Up to 2 characters to identify the obstruction classification. PW =
   Permanent Waiver, TW = Temporary Waiver, EX = Exemption, PD = Permissible Deviation.
   A4.2.4. Optional Fourth string: Airfield obstruction identifiers may also include a 3
   character installation or airfield code. Examples: TIN = Tinker AFB; DUK = Duke Field,
   etc..
A4.3. Required database fields are listed below. Installations may add other data fields at the
end (to the right) of the required fields for their own purposes.
   A4.3.1. Airfield Obstruction ID
   A4.3.2. Obstruction Name
   A4.3.3. Obstruction Description
   A4.3.4. Obstruction Owner (User)
   A4.3.5. Date Obstruction Built, Installed
   A4.3.6. Justification
   A4.3.7. Classification (Permanent Waiver, Temporary Waiver, Permissible Deviation,
   Exemption)
   A4.3.8. Reason for Classification
   A4.3.9. UFC Violation(s)
   A4.3.10. UFC Reference(s)
   A4.3.11. GPS – X Coordinate
   A4.3.12. GPS – Y Coordinate
   A4.3.13. GPS – Z Coordinate
14                                                    AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012


  A4.3.14. Elevation (MSL)
  A4.3.15. Cat Code
  A4.3.16. Frangible (Y / N / Partial / NA)
  A4.3.17. Photo references
  A4.3.18. Remarks
  A4.3.19. Waiver ID Number (Alpha / Numeric)
  A4.3.20. Waiver Approval Date (dd-mmm-yy)
  A4.3.21. Waiver Expiration Date (Temporary Waivers Only) (dd-mmm-yy)
  A4.3.22. Waiver Approval Office (Title or Symbol)
  A4.3.23. Operational Risk Analysis Result
  A4.3.24. Safety Precautions In Effect
  A4.3.25. Mitigation Plan –Project Number
  A4.3.26. Mitigation Plan – Cost to Remove
  A4.3.27. Mitigation Plan – Estimated Start Date (dd-mmm-yy)
  A4.3.28. Mitigation Plan – Estimated Completion Date (dd-mmm-yy)
AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012                                                              15


                                       Attachment 5
     TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT WAIVER REQUEST (AFMC FORM 300)

A5.1. Permanent and temporary waiver requests: will be submitted using AFMC Form 300.
Installation AOs may also use this form as a template for preparing construction and air show
waiver requests.
  16                                                       AFMCI32-1056 17 OCTOBER 2012


                                          Attachment 6
                                 RISK ASSESSMENT MATRIX

Table A6.1. Risk Assessment Matrix
                                                 PROBABILITY
                         Frequent      Likely      Occasional       Seldom       Unlikely
           Catastrophic Extremely                            High               Medium
SEVERITY




             Critical   High                    High              Medium
            Moderate      High               Medium
           Negligible    Medium                                               Low
                                                  Risk Levels

NOTE:
PROBABILITY (Number of mishaps divided by the number of specified exposures):
Frequent – Probability of occurrence equal to or greater than 10%
Likely - Probability of occurrence equal to or greater than 1% but less than 10%
Occasional - Probability of occurrence equal to or greater than 0.1% but less than 1%
Seldom - Probability of occurrence equal to or greater than .0001% but less than 0.1%
Unlikely - Probability of occurrence less than 0.0001%


SEVERITY:
Catastrophic – Direct mishap cost totaling $2M (or more) or fatality or total disability
Critical – Direct mishap cost totaling $500,000 to $1,999,999 or permanent partial
           disability or inpatient hospitalization of three or more personnel
Moderate - Direct mishap cost totaling $20,000 to $499,999 or Depot-level repair
           required or any injury that causes loss of one or more days away from work
           beyond the day the incident occurred
Negligible – All mishaps, considered less severe than the Catastrophic, Critical and
             Moderate categories
