BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AFMC INSTRUCTION 36-2601
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                      10 MAY 2004
                                                                               Certified Current, 5 November 2010
                                                                                                    Personnel

                                                              OPERATIONS/OPERATIONS SUPPORT
                                                             SQUADRON COMMANDER CANDIDATE
                                                                            SELECTION BOARD

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/DOOT                                                            Certified by: HQ AFMC/DOO
       (Maj Lawrence M. Leny)                                                         (Mr. Charles L. Welty)
Supersedes AFMCI36-2601, 16 Oct 02                                                                  Pages: 7
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Military Force Management, and outlines and establishes pol-
icy, procedures, areas of responsibilities, and an event timeline for the command's operations squadron
commander candidate selection board. It applies to all personnel involved with the nomination and board
process, candidate-select list, and board protocol. Maintain and dispose of all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this instruction IAW AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision clarifies guidance in several paragraphs and sub-paragraphs. It provides the following sub-
stantive revisions: timing of the CCSB, board procedures and changing the releasing authority from
AFMC/CV to AFMC/CC. A bar ( | ) indicates revision from the previous edition.


1. Purpose. Establish procedures for selection and conduct of the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)
Operations Directorate squadron commander candidate selection board (CCSB). The CCSB will convene
annually to identify candidates for projected commander vacancies in AFMC flying, operations support,
and test squadrons or detachments and all other requirements as directed by HQ AFMC/DO. The CCSB
is scheduled to convene each October or early November.

2. Officer Eligibility Requirements.
   2.1. Acquisition Experience. For those squadron commander positions that require acquisition
   experience, candidates must be acquisition qualified or eligible. If selected for a command assign-
   ment, officers must be capable of completing all acquisition certification requirements within the nor-
   mal acquisition guidelines (i.e., Acquisition Corps member/eligible upon assumption of command or
   able to achieve appropriate certification level within 18 months from start of assignment).
2                                                                        AFMCI36-2601 10 MAY 2004


    2.2. Minimum Criteria for All Nominees. All officers competing for AFMC Flight Test Squadron
    (FLTS), Operations Support Squadron (OSS), or Test Squadron (TS) commander positions must meet
    the following minimum criteria:
       2.2.1. Not applied for separation or retirement.
       2.2.2. Not deferred to the next higher grade.
       2.2.3. Not have a current UIF.
       2.2.4. Not be in the primary zone for colonel.
       2.2.5. Not served previously as the commander of a flying unit.
       2.2.6. Must be available to assume command during the entire period the list encompasses.
    2.3. FLTS Commander. In addition to the criteria listed in para 2.2. officers competing for FLTS
    commander must also meet the following criteria:
       2.3.1. Must be a lieutenant colonel/lieutenant colonel select by the date the board convenes.
       2.3.2. Must be a pilot or navigator and must be current in their MWS or non-current no more than
       five years from the date they would assume command.
       2.3.3. Eligible AFSCs: 11XX and 12XX.
    2.4. TS Commander. In addition to the criteria listed in para 2.2. . officers competing for TS com-
    mander must also meet the following criteria:
       2.4.1. Must be a lieutenant colonel/lieutenant colonel select or a major by the date the board con-
       venes.
       2.4.2. Eligible AFSCs: 11XX, 12XX, and 6XXX with test experience.
    2.5. OSS Commander. In addition to the criteria listed in para 2.2. officers competing for OSS
    commander must also meet the following criteria:
       2.5.1. Must be a lieutenant colonel/lieutenant colonel select or a major by the date the board con-
       venes.
       2.5.2. Eligible AFSCs: 11XX, 12XX, 13BX, and 13MX.
    2.6. Eligibility Waivers. Officers who do not meet above eligibility criteria must submit a memoran-
    dum signed by their nominating official (see para 3.1. ) requesting a waiver. The memorandum must
    state which criteria need to be waived and provide justification. HQ AFMC/DO is the approval
    authority for all waivers. Waiver requests must be received by AFMC/DOO no later than the suspense
    date established for receipt of the nomination packages. Place the memorandum in Part VI of the nom-
    ination folder.

3. CCSB Nomination Process.
    3.1. Reference Table 1. to determine appropriate level for nominating official. Multiple nominations
    from the same wing, SPO, or headquarters should be consolidated and submitted together if feasible.
    3.2. Nominating official must rank order nominees if submitting more than one.
AFMCI36-2601 10 MAY 2004                                                                                  3


Table 1. Nominating Officials.
If Nominee is serving in:                         Then Nominating Official is
HAF, Joint, MAJCOM, NAF, or Center Staff          General Officer or equivalent
Test or Operational Wing                          Wing Commander or equivalent
Systems Program Office (SPO) or Lab               SPO Director or equivalent (2-Letter)
PME in-residence                                  Commandant or equivalent (Desired)

4. CCSB Nomination Packages.
   4.1. Nominees must prepare their own nomination packages. Include a cover page with an e-mail
   address for the point of contact(s), or a telephone number if e-mail is not available, to confirm receipt
   of the package. Include nominating official's e-mail address and phone number on cover page for noti-
   fication of board results.
   4.2. Nomination packages must be submitted in a six-part folder. Affix a white label with officer’s
   typed name (Last, First MI) to the top left corner of the interior back cover. The name must be visible
   when the folder is filed.
   4.3. Section (I), (interior front cover): Leave blank.
   4.4. Section (II), (interior front cover): Signed AF Form 3849, PME/AFIT/RTFB Officer Work-
   sheet, written specifically for this board. Include typed nominating official’s signature block. In no
   case shall the nominating official be higher than that specified in Table 1.
      4.4.1. AF Form 3849, Part II: List all squadron types (Flight Test Squadron, Operations Support
      Squadron, and/or Test & Evaluation Squadron) for which nominee meets eligibility requirements
      (see para 2. ). Do not list specific units or locations.
      4.4.2. AF Form 3849, Part III: Complete Member’s Comments section in bullet format, similar in
      content and form to Section IV of the Promotion Recommendation Form (PRF). Nominees should
      highlight their experience and training that would make them a strong candidate to command an
      AFMC operational squadron. The following statement must be included in member comments: “I
      am a volunteer for any command opportunity offered and agree to serve required active duty ser-
      vice commitments.”
      4.4.3. AF Form 3849, Part IV: The nominating official’s comments should focus on the nominee’s
      current job performance. Chronicle past successes using PRF style bullets. State future plans for
      the officer. Nominating official must rank order nominees if submitting more than one. The fol-
      lowing statement must be included: “I agree to release (officer’s name) for any command opportu-
      nity offered.”
      4.4.4. AF Form 3849, Signature Blocks: Both nominee and nominating official must sign and
      include their typed name, rank, and duty title in the appropriate signature block.
   4.5. Section (III) Leave Blank.
   4.6. Section (IV) Double-sided copies of all OER/OPRs and training reports, military flip (head to
   toe). No other documents will be considered. Draft copies of OERs/OPRs will not be accepted.
   4.7. Section (V). AF Form 942, Record of Evaluation.. (Required for rated officers only)
4                                                                             AFMCI36-2601 10 MAY 2004


    4.8. Section (VI). Request to waive eligibility criteria. (If required)
    4.9. Send nomination packages to HQ AFMC/DOO, Area A, Bldg 262, Room S139, 4375 Chidlaw
    Road, Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5006, Attn: CCSB. Failure to submit nominations in time for
    them to be received by the published suspense date will be presumed a negative input.

5. Timing of Selection Board and Release of Consolidated List.
    5.1. One hundred fifty (150) days prior to the board, HQ AFMC/DOO will confirm the board location
    and date.
    5.2. One hundred twenty (120) days prior to the board, HQ AFMC/DOO will release the CCSB noti-
    fication message. HQ AFMC/DOO will, subject to HQ AFMC/DO’s approval, establish all applicable
    suspense dates.
    5.3. Thirty (30) days prior to the board, all nomination packages are due to HQ AFMC/DOO. Nomi-
    nation packages must be completed as specified in para 4. and mailed in time for receipt by HQ
    AFMC/DOO no later than the established suspense date. HQ AFMC/DOO is the approval authority
    for all extensions. Extensions will be considered only when the circumstances for the late submittal
    are unique and unavoidable.
    5.4. Ten (10) days prior to the board, or as dictated by the Board President's availability, HQ AFMC/
    DOO will prebrief the Board President.
    5.5. HQ AFMC/DOO will release the board results message after AFMC/CC approves the list and
    authorizes release.
    5.6. Timelines may be altered with the approval of the HQ AFMC/DO, if required, to accommodate
    unforeseen scheduling conflicts.

6. Board Composition.
    6.1. The nominal board composition shall be eight members, including the Board President, but not
    fewer than seven. With the exception of the Board President, all board members must be in the rank of
    colonel. All Board Members, with the exception of the Board President, shall score each nominee’s
    record. At his/her discretion, the Board President may elect to participate in scoring the nominees’
    records. All Board Members shall be voting members.
       6.1.1. HQ AFMC/DO, Board President.
       6.1.2. With the exception of HQ AFMC/DO, no office or agency is assured of representation on
       the CCSB. The Board President shall select the other board members from the following pool of
       agencies/offices:
       6.1.3. HQ AFMC/DO Division Chief (max of two per board).
       6.1.4. Test Wing Commander or Vice Wing Commander (max of one per board).
       6.1.5. Air Base Wing Commander from an ALC/Product Center (max of one per board).
       6.1.6. HQ AFMC/EN Division Chief (max of one per board).
       6.1.7. HQ AFMC/DP Division Chief (max of one per board).
       6.1.8. Systems Program Office Director (max of one per board).
AFMCI36-2601 10 MAY 2004                                                                                  5


      6.1.9. Prior Test Wing Commander or Vice Wing Commander (max of one per board).
      6.1.10. Operations Group Commander (max of one per board).

7. Board Attendance/Substitutions.
   7.1. Designated Board Members who are not able to attend the board must notify the Board President
   or AFMC/DOO as soon as possible.
   7.2. Time permitting; the Board President will select a substitute Board Member.

8. Board Location/Support.
   8.1. The CCSB will convene in the HQ AFMC/DO Conference Room. If the DO Conference Room
   is not available, HQ AFMC/DOO will reserve an alternate location.
   8.2. HQ AFMC/DOO is the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for conducting the CCSB and the
   OPR for AFMCI 36-2601. This office is also responsible for protocol and all hospitality issues for the
   board, to include refreshments, lunches, and collection of any associated fees.
   8.3. HQ AFMC/DPMO is the OPR for determining projected command vacancies. HQ AFMC/
   DPMO will assist HQ AFMC/DOO in determining whether nominees meet eligibility requirements
   and in releasing the list of candidate-selects.

9. Board Process.
   9.1. Prior to record scoring, at his or her option, the Board President may brief the board on the total
   number of projected squadron commander vacancies. The Board President will not release which spe-
   cific squadrons or squadron-types projected to be vacant until after all records have been scored.
   9.2. Scoring. HQ AFMC/DOO will select a representative sampling of records from the prior year’s
   CCSB for the Board Members to practice grading. Board members will score all nomination packages
   equitably. HQ AFMC/DOO will provide cover and score sheets on all nominees, giving each board
   member the opportunity to review and score each record.
      9.2.1. Scores are based on a scale from 10.0 (Definitely Ready for Command Now) to 6.0 (Not
      Ready for Command) in half-point increments. The board will score all nominee records based
      solely upon the whole person concept described in AFI 36-2501, Officer Promotions and Selective
      Continuation.
      9.2.2. If a nominee receives two or more scores that differ by 2.0 points or more, the board mem-
      bers responsible for those scores will rescore the record(s) to resolve the split. If the differential
      remains 2.0 points or more after rescoring, the Board President shall have authority to resolve the
      split in any manner he/she deems appropriate.
      9.2.3. In the event of a tie score between two or more nominees; all board members will reevalu-
      ate the applicable records and rank order those nominees without changing the score. This is nec-
      essary only when the cut-off line falls between nominees with equal scores.
   9.3. Candidate Selection. Three boards will be held to determine the FLTS, OSS and TS squadron
   commander lists.
6                                                                          AFMCI36-2601 10 MAY 2004


       9.3.1. The FLTS board will be held first. All FLTS eligible candidate's records will be scored and
       will be rank ordered from 1 to XX, based upon board score.
           9.3.1.1. After the nominees are rank ordered, the CCSB will select a maximum of three can-
           didates per projected vacancy, except as described in para 9.3.1.2. A cut-off line will be
           drawn at the maximum quota for FLTS squadrons. For example, the top nine nominees on the
           list would be selected for three projected FLTS vacancies.
           9.3.1.2. Mission requirements may necessitate a quota greater than three candidate-selects per
           projected vacancy to ensure that a sufficient number of specially qualified or experienced can-
           didate-selects are available for each vacant squadron commander position. The Board Presi-
           dent will convey these specialized quotas to the board members after all records have been
           scored.
           9.3.1.3. The Board President will then review the FLTS list to ensure that the number of can-
           didate-selects is sufficient to meet all specialized requirements (e.g., rated officers with fighter
           aircraft experience). If not, the Board President may select the next highest scoring nominee(s)
           with that specialized qualification or experience. For example, nine FLTS candidate-selects
           are chosen to fill three vacancies. However, two of these three vacancies require fighter expe-
           rience. If only four of the nine candidate-selects have fighter experience, the next two highest
           scoring nominees with fighter experience can be moved above the cut-off line. All candi-
           date-selects originally above the cut-off line will remain on the select list. Normally, a nomi-
           nee will not be moved above the cut-off line if there already are sufficient candidate-selects
           meeting specialized qualifications and requirements.
           9.3.1.4. Candidates that do not make the FLTS list will be eligible to compete in the OSS and
           TS boards.
       9.3.2. The TS board will be held second followed by the OSS board. All TS and OSS candidate
       records will be scored and rank ordered from 1 to XX for each board, based on board score.
           9.3.2.1. After the nominees are rank ordered, the CCSB will select a maximum of three can-
           didates per projected vacancy. A cut-off line will be drawn at the maximum quota for TS and
           OSS squadrons. For example, the top nine nominees on the TS list would be selected for three
           projected TS vacancies.
    9.4. The Board President will present the candidate-select list to the other members of the board for
    finalization of the results. The proposed candidate-select list will then be sent to AFMC/CC for final
    approval and release.

10. Disclosure of Board Proceedings, Findings, or Results.
    10.1. The score given any particular record is privileged information and may not be disclosed. There
    is no prohibition of disclosing information on the overall numbers considered, the manner in which
    the board was organized, the general procedures followed, or the number and grade of its membership.
    Board results shall not be disclosed until AFMC/CC signs and releases the CCSB results message.

11. Release and Use of the Consolidated List.
    11.1. AFMC/CC is the releasing authority for the AFMC Operations Squadron Commander Candi-
    date Select list. The list will normally be released approximately 10 working days after the board
AFMCI36-2601 10 MAY 2004                                                                                  7


   adjourns. The Board President will notify the Center Commander/equivalent or the nominating offi-
   cial of each candidate-select prior to public release of the list. Public release will be via the Defense
   Message System (DMS). The candidate-select list will also be posted on the HQ AFMC/DOO web
   site.
   11.2. HQ AFMC/DPMO will maintain the consolidated list of candidate selects. Upon request,
   DPMO will provide commanders with an updated list of candidate selects and explain the hiring pro-
   cess. Though the list is divided into three categories, FLTS, OSS, and TS, a commander may select
   any candidate-select from the CCSB list that he/she believes is qualified for a particular command.
   For example, a candidate-select on the FLTS list may be selected to command a Flight Test, Opera-
   tions Support, or Test Squadron.

12. Waiver Authority to Appoint Non Candidate-Selects.
   12.1. The purpose of the AFMC Operations Commander Candidate Selection Board is to identify
   those officers most qualified for squadron-level command. Unit commanders desiring to hire an
   officer not on the AFMC or any other MAJCOM squadron commander list must submit a waiver
   memorandum, coordinated through HQ AFMC/DO and HQ AFMC/DP, to HQ AFMC/CC for
   approval. Waivers will only be granted under exceptional circumstances, such as the CCSB list has
   already been exhausted.

13. Status of Candidate-Selects While Consolidated List is in Effect.
   13.1. Candidate-selects on the consolidated list are considered a volunteer for any command opportu-
   nity offered during the entire period the list is in effect. If a candidate-select refuses an AFMC com-
   mander position, he/she will be removed from the CCSB list.



                                                     PERRY L. LAMY, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                     Director of Operations
