BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               AFMC INSTRUCTION 38-206
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                  6 MAY 2003

                                                                                  Command Instruction

                                                                      ENLISTED GRADE AND AFSC
                                                                                 MANAGEMENT



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/XPMR (Cliff Hensel)                                         Certified by: HQ AFMC/XPM
                                                                                   (Col David L. Taylor)
                                                                                                Pages: 3
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction provides guidance and procedures for managing enlisted grades and Air Force Specialty
Codes (AFSCs). This instruction applies to all AFMC organizations. It does not apply to the Air National
Guard or US Air Force Reserve units and members.


1. Overall Policy : It is AFMC policy that enlisted grades and AFSCs are managed with input from our
Functional Area Managers (FAMs). There are primarily two opportunities to impact grade allocation
within AFMC: a biennial grade allocation exercise; and fact-of-life adjustments that occur between bien-
nial exercises. The biennial grade allocation exercise provides the opportunity for FAMs to propose
needed adjustments in the Manpower Data System (MDS) to achieve compliance with the Career Pro-
gression Group (CPG) factors provided by the Air Force Manpower and Innovation Agency (AFMIA).
Between exercises, FAMs and field activities work together to implement adjustments required to facili-
tate mission accomplishment. Field activities will coordinate proposed enlisted grade or AFSC change
requests with the appropriate FAM(s) and submit them to local manpower offices. FAM initiatives will be
coordinated with the involved field activities, who will submit them to local manpower offices. In either
case, upon validation of the requirement for the change, the manpower office will update MDS. For HQ
AFMC actions, FAMs and headquarters offices will work change proposals with XPM. For all these
cases, agreement is required from both the FAM and the field activity (or HQ office) before the manpower
office will be asked to update MDS. Disagreements will be resolved through the applicable chain of com-
mand at the lowest level possible. Should it be necessary, AFMC/CV will resolve disagreements. It is
incumbent upon all parties to respond expeditiously to change proposals. The following procedures are
ONLY for enlisted grade and AFSC changes. Other actions involving enlisted authorizations are outside
the bounds of this Instruction .

2. Responsibilities For Managing Enlisted Grades.
   2.1. HQ AFMC/XPM:
2                                                                         AFMCI38-206 6 MAY 2003


       2.1.1. Establish and administer AFMC policy governing the processes whereby available enlisted
       grades are distributed and changed throughout the command.
       2.1.2. Upon receipt of the factors developed by AFMIA for the biennial exercise: provide to the
       FAMs a product that shows current grade distribution by CPG across AFMC Centers, as well as
       the CPG factors and the resulting command allocation; receive proposed grade distributions from
       FAMs; consolidate inputs; provide to each Center XPM/MO data showing FAM recommendations
       for their resulting grades by CPG.
       2.1.3. Between grade exercises, receive copies of implemented change requests, track process
       times, and keep quarterly data for analysis purposes.
       2.1.4. Periodically provide information from MDS to FAMs to assist them in continuing grades
       management .
    2.2. Center XPM/MOs (and HQ AFMC/XPMR):
       2.2.1. Forward to Center functional offices the grade/AFSC changes proposed by FAMs during
       the biennial exercise. HQ AFMC/XPMR will work directly with FAMs for changes within HQ
       AFMC.
       2.2.2. Validate requirements for proposals for grade/AFSC changes (AFMC Forms 22/23). Any
       MDS request (including Center zero-balance) that would result in a change or in establishment of
       a new grade or AFSC must show FAM agreement. Return without action any request not indicat-
       ing agreement between the local functional office and the involved FAM(s). All Special Program
       requests must be validated through HQ AFMC/DRJX. If unable to validate the requirement for a
       proposed change which has the agreement of both the local functional office and the appropriate
       FAM(s), resolve through the local chain of command. Forward copies of forms for completed
       actions to HQ AFMC/XPMR.
       2.2.3. Inform Center functional offices whenever an Air Force-mandated AFSC conversion
       requires a choice among new AFSCs which are replacing retired AFSCs. These are indirect con-
       versions, and FAM agreement is required for MDS update. Direct conversions, straight
       one-for-one replacements, do not require FAM agreement.
    2.3. Functional Area Managers:
       2.3.1. During the biennial grades exercise use the data product provided by HQ AFMC/XPM to
       develop a recommended distribution of available grades for each CPG across the Centers. FAMs
       may trade grades with other FAMs or, through HQ USAF, with other MAJCOMs. Any recom-
       mended changes of AFSC during the grades exercise must be fully coordinated with all involved
       FAMs. Provide the resulting product, including documentation of trades, to HQ AFMC/XPM for
       consolidation. Review reclamas from Centers. Work through functional channels to resolve at the
       lowest possible level. Coordinate proposed Special Program changes through HQ AFMC/DRJX.
       2.3.2. Between exercises, review Center proposals for grade/AFSC changes (including indirect
       AFSC conversions) and provide recommendations. Prior to final input/action ensure all proposals
       are coordinated with HQ AFMC/DPMA. When out of the office, make arrangements for expedi-
       tious review, either by checking e-mail regularly or by designating an alternate POC in the office.
       Reviews should be accomplished within two weeks. Coordinate proposed Special Program
       changes through HQ AFMC/DRJX. Disagreements will be resolved through the appropriate
       chain(s) of command at the lowest possible level.
AFMCI38-206 6 MAY 2003                                                                                 3


     2.3.3. Forward recommended grade/AFSC changes between exercises to the involved Center
     functional office using AFMC Form 23. Proposed changes should zero-balance within AFMC (or
     within USAF if trading with another MAJCOM), and should be within the limits defined by the
     most current CPG factors. If multiple CPGs are involved, full FAM coordination is required.
     Coordinate proposed Special Program changes through HQ AFMC/DRJX. Disagreements will be
     resolved through the appropriate chain(s) of command at the lowest possible level.
  2.4. Center Functional Offices:
     2.4.1. Informal discussion of proposed enlisted grade and/or AFSC changes (including indirect
     AFSC conversions) with the involved FAM(s) is encouraged before initiating formal action via
     AFMC Form 22. Proposals should zero-balance, either within the Center, or within AFMC (full
     coordination of other Center(s) required), and must include rationale. If the proposal includes Spe-
     cial Programs authorizations, include the “SP Code” in the “OTHER” column on AFMC Form 22.
     Disagreements will be resolved through the appropriate chain(s) of command at the lowest possi-
     ble level.
     2.4.2. Review FAM proposed grade distribution (during grades exercise), and other recom-
     mended changes between exercises, and work with Center XPM/MO to implement in MDS or rec-
     lama. Disagreements will be resolved through the appropriate chain(s) of command at the lowest
     possible level .
  2.5. HQ AFMC/DRJX:
     2.5.1. Review FAM and Center proposed changes to Special Program authorizations. This
     includes both the biennial exercise and on-going grade and AFSC management proposals. This
     review should be accomplished within three business days.
     2.5.2. HQ AFMC/DRJX initiated change proposals will be submitted (AFMC Form 32) to the
     appropriate FAM(s) for coordination and forwarding to the Center functional office .
  2.6. HQ AFMC/DPMA:
     2.6.1. Develop and maintain a listing of FAMs. This information must be available throughout
     AFMC so that Center functional offices can contact the appropriate FAM(s) when considering an
     enlisted grade or AFSC change.
     2.6.2. Respond to FAM information requests required by paragraph 2.3.2. HQ AFMC/DPMA
     shares responsibility with the FAMs for consideration of all relevant aspects of proposed changes.



                                                   LESTER McFAWN, SES, DAF
                                                   Deputy Director of Plans and Programs
