BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                  INSTRUCTION 63-403
                                                                                             8 MAY 2008

                                                                                              Acquisition

                                                            CONTRACT SUPPORT SERVICES (CSS)
                                                            REQUIREMENTS APPROVAL PROCESS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFMC/A8P                                       Certified by: HQ AFMC/A8 (Ms. Lynn Eviston)
                                                                                        Pages: 12

This instruction prescribes AFMC policy and procedures to implement the Secretary of the Air Force
(SECAF) Policy Memo 06A-002, Contractor Support Approval Authority, dated 9 March 2006. It applies
to all AFMC organizations that use Contract Support Services (CSS) and assigns responsibilities for pro-
cessing and approving all AFMC CSS requirements. This policy does not apply to services acquired IAW
OMB Circular A-76, Commercial Activities. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes pre-
scribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https:/
/afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. AFMC Workforce Management Philosophy.
   1.1. AFMC’s philosophy is to manage its contractor resources as an integral part of its total work-
   force. Military, DoD civilian, and contractor resources complement one another with unique skills,
   capabilities, and qualities critical to accomplishing the Command’s mission. In managing its total
   workforce, AFMC strives to balance the organic and contractor elements in the most efficient and cost
   effective manner possible. To this end and consistent with assigned missions and workloads, AFMC
   organizations annually review current and projected workloads against resources available to perform
   the workloads and develop estimates of, and program for, their organic manpower and contractor
   requirements budget lead time away from actual need. In this endeavor it is important to consider: the
   differences in the skills sets required for the Command’s research, development, acquisition, test, sus-
   tainment, industrial operations, and base/infrastructure activities; the fluidity of new and existing
   workloads; and the need to maintain a core of organic capability and expertise. To ensure efficient and
   cost effective resource management, AFMC organizations shall ensure a resource management pro-
   cess is in place to assess the organization’s current resource posture and future resource requirements
   and to ensure that:
   1.2. Organic resources and CSS are efficiently, effectively, and judiciously utilized in light of work-
   load requirements and priorities.
2                                                                           AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008


    1.3. Organic resources are not available prior to contracting for proposed CSS workloads.
    1.4. Use of CSS is in accordance with statutory and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) provi-
    sions, Air Force and AFMC policy, and guidance unique to the types of services being acquired.
    1.5. Use of CSS is both cost effective and in the strategic interest of the requiring activity, AFMC and
    the Air Force.
    1.6. All measures are taken to minimize use of, and to reduce organizational reliance on, CSS.
    1.7. This policy does not supersede any other policy or authority regarding the management, tracking
    and reporting of service contracts.

2. Policy Application.
    2.1. The acquisition of all services in excess of $100K (including services in a PEO portfolio) with
    the following exceptions:
       2.1.1. Services acquired with non-AF funds (i.e. Defense Health Program, National Intelligence
       Program, Army, Navy, NASA, etc.).
       2.1.2. Utilities and Housing Privatization.
       2.1.3. Construction and Architect and Engineering Services (FAR 36).
       2.1.4. Research and Development (R&D).
       2.1.5. Contractor Logistics Support (CLS).
       2.1.6. Performance-Based Logistics (PBL).
       2.1.7. Interim Contractor Support (ICS).
       2.1.8. Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM).
       2.1.9. Remanufacture and Repair.
       2.1.10. A-76 Studies.
       2.1.11. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) purchased with foreign direct cite funds or U.S. government
       funds to be reimbursed by the foreign country.

NOTES:
1: Definitions for these exemptions are located in Attachment 1 of this AFMCI.
2: Services (e.g. Advisory and Assistance Services [A&AS], Information Technology [IT] Services) in
support of any of the above activities are not part of this exemption. Approval for these contract support
services shall be obtained in accordance with this instruction. For A&AS requirements, the Requirements
Approval Document (RAD) replaces the Determination Decision Document (DDD) and the Purchase
Request Supplemental Information Document (PRSID).

3. Organic Resources.
    3.1. Use of organic resources is the preferred method for accomplishing AFMC mission require-
    ments. AFMC Centers shall thoroughly evaluate use of permanent and temporary (e.g., temporary or
    term appointees) organic resources before acquiring CSS.
AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008                                                                                    3


   3.2. Each Center shall maintain an organic capability that is technically able to prescribe and evaluate
   the work the support contractor is to perform.
   3.3. Each Center with CSS requirements shall appoint a primary and alternate Support Services Advi-
   sory Panel (SSAP) member from the Center XP office to oversee the Center's CSS activities. The
   Center SSAP member must be knowledgeable about the Center's mission, functions, resource man-
   agement process, and current and future workload/resource posture. In addition, the Center SSAP
   member shall be responsible for advocating the Center's requirements at the AFMC SSAP meeting.
   3.4. The AFMC Services Database (https://afmc-xr.wpafb.af.mil/Services/) is the official database
   in which the program manager/requirements initiator shall document information for all CSS require-
   ments (see paragraph 4.3.7. for Special Access Program (SAP) requirements).

4. Requirements Approval Procedures.
   4.1. Approve CSS requirements in accordance with Table 1. The dollar value for the thresholds is the
   estimated value of the total service requirement for the performance period of the contract to include
   options. Requirements shall not be split to avoid these thresholds. The dollar threshold of the require-
   ment will determine the approval authority. All non-exempt, CSS requirements greater than or equal
   to $100K shall be addressed in a RAD.

Table 1. Approval Thresholds for Contract Support Service Requirements.
              Service Requirement                                  HQs/Center/FOA/DRU
> $100M (Non-Delegable)                               Service Acquisition Executive (SAE)
> $10M and < $100M (Non-Delegable)                    AFMC/Commander (CC)
> $100K and < $10M (Delegable)                        Center/CC/CL (Civilian Leader) with authority to
                                                      delegate to Wing/ CC/CL or Equivalent (e.g.
                                                      Technical Director, HQ Director)

   4.2. Responsibility for obtaining approval rests with the requiring activity (i.e., the organization that
   "owns" the requirement). For example, if ACC funds are used for A&AS support in an AFMC pro-
   gram office, the AFMC program manager would be responsible for obtaining the approval for the
   requirement, since the program office "owns" the requirement. The program manager shall provide
   the approved RAD to the Contracting Office executing the requirement as part of the initial purchase
   request or other appropriate acquisition request package.
      4.2.1. Approval for CSS requirements awarded on a non-AF contract (e.g. MIPRs issued to GSA,
      Navy, Army, NASA, etc.). The program manager/requirements initiator shall obtain approval via
      a RAD for each requirement awarded on a non-AF contract. The RAD shall be included as part of
      the initial MIPR package submitted to the Contracting Officer. MIPRs shall not be forwarded to
      the Servicing Contracting Office without an approved RAD.
      4.2.2. Approval for CSS requirements awarded on an existing Indefinite Delivery Indefinite
      Quantity (IDIQ) contract or multiple award contract that has an approved RAD. The program
      manager/requirements initiator shall not be required to obtain approval of task orders awarded
      against IDIQ contracts where the basic contract has an approved RAD.
4                                                                          AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008


    4.3. Service Requirements Exceeding $100K. A flow diagram illustrating the AFMC Service
    Requirements Approval Process is provided at Attachment 3. The following paragraphs expand on
    this flow diagram.
       4.3.1. Establishing and Validating Contract Service Requirements. Each Center XP shall develop
       internal management controls for efficient and effective workforce utilization, and development
       and will conduct an annual assessment of its current and future workload and resource require-
       ments. This assessment shall support execution, planning and programming (Program Objective
       Memorandum [POM] or Amended POM [APOM]) activities.
       4.3.2. Preparing the RAD. The program manager/requirements initiator shall identify the funding
       (if known) and prepare a RAD in the AFMC Services Database. (https://afmc-xr.wpafb.af.mil/
       Services/) The RAD shall be completed and staffed by government personnel only -- support con-
       tractor personnel shall not prepare requirements for approval due to potential conflict of interest
       and inherently governmental function issues. Approval of the requirement through this process
       does not constitute funding approval or availability. Approval of an unfunded requirement may be
       requested in order to posture the requirement for potential fall-out funds. All service requirements
       shall be addressed in a RAD. Incomplete RADs shall be returned for rework. The program man-
       ager/requirements initiator shall coordinate the CSS requirement with the Center SSAP member
       before obtaining final validation, review and coordination by the Center CC and before processing
       the requirement for AFMC/CC and/or AF SAE approval. Validation of the RAD signifies the
       Approval Authority: agrees the proposed service requirement is not inherently governmental; can-
       not be supported through additional training or development of the Center's organic workforce or
       through internal workload/resource realignment; and concurs with the proposed requirement.
       Once the RAD has received Center CC coordination, the RAD will be electronically routed to the
       AFMC SSAP via the AFMC Services Database.
       4.3.3. CSS Requirements Below $10M. Center Commanders shall establish a centralized man-
       agement approach for contract support services that meets the intent of this policy. The Center
       shall process all CSS requirements valued between $100K and $10M using the AFMC Services
       Database.
          4.3.3.1. Special Access Program/Special Access Required (SAP/SAR) Service Requirements
          Below $10M. Centers shall not process SAP/SAR service requirements below $10M using the
          AFMC Services Database when it is determined by the program manager and the PSO that for
          classification or security reasons inclusion in the database could compromise the program;
          instead, program managers/requirements initiators shall process RADs via the hard copy pro-
          cess described in 4.3.8.1. Wing/CC (or equivalent) shall coordinate on the RAD and shall pro-
          cess via appropriate program channels for Center CC approval. Access to special access
          programs shall not be granted to Center personnel solely for the purpose of coordinating/pro-
          cessing a Center level RAD.
       4.3.4. AFMC/CC Coordination and Approval of Service Requirements. All AFMC CSS require-
       ments exceeding $10M shall be coordinated/approved through the existing AFMC Corporate Pro-
       cess. The AFMC SSAP shall meet as required to review all RADs for accuracy (see paragraph
       4.3.8. for SAP requirements). The AFMC SSAP shall return all incomplete RADs to the program
       manager/requirements initiator for rework and re-submission. Center SSAP members shall attend
       the AFMC SSAP meetings (via telecon) as required and must be able to explain and defend the
AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008                                                                              5


     Center's requirements. After review by the AFMC SSAP, RADs shall be submitted to the AFMC
     Group for review.
     4.3.5. The AFMC Group shall review RADs as required. The Center's representative to the
     AFMC Group must be able to explain and defend the Center's CSS requirements. The AFMC
     Group's review will result in one of the following recommendations to the AFMC Council:
        4.3.5.1. Approve, meaning the RAD is ready for AFMC Council review.
        4.3.5.2. Approve with comment, meaning there are minor concerns or issues with the require-
        ment or minor corrections to the RAD. These concerns, issues, or corrections can be quickly
        addressed and the RAD submitted for AFMC Council approval.
        4.3.5.3. Return for rework, meaning there are major concerns or issues with the requirement.
        The RAD is returned to the Center for rework and resubmission.
        4.3.5.4. Recommend disapproval, meaning there is a fundamental problem with the require-
        ment and further action is not appropriate. The RAD is submitted to AFMC Council with a
        recommendation to disapprove.
     4.3.6. After receiving AFMC Group approval recommendation, the AFMC SSAP shall submit the
     RADs to the AFMC Council for review/approval. The AFMC/CC shall make the final decision
     whether to approve or disapprove each CSS requirement exceeding $10M.
     4.3.7. The AFMC SSAP shall document the AFMC/CC’s decision in the AFMC Services Data-
     base. Program managers/requirements initiators may determine the status of a requirement at any
     point in the process by checking the database. Information on CSS requirements that are not
     approved is retained in the AFMC Services Database for historical purposes.
     4.3.8. SAP/SAR Requirements Exceeding $10M. SAP/SAR CSS requirements are not com-
     pletely exempt from the unclassified RAD process described in paragraph 4.3. above; however,
     when it is determined by the program manager, Program Security Office (PSO), and HQ AFMC/
     A5J that the requirement cannot follow normal procedures because of classification or security
     reasons, they shall follow a modified process using hard-copy forms and shall communicate via
     secure program channels only. SAP access requires formal approval and receipt of a program
     brief. Access to SAPs shall not be granted to AFMC personnel solely for the purpose of coordinat-
     ing/processing a RAD.
        4.3.8.1. Preparing the RAD for SAP/SAR requirements. The program manager/requirements
        initiator shall prepare a hard-copy RAD following the format found in the AFMC Services
        Database (https://afmc-xr.wpafb.af.mil/Services). The program manager/requirements initi-
        ator shall coordinate the CSS requirement with HQ AFMC/A5J via secure program channels
        before obtaining final validation, review and coordination by the Center CC and before pro-
        cessing the requirement for AFMC/CC and/or AF SAE approval. Once the RAD has received
        Center CC coordination, a sanitized RAD shall be electronically entered into the AFMC Ser-
        vices Database identifying HQ AFMC/A5J as the owner of the requirement. This is necessary
        in order to track the requirement through the process even though no classified information
        will be included in the RAD.
        4.3.8.2. AFMC/CC Coordination and Approval of SAP/SAR CSS Requirements. All SAP/
        SAR AFMC service requirements shall be coordinated/approved through a modified AFMC
        Corporate Process. A modified AFMC Group (HQ AFMC CC, CV, A2/5, A5J, and others as
6                                                                         AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008


           deemed necessary) is the initial entry point for all SAP/SAR RADs submitted for AFMC/CC
           approval, in lieu of the AFMC SSAP. HQ AFMC/A5J shall review all RADs for accuracy and
           shall return all incomplete RADS to the program manager/requirements initiator for reword
           and re-submission. The HQ AFMC/A5J action officers assigned to the different centers shall
           represent the Center’s CSS requirement if the field unit is unable to provide a representative.
           Decisions regarding the RAD shall be documented as noted in paragraph 4.3.5.
    4.4. CSS Requirements Exceeding $100M. For CSS requirements exceeding $100M, the AFMC
    SSAP shall process the requirement (as identified in paragraph 4.3. or 4.3.8. for SAP/SAR require-
    ments) through the AFPEO/CM and/or SAF/AQX (SAF/AQL only for SAP/SAR requirements) for
    subsequent AF SAE approval. The program manager/requirements initiator shall be notified of
    requirement approval via the AFMC Services Database or via appropriate secure channels for SAP/
    SAR requirements.
    4.5. HQ AFMC (AFMC SSAP, Group and Council) reviews shall be accomplished within 15 working
    days from the time of receipt of a complete CSS requirement by the AFMC SSAP (or HQ AFMCA5J
    for SAP/SAR requirements). For requirements exceeding $100M, AF SAE review shall be accom-
    plished within 45 working days from the time of receipt of a complete CSS requirement by the AFMC
    SSAP. If review cannot be accomplished within this timeframe, the program manager/requirements
    initiator shall be notified of the expected timeframe.

5. Acquiring CSS.
    5.1. After the approval of a RAD, the program manager/requirements initiator shall work with the
    cognizant contracting office and develop the Purchase Request (PR) package. All CSS purchase
    request/acquisition request packages should include an approved RAD prior to submission to the cog-
    nizant contracting office. All CSS requirements shall have an approved RAD prior to contract award.
    All services contracts/task orders exceeding $100K must be traceable to an underlying RAD.

6. Responsibilities.
    6.1. HQ AFMC shall:
       6.1.1. HQ AFMC/A8 shall chair and administer the AFMC SSAP.
       6.1.2. HQ AFMC/A5J shall chair and administer the AFMC SSAP for SAP/SAR services.
       6.1.3. HQ AFMC/A5J shall forward SAP/SAR requirements exceeding $100M through SAF/
       AQL to process for AF SAE approval.
    6.2. The AFMC SSAP shall:
       6.2.1. Forward requirements exceeding $100M through the AF PEO/CM and/or SAF/AQX to
       process for AF SAE approval.
       6.2.2. Process requirements between $10M and $100M for AFMC/CC review/approval in accor-
       dance with this instruction.
       6.2.3. Review CSS RADs for accuracy and completeness prior to AFMC Corporate Process sub-
       mission.
    6.3. Centers/FOAs/DRUs shall:
AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008                                                                             7


     6.3.1. Appoint a primary and alternate member from the Center XP office to the AFMC SSAP.
     6.3.2. Annually review current and future workload and resource requirements.
     6.3.3. Establish a centralized management approach for contract support services that meets the
     intent of this policy.
     6.3.4. Review and validate CSS requirements as identified by program managers or requirements
     initiators.
  6.4. HQ/Center/DRU/FOA SSAP members shall:
     6.4.1. Serve as a representative to the AFMC SSAP. Attend AFMC SSAP meetings (via telecon)
     as required and advocate for Center requirements.
     6.4.2. Assist the program manager/requirements initiator in preparing the CSS RADs (or in
     reworking CSS RADs) as required.
     6.4.3. Forward all CSS requirements exceeding $10M via the AFMC Services Database for
     AFMC/CC or AF SAE approval in accordance with this instruction.
     6.4.4. Utilize the manual process described above for all SAP/SAR service requirements.
     6.4.5. Provide required information (i.e. support data calls, etc.) upon request to HQ AFMC and
     AF SAE.
  6.5. The program manager/requirements initiator shall:
     6.5.1. Obtain appropriate approval for all service requirements in accordance with this instruc-
     tion.
     6.5.2. Determine whether proposed workload is inherently governmental (FAR 7.5).
     6.5.3. Coordinate all requirements for manpower resources with the Base Manpower and Organi-
     zation function in accordance with AFI 38-201, Chapter 6.
     6.5.4. Submit request to program for organic resources to accomplish assigned workload, as
     appropriate.
     6.5.5. Prepare RAD (or rework RAD, if required) via the AFMC Services Database for all pro-
     posed service requirements.
  6.6. The resource advisor shall verify that sufficient funds are available to acquire the CSS.



                                              BRUCE CARLSON, General, USAF
                                              Commander
8                                                          AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&AS—Advisory and Assistance
ACC—Air Combat Command
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
APOM—Amended Program Objective Memorandum
CC—Commander
CL—Civilian Leader
CLS—Contractor Logistics Support
CSS—Contract Support Services
DDD—Determination Decision Document
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
ICS—Interim Contractor Support
K—Thousand
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GSA—General Services Administration
HQ—Headquarters
IDIQ—Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity
M—Million
MIPR—Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
PBL—Performance Based Logistics
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PM—Program Manager
PR—Purchase Request
PRSID—Purchase Request Supplemental Information Document
RAD—Requirements Approval Document
R&D—Research and Development
AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008                                                                                      9


SAE—Service Acquisition Executive
SAF/AQL—Secretary of the Air Force, XXXXXXXXXX
SAF/AQX—Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition
SAP/SAR—Special Access Program/Special Access Required
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SSAP—Support Services Advisory Panel

Terms
AFMC Corporate Process—The primary objective of the Corporate Process is to provide the
Commander, AFMC and the Staff with the capability to review command-wide issues from a corporate
perspective and maximize the effectiveness of AFMC’s decision-making. The AFMC Corporate Process
also facilitates the transition of programmatic decision-making from a functional requirements view to a
corporate AFMC-framed, capabilities-focused process. In addition, the process ensures the pros and cons
for all major decisions are captured to enable senior command leadership to make informed decisions.
AFMC Council—The AFMC Council is the senior decision-making body for the command and
normally makes corporate command-wide strategic decisions. The AFMC Commander normally chairs
the AFMC Council, and the AFMC Vice Commander/Executive Director is the designated alternate
chairperson. The members of the AFMC Council include the AFMC/CV, AFMC/CA, HQ Directors and
Center Commanders. The Special Session AFMC Council shall consist of the AFMC/CC, AFMC/CV and
AFMC/CA only.
AFMC Group—The AFMC Group is the forum to vet and integrate issues for the AFMC Council. The
AFMC Group considers all inputs from mission areas and functional managers when developing options.
The AFMC Group must develop a consensus and document specific recommendations before proceeding
to the AFMC Council. Centers will normally.participate. The AFMC Group is chaired by the HQ AFMC/
A8 Deputy Director. The other members of the AFMC Group are HQ Directorate representatives (A1,
A2/5, A3, A4, A6, A7, A8, CS, EN, FM, IG, JA, PK and SG), the Guard Advisor (CG) and the Reserve
Advisor (CR). The AFMC Group will normally include the Center XPs or equivalents and may convene
without Center representation as determined by the Chair. The Special Session AFMC Group shall consist
of the AFMC A2/5, A3, A4, A8 Deputy Director and PK only.
"Contract Services," "Contract Support Services," or "Services"—For the purposes of this policy,
these terms are defined as identifiable tasks to be performed, rather than the delivery of.an end item of
supply (exemptions include Utilities and Housing Privatization, Construction and Architect-Engineering
Services, R&D Services, Contractor Logistics Support, Interim Contractor Support, Performance-Based
Logistics, Programmed Depot Maintenance, Remanufacture and Repair, A-76 Studies and Foreign
Military Sales). The contractor performing these tasks can be either physically co-located with an
organization, or geographically separated.
Contractor Logisitics Support (CLS)—CLS is defined as a planned contractor support method used to
provide all or part of the logistics support for a system, subsystem, or equipment item, generally for the
life cycle.
Interim Contractor Support (ICS)—ICS is defined as a planned, temporary contractor support method
used to provide all or part of the logistics support for a system, subsystem, or equipment item for an initial
10                                                                          AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008


period of time from first production article delivery until an organic/permanent contract capability or a
Contractor Logistics Support capability is achieved.
Performance-Based Logistics (PBL)—PBL is the purchase of support as an integrated, affordable,
performance package designed to optimize system readiness and meet performance goals for a weapon
system through long-term support arrangements with clear lines of authority and responsibility.
Application of PBL may be at the system, subsystem, or major assembly level depending on program
unique circumstances and appropriate product support strategy analysis
Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM—)—PDM consists of those on- and off-equipment tasks
performed using the highly specialized skills, sophisticated shop equipment, or special facilities of a
supporting command; commercial activity; or inter service agency at a technology repair center,
centralized repair facility, or, in some cases, at an operating location. Maintenance performed at a depot
may also include organizational or intermediate level maintenance as negotiated between operating and
supporting commands.
Requirements Approval Document (RAD)—The RAD is the form on which all CSS requirements
exceeding $100K shall be documented. Program managers/requirements initiators shall use the AFMC
Services Database to document CSS requirements. For access to the AFMC Services Database, users will
need a CAC card. The AFMC Services Database can be accessed at: https://afmc-xr.wpafb.af.mil/
Services/. This is the active database where all AFMC CSS requirements are captured. For initial logon:
When prompted for a CAC card, select name with he EMAIL certificate. The AFMC Services Training
Database can be accessed at: https://afmc-xr.wpafb.af.mil/Staging/Services. This is the site that is used
for development testing and training of the AFMC Services Database. This is a training site only. Do not
use this database to enter CSS requirements that need approval. Instructions on how to complete a RAD
in the AFMC Services Database can be accessed at: https://afmc-xr.wpafb.af.mil/Services/PubDocs/
RADhelp.doc. The RAD instructions may also be accessed by entering the active or training database;
click on "help" in the upper right hand of the screen, then click on "Getting Started."
Remanufacture and Repair—Remanufacture is associated with disassembling items during which time
parts are cleaned, repaired, or replaced then reassembled to sound working condition. Repair services are
associated with the restoration of an item to a serviceable condition through correction of specific failure
or unserviceable condition (See FAR 22.100306). This includes the maintenance engineering services
integral to remanufacturing and repair.
Research and Development (R&D)—R&D services are defined as those services where the final
product is the advancement of scientific and technical knowledge. These include basic research, applied
research, and advanced technology development funded through Budget Programs 6.1, 6.2, or 6.3,
including all Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer
(STTR) Programs. These services are sometimes referred to as “basic research” or “science and
technology” services.
Service Acquisition Executive (SAE)—The Official responsible for systems acquisition in the AF. The
SAE may also be referred to as the Component Acquisition Executive (CAE).
Special Session—Special Session of the Group or Council is convened anytime a Special Access
Program services requirement needs to be processed. The purpose of this modified process is to meet the
intent of the law and DoD guidance while not compromising program security.
Support Services Advisory Panel (SSAP)—The SSAP is the AFMC single point of contact for CSS
requirements approval activities. In this advisory capacity, the SSAP assists the Corporate AFMC Group/
AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008                                                                         11


Council in fulfilling its oversight and approval responsibilities for AFMC CSS requirements and
facilitates the timely processing of CSS requirements through the AFMC Corporate process. The SSAP
will normally include membership from each HQ AFMC Directorate and the Center SSAPs, as
appropriate. The AFMC SSAP is chaired by HQ AFMC/A8. The SSAP meets on a weekly basis or as
required to review RADs.
12                                                             AFMCI63-403 8 MAY 2008


                                      Attachment 2

     OVERVIEW OF THE AFMC CONTRACT SUPPORT SERVICE (CSS) REQUIREMENTS
                            APPROVAL PROCESS

Figure A2.1. Overview of the AFMC Contract Support Service (CSS) Requirements Approval
Process.
