BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                       INSTRUCTION 33-108

                                                                                29 MAY 2014

                                                           Communications and Information

                                                      AFMC LIFE CYCLE INFORMATION
                                                         TECHNOLOGY GOVERNANCE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A6CC                                               Certified by: HQ AFMC/ A6C
                                                                             (Ms. Sharon Bias)
                                                                                     Pages: 22
Supersedes:   AFMCPD33-4,
              22 November 2005


This instruction establishes Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) policy in conjunction with
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support; AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio
Management and IT Investment Review. This instruction implements guidance from 44 United
States Code (USC) Chapter 35, Coordination Of Federal Information Policy; 40 USC Subtitle
III, Information Technology Management (Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA)); 10 USC § 2222, Defense
Business systems: Architecture, Accountability, and Modernization; 10 USC § 2223, Information
Technology: Additional Responsibilities of Chief Information Officers; 10 USC § 2223a,
Information Technology Acquisition Planning and Oversight Requirements; Executive Order
13011, Federal Information Technology, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-
11, Preparation, Submission and Execution of the Budget; OMB Circular A-130, Management of
Federal Information Resources; CJCSI 8410.01A, Warfighting Mission Area Information
Technology Portfolio Management and Net-Centric Data Sharing; DoD Financial Management
Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 2B; DoDD 8115.01, Information Technology Portfolio
Management; DoDI 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management; AFI 33-150,
Management of Cyberspace Support Activities; and AFMCI 90-601, AFMC Corporate Structure.
This instruction develops the scope, responsibilities, membership and processes for
implementing and executing the AFMC Information Technology (IT) Investments. This
instruction establishes a management framework to develop AFMC’s IT Investment portfolio for
decision making across the command and in support of the Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and
Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) functional staffs. This instruction does not apply to the Air
National Guard or Air Force Reserve units and members. This publication may be supplemented
 2                                                                                                AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) of this publication for coordination before certification and approval.            Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority or, alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendations for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the roles, responsibilities, membership, and processes for implementing and executing
AFMC IT Investments. This instruction codifies AFMC IT and CIO Governance processes for
IT investments, providing overarching direction and guidance.


       1.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................     2
Figure 1.     IT Portfolio Management Decision Support Interactions (DoDI 8115.02) ...........                                                5
       2.     Roles: .....................................................................................................................    7
Figure 2.     IT Investment Mission Area Mapping to Roles .....................................................                               7
       3.     Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................        11
Figure 3.     IT Portfolio Structure – AFMC Assignment ..........................................................                            12
       4.     AFMC IT PfM Processes and Governance Structure: ...........................................                                    15
Figure 4.     AFMC IT Governance Structure ...........................................................................                       16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               18

Attachment 2—BREAKOUT FROM JCA OF WMA-CMS                                                                                                    21


1. Purpose. In order to effectively and efficiently comply with AFI 33-141, USC and Executive
Order 13011, AFMC must provide centralized planning and governance of AFMC’s IT
investments. The intent of this instruction is to consolidate current workload. AFI 33-141
delegates IT Portfolio Management (PfM) Owner responsibility to the MAJCOM CV for IT
investments funded within the MAJCOM. Per USC, Chief Information Officers (CIOs) must
monitor the performance of IT investments, evaluate their effectiveness and recommend whether
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                                       3


to continue, modify, or terminate individual IT investments. As a result, the AFMC CIO must
not only control Command IT investments, but also comply with AF functional leads and
AF/DoD CIO’s policies and decisions resulting from these mandates. This instruction defines
the AFMC policy and actions required to ensure compliance with the governing requirements
and higher-level guidance. This policy assigns roles and responsibilities on how AFMC will
analyze, select, control, and evaluate its AFMC IT investments. See Attachment 1 for a glossary
of references and supporting information.
   1.1. Policy Statement. This AFMCI ensures the IT PfM processes within AFMC (Mission
   Area and Center levels) are established to provide oversight to choose IT investments based
   on a standard scoring and reporting mechanism designed to reduce duplicate and overlapping
   capabilities. AFMC IT planning and investment governance is executed through the IT PfM
   processes. IT investments will play a key role in the automation and integration of AFMC’s
   processes. Thus, a close working relationship between current capabilities, capabilities
   required, process reengineering and IT modernization efforts are critical as we move forward.
   USC requires all Federal agencies to conduct IT investment management in such a way as to
   ensure that both mission-related processes and administrative processes effectively and
   efficiently utilize IT. All IT investments are to be assessed in terms of cost, speed,
   productivity, and quality of outputs and outcomes. The performance of IT in meeting
   organizational goals is so important that it is to be tied directly to funding decisions and
   reported up through agency channels for Congressional review.
       1.1.1. Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR) is the AF repository
       to identify all AF IT investments. All IT investments shall be identified within EITDR
       with the exception of items maintained within the Intelligence Community Registry or
       Nuclear Command, Control, and Computer Systems (NC3) Functional DAA. AFMC
       Special Access Programs/Special Access Required (SAP/SAR) IT investments are also
       exempt from registration in EITDR. Detailed AFMC guidance on what and how to
       answer EITDR questions will be maintained on the AFMC IT PfM Working Group
       (PfMWG) Collaboration Site.
   1.2. IT Portfolios are comprised of a collection of IT Investments. Multiple ways exist to
   relate the IT Investments within AFMC. Therefore multiple IT portfolios exist and IT
   investments may belong to many IT portfolios depending on the perspective chosen.
       1.2.1. IT investments are assigned to a Mission Area Lead based primarily on the DoD
       IT PfM Mission Areas and Domains, discussed in Section 1.5. However, architectural
       artifacts may better identify proper assignments and can be used in the assessment and
       assignment to the DoD Mission Areas and Domains. The primary architecture used for
       the Business Mission Area will be the DoD Business Enterprise Architecture (BEA) used
       by the Defense Business Systems governance structure. However, other architectures,
       such as the Federal Enterprise Architecture (FEA) Business Reference Model (BRM) and
       the DoD Architectural Framework (DoDAF), are used for all mission areas.
       1.2.2. IT investments are assigned to an IT Sub-Portfolio Owner based on funding
       sources. Since AFMC is a support command and implements/sustains IT investments
       with funds from other AF commands/organizations, normally these supported IT
       investments shall be in the funding organization’s portfolio. However, depending on
4                                                                  AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


       traceability of these funds, these shall be organizationally assigned based on the Program
       Management Office’s (PMO) organizational alignment.
    1.3. The following four phases are associated with IT PfM activities (reference DoDD
    8115.01, DoDI 8115.02, & AFI 33-141). As a basis for performing the four phases, the
    applicable architectural artifacts should be used to understand necessary capabilities. These
    IT PfM activities are applied to validate new IT investments for alignment to the IT portfolio,
    continuously monitor IT investments within the IT portfolio, identify IT investments for
    consideration to realign to another IT portfolio, and identify IT investments to
    remove/terminate. IT portfolios should be evaluated from both mission area and operational
    perspectives (e.g. Facility, Assets (Hardware/SW/Infrastructure), Application, Human
    Capital, Operations, and IT Services) in order to develop, collect, and present metrics to help
    with IT investment issues, IT compliance, and IT efficiency progress.
       1.3.1. Analysis - Links IT portfolio objectives to DoD/Air Force Enterprise vision,
       mission, goals, objectives, and priorities; aligns to respective Core Function Master
       Plan(s); develops quantifiable outcome-based performance measures; identifies capability
       gaps, opportunities, and redundancies based on review of the architecture; identifies
       risks; and provides for continuous process improvement.
       1.3.2. Selection - Identifies and selects the best mix of IT investments; strengthens and
       achieves capability goals and objectives for the IT portfolio in view of identified gaps,
       opportunities and redundancies derived from review of the architecture; ensures efficient
       and effective delivery of capabilities to the AFMC mission; maximizes return on
       investment to the AFMC Enterprise; demonstrates the impact of alternative IT investment
       strategies and funding levels.
       1.3.3. Control - Ensures an IT portfolio is managed and monitored using established
       program management principles and quantifiable outcome-based performance measures;
       monitors and evaluates against IT portfolio performance measures to determine whether
       to recommend continuation, modification, or termination of individual investments
       within the IT portfolio.
       1.3.4. Evaluation - Measures actual contributions of the IT portfolio and its individual
       investments against established outcome-based performance measures to determine that
       capability has improved or to support adjustments to the mix of IT portfolio investments,
       as necessary.
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                                           5


Figure 1. IT Portfolio Management Decision Support Interactions (DoDI 8115.02)




   1.4. IT PfM is used to identify all the IT investments (e.g., systems, initiatives, applications,
   tools, infrastructure, services, etc.), regardless of funding organization and appropriation
   needed to meet that operating configuration. IT portfolio reviews, with Core Function Lead
   Integrators, Headquarters AF (HAF) and Air Staff (SAF) functional organizations, ensure
   that the interrelated set of applications required by the Command are funded and
   implemented consistent with AF plans and programs.
   1.5. The Enterprise IT portfolio is divided into four main Mission Area portfolios, identified
   as: Business Mission Area (BMA), Warfighting Mission Area (WMA), DoD portion of
   Intelligence Mission Area (DIMA) and Enterprise Information Environment Mission Area
   (EIEMA). Each of these is further broken out into component IT portfolios and capability
   areas. AFMC will have a Mission Area Lead that is charged with reviewing the IT
   investments within their mission area. Definitions are maintained at the following location
   (https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/cio/PfM/Mission/Mission_Area_and_Sub_Domain_Defin
   itions.doc). The following are currently defined Mission Area Domains and the Sub-Mission
   Area Domains:
      1.5.1. Business Mission Area (BMA)
          1.5.1.1. Weapon System Lifecycle Management (WSLM)
          1.5.1.2. Material Supply and Service Management (MSSM)
          1.5.1.3. Real Property & Installation Lifecycle Management (RPILM)
          1.5.1.4. Human Resource Management (HRM)
          1.5.1.5. Financial Management (FM)
 6                                                               AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


       1.5.2. Warfighting Mission Area (WMA)
           1.5.2.1. Force Support (FS)
           1.5.2.2. Battlespace Awareness (BA)
           1.5.2.3. Force Application (FA)
           1.5.2.4. Logistics (L)
           1.5.2.5. Command and Control (C2)
           1.5.2.6. Net-Centric (NC)
           1.5.2.7. Protection (P)
           1.5.2.8. Building Partnerships (BP)
           1.5.2.9. Corporate Management and Support (CMS)
       1.5.3. DoD portion of Intelligence Mission Area (DIMA)
           1.5.3.1. Defense Intelligence (DI)
           1.5.3.2. Enterprise Information Technology (EIT)
       1.5.4. Enterprise Information Environment Mission Area (EIEMA)
           1.5.4.1. Communications Domain (COM)
           1.5.4.2. Information Assurance Domain (IA)
           1.5.4.3. Computing Infrastructure Domain (CMPI)
           1.5.4.4. Core Enterprise Services Domain (CES)
1.6. AFMC must also consider all types of Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
(RDT&E) IT investments associated with AFRL and the Test Centers. This includes the work
done on networks internal to the Labs and the Test Centers (i.e. Standalone environments,
Defense Research Network (DREN), commercial ISP) and on a limited basis the Air Force
operational network environment. RDT&E IT investments are required to submit all of their
technical reports associated with the project to the Defense Technical Information Center
(DTIC). The Defense Department of Research & Engineering (DDR&E) Enterprise, the lead in
the management of defense laboratories at the OSD level, will make the decisions on the
RDT&E activities in coordination with the Air Force and Secretary of Defense. Scientific and
Technical (S&T) reporting covers all areas of defense research, including biological and medical
science, environmental pollution and control, and behavioral and social science. Therefore,
managing the RDT&E IT investments using the processes referenced in DoDD 5134.3 and
AFPD 61-1 take the place of the four IT PfM phases (Section 1.3). These IT investments will
get assigned to the proper Mission Area per JCA guidance (reference CJSCI 8410.01A) and
currently the WMA-CMS Mission Area addresses the RDT&E IT investments (see Attachment 2
for WMA-CMS breakout detail). However, other IT compliance reporting may still be
required. The detailed guidance for IT compliance reporting is maintained at the AFMC IT PfM
Collaboration Site.
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                                     7


2. Roles:
   2.1. The following diagram contains a pictorial view of how the Mission Areas align with
   the roles discussed in 2.2 through 2.11.

Figure 2. IT Investment Mission Area Mapping to Roles




   2.2. AFMC CIO: Leads the command in establishing command-wide processes for IT PfM.
   The AFMC CIO empowers the Mission Area (MA) Leads (Section 2.4) and AFMC CIO
   Representatives (Section 2.6) to represent the IT portfolios on IT investment matters and
   allow him/her maximum latitude in working across organizational units to meet the
   requirements of federal law on IT investments. There currently is no delegation of official
   AF CIO responsibilities to MAJCOM CIOs. The AFMC CIO will provide IT vision,
   direction and corporate oversight of AFMC IT resources, needs and policy in support of
   AFMC’s strategic goals and objectives. For AFMC, the following are important CIO
   responsibilities expected to be carried out by the AFMC CIO:
      2.2.1. Monitors the performance of IT programs of AFMC, evaluates the performance of
      those programs on the basis of the applicable performance measurements, and advises the
      AFMC Council regarding whether to continue, modify or terminate an IT program or
      project.
8                                                                 AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


       2.2.2. Annually, as part of the strategic planning and performance evaluation process,
       assess the IT requirements for facilitating the achievement of the performance goals
       established for the command information resources management.
       2.2.3. Assesses the extent to which the IT positions and personnel at the executive level
       and Center levels of AFMC meet requirements. Develops strategies and specific plans
       for hiring, training, and professional development to rectify any deficiency in meeting
       requirements.
       2.2.4. Provides advice, metrics, and other assistance to AFMC leadership (e.g. CC, CV,
       CA, AFMC Council, HQ AFMC 2-Letters, Center Commanders, etc.) to ensure that
       information technology is acquired and information resources are managed for AFMC in
       a manner that implements the policies and procedures of USC Title 10 and Title 40.
       2.2.5. Establish an AFMC IT baseline and chart the course for a future Command-wide
       standards-based state.
    2.3. AFMC IT Portfolio Owner: Shall have oversight responsibility for all IT investments
    within AFMC. To ensure IT resources are used efficiently within the command, need to
    validate the IT PfM four phases (described in Section 1.3) are implemented within mission
    area and organizational processes. As a cross-cutting role within AFMC, the AFMC IT
    Portfolio Owner will have representation on all AFMC Resource Management Panels to
    provide IT investment information and recommendations to the AFMC corporate board
    structure. Responsibility for reporting to senior leadership (e.g. CC, CV, CA) the health of
    the command IT portfolio. Shall be the final arbitrator in regard to disputes within the
    command between Mission Area Leads, IT Sub-Portfolio Owners, or between other
    roles/responsibilities in IT PfM matters. Annually certifies to the Air Force CIO, that the IT
    Portfolio information (budgetary and compliance data) provided is complete, accurate, and in
    accordance with current Air Force IT PfM direction (e.g., as provided in policy, Annual
    Planning and Programming Guidance, Program Objective Memorandum Preparation
    Instructions, etc.). Assigns the AFMC IT PfM Action Officer (AO) for implementation and
    guidance of the AFMC IT PfM processes to ensure all responsibilities are met. The AFMC
    IT Portfolio Owner determines the scope of IT investments within the AFMC IT Portfolio.
    AFMC IT Portfolio Owner assigns IT investments primarily by organization that contains the
    funding owner. However, it is not necessarily the case that all IT portfolio resources fall
    within the IT Sub-Portfolio Owner’s organizational budget. The AFMC IT PfM Owner may
    assign an IT investment based on other factors (for example, AF Lead Program Management
    responsibility). AFMC/CC is the Core Function Lead Integrator (CFLI) for the Agile
    Combat Support (ACS) Service Core Function (SCF). Therefore, AFMC implements and
    sustains IT investments for other MAJCOMs; these IT investments are resourced with funds
    from outside AFMC, traceable to the ACS CFLI through capability alignment. The AFMC
    IT Portfolio Owner will work with HQ AFMC 2-Letters (e.g., A8/9, A2/5, etc.) to determine
    impacts and further processes needed from an IT PfM perspective on the ACS CFLI
    investments. The Collaboration Site maintained for the AFMC IT Portfolio Owner is located
    and shared on EIM for the AFMC IT PfM, IT Sub-Portfolio and CIO communities
    (https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/cio/PfM/default.aspx).
    2.4. AFMC MA Leads: This role is used to govern, from a functional perspective, the BMA,
    WMA, DIMA and EIEMA Mission Areas at the sub-domain level. MA Leads are
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                                     9


  functionally responsible for oversight of their Mission Area and for implementing the IT PfM
  four phases (analyze, select, control, and evaluate) mentioned in Section 1.3 to manage
  functional duplication for the IT investments being reported within their Mission Area. MA
  Leads will work closely with the AFMC IT Portfolio Owner to provide a complete
  accounting of all IT investments residing within a specific Mission Area to include the sub-
  categories that reside within those Mission Areas. MA Leads will include the AFMC IT
  Portfolio Owner in establishing and executing processes and procedures to meet all AF IT
  compliances, policies and procedures. MA Lead responsibilities are identified in Section 3
  of this instruction. Assigns the MA Lead Representative responsible to support, from a
  functional perspective, the implementation of the duties assigned to the MA Lead, and
  provides recommendations to the appropriate officials for consideration in the Command’s
  decision support system. In order to execute their respective missions, MA Leads are highly
  encouraged to establish individual MA governance structures to review IT requirements and
  approve those requirements specific to the MA sub-domain. These processes will then be
  identified to A6/7 for awareness. All cross-cutting (affecting external MA’s) requirements
  will be reviewed/approved by the AFMC Group. If no internal MA governance structure
  exists, requirements will be reviewed and approved/disapproved when the AFMC Group is
  chaired by the CIO.
  2.5. Funding Owner/Stakeholder: Organization that provides the funds to develop,
  modernize, enhance, or sustain a specific IT investment. The long line of accounting or
  official AF documents (e.g., Program Management Directives) used to fund activities for the
  IT investment helps identify the proper organization. The funding owner/stakeholder assigns
  the Program Manager (PM) or the Program Management Office (PMO), who then assigns the
  PM. The funding owner identifies the funding codes to the PM who then must identify the
  codes within IT PfM tools for compliance reporting. The funding owner/stakeholder works
  with the PM to establish, assess and refine operational needs, attributes, performance
  parameters, and constraints that flow from and influence user described capabilities. These
  user defined needs/capabilities need to align with guidance provided by MA Lead IT
  governance structures.
  2.6. AFMC CIO Representatives (AFMC CIO Reps): Performs CIO functions respective to
  their Center or HQ AFMC 2-Letter. Ensure planning and execution for effective information
  resources management support of AFMC and higher headquarters IT requirements.
  Represents the organization on all IT investment matters. AFMC CIO Reps represent, gather
  and submit organizational IT and information resource requirements to the AFMC CIO.
  They work with their host Center IT staff to communicate and enforce AF and AFMC IT
  infrastructure policy. Likewise, the AFMC CIO Rep ensures the host base network and
  communications organizations are represented in the planning stages of IT/information
  resource acquisition to identify network standards for performance early in the process and
  ensure these requirements are met. There will be one CIO Rep assigned per Center, and one
  CIO Rep per HQ AFMC 2-Letter. The following are important responsibilities expected to
  be carried out by the AFMC CIO Rep:
     2.6.1. Provide advice and other assistance to the AFMC CIO to ensure that information
     technology is acquired and information resources are managed for the entire command in
     a manner that implements USC Title 10 and Title 40 and direction contained within
     applicable Federal, DoD and AF publications.
10                                                              AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


     2.6.2. Develop, maintain and facilitate the implementation of a sound, secure and
     integrated information technology architecture.
     2.6.3. CIO Reps are highly encouraged to establish individual organizational governance
     structures to review IT requirements and approve those requirements specific to the
     organizational portfolio. These processes will then be identified to A6/7 for awareness.
     All cross-cutting (affecting external organizations) requirements will be
     reviewed/approved by the AFMC Group. If no internal CIO Rep governance structure
     exists, requirements will be reviewed and approved/disapproved when the AFMC Group
     is chaired by the CIO.
     2.6.4. Ensure that IT investments enter the Corporate Structure commensurate with the
     proper funding thresholds as described in paragraph 4.2.1 of this document.
     2.6.5. Promote the effective and efficient design and operation of all major information
     resources management processes to include improvements to IT work processes of
     AFMC.
  2.7. IT Sub-Portfolio Owner: Responsible for implementing the IT PfM four phases
  mentioned in Section 1.3 to manage the IT investments being reported within their IT
  portfolio. Leads, advises, and assists the AFMC IT Portfolio Owner in establishing and
  executing processes and procedures to meet all AF IT compliances, policies and procedures.
  Responsible for communicating AFMC guidance and direction to their IT program/project
  managers, financial program/project managers, and others responsible for IT PfM data
  collection and maintenance and partnering with them to collect and manage IT PfM data to
  support Air Force IT PfM and other processes. Responsible for all compliance reporting
  (e.g., Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), IT Budget, CCA, E-
  Authentication, Business Enterprise Architecture (BEA), Financial Improvement and Audit
  Readiness (FIAR), Enterprise Sequencing Plan, Enterprise Transition Plan, IPv6, National
  Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Records Management, Section 508, Interoperability,
  Privacy, etc.) for IT investments assigned to their IT portfolio. IT Sub-Portfolio Owners will
  cover all IT investments as assigned by the AFMC IT Portfolio Owner. The IT Sub-Portfolio
  Owner assigns the IT Sub-Portfolio Action Officer(s) (AO) for their respective organization.
  Expectation is there is one IT Sub-Portfolio Owner assigned per Center and HQ AFMC 2-
  Letter level.
  2.8. AFMC IT PfM Action Officer (AO): Implementation arm of AFMC IT Portfolio
  Owner. Supports AF data reviews and validation that are sent from HAF and SAF functional
  Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). To ensure IT resources are used efficiently within the
  command, need to validate the IT PfM four phases (described in Section 1.3) are
  implemented within mission area and organizational processes. Oversees and administers
  AFMC IT PfM data collection and submission. Provides supplemental procedures,
  definitions, policy and guidance as required within AFMC to clarify and improve IT PfM
  processes. EITDR administrators for IT investments in the AFMC IT portfolio. Maintains
  the AFMC IT PfM Collaboration Site that shall be used to preserve implementation details of
  this AFMCI. This role will have other responsibilities as defined further in AFMAN 33-408
  when released.
  2.9. IT Sub-Portfolio Action Officers (AOs): The implementation arm of the IT Sub-
  Portfolio Owners. Communicates guidance and works with AFMC IT PfM AO and Program
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                                       11


   Managers to effectively capture pertinent data to comply with IT Policy and laws. Working
   level at the Center/HQ 2-Letter supporting data reviews and validation, oversees and
   administers organizational IT PfM data collection and submission, and provides
   supplemental policy and guidance as required within their organization.             EITDR
   administrators for IT investments in their IT portfolio. IT Sub-Portfolio AOs are the local
   approval authority for submitting any data updates and/or change requests to AFMC IT PfM
   AO to be ultimately approved by SAF/CIO A6. As necessary the IT Sub-Portfolio AOs will
   coordinate these changes with the AFMC IT PfM AO, AFMC Mission Area Leads, AFMC
   CIO Reps, and IT Sub-Portfolio Owners as applicable.
   2.10. Mission Area Lead Representatives: Assigned by the Mission Area Lead for the
   implementation of the Mission Area Lead duties. Primary responsibility is to implement the
   IT PfM four phases (described in Section 1.3) to help ensure IT resources are used efficiently
   within the command.
   2.11. Program Manager (PM): This is the person responsible for sustainment or
   implementation of a specific IT investment. The PM reviews and corrects all budgetary and
   programmatic detail, maintains all supporting documentation and is responsible for all
   information entered into IT PfM tools (e.g., EITDR, ACART, ABE, etc.). PM’s are required
   to identify themselves in the Points of Contact field within EITDR, and are to periodically
   review EITDR data for accuracy and completeness. From an IT PfM perspective this can be
   assigned formally through major IT efforts that meet AF guidance thresholds or informally
   through local IT efforts. The PM is responsible for the cost, schedule and technical
   performance of the IT investment to which they are assigned per DoDI 5000.02 and AFI 63-
   101. The PM is ultimately responsible for all compliance requirements.
3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. The following diagram contains a pictorial view of the responsibilities of the MA Leads
   as assigned in 3.2 through 3.9.
 12                                                        AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


Figure 3. IT Portfolio Structure – AFMC Assignment




   3.2. HQ AFMC/A6/7:
      3.2.1. Assigned as the AFMC CIO.
      3.2.2. Assigned as the AFMC IT Portfolio Owner. Oversee the entire IT PfM processes
      and governance policies/procedures for AFMC.
      3.2.3. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC EIEMA investments. Delegate
      others to manage the EIEMA investments when necessary, but must maintain central
      authority as the Mission Area Lead.
      3.2.4. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC BMA-RPILM investments.
      Delegate others to manage the BMA-RPILM investments when necessary, but must
      maintain central authority as the Mission Area Lead.
      3.2.5. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-NC investments. Delegate
      others to manage the WMA-NC investments when necessary, but must maintain central
      authority as the Mission Area Lead.
      3.2.6. Supports HQ AFMC/A4 for the AFMC WMA-L investments that pertain to
      Security Forces and Civil Engineering functions.
      3.2.7. HQ AFMC/A6C:
         3.2.7.1. Assigned as the AFMC IT PfM Action Officer (AO). Delegate within A6C
         to manage the AFMC IT investments when necessary.
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                               13


        3.2.7.2. Assigned as the Mission Area Lead for WMA-NC, EIEMA and BMA-
        RPILM. Delegate within A6C to manage the AFMC IT investments when necessary.
        3.2.7.3. Develops, collects, and presents metrics to help AFMC with IT investment
        issues, IT compliance, and IT efficiency progress.
  3.3. HQ AFMC/A1:
     3.3.1. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC BMA-HRM investments.
     Delegate others to manage the BMA-HRM investments when necessary, but must
     maintain central authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.3.2. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-FS investments. Delegate
     others to manage the WMA-FS investments when necessary, but must maintain central
     authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.3.3. Involve/support other HQ AFMC 2-Letters as necessary based on functional
     expertise.
  3.4. HQ AFMC/A2/5:
     3.4.1. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC BMA-WSLM investments.
     Delegate others to manage the BMA-WSLM investments when necessary, but must
     maintain central authority as the Mission Area Lead. HQ AFMC/PK will maintain the
     lead for those IT investments that pertain to Contracting functions.
     3.4.2. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC DIMA investments. Delegate
     others to manage the DIMA investments when necessary, but must maintain central
     authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.4.3. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-BA investments. Delegate
     others to manage the WMA-BA investments when necessary, but must maintain central
     authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.4.4. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-CMS investments.
     Delegate others to manage the WMA-CMS investments when necessary, but must
     maintain central authority as the Mission Area Lead. HQ AFMC/A8/9 will maintain the
     lead for those IT investments that pertain to strategy and programming. HQ AFMC/A3
     will maintain the lead for those IT investments that pertain to DT&E.
     3.4.5. Provides expertise to the AFMC CIO and the AFMC CIO Reps in validating
     SAP/SAR IT investments.
     3.4.6. Involve/support other HQ AFMC 2-Letters as necessary based on functional
     expertise.
  3.5. HQ AFMC/A3:
     3.5.1. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-C2 investments. Delegate
     others to manage the WMA-C2 investments when necessary, but must maintain central
     authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.5.2. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-FA investments. Delegate
     others to manage the WMA-FA investments when necessary, but must maintain central
     authority as the Mission Area Lead.
14                                                              AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


     3.5.3. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-P investments. Delegate
     others to manage the WMA-P investments when necessary, but must maintain central
     authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.5.4. Involve/support other HQ AFMC 2-Letters as necessary based on functional
     expertise.
  3.6. HQ AFMC/A4:
     3.6.1. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC BMA-MSSM investments.
     Delegate others to manage the BMA-MSSM investments when necessary, but must
     maintain central authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.6.2. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-L investments. Delegate
     others to manage the WMA-L investments when necessary, but must maintain central
     authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.6.3. Involve/support other HQ AFMC 2-Letters as necessary based on functional
     expertise.
  3.7. HQ AFMC/A8/9:
     3.7.1. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC WMA-CMS investments that
     pertain to planning, programming, and strategizing.
     3.7.2. Involve/support other HQ AFMC 2-Letters as necessary based on functional
     expertise.
  3.8. HQ AFMC/FM:
     3.8.1. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC BMA-FM investments. Delegate
     others to manage the BMA-FM investments when necessary, but must maintain central
     authority as the Mission Area Lead.
     3.8.2. Involve/support other HQ AFMC 2-Letters as necessary based on functional
     expertise.
     3.8.3. Provides FIAR advice and assistance to CIO, BMA Leads, and related IT
     personnel.
  3.9. HQ AFMC/PK:
     3.9.1. Assigned the Mission Area Lead for the AFMC BMA-WSLM investments that
     pertain to Contracting functions.
     3.9.2. Involve/support other HQ AFMC 2-Letters as necessary based on functional
     expertise.
  3.10. All HQ AFMC 2-Letters:
     3.10.1. Provide functional expertise to the assignees of any role identified in Section 2 as
     necessary.
     3.10.2. Designate the Mission Area Lead Representative, AFMC CIO Rep and IT Sub-
     Portfolio Owner for the organization to AFMC IT PfM AO mailbox
     (AFMC.A6.PfM@wpafb.af.mil).
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                                        15


      3.10.3. Implement the IT PfM phases (described in Section 1.3) to ensure controls are in
      place for approval of new IT investments within functional area of expertise and IT
      resources are used efficiently within the command.
      3.10.4. Ensure the appropriate PK Contracting Office is involved in the acquisition of
      anything IT to validate the proper NDAA procedures have taken place prior to the
      expenditure of funds.
   3.11. All Center Commanders:
      3.11.1. Provide functional expertise to the assignees of any role identified in Section 2 as
      necessary.
      3.11.2. Centralize oversight and management of IT development, modernization and
      sustainment efforts within their areas of responsibility.
      3.11.3. Consolidate all IT resources that implement and/or sustain any IT investments
      into an organizational structure that allows for consolidation and efficiency of these IT
      resources.
      3.11.4. Implement the IT PfM phases (described in Section 1.3) to ensure controls are in
      place for approval of new IT investments within functional area of expertise and IT
      resources are used efficiently within the Center.
      3.11.5. Designate the AFMC CIO Rep and IT Sub-Portfolio Owner for the organization
      to AFMC IT PfM AO mailbox (AFMC.A6.PfM@wpafb.af.mil).
      3.11.6. Ensure the appropriate PK Contracting Office is involved in the acquisition of
      anything IT to validate the proper NDAA procedures have taken place prior to the
      expenditure of funds.
   3.12. AFMC Communication Units:
      3.12.1. Ensure no IT investment is connected to the AF network without being registered
      or covered by a registered entry in appropriate IT PfM tools.
      3.12.2. Approve all EIEMA IT investments within a base to ensure they meet DoD, AF,
      and AFMC CIO guidance and plans before installation on the AF Network.
      3.12.3. Provides computer center hosting (other than DISA) and network/desktop
      capability for Center and Laboratory applications as well as normal business office IT
      operations across the installation.
      3.12.4. Establish processes to ensure all IT Requirements are vetted in accordance with
      AFMC IT PfM processes and appropriate Mission Areas.
4. AFMC IT PfM Processes and Governance Structure:
   4.1. Detailed AFMC IT PfM Standard Processes to abide by are maintained at the following
   location          within         the       IT        PfM         Collaboration       Site
   (https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/cio/PfM/Processes/Forms/AllItems.aspx).
   4.2. AFMC IT Governance Structure. The following diagram depicts the high-level
   organization of the AFMC IT Governance structure and the relationship to other forums.
 16                                                            AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


Figure 4. AFMC IT Governance Structure




      4.2.1. AFMC Corporate Structure: The primary objective of the corporate board
      process, as outlined in AFMCI 90-601, is to provide the AFMC Commander and Staff
      with the capability to review Command-wide issues from a corporate perspective and
      maximize the effectiveness of AFMC’s decision-making. The corporate structure is
      comprised of the AFMC Group, AFMC Board, and AFMC Council to vet planned
      initiatives/issues/plans for executive decisions. The Corporate Structure ensures the
      supporting and dissenting opinions for all major decisions are captured to enable senior
      Command leadership to make informed decisions. The AFMC Group, AFMC Board and
      AFMC Council are the forums to support the AFMC CIO in his/her support of the AFMC
      Corporate Structure and ultimately the AFMC Commander. HQ AFMC/A6/7 will use
      the AFMC Council as the forum for its most critical AFMC CIO issues. These issues
      will first be vetted through the AFMC Group and AFMC Board. HQ 2-Ltr Functional
      offices and Center Commander’s will ensure that all IT requirements are vetted through,
      and approved by, the corporate process prior to the expenditure of any funds against the
      requirement. All IT requirements will enter the corporate process at the AFMC Group
      level for requirement justification and evaluation.
      4.2.1.1. HQ AFMC/A6/7 will utilize the AFMC Board to allow cross-functional review
      and evaluation of AFMC CIO issues. Some issues to be vetted involve OSD approvals
      for IT investment certifications and IT metrics for FISMA compliance. Also, IT
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                                   17


     efficiencies progress would be vetted on how AFMC is spending money more
     effectively. The strength of the AFMC Board lies in its broad representative span that
     allows the reviewing of decision and thorough vetting of issues from the AFMC Group
     before elevating the most critical issues to the AFMC Council. HQ AFMC/A6/7 will
     chair the AFMC Group for topics affecting AFMC IT investments for improving and
     implementing information technology practices related to the design, acquisition,
     development, modernization, use, operation, sharing, and performance of AFMC
     information resources. The AFMC Group when chaired by the AFMC CIO will be made
     up of AFMC CIO Representatives, IT Sub-Portfolio Owners and Mission Area Leads.
     Other HQ AFMC 2-Letter representative will be added as necessary based on functional
     expertise needed. HQ AFMC/A6/7 will forward unresolved issues to the AFMC Board
     for resolution.
        4.2.1.2. The following has been established for the purpose of IT investments review
        and funding approval when the AFMC Group is chaired by the AFMC CIO:
        Review/approve ALL cross-cutting (affecting multiple MAs or organizations) IT
        investments (including those approved within internal governance processes); and
        recommend IT investments with higher thresholds to the AFMC Board for
        review/approval. If no internal IT requirements approval process exists (discussed in
        Sections 2.4 and 2.6), then all IT requirements/investments will be
        reviewed/approved by the AFMC Group. All IT requirements that meet the DBS
        NDAA threshold for OSD certification are considered cross-cutting.
     4.2.2. AFMC IT PfMWG: AFMC IT PfM AO chairs an IT PfMWG comprised of IT
     Sub-Portfolio AOs and MA Lead representatives. The AFMC IT PfM AO provides the
     latest issues, passes information from AF meetings, tracks compliance status, monitors
     application of the IT PfM phases by MA Leads and IT Sub-Portfolio Owners. AFMC IT
     PfMWG ensures required IT compliance reporting activities are met for AFMC assigned
     IT investments and works closely with their customers to capture the required
     information for AFMC IT portfolio investor maps, compliance forms, scorecards, and
     AFMC IT PfM dashboard criteria. The AFMC IT PfMWG performs corporate oversight
     of assigned IT portfolios and ensures the assigned investments within EITDR are correct.
     The            AFMC             IT          PfMWG            Collaboration          Site
     (https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/cio/PfM/default.aspx) and event calendar provide
     compliance tracking and supporting information for the group. This forum helps initiate
     recommendations from IT PfM activities into the AFMC CIO and AFMC IT Corporate
     Structure.




                                         TERRY G. EDWARDS, P.E., SES
                                         Director of Communications, Installations and
                                         Mission Support
 18                                                            AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10 USC § 2222, Defense Business systems: Architecture, Accountability, and
Modernization
Title 10 USC § 2223, Information Technology: Additional Responsibilities of Chief Information
Officers
Title 10 USC § 2223a, Information Technology Acquisition Planning and Oversight
Requirements
Title 40 USC Subtitle III, Information Technology Management (Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996
(CCA))
Title 44 USC, Chapter 35, Coordination of Federal Information Policy
Executive Order 13011, Federal Information Technology, 16 July 1996
DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR) 7000.14-R Volume 2B, July 2013
DoDD 8115.01, Information Technology Portfolio Management, 10 October 2005
DoDD 5134.3, Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E), 03 November 2003
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
DoDI 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management Implementation, 30 October
2006
CJCSI 8410.01A, Warfighting Mission Area Information Technology Portfolio Management and
Net-Centric Data Sharing, 11 May 2011
OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission and Execution of the Budget, July 2013
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, 28 November 2000
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 August 2012
AFPD 61-1, Management of Science and Technology, 18 August 2011
AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management and IT Investment
Review, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace Support Activities, 21 August 2013
AFI 63-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 07 March 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFMCI 90-601, AFMC Corporate Process, 06 February 2009
Air Force Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) Implementation Guide,
September 2011
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                                                          19


Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Terms
Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA)— Enacted in 1996, the act modified the approach the US
Government takes for the acquisition, use and disposal of IT. It elevated oversight responsibility
to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and, among other requirements,
established OMB responsibility to exercise capital planning control; develop a process for
analyzing, tracking, and evaluating the risks and results of all major capital investments in
information systems; coordinate the development and review of policy associated with Federal
information technology acquisition. CCA defines what “IT” is and created the departmental
Chief Information Officer (CIO) positions. It directs executive agencies (e.g., DoD and AF) to
design and implement a process for maximizing the value and assessing and managing the risks
of information technology acquisitions; to utilize performance- and results-based management
practices, and to prepare an annual report to the Congress concerning progress in achieving such
goals.” (Subtitle III of Title 40 USC)
Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR)— The AF system of record
for IT Compliance management data. The AF IT processes and mandates supported by EITDR
include AF IT initiative and systems Registration, AF IT Budget and Capital Investment
Reporting (CIR), AF Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) compliance,
Clinger-Cohen Act compliance, AF National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) certification,
AF IT Lean acquisition, AF Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA), E-Government Act of 2002
(Records Management), Section 508 compliance and others. (AFI 33-141)
Information Resources— Information and related resources, such as personnel, equipment,
funds and Information Technology (IT). (DoDI 8115.02)
Information Resources Management (IRM)— The process of managing information resources
to accomplish agency missions and to improve agency performance, including through the
reduction of information collect burdens on the public. (AFPD 33-1)
Information System (IS)— A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information. (AFPD 33-1)
Information Technology (IT)— The term “information technology”- (A) with respect to an
executive agency means any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment,
used in the automatic acquisition, storage, analysis, evaluation, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or
information by the executive agency, if the equipment is used by the executive agency directly or
is used by a contractor under a contract with the executive agency that requires the use (i) of that
equipment; or (ii) of that equipment to a significant extent in the performance of a service or the
furnishing of a product; (B) includes computers, ancillary equipment (including imaging
peripherals, input, output, and storage devices necessary for security and surveillance),
peripheral equipment designed to be controlled by the central processing unit of a computer,
software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related
resources; but (C) does not include any equipment acquired by a federal contractor incidental to
a federal contract. (Section 11101, Subtitle III of Title 40 USC, chapter 111)
 20                                                              AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


IT Investment— The development and sustainment resources needed in support of IT. These
resources include, but are not limited to: research, development, test, and evaluation
appropriations; procurement appropriations; military personnel appropriations; operations and
maintenance appropriations; and Defense Working Capital Fund. Investment includes all IT
spending. (DoDD 8115.01)
IT Portfolio— The collection of capabilities, resources and related investments that are required
to accomplish a mission-related or administrative outcome. A portfolio includes outcome
performance measures (mission, functional or administrative measures) and an expected return
on investment. “Resources” include people, money, facilities, weapons, IT, other equipment,
logistics support, services and information. (AFI 33-141)
IT Portfolio Management Activities— Management activities for the portfolio include strategic
planning, capital planning, governance, process improvements, performance metrics/measures,
requirements management, IT Investment go/no-go decisions, acquisition/development and
operations. (AFI 33-141)
AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014                                    21


                                          Attachment 2
                        BREAKOUT FROM JCA OF WMA-CMS

A2.1. Corporate Management and Support
   A2.1.1. Advisory and Compliance
      A2.1.1.1. Advice and External Matters
         A2.1.1.1.1. Legal Matters
         A2.1.1.1.2. Legislative Matters
      A2.1.1.2. Audit, Inspection and Investigation
         A2.1.1.2.1. Audits
         A2.1.1.2.2. Inspections
         A2.1.1.2.3. Investigations
      A2.1.1.3. Operational Test and Evaluation
   A2.1.2. Strategy and Assessment
      A2.1.2.1. Strategy Development
      A2.1.2.2. Capabilities Development
      A2.1.2.3. Enterprise-Wide Assessment
      A2.1.2.4. Studies and Analyses
      A2.1.2.5. Enterprise Architecture
   A2.1.3. Information Management
   A2.1.4. Acquisition & Technology
      A2.1.4.1. Research
         A2.1.4.1.1. Basic
         A2.1.4.1.2. Applied
      A2.1.4.2. Advanced Technology
         A2.1.4.2.1. Capability Experimentation
         A2.1.4.2.2. Capability Demonstration
      A2.1.4.3. Developmental Engineering
         A2.1.4.3.1. Systems Engineering & Manufacturing
         A2.1.4.3.2. Developmental Testing
      A2.1.4.4. Acquisition
         A2.1.4.4.1. Program Initiation
         A2.1.4.4.2. Contracting
22                                                       AFMCI33-108 29 MAY 2014


        A2.1.4.4.3. Portfolio System Acquisition
        A2.1.4.4.4. Production & Lifecycle Acquisition
        A2.1.4.4.5. Capability Termination & Disposal
  A2.1.5. Program, Budget and Finance
     A2.1.5.1. Program / Budget and Performance
     A2.1.5.2. Accounting and Finance
