BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE MATERIAL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIAL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 99-601

                                                                            6 NOVEMBER 2009

                                                                             Test and Evaluation

                                                             AFMC DEVELOPMENTAL TEST
                                                               AND EVALUATION COUNCIL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFMC/A3F                                                      Certified by: HQ AFMC/A3
                                                                        (Maj Gen David Eidsune)
                                                                                        Pages: 5



The Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) leadership recognized the need for a Developmental
Test and Evaluation (DT&E) Council to feed the AFMC corporate decision-making process.
The goals of the DT&E Council are to: 1) develop an integrated strategy for accomplishing the
mission, 2) validate and prioritize developmental test capabilities and resource allocation, and 3)
enable consistent advocacy with customers and stakeholders. This instruction provides detailed
operating procedures for integrated AFMC DT&E Council management. The process includes a
board and working group structure to support the Council. Duties and responsibilities of the
chairs, members, and secretariat follow within. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) on
the AF Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Role of DT&E Corporate Process Structure.
   1.1. The primary objective of the DT&E corporate process is to provide Test Center and Test
   Wing Commanders and HQ AFMC insight to enterprise-wide investments through a
   corporate decision-making process. It will also provide a consensus building forum to
   address cross-Center decisions requiring corporate review and discussion. The Council will
   primarily focus on decisions affecting the DT&E resource panel and functional area. The
   AFMC Corporate Process will address actions affecting other parts of the Command.
2                                                         AFMCI99-601 6 NOVEMBER 2009


    1.2. The DT&E Council process ensures the supporting and dissenting opinions for all major
    decisions are captured to enable senior leadership to make informed decisions. It is intended
    to enhance, not supplant the functional staff. The DT&E Council process will enable open
    discussions and improved decisions by capitalizing on the members' experience and
    knowledge of the DT&E mission. Members represent their particular Centers and Wings, yet
    are required to take a DT&E enterprise-wide perspective. Full participation is expected of all
    DT&E Council, Board, and Working Group members.
    1.3. Figure 1 depicts the relationships between the Council, boards, and working groups in a
    hierarchical framework. The working group titles are notional.

Figure 1. Corporate Governance.




    1.4. Boards and working groups are the foundation of the governance process and are used
    to focus on specific areas to develop recommendations for resource and policy decisions.
    Representatives from HQ AFMC/A3 will lead each of the five boards. The working groups
    are the first level of the process taking a corporate view of the issue and making
    recommendations to their respective board. Working groups will establish a charter and have
    a sunset clause.
2. How the Corporate Process Works.
    2.1. HQ AFMC/A3 will assign issues, recommendations, or initiatives to the appropriate
    DT&E Board. The board will then determine if a working group should be established or if
    the board will work the issue. The board Chairperson is the advocate for sponsoring
    recommendations to the DT&E Council.
3. DT&E Council Structure, Authority, and Responsibilities.
    3.1. AFMC DT&E Council.
AFMCI99-601 6 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                  3


     3.1.1. Responsibilities – The DT&E Council serves as the senior decision-making body
     for the DT&E enterprise within AFMC, making corporate integrated strategic decisions
     and recommendations within the framework of the AFMC Corporate process and its
     Charter. For example, the Council will make key decisions/recommendations affecting
     strategic plans, programming, budgets, and enterprise-wide policies. Other Council
     meetings will typically address unit leadership, workforce policies, mission integration,
     and management decisions. Plans, programs, and budgets approved by the Council
     represent the integrated advice and consensus of the Center Commanders and constitute
     the baseline submissions into the AFMC Corporate process.
     3.1.2. Membership – AFMC/CA chairs the DT&E Council, with HQ AFMC/A3 as a
     member and the designated alternate chair. Other Council members include the
     Commanders of AAC, AEDC, AFFTC, the 412 TW, the 46 TW, the HQ AFMC/A3
     Deputy Director, and assigned SL technical advisors.
     3.1.3. Administrative – HQ AFMC/A3 is the secretariat for the DT&E Council.
     HQ AFMC/A3 will schedule meetings, develop agendas, advise Issue OPRs of
     preparation packages and read-ahead requirements, forward read-aheads to Council
     members, record attendance, and prepare and publish minutes. HQ AFMC/A3 shall track
     action items as appropriate. HQ AFMC/A3, with appropriate board and working group
     Chairpersons, will ensure issues presented to the Council are fully vetted and prepared in
     accordance with Council directions.
     3.1.4. Approval – The Chairperson retains final decision authority for all issues brought
     to the DT&E Council for resolution. All attendees are subject to approval by the
     Chairperson. All minutes are approved by the Chairperson.
     3.1.5. Frequency – The DT&E Council convenes at the direction of AFMC/CA. The
     Chairperson of any DT&E Board/Group may recommend to HQ AFMC/A3 to convene a
     special meeting of the DT&E Council to address specific corporate issues. Decision
     briefings presented at other venues/opportunities may also be considered as DT&E
     Council meetings.
     3.1.6. Location – Locations for face-to-face Council meetings will be selected by the
     Chairperson.
  3.2. AFMC DT&E Boards.
     3.2.1. Responsibilities – The five standing boards of the DT&E Council are: Business
     Integration; Workforce Development; Modeling, Simulation and Information Technology
     (MSIT); Technical Leadership; and Facilities and Fleet. The function of the boards is to
     provide integrated and coordinated recommendations on higher headquarters taskings,
     DT&E Council taskings, DT&E enterprise-wide initiatives, and functional area policy
     recommendations.
        3.2.1.1. Business Integration – Board is responsible for integration of all DT&E
        business-related requirements, resource planning, Program Objective Memoranda
        (POM), FINPLANs, business system technology, and related initiatives across the
        DT&E enterprise.
4                                                        AFMCI99-601 6 NOVEMBER 2009


         3.2.1.2. Workforce Development – Board is responsible for the analysis of
         requirements as well as development of recommended policies, practices,
         qualification criteria, education/training needs, and resource allocations to support the
         DT&E workforce.
         3.2.1.3. Modeling, Simulation (M&S) and Information Technology (IT) – Board is
         responsible for addressing common and cross-cutting issues related to: 1)
         certification, accreditation, and efficient operation of IT-based activities supporting
         individual Test Centers and distributed sites; 2) promoting the integration and
         standardization of IT best practices; 3) effective application of M&S to augment test
         capabilities to address anticipated shortfalls and system-of-systems complexities; and
         4) application of distributed test approaches to better leverage test capabilities across
         the enterprise and to improve joint service interoperability.
         3.2.1.4. Technical Leadership – Board is responsible for delivering quality,
         standardized test and test support processes that enable seamless sharing and
         understanding of test results and configuration control of all facets of the test process
         from planning to reporting.
         3.2.1.5. Facilities and Fleet – Board is responsible for ensuring that the DT&E
         enterprise strategy is properly supported by the integrated investment portfolio,
         including military construction (MILCON), validation of the Test Investments
         Planning and Programming (TIPP) process and Central Test and Evaluation
         Investment Program (CTEIP) cost estimation, and T&E Program Element Code
         (PEC) investments in test and test support capabilities.
      3.2.2. Membership – Board membership will be composed of individuals from
      HQ AFMC/A3, AAC, 46 TW, AFFTC, 412 TW, and AEDC as well as other
      organizations as needed.
    3.3. AFMC DT&E Working Groups.
      3.3.1. Responsibilities – The DT&E Working Groups function as a forum to vet and
      integrate DT&E mission-related issues through one of the five boards to the AFMC
      DT&E Council. Working groups will have a written charter stipulating the goals,
      objectives, membership, roles and responsibilities, tasking and reporting requirements,
      and exit criteria and sunset clause (if applicable).
      3.3.2. Membership – Each working group Chairperson shall establish the organization of
      the group members, govern the activities of the group members in executing group
      responsibilities, and provide a conduit for taskings and responses to the Council, in full
      coordination with their respective board. Any member may address the Council, but only
      with coordination and approval by the group and board Chairpersons.
      3.3.3. Approval – The working groups must reach a consensus and document specific
      recommendations and coordinate with their respective board before proceeding to the
      DT&E Council. The working group Chairperson has responsibility for accurately
AFMCI99-601 6 NOVEMBER 2009                                                         5


     tracking and reporting all issues brought to the group for resolution and for all
     recommendations forwarded to the DT&E Council. When a consensus cannot be
     reached, the Chairperson ensures dissenting opinions are voiced and documented.




                                      DONALD J. HOFFMAN, General, USAF
                                      Commander
