BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                       INSTRUCTION 36-2808

                                                                           26 FEBUARY 2014
                                                                Certified Current 13 May 2014
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                          SCIENCE ENGINEERING AND
                                                    TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT AWARDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/ENR                                                  Certified by: HQ AFMC/ENR
                                                                          (Dominick J. Tuccillo)
Supersedes:   AFMCI36-2808,                                                           Pages: 16
              9 December 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs. It states the
purpose of each Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Science, Engineering and Technical
Management (SE&TM) award, defines the eligibility, and prescribes nomination, selection, and
presentation process. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and their units. Units may further supplement this
instruction, as required. Unit supplements cannot be less restrictive than this supplement. If
supplemented, send a copy to HQ AFMC/A3V for coordination and approval prior to issue. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier
(“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                          AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision combines the Scientist and Engineer (S&E) categories to mirror Air Force (AF)
awards. The requirement for plaques are funds dependent, and an AFMC award banquet has
been deleted. Individuals on an acquisition position must be current in the Continuous Learning
Points to be nominated. Clarified number of awards for which an individual can be nominated.
Nominating procedures and award eligibility have been clarified. Center Commander
endorsement is no longer necessary for nominations. Added Research and Development to the
criteria for all Scientist/Engineer categories. Chief Engineer nominees must be on the Critical
Engineering Position list to qualify. Added Research and Development, and Environmental,
Safety and Occupational Health to Technical Management and Technical Management Team
categories. The Engineering Technician winner will be forwarded for competition at the AF
level. Clarified Reservist/Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA), added Research and
Development as well as an engineering AF Specialty Code (AFSC) is required. Federally
Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) nominees must be part of a team. Clarified
teams are eligible for the General Lester L. Lyles Award. Clarified Roland R. Obenland
Engineering Memorial monetary award. Notification procedures clarified. Centers are asked to
recognize all Center winners in a forum of their choice. Removed all TDY information.
1. General Information and Nomination Procedures.
1.1. General Information. This instruction establishes the annual AFMC SE&TM awards for
individuals and teams. The awards provide annual recognition for exemplary contributions and
dedication to the SE&TM community; accomplishments are affirmed through 19 awards in two
categories. SE&TM and Sponsored Awards. All awards consist of a minimum of a plaque
(funds permitting) and certificate from HQ AFMC/EN. A Civilian Achievement Award or a
recommendation for the military Air Force Achievement Medal (or appropriate award) will be
completed by each Center for award winners. Teams are presented with one plaque (funds
permitting) and individual certificates. The use of government funds, if available, is authorized
for the procurement of plaques.
     1.2. Nominating Procedures. All awards except “Career Achievement” will cover the
     previous calendar year. All nominations are to include a cover sheet, a one-page justification
     addressing each criteria element and a short citation, all unclassified, to accompany the
     award. A separate page is permitted for acronyms – limited to one page, one side.
     Accomplishments being recognized must have been performed in the nominating
     organization. Submissions are limited to one nomination per category per Center. An
     individual may only be nominated for one award category, but can also be nominated for a
     team award; however, the accomplishments being recognized must be different. All
     nomination packages are to be submitted electronically via e-mail with each nomination
     being a separate document. The SE&TM Center Senior Functional must endorse Center
     submissions. Endorsements can be provided electronically. Packages will not be evaluated
     without the proper endorsements. The endorser approves all the Center’s nominations.
     Packages not meeting the proper award criteria, or submitted for incorrect categories will be
     returned without further action.
        1.2.1. Cover Sheet. Clearly state the award for which the package is being submitted. If
        the nomination is for a team, the cover sheet should also include primary team members’
        name; grade or rank; AF Specialty Code or occupational series; and office symbol. Team
AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014                                                                   3


       packages will recognize primary members only. Teams should not exceed 25 members.
       Any additional members can be recognized at the Center level. See Attachment 2 for the
       Science, Engineering and Technical Management Award Nomination format; and
       Attachment 3 for the Outstanding Science and Engineering Educator Nomination Format.
       1.2.2. Justification. Accomplishments must be addressed through the evaluation criteria
       elements; do not provide additional justification statements. See Attachments 2 and 3 for
       specific criteria format.
       1.2.3. Citation. A short unclassified citation (100 words) must accompany the award.
       The citation will be prepared on a separate page. See Attachment 4.
       1.2.4. Format. Packages are to be prepared in bullet format using Times New Roman 12
       pitch, single-spaced, one inch margins and are not to exceed three pages in length
       (including cover page, justification, and citation). One additional page is allowed for
       team packages to list team members. Acronyms may be submitted on a separate page
       and will not be counted as part of the three pages.
       1.2.5. Special Note: Years of experience is defined as the number of years the individual
       has worked in a specific technical area. This includes time worked as a non-government
       employee.
2. Evaluation Criteria.
   2.1. Evaluation Criteria.      The following criteria will be used to evaluate all
   Scientist/Engineer and sponsored award nomination packages; the Scientist and Educator
   Award has its own criteria, refer to Section 3.3.6. Additional award criteria may be found in
   the specific award descriptions.
       2.1.1. Operational Impact. Explain the nominee’s efforts to support AF warfighters by
       assuring the capability and safety over the lifecycle of AF systems through the
       development and management of engineering policy, processes and infrastructure (human
       resources, tools, equipment, etc.) necessary for system development, production, support
       and disposal. Describe the substantial improvement in AF processes, operational
       concepts, or force structure, e.g., improved use of resources or effectiveness through the
       application of scientific or analytical techniques. Address the effects on cost, schedule,
       and performance (including supportability). If there is no dollar value, identify the
       significant and tangible impact the accomplishments had upon the SE&TM community.
       Describe the enhanced/increased performance (e.g., improving or exceeding the
       operational performance requirements or aiding operational effectiveness). Describe the
       benefits and support of both the SE&TM community and our external customers. (40 pts)
       2.1.2. Innovative Improvements: Explain how new and/or improved products and
       services were designed, introduced and implemented. Describe how innovative processes
       and techniques were developed which enhanced the unit’s mission. Describe how
       revolutionary ideas, processes or techniques were developed to resolve an on-going
       problem, process improvements, process reform, and leading change. (40 pts)
       2.1.3. Customer Focus: Explain how the nominee demonstrated customer focus and
       quality values as part of day-to-day leadership and management accomplishments.
       Describe the increased capability or significant cost savings due to new or enhanced
 4                                                         AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014


        processes/systems and substantial schedule reductions to benefit the customer, as well as
        customer satisfaction. (20 pts)
3. Award Eligibility and Award Categories.
     3.1. Award Eligibility. Individuals assigned to an acquisition coded position must be current
     in their Continuous Learning points (On Track) in order to be nominated for an SE&TM
     award. Foreign exchange officers or civilians are not eligible to compete for the individual
     or team awards.
        3.1.1. Individual award categories: All AFMC military (enlisted and officer) or federal
        civilian employees (full and part-time), are eligible for nomination. Reservists and
        Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) Officers can be nominated for the Reservist
        and IMA category and as part of a team.
        3.1.2. Team award categories: All AFMC military (enlisted and officer) or federal
        civilian employees (full and part-time are eligible). Reservists and IMA officers can be
        nominated when part of a team. Contractors can be nominated when part of a team.
        Nominee’s duties must directly support the SE&TM function. This program does not
        apply to the Air National Guard or USAF Reserve units or members. SE&TM personnel,
        as listed below, are eligible for the SE&TM awards.
     3.2. Award Categories.
        3.2.1. Junior Military Scientist/Engineer. Recognizes technical contributions to the
        research, development, sustainment, testing and advancement for AF weapons systems.
        Nominees must hold an engineering or science duty AFSC and have less than 6 years of
        Scientist/Engineering experience. Winner in this category will be forwarded as a
        nominee for the AF Outstanding Scientist/Engineer Awards in accordance with AFI 36-
        2835, Annual Acquisition Awards Programs.
        3.2.2. Mid-Career Military Scientist/Engineer. Recognizes technical contributions to the
        research, development, sustainment, testing and advancement for AF weapons systems.
        Nominees must hold an engineering or science duty AFSC and have between 6 to 16
        years of Scientist/Engineering experience. Winner in this category will be forwarded as a
        nominee for the AF Outstanding Scientist/Engineer Awards in accordance with AFI 36-
        2835.
        3.2.3. Senior Military Scientist/Engineer. Recognizes technical contributions to the
        research, development, sustainment, testing and advancement for AF weapons systems.
        Nominees must hold an engineering or science duty AFSC and have greater than 16 years
        of Scientist/Engineering experience. Winner in this category will be forwarded as a
        nominee for the AF Outstanding Scientist/Engineer Awards in accordance with AFI 36-
        2835.
        3.2.4. Junior Civilian Scientist/Engineer. Recognizes technical contributions to the
        research, development, sustainment, testing and advancement for AF weapons systems.
        Nominees must hold an engineering or science occupational series and have less than 10
        years of Scientist/Engineering experience. Winner in this category will be forwarded as a
        nominee for the AF Outstanding Scientist/Engineer Awards in accordance with AFI 36-
        2835.
AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014                                                               5


     3.2.5. Mid-Career Civilian Scientist/Engineer. Recognizes technical contributions to the
     research, development, sustainment, testing and advancement for AF weapons systems.
     Nominees must hold an engineering or science occupational series and have between 10
     to 20 years of Scientist/Engineering experience. Winner in this category will be
     forwarded as a nominee for the AF Outstanding Scientist/Engineer Awards in accordance
     with AFI 36-2835.
     3.2.6. Senior Civilian Scientist/Engineer. Recognizes technical contributions to the
     research, development, sustainment, testing and advancement for AF weapons systems.
     Nominees must hold an engineering or science occupational series and have greater than
     20 years of Scientist/Engineering experience. Winner in this category will be forwarded
     as a nominee for the AF Outstanding Scientist/Engineer Awards in accordance with AFI
     36-2835.
     3.2.7. Chief Engineer. Recognizes noteworthy application of leadership skills that
     significantly aided organizational effectiveness and customer satisfaction in systems
     engineering management or test and evaluation. Nominees must hold an engineering
     duty AFSC or occupational series and be in positions of Chief Engineer, Technical
     Director, or Director of Engineering (functional staff or program office). Nominees must
     occupy a Critical Engineering Position to qualify.
     3.2.8. Technical Management. Recognizes outstanding contributions or achievements in
     support of the SE&TM community. Nominees must be working in Production,
     Manufacturing, Quality Assurance, Data Management, Configuration Management,
     Operational Research, Test and Evaluation, Program Management, Analysis,
     Mathematics, Research and Development, or Environmental, Safety and Occupational
     Health.
     3.2.9. Technical Management – Team. Recognizes outstanding team contributions or
     achievements in support of the SE&TM community. Team members must be working in
     Production, Manufacturing, Quality Assurance, Data Management, Configuration
     Management, Operational Research, Test and Evaluation, Program Management,
     Analysis, Mathematics, Research and Development, or Environmental, Safety and
     Occupational Health.
     3.2.10. Engineering Technician. Recognizes outstanding contributions or achievements
     in support of the SE&TM community. Nominees must be working in an engineering
     technician occupational series (0802, 0856, 0895) or equivalent duty AFSC. Winner in
     this category will be forwarded as a nominee for the AF Outstanding Scientist/Engineer
     Awards in accordance with AFI 36-2835.
     3.2.11. Career Achievement. Recognizes continuous outstanding performance of a
     federal Science/Engineer civilian employee. Nominees for this award must have at least
     15 years government service in an SE&TM supporting function. Accomplishments are to
     highlight the nominee’s career, not just the current calendar year.
     3.2.12. Reservist/Individual Mobilization Augmentee.              Recognizes technical
     contributions to the research, development, sustainment, testing and advancement for AF
     weapon systems. Nominees must hold a science/engineering officer duty AFSC.
6                                                         AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014


       3.2.13. Support. Recognizes non-managerial personnel who support the SE&TM
       community. Nominees must meet the “support” definition and be the grade/rank of GS-
       13/Major or below: Individuals working in non-engineering/non-technical management
       AFSCs or occupational series such as Human Resources, Financial Management,
       Manpower Management or Administration.
       3.2.14. Director’s Award. Recognizes the individual or team who made the most
       significant contribution this year in the AFMC SE&TM community. The winner will be
       chosen from the nomination packages received in all categories of the SE&TM awards
       or at the Director’s discretion. A separate nomination should not be submitted for this
       category. The winner will be announced along with the winners of the other SE&TM
       awards.
    3.3. Sponsored SE&TM Awards. The next four SE&TM awards are individually
    sponsored. Two awards are sponsored by previous Commanders of the former Air Force
    Systems Command; one is sponsored by a previous Commander of the AFMC, and one by
    the family of a military member killed in action in Vietnam. One of the sponsored awards
    includes a monetary award. Sponsored award categories are as follows:
       3.3.1. General James Ferguson Engineering Award. Named after General James
       Ferguson, Commander of the former Air Force Systems Command from September 1966
       to August 1970.
           3.3.1.1. Recognizes an outstanding AFMC engineer in the rank/grade of Major/GS-
           13 or below. Nominee must illustrate how resourcefulness was used to make or
           encourage significant contributions in solving technical engineering problems.
       3.3.2. General Bernard P. Randolph Engineering Team Award. Named after General
       Bernard P. Randolph, Commander of the former Air Force Systems Command from July
       1987 to March 1990. General Randolph was responsible for establishing a renewed
       interest in the application of a team approach to engineering.
           3.3.2.1. Recognizes an engineering team, consisting of at least two engineers, whose
           contributions have achieved significant cost savings due to new or enhanced
           processes, increased mission capabilities, or substantially increased performance life
           cycles. The award includes a team inscription on the Randolph trophy on display in
           HQ AFMC/EN. The winner in this category will be boarded along with the winner of
           the Scientist Team award and the down select will be forwarded as a nominee for the
           AF Outstanding Scientist/Engineer Awards in accordance with AFI 36-2835.
       3.3.3. General Lester L. Lyles Award. Named after General Lester L. Lyles,
       Commander of AFMC from April 2000 to August 2003. This award acknowledges
       General Lyles’ contributions to the Science and Engineering (S&E) workforce. General
       Lyles highlighted the value of S&Es, stressed the importance of the S&E capability in
       supporting the warfighter and strongly advocated preserving that capability. Teams are
       eligible for this award.
           3.3.3.1. Recognizes a strong advocate for recruiting, retaining, developing and
           effectively managing the military and civilian scientific and engineering workforce.
AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014                                                                    7


     3.3.4. Captain Roland R. Obenland Engineering Memorial Award. Named after Captain
     Roland R. Obenland who was killed in action in Vietnam on 18 May 1968 during a close-
     air support mission in an F-100. Prior to his assignment in Vietnam, Captain Obenland
     was a project officer on the development of the Precision Recovery Including
     Maneuvering Entry (PRIME) re-entry vehicle.
         3.3.4.1. Recognizes a company grade engineering officer with less than 7 years of
         total active commissioned service. The award focuses on exemplary dedication and
         contribution to the AF through advancements in technology development or
         significant improvement through re-engineering projects. This award includes a
         monetary gift funded by the Obenland family.
     3.3.5. Outstanding Scientist Team Award. This award recognizes the efforts and
     achievements of the top United States Air Force scientist(s) who make noteworthy and/or
     significant contributions to technology and/or solving technical problems in sustainment,
     testing, training, or advancement of AF weapon systems. The team may be comprised of
     all levels of experience and employment: AF commissioned officer (Active Duty,
     Reserve, IMA), AF government civilians, and support contractors. The winner in this
     category will be boarded along with the winner of the General Bernard P. Randolph
     Team award and the down select will be forwarded as a nominee for the AF Outstanding
     Scientist/Engineer Awards in accordance with AFI 36-2835.
     3.3.6. Outstanding Science and Engineering Educator Award. This award recognizes the
     efforts and achievements of the top USAF instructor in the science and engineering fields
     whose contributions and performance best characterize the principles of excellence in
     science and engineering education. AF military members (active duty), and civilians, all
     AF specialty coded and occupational series, involved in some form of scientific or
     engineering academic instruction, may compete for this award.
         3.3.6.1. Evaluation Criteria
         3.3.6.2. Academic. Classroom teaching excellence (35 points), development of
         course syllabi and instructional material (20 points), student feedback (20 points) and
         contributions to Science and Engineering (15 points).
         3.3.6.3. Optional Criteria. Research activity (both educational and disciplinary
         research). Describe impact of research on S&E education (10 points). Publication(s),
         professional society awards pertinent to discipline and courses taught. Evidence
         provided for these criteria must be pertinent to the scientific or engineering discipline
         and/or course being taught. This criterion may not be applicable to all scientific and
         engineering instructors. However, additional points to the overall score of the
         individual’s package will be given for this criterion.
  3.4. Selection, Notification and Presentation – All Awards
     3.4.1. Selection. HQ AFMC/EN will assemble a panel comprised of senior SE&TM
     representatives from across the Command to review the nomination packages. Panel
     members will be granted access to the HQ AFMC/EN Awards CoP or Share Point where
     all nominations packages will be downloaded. They will be asked to rate and rank each
     package against the evaluation criteria. Evaluation forms will be returned to HQ
     AFMC/EN for final winner determination.
8                                                      AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014


    3.4.2. Notification. HQ AFMC/EN will send an official winner announcement letter to
    the Center Commanders, the Engineering Council members, and winner’s supervisor
    through their two-letter chain of command, as well as the Award Managers. This letter
    will also serve as notification of non-selection.
    3.4.3. Presentation. Due to budget limitations, HQ AFMC/EN will not host a Command-
    wide SE&TM banquet. Each Center will receive a video from the HQ AFMC/EN
    Director, a certificate and congratulatory letter for winners. Team leaders will receive a
    congratulatory letter; all team members will receive a certificate. Centers are asked to
    recognize all Center winners in a forum of their choice.




                                         SUSAN J. THORNTON, SES
                                         Director, Engineering and Technical Management
AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014                                         9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs
AFI 36-2835, Annual Acquisition Awards Programs
AFI 36-1004, Managing the Civilian Recognition Program
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Military Awards and Decorations Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
FFRDC—Federally Funded Research and Development Center
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PRIME—Precision Recovery Including Maneuvering Entry
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
S&E—Scientist and Engineer
SE&TM—Science, Engineering and Technical Management
 10                                                     AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 2
 SCIENTIST/ENGINEER & TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT AWARD NOMINATION
                          COVER SHEET

Figure A2.1. Scientist/Engineer & Technical Management Award Nomination Cover Sheet

(TIMES NEW ROMAN, 12 PITCH, SINGLE-SPACED, ONE-INCH MARGINS, NOT TO
     EXCEED (NTE) THREE PAGES INCLUDING COVER AND CITATION)


                                                                 Nominee’s Last Name


              NOMINATION FOR: (NAME SPECIFIC AWARD CATEGORY)

NOMINEE OR TEAM CHIEF INFORMATION

NAME: (First, MI, Last – designation, Mr. Ms. Dr.)

GO BY NAME: - must include!

GRADE/RANK:

NOMINEE DUTY PHONE: (provide both DSN and commercial number)

DUTY AFSC/OCCUPATIONAL SERIES:

DUTY TITLE:

YEARS OF SCIENCE, ENGINEERING or TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE: (Years of experience
is defined as the number of years the individual has worked in a specific technical area. This
includes time worked as a non-government employee.)

ORGANIZATION NAME:

OFFICE SYMBOL:

EMAIL ADDRESS:

COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS:
AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014                                                                    11


SUPERVISOR INFORMATION
NAME:

RANK/GRADE:

DUTY PHONE: (provide both DSN and commercial number)

OFFICE SYMBOL:

MAILING ADDRESS:

EMAIL ADDRESS:

TEAM MEMBERS: (provide all requested information for each team member)
Can use a separate sheet of paper to list team members (will not count as part of the three pages)
List only the primary team members to reduce size of team lists.
    FULL NAME                  GRADE/    Mr./Ms./Dr. AFSC/           OFFICE              DSN
                                                                     SYMBOL
    To appear on certificate   RANK                     SERIES




CRITERIA ELEMENTS:
(Accomplishments being recognized should be addressed in each criteria element. Limit
justification to one single-spaced page, bullet format. Identify the significant and tangible
impact the accomplishments had upon the SE&TM community.

    Name/Team                                             Awards Category
                                   Example: Junior Military Engineer


Operational Impact—(40 pts):
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
    12                              AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014



Innovative Improvements—(40 pts):
-
-
-
-
-
-
-


Customer Focus—(20 pts):
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014                                                                13


                                        Attachment 3
  OUTSTANDING SCIENCE/ENGINEERING EDUCATOR NOMINATION COVER
                            SHEET

Figure A3.1. Outstanding Science/Engineering Educator Nomination Cover Sheet

  (TIMES NEW ROMAN, 12 PITCH, SINGLE-SPACED, ONE-INCH MARGINS, NTE
            THREE PAGES INCLUDING COVER AND CITATION)


                                                                 Nominee’s Last Name


             NOMINATION FOR: (NAME SPECIFIC AWARD CATEGORY)




NOMINEE OR TEAM CHIEF INFORMATION

NAME: (First, MI, Last – designation, Mr. Ms. Dr.)

GO BY NAME:

GRADE/RANK:

NOMINEE DUTY PHONE: (provide both DSN and commercial number)

DUTY AFSC/OCCUPATIONAL SERIES:

DUTY TITLE:

YEARS OF SCIENCE, ENGINEERING or TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE: (Years of experience
is defined as the number of years the individual has worked in a specific technical area. This
includes time worked as a non-government employee.)

ORGANIZATION NAME:

OFFICE SYMBOL:

EMAIL ADDRESS:

COMPLETE MAILING ADDRESS:
    14                                                      AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014



SUPERVISOR INFORMATION
NAME:

RANK/GRADE:

DUTY PHONE: (provide both DSN and commercial number)

OFFICE SYMBOL:

MAILING ADDRESS:

EMAIL ADDRESS:

    FULL NAME                  GRADE/    Mr./Ms./Dr. AFSC/           OFFICE              DSN
                                                                     SYMBOL
    To appear on certificate   RANK                     SERIES




CRITERIA ELEMENTS:


(Accomplishments being recognized should be addressed in each criteria element. Limit
justification to one single-spaced page, bullet format. Identify the significant and tangible
impact the accomplishments had upon the SE&TM community.


    Name                                                  Awards Category
                                   Outstanding Science and Engineering Educator Award


Classroom Teaching Excellence – (35 pts)
-
-
-
-
AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014                                          15


Development of Course Syllabi and Instructional Material – (20 pts)
-
-
-


Student Feedback – (20 pts)
-
-
-


Contributions to Science and Engineering – (15 pts)
-
-
-


Optional Criteria:


Research Activity – 4 pts
-
-


Publication – 3 pts
-
-


Professional Society Awards – 3 pts
-
-
 16                                                         AFMCI36-2808 26 FEBUARY 2014


                                          Attachment 4
                                     CITATION FORMAT

Figure A4.1. Citation Format

                                                                             Nominee’s Last Name



   HQ AFMC SCIENCE/ENGINEER AND TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT AWARDS


                  (STATE NOMINEE’S NAME AND AWARD CATEGORY)



The (state calendar year) Air Force Materiel Command (state name of award) is presented to
(nominee or team name), (individual’s position title, if applicable), (organization), (center), (city
and state). From (date) through (date), (nominee or team name), (Three to four sentences, not to
exceed 100 words, that highlight specific achievements and are suitable to be read at the awards
presentation ceremony). The superior performance of (nominee or team name), reflects great
credit upon (himself/herself/themselves), the Air Force Materiel Command, and the United
States Air Force.


           (This is the information that will be read with the award presentation).
