BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND POLICY
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                   DIRECTIVE 33-4
                                                                                     22 NOVEMBER 2005

                                                                        Communications and Information

                                                                    CENTRALIZED PLANNING AND
                                                                 CONTROL OF AFMC INFORMATION
                                                                  TECHNOLOGY (IT) INVESTMENTS


NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/A6XP (Ms. Mary Searles)                    Certified by: HQ AFMC/A6X (Mr. Gary Brooks)
                                                                                           Pages: 8
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This policy directive (PD) establishes Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) policy regarding centralized
planning and control of AFMC Information Technology (IT) investments as required by the Information
Technology Management Review Act of 1996 and Executive Order 13011. This policy directive does not
apply to the Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units and members.

1. In order to effectively and efficiently comply with the Clinger Cohen Act (CCA) and Executive Order
13011, the AFMC Chief Information Officer (CIO) must provide centralized planning and strong gover-
nance of AFMC’s IT investments (definition in Attachment 1). Per CCA, CIOs at all levels must monitor
the performance of IT investments, evaluate their effectiveness and recommend whether to continue,
modify, or terminate individual investments. As a result, the AFMC CIO must not only control Command
investments, but also assist by complying with functional, AF, and OSD CIO policies and decisions
resulting from these mandates. This directive defines the AFMC policy and actions required (Attachment
4) to ensure compliance with the governing requirements and higher-level guidance.

2. AFMC IT planning and investment governance is executed through the Architecture and Portfolio
Management (PfM) processes. The architecture process will define the standards with which IT invest-
ments must comply. PfM is used to identify all IT investments (i.e., applications, tools, infrastructure, and
services), regardless of funding organization and appropriation needed to meet that operating configura-
tion. Portfolio reviews, with AF and Air Staff functional CIO organizations, will ensure that the interre-
lated set of applications required by the Command is funded and implemented consistent with AF plans
and programs. PfM will also provide oversight to choose investments based on a standard scoring and
reporting mechanism designed to reduce duplicate and overlapping capabilities. This will result in an
AFMC prioritization of IT investments for use by decision makers in applying available resources in the
AFMC Corporate Process (see Integrated IT Governance Process at Attachment 2 and Integrated PfM
Process at Attachment 3).

3. In order to ensure consistency in compliance across AFMC, it is essential that the Installation, Center
and Laboratory Commanders centralize control of IT development, modernization, and sustainment
efforts within their areas of responsibility. To that end, Center and Laboratory Commanders will establish
2                                                               AFMCPD33-4 22 NOVEMBER 2005


a Deputy CIO organization charged with working with the Command CIO to establish our baseline, and
chart the course for a future Command-wide standards-based state. The Center and Laboratory Com-
manders should empower the Deputy CIOs to represent the unit on IT investment matters and allow him/
her maximum latitude in working across organizational units to meet the requirements of federal law on
IT investments. The Deputy CIOs will also work with the AFMC CIO to define and enforce standards for
both applications and infrastructure. Deputy CIOs are responsible for collecting and representing Center
and Laboratory application requirements for the Command CIO, as well as assisting the ABW in commu-
nicating and enforcing AF and Command policy on IT infrastructure. Likewise, the Deputy CIO will
ensure the ABW network and communications organizations are represented in the planning stages of
applications acquisition to ensure that network standards for performance are met.

4. The ABW and the Deputy CIO organizations must maintain a synergistic working relationship. The
ABW Commanders are responsible for the IT infrastructure sustainment for the installation (base) work-
ing in close concert with AFMC’s Center and Laboratory Deputy CIOs and other tenant organizations to
ensure the infrastructure and support services meet their needs while adhering to established AF network
regulations and policies. At AFMC installations, the ABW will work with the Deputy CIOs in identifying
infrastructure modernization requirements and jointly sponsor those to the Command CIO and Mission
Support Commander for endorsement prior to authorizing the expenditure of funds or submitting for
inclusion in the POM. The ABW is responsible for providing the hosting (other than DISA) network and
desktop capability for Center and Laboratory applications as well as normal office operation across the
installation. The ABW will ensure that all devices and applications connected to the network comply with
AFMC and AF standards.

5. We are required by the CCA and Executive Order 13011, to report all IT costs. The ABW network and
communication organizations are responsible for collecting all infrastructure costs for the installation.
The Deputy CIO is responsible for tracking all other IT costs.

6. IT investments will play a key role in the automation and integration of AFMC’s processes. Thus, a
close working relationship between the process reengineering and IT modernization efforts are critical as
we move forward.



                               JON S. OGG, SES
                               Chief Information Officer/Communication & Information Director
AFMCPD33-4 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                                  3


                                               Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
—The following terms and definitions are extracted from 44 U.S.C. 3502 and are defined as follows:
Information Resources—Information and related resources, such as personnel, equipment, funds, and
Information Technology (IT).
Information Resources Management—The process of managing information resources to accomplish
agency missions and to improve agency performance, including through the reduction of information
collection burdens on the public.
Information System—A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing,
maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information.
Information Technology—As defined by section 5002 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 does not
include national security systems as defined in section 5142 of CCA (40 U.S.C. 1452) which reads:
    (A) The term Information Technology (IT) with respect to an executive agency means any equipment
or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage,
manipulation, management, movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or recep-
tion of data or information by the executive agency. For purposes of the preceding sentence, equipment is
used by the executive agency directly or is used by a contractor under a contract with the executive
agency which:
        (i) Requires the use of such equipment, or
        (ii) Requires the use, to a significant extent, of such equipment in the performance of a service or
the furnishing of a product.
   (B) The term “information technology” includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware,
and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources.
   (C) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the term “information technology” does not include
any equipment that is acquired by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract.
What IS NOT a National Security System (NSS) (Section 5142): NSS does “not include a system that
is to be used for routine administrative and business applications (including payroll, finance, logistics, and
personnel management applications).”
What IS a National Security System (NSS) (Section 5142): NSS means any telecommunications or
information system operated by the United States Government, the function, operation, or use of which:
  (1) Involves intelligence activities, cryptologic activities related to national security, command and
control of military forces;
 (2) Involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or
  (3) Is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions. In general, CCA does not
apply to NSS. However, certain sections do apply to NSS and on other sections are to be applied to the
extent practicable. (See “Applicability to NSS”)
4                                                                 AFMCPD33-4 22 NOVEMBER 2005


Intent:
CCA is intended to require all Federal agencies to conduct information resources management in such a
way as to ensure that both mission-related processes and administrative processes effectively utilize Infor-
mation Technology (IT). All IT investments are to be assessed in terms of cost, speed, productivity and
quality of outputs and outcomes. The performance of IT in meeting organizational goals is so important,
that it is to be tied directly to funding decisions and reported all the way to Congress.
OMB has been given the “teeth” to enforce accountability for Information Resource Management—to the
point of reducing or otherwise adjusting apportionments and reapportionments of appropriations and
using administrative controls to restrict funds for Information Resources. Processes are to be designed and
implemented to make IT investments visible. OSD is charged with setting policies and procedures to
ensure that information systems are designed, developed (or acquired), maintained, and used effectively.
At DoD and AF levels, the CIO is delegated the primary responsibilities for Information Resource Man-
agement. In addition to promoting the effective and efficient design and operation of all major Informa-
tion Resource Management processes (including improvements to work processes), the CIO must monitor
the performance of IT programs, evaluate the performance of those programs with applicable perfor-
mance measurements, and advise OSD regarding whether to continue, modify, or terminate a program or
project.
Bottom-Line Definition of IT:
Includes: All network-connected applications, information systems and tools, including those used to per-
form testing, engineering analysis, data display, modeling, or simulation of military systems, as well as
the infrastructure elements supporting these applications, systems, and tools that can be reviewed for
functional consolidation, or standardization, are subject to architectural compliance (network, framework,
data model, security, or technical standards); with related information resources.
Excludes: Intelligence systems; non-network connected, non-programmable IT; sensor networks embed-
ded in military systems essential for warfighting; and IT that is embedded in facilities, weather, medical,
or HVAC hardware, weapons systems, shop floor controls, or similar.
AFMCPD33-4 22 NOVEMBER 2005                            5


                                        Attachment 2

                                       AFMCPD 33-4

Figure A2.1. Integrated IT Governance Process.
6                                                     AFMCPD33-4 22 NOVEMBER 2005


                                       Attachment 3

                              INTEGRATED PFM PROCESS

Figure A3.1. Integrated PFM Process.
AFMCPD33-4 22 NOVEMBER 2005                                                                                7


                                              Attachment 4

                        ACTIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT POLICY

A4.1. Each organization must comply with this Policy Directive by taking the following actions:
   A4.1.1. Ensure all your Information Technology (IT) investments are registered and that the required
   data is current in the Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR). Ensure the
   sources of your funding are identified in terms of appropriation(s) and Program Element Code(s), or
   Working Capital Fund type. Systems not identified in EITDR with complete financial information
   will not receive funding consideration for budgeting processes nor the Program Objective Memoran-
   dum (POM).
   A4.1.2. Participate in scoring of your IT investments. Scoring includes evaluation of investments in
   the dimensions of value-to-mission, fit to customer requirements, business process improvement, risk,
   financial performance, and compliance with architecture and standards.
   A4.1.3. Incorporate scoring results in the budgeting and POM processes, maintaining the integrity of
   the Portfolio Management (PfM) scoring results, and their prioritization in all funding decisions.
   A4.1.4. Manage local implementation of the application consolidation decisions made by the AFMC
   Corporate Structure with PfM input.
       A4.1.4.1. Work with the AFMC CIO to develop a roadmap to transition all IT applications to
       command-approved standard applications.
       A4.1.4.2. Phase out all non-standard IT investments not approved as part of the Command Stan-
       dard Portfolio.
   A4.1.5. Complete and maintain an in-depth architectural assessment for all applications included in
   the command standard portfolio. Transition all applications that are not being phased out per step
   A4.1.4.2. above, to hosting/server facilities that are approved by the Deputy CIO and operated by the
   ABW, provided by DISA, or approved by the CIO for the specific application.
   A4.1.6. Consolidate governance including selection, funding, and oversight of all applications devel-
   opment and support under the Deputy CIO for each AFMC center/lab. The long-term goal is the orga-
   nizational consolidation of applications development. If the application is a major element of the
   initial operating capability for a program, this paragraph (A4.1.6.) is not applicable. If the application
   supports the program with financial, logistical, personnel, analytic, or other non-core capability, this
   paragraph does apply.
   A4.1.7. Organizationally consolidate the duties of all organic and contractor desktop Workgroup
   Managers (WGMs) and helpdesk services for AFMC organizations into the ABW network organiza-
   tion at each base. The objective is to have one office responsible for training, organizing, and equip-
   ping the WGMs/helpdesk support while minimizing contract vehicles to ensure the right support is
   available to meet the needs of the organization and deployments.
   A4.1.8. The integration of the CIO Role with other AFMC processes is outlined in Attachment 2, the
   Integrated IT Governance Process. The HQs will appoint a Colonel/GS-15 level point of contact for
   each HQ directorate. The Deputy CIOs and the HQ directorates’ IT POCs will comprise a new entity
   called the CIO Working Group (WG). The CIO WG supports the IT governance process. The CIO
   WG will facilitate between the organization and the CIO on:
8                                                              AFMCPD33-4 22 NOVEMBER 2005


      A4.1.8.1. Development of AFMC Command Standard Architecture.
      A4.1.8.2. All IT investment requirements.
      A4.1.8.3. Input to and enforcement of CIO policy.
      A4.1.8.4. Certification and Accreditation of applications.
      A4.1.8.5. Ranking of organization’s IT investment priorities within the AFMC Command Portfo-
      lio through the IT governance process.

A4.2. The AFMC CIO will convene working sessions with the members of the CIO WG to develop
detailed plans necessary to implement these actions.
