BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 11-201

                                                                               1 AUGUST 2007
                                                   Incorporating Change , 16 SEPTEMBER 2010
                                                        Certified Current On 4 September 2014
                                                                              Flying Operations

                                                  SUPERVISION OF FLIGHT OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFMC/A3V                                                   Certified by: HQ AFMC/A3V
Supersedes: AFMCI11-201,                                                        (Robert J. Wood)
            15 December 1999                                                           Pages: 11


This instruction implements AFPD 11-2, Flight Rules and Procedures and establishes the
responsibilities, procedures, and training requirements for supervision of flying operations. It
applies to all AFMC flying organizations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the paragraph titles of Section 7.
 2                                                             AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007



                                            Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. Basic Supervision Structure. A chain of supervision is vital to the safe and efficient
conduct of flight operations. In AFMC, this chain of supervision is structured around the
following positions:
     1.1.1. Operations Group Commander (OG). The OG is responsible for overall
     supervision of the organization's flying operations, and directs necessary actions to ensure
     compliance with the provisions of this instruction.
     1.1.2. Supervisor of Flying (SOF). When on duty, the SOF is the direct representative of
     the OG. In this capacity, the SOF provides real-time oversight of flying operations and is a
     primary source of assistance to aircrews. Decision authority is delegated to this position to
     accomplish the unit's mission.
     1.1.3. Squadron Supervisors. Squadron supervisors include the Squadron Commander
     (SQ/CC), the Operations Officer (SQ/DO), Assistant Operations Officer (ADO), and their
     designated representatives. They ensure compliance with the provisions of this instruction
     and the unit supplement.
1.2. Waivers. Forward waiver requests, with justification, to HQ AFMC/A3V for review and
processing. HQ AFMC/A3V is the waiver approval authority.
1.3. Unit Supplements. Each unit will supplement this instruction to expand upon basic
guidance and incorporate local procedures.
     1.3.1. Submit unit supplements to HQ AFMC/A3V for review and approval. After final
     publication, forward a copy to HQ AFMC/A3V.
AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007                                                                        3


                                           Chapter 2

                             SUPERVISION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. General . This instruction addresses two principal areas: SOF programs and squadron
supervision. The following requirements are established for AFMC flying units.
   2.1.1. SOF Programs. SOF programs will be established for oversight of flight operations
   involving fighter, attack and other single-place aircraft to include: F-15, F-16, F-22, F-35, A-
   10, T-38. SOF programs are optional for units operating multi-place aircraft. Det 2, WR-
   ALC only: follow Flight Safety Supervisor procedures IAW HQ AFMC/A3V approved local
   directives.
      2.1.1.1. Host-Tenant Agreements. The provisions of this paragraph apply to single-
      squadron organizations and other units not co-located with a parent wing or operations
      group (e.g., detachments, tenant units, geographically separated squadrons, etc.). In these
      units, SOF capability may be limited based on authorized manning. Commanders should
      consider integration with host base SOF programs when flying operations are compatible.
      Implement procedures through LOA/MOA and send a file copy to AFMC/A3V.
   2.1.2. Squadron Supervision. Units, particularly those without SOF programs, will
   maintain an appropriate level of supervisory oversight during flying operations. This is
   necessary to ensure awareness of scheduled operations, adequate mission support, and the
   ability to respond to significant issues. Each flying organization, however, has unique
   circumstances that are best addressed locally. The OG will establish minimum supervision
   requirements (e.g., required personnel, authorized locations, duty periods) in the unit
   supplement to this instruction.
 4                                                               AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007


                                             Chapter 3

                                       RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. Operations Group Commanders (OG/CC).
     3.1.1. Will establish local policies for operations supervision within the flying squadron(s).
     3.1.2. Is responsible for implementation of the SOF program.
     3.1.3. Will designate a SOF OPR.
     3.1.4. Will ensure assets necessary to accomplish SOF duties are provided. This includes a
     SOF vehicle, communications equipment, and other applicable items listed in Chapter 6 of
     this instruction.
     3.1.5. Will designate primary and alternate SOF duty locations.
     3.1.6. Will interview new SOFs following completion of training, and approve them in
     writing for SOF duty.
3.2. SOF OPR.
     3.2.1. Will be primarily responsible for developing the unit supplement to this instruction.
     3.2.2. Will develop and maintain the unit's SOF training program.
        3.2.2.1. Will develop appropriate AFMC Forms 67 for SOF training, and include the
        form(s) in the unit supplement to this instruction.
     3.2.3. Will, when an individual has completed SOF training, place the Form(s) 67 in Section
     IV of the individual's training folder and annotate qualification on the AF Form 1381. Retain
     all training records indefinitely.
     3.2.4. Will develop SOF checklists to cover the applicable items listed in Attachment 1.
     3.2.5. Will update the SOF publications as required.
3.3. Supervisor of Flying.
     3.3.1. Will be trained and certified IAW Chapter 7 of this instruction.
     3.3.2. For local missions (those departing from and recovering to home station), will be on
     duty a minimum of 30 minutes prior to first scheduled takeoff, and remain on duty until the
     last aircraft has landed.
     3.3.3. For operations outside the local area, such as cross-countries and delivery missions,
     the OG/CC will determine requirements for SOF coverage.
     3.3.4. Will be familiar with all scheduled missions during assigned duty periods.
     3.3.5. Will provide advice, assistance, and recommendations to aircrews, supervisors, and
     support agencies regarding unsafe or deteriorating flying conditions. The SOF has the
     authority to direct appropriate actions, on behalf of the OG/CC, to prevent/correct such
     conditions.
AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007                                                                        5


   3.3.6. Will, during in-flight emergencies or other abnormal situations, be available to
   provide aircrews assistance as necessary to safely recover the aircraft and crew.
   3.3.7. Will monitor the status of primary and emergency airfields and inform flying units of
   changes that may affect flight operations.
   3.3.8. Will determine suitability of, assign, and monitor weather alternates. During periods
   of deteriorating weather conditions, the SOF will also assist in the recovery of airborne
   aircraft.
3.4. Squadron Supervisors.
   3.4.1. Will be on duty during periods specified in the unit supplement to this instruction.
   3.4.2. May be used to provide technical assistance during in-flight emergencies when the
   SOF is not qualified in the distressed aircraft.
   3.4.3. SOF-qualified squadron supervisors may perform supervisor and SOF duties
   simultaneously.
   3.4.4. Will ensure the SOF is advised of any changes or deviations to the squadron's flying
   schedule.
 6                                                                AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007


                                              Chapter 4

                                   INFLIGHT EMERGENCIES

4.1. Handling of In-Flight Emergencies. The primary objective during an
abnormal/emergency situation is the safe recovery of the aircrew and aircraft. Consider the
following when establishing unit procedures:
     4.1.1. Provisions for a single, discrete frequency for recovering an emergency aircraft. ATC
     and the emergency aircrew should determine when to use a single frequency approach (SFA).
     4.1.2. Procedures to notify appropriate agencies and key personnel of an IFE.
     4.1.3. The prioritization of actions during simultaneous emergencies/abnormal situations.
     4.1.4. CONFERENCE HOTEL Procedures for depot/contractor assistance. These
     procedures make aircraft specialists available by phone to the SOF and/or aircrew when in-
     flight situations pose systems-related questions that can't be answered at the local level. 24-
     hour CONFERENCE HOTEL support is provided by most aircraft manufacturers and/or Air
     Logistics Centers (ALCs). Consult the manufacturer/ALC for current telephone numbers and
     points of contact.
4.2. Restrictions.
     4.2.1. The final decision during any IFE/abnormal situation rests with the pilot in command.
     4.2.2. Unless intervening to prevent injury or loss of life, SOFs will not use air traffic control
     frequencies including the SFA frequency without ATC approval.
     4.2.3. Only the on-scene commander (normally the fire chief) can terminate an emergency.
AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007                                                                  7


                                         Chapter 5

                              SOF DUTY RESTRICTIONS

5.1. SOF. The SOF will have a minimum of 12 hours crew rest prior to commencing crew duty
day.
5.2. Maximum duty day for SOF is 12 hours. Duty beyond this 12-hour period is authorized
only when the requirements of paragraph 5.2.1. are met.
   5.2.1. On a case by case basis, and with due consideration for safety, OG/CC’s may waive
   the 12-hour SOF duty day limitation up to a maximum of 16 hours. OG/CC’s may further
   delegate this waiver authority to the flying squadron commander level, but in no case will
   duty day be extended beyond 16 hours.
5.3. DNIF. DNIF crew members may perform SOF duties with flight surgeon approval. Flight
surgeons will make an appropriate entry on the AF Form 1042.
   5.3.1. Crewmembers on extended DNIF may not perform SOF duties once qualification in
   their assigned aircraft has expired.
 8                                                             AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007


                                            Chapter 6

                                       SOF EQUIPMENT

6.1. Communication Equipment. The equipment listed below must be functional and
immediately available to the SOF.
     6.1.1. A dedicated radio (UHF, VHF, or HF, as appropriate) to contact airborne aircraft.
     6.1.2. Telephone (land-line or cellular) or FM radio to contact the OG/CC, command post,
     weather facility, and ATC watch supervisors. Dedicated hot lines are preferred.
     6.1.3. As a minimum, the alternate SOF location must be able to communicate with airborne
     aircraft and the command and control network..
6.2. Weather Equipment. The SOF will have access to an appropriate local weather
dissemination system, such as AWIDS, IWIDS, or the base weather shop.
6.3. SOF Vehicle. Units are required to have a dedicated SOF vehicle immediately available to
the SOF and positioned to respond to emergencies. This vehicle must have a flightline clearance
and be equipped with a radio capable of contacting unit aircraft and ATC.
6.4. SOF Checklists. Locally developed checklists will be used to detail normal and emergency
procedures. Required SOF checklist items are listed in Attachment 1.
6.5. Supporting Publications. OG/CC’s will specify required publications in the unit
supplement to this instruction.
6.6. Binoculars. Binoculars will be immediately available to the SOF when in the control
tower, RSU/ RMU or SOF vehicle.
AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007                                                                       9


                                            Chapter 7

                                 SOF TRAINING PROGRAM

7.1. Training Requirements. All SOFs will complete a formal training program. Exception:
For individuals previously qualified as AFMC SOFs, the OG/CC may waive applicable upgrade
requirements.
7.2. Flight Line Driver’s License. SOFs must be flightline driver qualified IAW local
procedures.
7.3. SOF Candidates. Individuals may be entered into SOF training at the discretion of the
flying squadron commander.
   7.3.1. SOF candidates will be AFMC or DoD contractor pilots/navigators with proven
   maturity, judgment, and supervisory ability. They must also be qualified in a unit aircraft.
7.4. Airfield Training. SOF trainees will become familiar with airfield procedures, primary
and alternate duty locations, equipment, and local support agencies. The training program will
emphasize operating procedures and available resources, specifically capabilities and limitations.
Consider the following:
   7.4.1. Weather (to include forecaster duties/priorities).
   7.4.2. Approach control.
   7.4.3. Tower.
   7.4.4. Crash/Fire/Rescue.
   7.4.5. Explosive Ordnance and Hazardous Materials.
   7.4.6. Base Ops.
   7.4.7. Command Post.
7.5. Supervised Tour. The SOF trainee will accomplish, as a minimum, one supervised
upgrade tour (minimum of 2 hours) with a current and qualified SOF. This tour must include the
following:
   7.5.1. Operation of all SOF equipment/radios.
   7.5.2. Contact procedures for aircraft and support agencies.
   7.5.3. A review of publications and checklists available to the SOF.
   7.5.4. Operation of SOF vehicle (requires a flightline permit/license).
   7.5.5. A familiarity tour of the airfield and discussion of frequently used travel routes.
   7.5.6. When acting as primary SOF, the trainee will successfully handle an IFE (actual or
   simulated).
7.6. OG/CC Interview. When a SOF's initial training is complete, and before that individual
performs unsupervised tours, the SOF OPR will ensure the trainee is interviewed by the OG/CC
and designated in writing for SOF duty.
10                   AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007




     David J. Eichhorn, Brigadier General, USAF
     Director of Air, Space & Info Operations, AFMC
AFMCI11-201 1 AUGUST 2007                                                                        11


                                          Attachment 1
                    SOF PROCEDURAL/EMERGENCY CHECKLISTS

The SOF will have available a procedural checklist that includes detailed instructions for the
following items (where applicable to unit operations). Checklist structure and format is at the
discretion of the OG/CC and the SOF OPR.
1. Opening, Changeover, and Closing
2. OG/CC notification
3. Aircraft emergency
4. Barrier engagement
5. Weather recall
6. Emergency divert
7. Change of runway
8. Runway closure
9. Anti-hijack
10. Communications search/overdue aircraft
11. Aircraft dispersal
12. Controlled bailout/aircraft crash
13. Hung ordnance
14. Bird condition
15. Controlled jettison
16. Hydrazine spill/exposure
17. Hot brakes
18. CONFERENCE HOTEL (Contractor/depot emergency telephone numbers)
19. Phone List (e.g. telephone numbers for local FAA flight service, terminal radar facility, etc)
