BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                AFMC INSTRUCTION 61-102
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                30 MAY 2006
                                                                           Certified Current 9 July 2014
                                                                   Scientific/Research and Development

                                                                      ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
                                                                  DEMONSTRATION TECHNOLOGY
                                                                        TRANSITION PLANNING

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFMC/A5                                                Certified by: AFMC/A5S (Mr. D. Faulkner)
                                                                                          Pages: 24

This Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Instruction (AFMCI) implements Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 61-1, Management of Science and Technology and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 61-101, Applied
Technology Council. This instruction outlines policy and organizational responsibilities for the manage-
ment and transitioning of Advanced Technology Demonstrations (ATDs) by AFMC organizations and
must be used in conjunction with AFI 61-101, Applied Technology Council. AFMC organizations may
supplement this instruction. All supplements to this instruction will be coordinated with HQ AFMC/A5S
before publication.
This instruction is applicable to all ATDs/Applied Technology Councils (ATC). For Air Force Space
Command (AFSPC) ATDs/ATC, reference AFSPC Instruction 61-102 for Transition Agent roles and
responsibilities. In the case of co-commissioned ATDs, where AFSPC ATC shares the transition funding
responsibility with another ATC, AFMC will seek to collaborate with AFSPC to set up a process that is
applicable to both Commands. This AFMCI may serve as a starting point for this process.
This AFMCI is not the process used for Special Programs (SP) Technology Transition and Management.
Special Programs will use the Special Program Review Group (SPRG) process as outlined in the AFMC
Special Program Management Guide (SPMG). Questions from AFMC SP units should be referred to HQ
AFMC/A5J.
Send comments and suggested improvements through channels to HQ AFMC/A5S, 4375 Chidlaw Road,
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-5006.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This major revision incorporates instructions from AFI 61-101, Applied Technology Council, on the con-
struct, roles and responsibilities, and conduct of the ATC. It also provides additional instructions on ATD
planning, execution, review, and reporting activities. Key changes include requiring an ATD Integrated
Product Team (IPT) construct for the development, transition, acquisition, and implementation of ATDs;
requiring the use of Manufacturing Readiness Level (MRL) to assess ATD manufacturing readiness;
2                                                                                                      AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


deleting ATD Category 3 (NOTE: Existing Category 3 ATDs (ATDs without MAJCOM/Agency support)
will be decommissioned or changed to another category at the next ATC); and requiring the use of a new
Technology Transition Plan (TTP) document template with mandatory elements. (NOTE: TTPs of ongo-
ing, commissioned ATDs will be reviewed yearly for accuracy prior to an ATC meeting. If there are
major program changes, these TTPs will be revised to comply with the new document template and
re-signed, as required.)

Chapter 1— INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                                                                           3
      1.1.    Purpose of ATDs and ATC. .......................................................................................                 3
Figure 1.1.   Notional ATD and ATC Key Events. .......................................................................                         3
      1.2.    Shortfalls/Needs. ........................................................................................................        4
      1.3.    Project Initiation. .......................................................................................................       4
      1.4.    Project Development. .................................................................................................            4
      1.5.    ATC Review. .............................................................................................................         4
      1.6.    Project Execution and Reporting. ..............................................................................                   5
      1.7.    Transition, Acquisition, and Implementation Activities. ...........................................                               6

Chapter 2— ORGANIZATIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                           7
      2.1.    HQ AFMC/A2/5 (Intelligence and Requirements). ...................................................                                 7
      2.2.    AFRL. ........................................................................................................................    7
      2.3.    Product/Logistics/Test Centers and AMARC, as required. .......................................                                    7
      2.4.    ATD IPT. ...................................................................................................................      8

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                10

Attachment 2— ATC DECISION SUPPORT PACKAGE                                                                                                     13

Attachment 3— TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION PLAN (TTP) TEMPLATE                                                                                        16
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                                 3


                                               Chapter 1

                                INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW

1.1. Purpose of ATDs and ATC. The primary mission of the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) is
leading the discovery, development, and integration of affordable warfighting technologies for our air and
space forces. It develops and matures technology options for transition into Air Force weapon and sup-
port systems. AFRL conducts ATDs and Critical Experiments through Advanced Technology Develop-
ment Programs (Budget Category 6.3). (NOTE: The acronym "ATD" can be used for both Advanced
Technology Demonstration and Advanced Technology Development. For this AFMCI, ATD will apply
to a Demonstration.) ATDs seek to demonstrate the maturity and effectiveness of technologies for
enhancing operational capabilities or cost effectiveness. The products of ATDs are technology options,
each with well-understood benefits and risks, which the Transition Agent can further develop, integrate,
test, and acquire for the Final Recipient. The end product is a weapon system, support or infrastructure
application that supports the needs of the warfighter. Successful technology demonstrations by AFRL
and the transition of those technologies to the Transition Agents and ultimately the Final Recipients are
critical to the success of ATDs. Since 1999, the ATC process has served as the impetus to make transition
successful. The ATC provides senior leadership attention and the forum to ensure that appropriate orga-
nizations associated with ATDs are brought together to formally commit resources to transition the tech-
nologies. Figure 1.1. illustrates the notional key events of the ATD and ATC processes.

Figure 1.1. Notional ATD and ATC Key Events.
4                                                                         AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


1.2. Shortfalls/Needs. Each MAJCOM/Agency, as the Final Recipient, has its own process to identify,
collect, validate, and prioritize Science &Technology (S&T) shortfalls/needs. These shortfalls/needs are
provided to AFRL, as the technology provider, to develop technology solutions. AFRL may also identify
shortfalls/needs internally based on their knowledge of user requirements and from participating in the
AF Capability-Based Planning process. This is also referred to as "technology push." AFRL will refer-
ence the Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA), Capability Objective (CO), Master Capabil-
ities Library (MCL), and other requirements documents as primary sources to assist in the formulation of
potential solutions to satisfy the shortfalls/needs. The other requirements documents can include but are
not limited to MAJCOM's strategic planning documents, Initial Capability Documents (ICDs), Capability
Development Documents (CDDs), etc.

1.3. Project Initiation. AFRL uses an AFMC command-approved S&T Investment Strategy process to
identify and prioritize technology solutions that can potentially satisfy shortfalls/needs. AFRL identifies
and consults with the Transition Agents and the Final Recipients to determine if the proposed technology
solutions should be considered for ATDs and expected results will likely satisfy their shortfalls/needs.
Typically, ATDs have Technology Readiness Levels (TRLs) of 4, 5, or 6 and are expected to transition to
the acquisition process within the Future Years Defense Plan (FYDP). Candidate ATDs are normally
Budget 6.3 funded projects, although some can be Budget 6.2, Budget 7.8 (Manufacturing Technology
(ManTech)), or others.

1.4. Project Development. AFRL and the Transition Agent charter an ATD IPT for the planning, execu-
tion, transition, acquisition, and implementation of each candidate ATD. The IPT is co-chaired by the
AFRL lead and the Transition Agent lead, and possibly the Final Recipient. As a minimum, the ATD IPT
consists of members from AFRL, the Transition Agent, and the Final Recipient. The ATD IPT also
includes member(s) from HQ AFMC/A4, Logistics and Sustainment, when an Air Logistics Center
(ALC) or Aircraft Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC) is the Final Recipient. Prior to ATC
review of a candidate ATD, the ATD IPT supports the development of ATD and acquisition program
costs, schedules, and technical requirements, which are summarized in an S&T Quad and Transition chart
(described further in paragraph 1.5.). Preliminary risk assessment and the Technology Transition Plan
(TTP) are developed. The ATD IPT consults with and/or obtains input from other functional stakeholders
as required to document project information including S&T development, S&T Key Performance Param-
eters (KPPs), acquisition/transition strategies, and the commitment of resources. Although a signed TTP
is not required at the commissioning ATC, having a TTP early in project development is highly encour-
aged to ensure early communication and to document planning/resource commitments from all stakehold-
ers.

1.5. ATC Review. AFI 61-101 defines the conduct of ATC reviews. The ATC commissions new ATDs
and reviews existing ATDs to continue, re-categorize, decommission, or graduate, as appropriate.
    1.5.1. ATC Decision Support Package. Assessment of the ATD transition and implementation plan-
    ning is the root of an ATC review. An ATD review consists of a formal briefing containing three
    charts. Attachment 2 provides examples of these charts.
        - S&T Quad Chart (provided by AFRL) - AFRL’s quad chart documents the S&T funding and
    depicts the technology concept with its investment schedule and Technology Availability Date
    (TAD), description, technologies to transition, and benefits to the warfighter using succinct overview
    terminology.
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                                5


      - Transition Chart (provided by Transition Agent) - The transition chart (also known as the transi-
   tion fishbone chart) continues the investment schedule starting with the TAD. The chart documents a
   schedule for both required and available funding for each candidate acquisition program incorporating
   the ATD technology, identifies the lead and other participating Transition Agents, key program mile-
   stones, and highlights any transition issues that the ATC needs to be aware of. The Final Recipient's
   comments may also be included at the bottom of this chart along with previous and/or recommended
   ATD category ratings.
       - Implementation Chart (provided by Final Recipient) - The implementation chart (also known as
   the implementation fishbone) is used when AFMC is the Final Recipient of the technology. Its use is
   optional for other Final Recipients. The implementation chart includes tasks for the implementation
   of the technology by the Final Recipient with associated funding and resources for the duration of the
   implementation activities. Each ATD may have more than one Final Recipient. Each Final Recipient
   presents their implementation chart. These charts also list any implementation issues and products to
   be delivered.
   1.5.2. ATC Decision Memorandum. This document, when signed by the ATC Principals, becomes
   the authority to commission new ATDs, graduate, or de-commission existing ATDs. It formally doc-
   uments the category, priority ranking, and resource commitment of the stakeholders for each commis-
   sioned ATD.

1.6. Project Execution and Reporting.
   1.6.1. Technology Transition Plan. Each ATD IPT is required to have a signed TTP not later than 6
   months after an ATD is commissioned. The TTP will be reviewed by the ATD IPT annually before
   an ATC review or more often, as deemed necessary. The TTP will be updated/re-signed, as neces-
   sary, until the ATD is either decommissioned or graduated. Re-sign the TTP if there are major
   changes, as deemed by the ATD IPT. The required format and content are shown in Attachment 3.
   1.6.2. Technology Protection and Anti-Tamper (AT). Technologies planned for transition that
   involve Critical Program Information (CPI) and/or critical Defense Science and Technology Informa-
   tion (DS&TI) must have a Technology Protection Plan (TPP). The TPP shall be provided to the Tran-
   sition Agent in advance of the ATD transition. If the CPI and/or DS&TI have AT applications, the
   approved AT plan shall also be provided to the Transition Agent as a classified annex to the TPP.
   Involving the Transition Agent, or a designated representative, in the development of the TPP should
   enable TPP-prescribed countermeasures to be in place at the time of technology transition. TPPs are
   required for technologies with CPI and/or DS&TI in accordance with AFPD 63-17, Technology and
   Acquisition Systems Security Program Protection. AT guidance is available in the Defense Acquisi-
   tion Guidebook.
   1.6.3. Conduct. During ATD execution, the AFRL, as an ATD IPT co-chair, leads the development
   program while keeping the IPT abreast of the ongoing technology development effort. AFRL leader-
   ship will conduct periodic management and technical reviews in a collaborative environment with the
   ATD IPT members and their leadership, as required. Significant changes that affect the content of the
   ATC-approved charts (ATC Decision Support Package from section 1.5.1.) for ATD development,
   transition, and implementation (e.g. planned technology capability, technology availability date,
   resource commitment) will be coordinated with the appropriate stakeholders including HQ AFMC/
   A2/5 as soon as possible and preferably prior to execution. These changes will be addressed at the
   next ATC review.
6                                                                       AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


    1.6.4. ATD Final Reporting. Once the ATD development effort is nearing completion, Final Report-
    ing begins. The ATD IPT delivers a final technical report to document results of the development
    effort. A briefing will also be provided at the next ATC review for an ATD graduation decision.

1.7. Transition, Acquisition, and Implementation Activities. After ATD graduation, the Transition
Agent accepts the technology and leads the execution of transition and acquisition strategies to further
develop, integrate, and acquire the capability. During this time, the ATD IPT continues to support the
technology effort until completion which is normally the First Production Article Available (FPAA) date
and/or when the Final Recipient successfully implements the capability for their use. The ATD IPT may
disband when the co-leads agree the ATD IPT is no longer needed (e.g. graduated ATD not being transi-
tioned to an acquisition program, resource/manpower limitation, etc.). The ATD IPT will formally docu-
ment the dissolution.
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                              7


                                              Chapter 2

                    ORGANIZATIONAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. HQ AFMC/A2/5 (Intelligence and Requirements).
   2.1.1. Serves as the AFMC focal point for the ATC and ATD processes.
   2.1.2. Serves as the AFMC focal point to validate and prioritize AFMC S&T infrastructure shortfalls/
   needs and obtain AFMC approval via the AFMC Corporate process.
   2.1.3. Develops and prepares applicable AFMC instructions and guidance to support ATC and ATD
   activities.
   2.1.4. Reviews, staffs, coordinates with applicable HQ AFMC organizations, and signs TTPs of all
   commissioned ATDs.
   2.1.5. Participates in applicable ATC planning to include agenda, action item review and tracking,
   and special interest item development.
   2.1.6. Develops, maintains, and tracks AFMC-level metrics for technology transition.

2.2. AFRL.
   2.2.1. Develops and implements an AFMC command-approved S&T Investment Strategy that is con-
   sistent with the AF Capability-Based Planning Process to identify, prioritize, and fund technology
   projects to satisfy the AF capability shortfalls/needs.
   2.2.2. Allocates resources to identify, propose, develop, and mature ATDs.
   2.2.3. Participates in the ATC review process.
   2.2.4. Provides support after ATD graduation, as required, to assist with the transition, follow-on
   development, integration, acquisition, and implementation of the technology.
   2.2.5. Leads the development of MRL definitions and process to assess manufacturing readiness for
   applicable AFRL ATD programs. Institutes its use in phases with eventual application to all applica-
   ble commissioned ATDs.
   2.2.6. In collaboration with the Transition Agent and other ATD IPT members, administers and main-
   tains an Internet-accessible database of commissioned and completed ATDs, a record of TTPs, and
   other related documentation. Ensures review documents (e.g. briefing slides, decision documents,
   etc.) are uploaded within 30 days after formal ATD management/technical reviews and ATC docu-
   ments are uploaded not later than 30 days after ATC approval.
   2.2.7. Appoints ATD IPT team members from within AFRL. Jointly with the Transition Agent,
   approves the ATD IPT charter.
   2.2.8. Co-chairs the ATD IPT. Participates in ATD planning, execution, reporting, transition, acqui-
   sition, and implementation activities, as required.

2.3. Product/Logistics/Test Centers and AMARC, as required.
   2.3.1. Executes follow-on development and acquisition of ATD technology beyond Budget 6.3 (with
   the exception of 7.8 funding).
8                                                                        AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


    2.3.2. Allocates resources and/or develops funding profiles to transition, acquire, and implement
    ATD technologies to satisfy shortfalls/needs.
    2.3.3. Plans, advocates, and obtains Final Recipient's coordination and status for the programming of
    funds for the transition efforts.
    2.3.4. Leads and participates in the ATC review process.
    2.3.5. Develops and executes acquisition plans to further develop, integrate, acquire, and deliver ATD
    technologies to the Final Recipient.
    2.3.6. Appoints ATD IPT team members from within Centers. Jointly with AFRL, approves the ATD
    IPT charter.
    2.3.7. Co-chairs the ATD IPT. Participates in ATD planning, reporting, transition, acquisition, and
    implementation activities, as required.

2.4. ATD IPT.
    2.4.1. Supports the planning, execution, reporting, transition, acquisition, and implementation of
    ATD technologies.
    2.4.2. Participates in reviews and assessments of ATD program status.
    2.4.3. Notifies and coordinates significant program changes with appropriate stakeholders and HQ
    AFMC/A2/5 (see section 1.6.3.).
    2.4.4. Maintains configuration control of program documentation, including but not limited to TTPs,
    ATD IPT charters, meeting minutes.
    2.4.5. AFRL Co-Chair and AFRL IPT Members. Responsibilities include but are not limited to:
       2.4.5.1. Defines and coordinates the S&T KPPs.
       2.4.5.2. Coordinates the Transition Agent's acquisition plan and ensures its compatibility with
       ATD development planning.
       2.4.5.3. Writes, reviews, and revises AFRL's portions, and coordinates TTP. Facilitates coordina-
       tion by obtaining signatures on the TTP through the appropriate offices in AFRL.
       2.4.5.4. Communicates technology progress and issues through the appropriate channels within
       AFRL.
       2.4.5.5. Assists with determination and reporting of the TRL/MRL and the risk management plan
       for the acquisition effort.
       2.4.5.6. Update the Internet database with ATD and associated program documents.
    2.4.6. Transition Agent Co-Chair and Transition Agent IPT Members. Responsibilities include but
    are not limited to:
       2.4.6.1. Assists in defining and coordinating the S&T KPPs.
       2.4.6.2. Coordinates with AFRL on ATD development planning and ensures its compatibility
       with the acquisition plan.
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                                  9


     2.4.6.3. Provides the overall lead for development of the TTP, unless otherwise designated by the
     ATD IPT. Writes, reviews, and revises Transition Agent's portions, and coordinates TTP. Facili-
     tates coordination by obtaining signatures on the TTP through the appropriate Transition Agent
     offices.
     2.4.6.4. Communicates the technological advancements of the ATD development effort through-
     out the enterprise, as appropriate.
     2.4.6.5. Assists with determination and reporting of the TRL/MRL and the risk management plan
     for the acquisition effort.
     2.4.6.6. Provides ATD and associated program documentation to AFRL co-lead for the timely
     update of the Internet database.
     2.4.6.7. Develops functional strategies to ensure the development of a mature, supportable system
     following transition of an ATD from AFRL. Functional strategies should include but are not lim-
     ited to consideration of technical, business/contract, financial, logistics, test and evaluation, man-
     ufacturing, Quality Assurance, and intelligence strategies.
  2.4.7. Final Recipient. Responsibilities include but are not limited to: (NOTE: In some cases, the
  Final Recipient is a MAJCOM/Agency that is non-AFMC. As such, this AFMCI does not direct the
  Final Recipient's responsibilities. Items listed below are 1) established responsibilities and/or 2)
  identified in higher level instructions: AFI 61-101 and others.)
     2.4.7.1. Provides capability requirements and acquisition KPPs via Initial Capability Document
     (ICD), Capability Development Document (CCD), or other documentation.
     2.4.7.2. Assists in defining anticipated capability requirements and/or acquisition KPPs if actual
     requirements document does not currently exist .
     2.4.7.3. Supports the programming of transition funding.
     2.4.7.4. Assists with reviewing, revising, coordinating, and obtaining signatures on the TTP
     through the appropriate MAJCOM/Agency offices.
  2.4.8. Support Team. Members from AFRL technical directorates and other organizations’ func-
  tional areas (including but not limited to acquisition, environmental safety and occupational health
  (ESOH), contracting, financial, logistics, test and evaluation, intelligence, and industry) provide guid-
  ance and assistance, as required.



                                              JOHNNY A. WEIDA, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Director
10                                                                     AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Instruction 14-111, Intelligence in Force Modernization, 10 January 2005
Air Force Policy Directive 61-1, Management of Science and Technology, 13 June 2003
Air Force Instruction 61-101, Applied Technology Council, 9 May 2005
Air Force Policy Directive 63-17, Technology and Acquisition Systems Security Program Protection, 26
November 2001
DoD Manager’s Guide to Technology Transition in an Evolutionary Acquisition Environment,
June 2005 (http://www.dau.mil/pubs/pdf/Managers_Guide.pdf)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDPO—Air Force Departmental Publishing Office
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMARC—Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center
ATC—Applied Technology Council
ATD—Advanced Technology Demonstration, NOTE: This acronym can also be used for Advanced
Technology Development. For this instruction, ATD will apply to a Demonstration, to reduce confusion.
ATDP—Advanced Technology Demonstration Program
CDD—Capability Development Document
CO—Capability Objective
CPI—Critical Program Information
CRRA—Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
DS&TI—Defense Science and Technology Information
FPAA—First Production Article Available
FYDP—Future Years Defense Plan
ICD—Initial Capability Document
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                               11


IPT—Integrated Product Team
KPP—Key Performance Parameter
MAJCOM—Major Command
ManTech—Manufacturing Technology
MCL—Master Capabilities Library
MRL—Manufacturing Readiness Level
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
QRF—Quick Reaction Fund
S&T—Science and Technology
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
SAF/AQR—Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Science, Technology and Engineering
SAF/US—Under Secretary of the Air Force
SBIR—Small Business Innovation Research
SP—Special Programs
SPMG—Special Program Management Guide
SPRG—Special Program Review Group
TAD—Technology Availability Date
TRL—Technology Readiness Level
TPP—Technology Protection Plan
TTI—Technology Transition Initiative
TTP—Technology Transition Plan
WRAP—Warfighter Rapid Acquisition Program
WWW—World Wide Web

Terms
—AFI 61-101, Applied Technology Council, lists key terms of the ATD and ATC processes. Other
relevant terms are listed here.
End User—The MAJCOM/Agency that typically identifies a capability need, programs funds for, and
will use the technology capability. End User is also referred to as the Final Recipient.
Final Recipient—The MAJCOM/Agency that typically identifies a capability need, programs funds for,
and will use the technology capability. Final Recipient is also referred to as the End User.
Manufacturing Readiness Level (MRL)—MRL provides a measure to assess the maturity and risks of
a technology's manufacturing processes. It is designed to address manufacturing risk mitigation to enable
rapid and affordable transition to weapon system programs.
12                                                                        AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


Stakeholder—An individual or organization that stands to gain or lose from the success or failure of a
program. For an ATD program, this can include AFRL, Transition Agent, Final Recipient, and other
supporting offices such as logistics, contract, financial, intelligence, and test and evaluation.
Technology Availability Date (TAD)—The date(s) when the ATD Final Report and other deliverables
are available from AFRL.
Technology Readiness Levels (TRL)—A measure of technology maturity along a scale of one to nine.
Descriptions are detailed in the DoD Manager's Guide to Technology Transition in an Evolutionary
Acquisition Environment, June 2005. (http://www.dau.mil/pubs/pdf/Managers_Guide.pdf)
Transition Agent—The activity that assumes program management responsibility for the technology/
capability transitioned from AFRL. Transition Agent develops and implements acquisition plans to
further mature, acquire, and deliver transitioned technologies to the Final Recipient. The Transition agent
is also referred to as the "Initial Recipient" of the technology/capability.
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                 13


                                     Attachment 2

                         ATC DECISION SUPPORT PACKAGE
                                   Chart Examples

A2.1. S&T Quad Chart.

Figure A2.1. Example of AFRL’s S&T Quad Chart
14                                                            AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


A2.2. Transition Chart (Transition Fishbone).

Figure A2.2. Example of Transition Agent’s Transition Chart
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                          15


A2.3. Implementation Chart (Implementation Fishbone).

Figure A2.3. Example of Final Recipient's Implementation Chart
16                                                                        AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


                                              Attachment 3

                     TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION PLAN (TTP) TEMPLATE
In order to standardize TTPs across the different organizations, this template is provided to facilitate the
writing of TTPs in accordance with AFMCI 61-102. For commissioned ATDs, the basic content and
format are mandatory. Section 2, the AFRL portion of this template, is based on the standardized
Investment Strategy Sheets and the Program Baseline Review format. The suggested length for Sections
1-4 is 10-15 pages total, not including appendices or attachments. Appendices referenced within this tem-
plate refer to appendices created for the TTP document. Additional appendices may be added as needed
by the ATD IPT. The italicized notes are used as guidance during the development of TTPs and
should be deleted in the final versions.
Other transition efforts such as Candidate ATDs, AFRL Critical Experiments/6.2/6.3 programs, and oth-
ers may use this format as is or modified as appropriate to suit particular program scopes.
(Title Page)
                                             “Program Title”
                             Advanced Technology Demonstration (ATD)
                                   Technology Transition Plan (TTP)
                                        "Date (Day Month Year)"




Distribution Statement (Insert the appropriate distribution statement in a box at the bottom of each
page. For programs containing Critical Program Information (CPI) or Critical Program Resources
(CPR), a separate Technology Protection Plan or Program Protection Plan will be required in accor-
dance with AFPD 63-17, Technology and Acquisition Systems Security Program Protection.)
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                               17


(ATC History and Content Page)


                                       “Program Title” ATD TTP
AFRL Directorate:
Commissioned:
Expected Graduation Date:
Status: (In-progress or graduated)
As-Of-Date:
Applied Technology Council (s): (If Co-Commissioned, may have more than one list of Category
rankings below)
(MAJCOM #1 Name) ATC                                 (MAJCOM #2 Name) ATC
Date                   Category                     Date                        Category




Table of Contents:
Leadership Signature Page
ATD IPT and Other Coordination Signature Page
1.0. Summary of Major Changes (Required only for TTP updates)
2.0. S&T Development & Execution Plan
3.0. (Acquisition Program Office) Acquisition Strategy
4.0. Transition Bridge Strategy
APPENDICES - (as needed)
Appendix 1: Participants and IPT Member Contact Information
Appendix 2: Risk Analysis (S&T Risk Chart)
Appendix 3: Exit Criteria (S&T KPP Chart)
Appendix 4: Acquisition Program KPPs
Appendix 5: Acquisition Program Acquisition Plan or Roadmap
Appendix 6: ATC Fishbone Chart
Appendix 7: (Other topics as needed)
*Note: If appendices are classified -- identify a Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET)
address to request copies.
18                                                                       AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


                                       Leadership Commitment


This TTP identifies a commitment by AFRL, the Transition Agent(s), and/or the Final Recipient(s) to
develop the technology and acquisition strategy, and pending funding and direction, execute the transition
strategy described in the TTP. All parties make this commitment within the restraints imposed by mission
requirements, funding and other resource availability, system schedules, and other factors beyond their
control. Therefore, these are not binding funding commitments.


AFRL/TD Director _________________________________                  Date _____________


Acquisition Representative, Director ___________________            Date _____________
(Transition Agent)


User Representative, Director _________________________             Date _____________
(Final Recipient)
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                              19


                       Core ATD Integrated Product Team (IPT) Signatures
The ATD IPT agrees on the content of this TTP, which is a mutual understanding between AFRL, the
Transition Agent(s), and/or Final Recipient(s). The TTP documents the tasks that must be successfully
completed prior to technology acceptance and transition. The IPT will review the TTP at least annually.
Updated versions of the TTP will be coordinated and signed, as necessary, to reflect accurate program
plan.


AFRL Program Manager ____________________________                 Date _________


Acquisition Representative __________________________             Date _________
(Transition Agent)


User Representative ________________________________              Date _________
(Final Recipient)




                                   Other Coordination Signatures
Coordinate the TTP and obtain signatures from other organization(s), as required.
TTP coordination with HQ AFMC/A2/5, Intelligence and Requirements, is mandatory for commissioned
ATDs. Coordinate with HQ AFMC/A2/5 when all other required signatures are complete but prior to
Final Recipient Leadership signature.


HQ AFMC/A2/5 __________________________________                     Date _________
20                                                                       AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


                                            "Program Title”
                             Advanced Technology Demonstration (ATD)
                                  Technology Transition Plan (TTP)
                                       "Date (Day Month Year)"
1.0. Summary of Major Changes
(Not all TTPs are new; some are a combination of several TTPs, and others are annual updates. This sec-
tion identifies to the reader what major changes were made to the document. Document the major
changes in paragraph listing format.)
2.0. S&T Development & Execution Plan
2.1. Technology Participants. (Reference Appendix 1 for participants and IPT contact information)
   - AFRL Directorate(s). (Indicate the directorate. In the case of a program involving more than one
directorate, indicate the directorates and their relationship to the program and each other.)
   - Transition Agent(s). (The office that assumes acquisition program management responsibility for
the technology/capability from AFRL.)
   - Final Recipient(s). (Indicate the primary Final Recipient and secondary Final Recipient(s), if appli-
cable. The Final Recipient is the MAJCOM/Agency who develops formal requirements and programs
funding for acquisition of the technology you are developing.)
2.2. Technology Availability Date(s). (Indicate, in sentence form, the FY & Quarter that the final tech
report and other deliverables are available.)
2.3. Program Objective. (Identify what the research effort will develop and demonstrate. Describe
advancements in state-of-the art and limits of current technology.)
2.4. Applicable Systems/Target Acquisition Programs. (Brief statement or list of weapon system(s).)
2.5. Approach. (Include both technical approach and a description of S&T program execution plan
including key milestones and status of previous work that have impact on activities needed for a success-
ful transition. This plan description may be supplemented with an S&T program plan chart attached as
an appendix to the TTP.)
2.6. Products/Payoff. (Product: Describe the S&T program and what the ATD system consists of and
expected deliverable(s) to the Final Recipient. Describe components of the ATD system and relationship
with the target acquisition program. Payoff: describe the potential enhanced operational capability to
the Final Recipient provided by this technology development program. Put in terms that an action officer
or operator at a MAJCOM/Agency can understand as far as what it will do on the platform/system and
include reasons why it would be considered an affordable approach.)
2.7. Associated Efforts/Programs. (Identify other supporting research efforts and/or programs
required for transition of this technology. Also, describe related DoD and other programs (industry,
national laboratories, other countries' efforts) that may support acquisition and transition planning.
Often the final demonstration is made up of multiple contractual awards and in some cases, other neces-
sary parallel efforts (6.2 and 6.3 critical experiment efforts/programs) required to prepare for the final
demonstration. Refer to the S&T program plan chart (roadmap) if associated efforts are included.)
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                                 21


2.8. Deliverables. (Identify any type of hardware, software, or types of data that will be furnished to the
Transition Agent and/or the Final Recipient. Be sure to consider data rights and proprietary rights asso-
ciated with each deliverable that would restrict unlimited usage.)
2.9. Technology Not Addressed or Delivered via this ATD. (This section addresses expectation man-
agement - Describe what performance characteristics/capabilities will not be provided by the AFRL ATD
but may be expected. Typically, technologies not delivered via the ATD are activities the Transition
Agent and/or Final Recipient may want to address during the System Development and Demonstration
phase of acquisition). For example: Additional processing and exact Form, Fit, and Function of the ATD
prototype are not typically addressed in ATDs. This information is to help identify and clarify any possi-
ble false assumptions of technology transition that may exist. This area may also be used by the ATD lead
to identify other areas the Transition Agent and Final Recipient should consider for follow-on production
and implementation planning.)
2.10. Risk Analysis. (S&T Cost, Schedule, and Performance Risk may be included here or as an attach-
ment in Appendix 2. Additional risk reduction activities should be listed here or in the same appendix
along with appropriate offices of primary responsibilities (OPRs).)
2.11. Exit Criteria. (S&T KPP charts may be included here or as an attachment in Appendix 3. The
content of these KPP charts must be mutually agreed upon by the chartered ATD IPT. Other types of exit
criteria could be added if the ATD IPT agrees.)
2.12. Major Milestone List. (Use AFRL Program Baseline Chart(s) or list FY & quarter, then the name
of the milestone. Can also be presented in a schedule fashion (e.g. Gantt chart).)
2.13. Readiness Levels
   - Initial S&T Program TRL and MRL. (Provide explanation/justification for this level and an "As
of Date.")
   - Projected Final S&T Program TRL and MRL. (Provide justification for stopping at agreed
level.)
2.14. AFRL and Leveraged Programming. (AFRL and non-AFRL funding lines. For AFRL funding,
use burdened funding that contains S&T overhead and label accordingly. If applicable, include Small
Business Innovation Research (SBIR) initiatives that are sponsored by the customer. Funding informa-
tion may be placed in table format.)
2.15. Technology Protection Plan/Security. (If appropriate, reference applicable technology protec-
tion plan or security classification guide.)
3.0. (Acquisition Program Office) Acquisition Strategy (Proposed strategy should be a conceptual,
top-level view. As the technology matures and acquisition funding becomes available, the strategy should
become more complete.)
3.1. Target Acquisition Program(s). (These are the acquisition program(s) or Program(s) of Record
(PORs) where the technology is headed. This paragraph describes the acquisition program. If the tech-
nology/capability is to transition to an Advanced Concept Technology Demonstration (ACTD) or a Joint
Concept Technology Demonstration (JCTD), then that information must be indicated in this paragraph.
Provide a brief description of the acquisition program to receive the technology/capability. Include the
following:
22                                                                        AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


     - Major program objectives
     - Current phases of the acquisition life cycle
   - Actual or estimated acquisition KPPs of the targeted acquisition program, listed in an appendix and
referred to in this paragraph (only KPPs applicable to the technologies being transitioned)
   - Technology needs (the technology risk issues that require S&T demonstration before an acceptable
risk acquisition program can begin)
   - Projected initial operational capability (IOC) and/or First Production Article Availability (FPAA)
date(s))
3.2. Transition Agent Program Manager and Stakeholders. (Identify all stakeholders (including a
“prime contractor” if it exists), suppliers, and customers involved in transition of this technology to an
acquisition program. Include contact information.)
3.3. Capability/Requirements Documents. (Identify specific related ICDs/CDDs, etc. Specify antici-
pated requirements if the actual requirements document does not currently exist.)
3.4. Project Need Date(s) for the Technology(ies). (Specific FY quarter needing specific technology
deliverables, including S&T program test results. Add an acquisition plan or roadmap, as an appendix,
showing the required S&T technology availability date(s) and which acquisition spirals and blocks the
technology transitions to.)
3.5. Strategic & Tactical Issues. (Identify conceptually any of these issues for the acquisition program.
Address the need for any plans to mitigate issues, such as requirements vs. constraints, operational envi-
ronment, technology insertion, interoperability, etc.)
3.6. Functional Strategies. (Describe the functional strategies below that may apply and that are
needed to integrate the technology into the overall acquisition program. Portions of this section may be
combined as needed to present a coherent functional strategy.)
3.6.1. Technical Strategy.
     - Technology issues
     - Integration issues
    - Test and evaluation concept - As ATDs become an increasingly utilized method for prompt fielding
of leading edge technology to the Warfighter, fast-track test and evaluation is vital. Weapons systems that
pose a potential hazard or have sustainment issues to allied forces require that agile T&E methodologies
be developed to serve the broad and critical interest of the Warfighter
- Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health concept and issues
3.6.2. Business/Contract Strategy.
     - Additional details on overall acquisition strategy
     - Program schedule/milestones
     - Competitive vs. sole source
     - Industry considerations
     - Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) of total ownership cost and the impacts
AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006                                                                                    23


3.6.3. Financial Strategy. (Identify estimated required and programmed acquisition funding. The ATC
“fishbone” chart may be an appendix and referred to for purposes of explanation. Information should be
included here if the acquisition is in an approved POM or in the President’s Budget, and program ele-
ment information is available. Include strategy to secure funding from non-AF sources (e.g. Technology
Transition Initiative (TTI), Quick Reaction Funds (QRF), and AF Warfighter Rapid Acquisition Program
(WRAP))
3.6.4. Logistics Strategy.
   - Design Interface
   - Maintenance Planning
   - Computer Resources Support
   - Manpower & Personnel
   - Supply Support
   - Support Equipment
   - Technical Data
   - Facilities
   - Training and Training Support
   - Packaging Handling Storage & Transportation
3.6.5. Manufacturing/QA Strategy.
   - Lean manufacturing and manufacturing development initiatives
   - Industrial-base capabilities
3.6.6. Intelligence Strategy. (All intelligence analysis should be done in conjunction with the local intel-
ligence office. Determine if a threat is driving the development, and, if so, that the threat analysis is cur-
rent. Indicate whether any intelligence supportability analysis has been completed and documented in
accordance with AFI 14-111, Intelligence in Force Modernization, and the AFMC supplement. Identify
any current intelligence shortfalls impacting time, cost, performance, or any other risk to the target pro-
gram, as well as any intelligence-related costs that can be assessed. Indicate whether any intelligence
requirements have been developed and submitted at this time. The fidelity of this section may vary
depending upon the maturity of the technology being transitioned and the existing requirements of the
system receiving the new technology.)
4.0. Transition Bridge Strategy (Suggested length is one page. Describe the plan for integrating the
AFRL ATD development program with the target acquisition program acquisition strategy so that it max-
imizes the potential for a successful transition. A number of times in the past, the laboratory program has
reached conclusion without the acquisition program picking up the technology. These failures to transi-
tion may possibly occur because the acquisition program’s prime contractor lacked a business strategy
enabling the acceptance of the laboratory’s contractor technology to be included in the acquisition pro-
gram. Upfront planning is essential to maximize the potential for transition of the laboratory technology
into target acquisition programs. Approaches to ensuring a successful transition bridge may include
establishing associate contractor agreements, awarding multiple laboratory contracts to enhance the
probability of the S&T contractor becoming a subcontractor to the acquisition prime contractor, or
24                                                                      AFMCI61-102 30 MAY 2006


implementing an S&T development approach that includes prime contractor subcontracting to the best
(competition) S&T contractor for developing the S&T technology. Another common issue is lack of fund-
ing during the time gap after ATD graduation and prior to the availability of funds from the POM pro-
cess. A possible strategy to overcome this funding gap is to compete for other sources of funding such as
OSD-sponsored TTI, QRF, and AF WRAP.)
