BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AFMC INSTRUCTION 38-202
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                   10 JULY 2000

                                                                                     Command Instruction

                                                         COLONEL GRADE ALLOCATION PROCESS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This publication is available digitally on the HQ AFMC WWW site at: http://
afmc.wpafb.af.mil.


OPR: HQ AFMC/XPMR (Cliff Hensel)                      Certified by: HQ AFMC/XPM (Col Ron Sullivan)
                                                                                        Pages: 11
                                                                                   Distribution: F

This instruction provides guidance and procedures for implementing portions of AFPD 38-2, Manpower.
This instruction provides operating procedures for the allocation of colonel grades within AFMC. It is
applicable both to the Centers and to HQ AFMC Directorates. This instruction applies to all AFMC orga-
nizations. It does not apply to the Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units and members.



1. Position Description (PD) (AF Form 81, Colonel Position Description).
   1.1. The PD is the basic document to be used in managing AFMC’s core colonels. Particular care
   must be taken to assure that it is accurate and complete, and adequately describes the duties and
   responsibilities of the position, as well as its organizational placement. It should also indicate clearly
   whether there is a GM-15 deputy. Since the PD is used, in addition to the process described below,
   to obtain qualified individuals for assignment, its importance is paramount. It should be reviewed
   periodically and updated if necessary. Organizational realignments and/or changes in duties and
   responsibilities should be documented with new PDs. Updated PDs should be submitted to HQ
   AFMC/XPMR, along with an abbreviated Organizational Chart showing the placement of the colonel
   and one organizational level above and one level below that block.
   1.2. PD Certification. AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements, indicates that colonel PDs
   should be signed, certifying the position as a valid colonel requirement. All PD updates, and PDs
   accompanying requests for core billet realignment or for new core billets, will be submitted for certi-
   fication. HQ AFMC staff elements will review the PD.
       1.2.1. XPMO will check organizational placement.
       1.2.2. XPMQ will check manpower data codes such as APDP, AFSC, RPI, etc. for applicability
       to the stated mission.
       1.2.3. DPO will check compliance with applicable military personnel standards.
2                                                                        AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000

       1.2.4. Functional office and Business Area (BA) will verify that the PD adequately describes the
       duties and responsibilities of a mission for which a colonel is required.
       1.2.5. XPM will sign approved PDs at Section III.

2. Realignment Requests. Realignment requests are those cases where an existing authorization would
be upgraded to colonel and a current colonel core authorization would be downgraded. The billet number
would be transferred to the upgraded authorization. These requests will be considered for approval upon
receipt.
    2.1. Center Realignments. Use of colonel billets is an "execution year" activity, and Center/CCs have
    authority to determine the best use of available billets to accomplish their missions. Centers submit
    realignment requests, with PD, Organizational Chart, and Center rank and PEC of the proposed posi-
    tion, through their Manpower Office to HQ AFMC/XPM. Upon certification, and coordination by
    affected BAs and functional offices, the request is approved, and XPM authorizes the requesting Cen-
    ter to adjust their unit manpower document (UMD) accordingly.
    2.2. HQ AFMC Directorate Realignments. Directorates submit such requests, with PD, Organiza-
    tional Chart, and Directorate rank of the proposed position, to HQ AFMC/XPM. Upon certification,
    the request is approved, and XPM adjusts their UMD accordingly.

3. Ranking of Colonel Positions. In the fourth quarter of each year HQ AFMC/XPM will ask Centers
and HQ AFMC Directorates to submit colonel position rankings. These rankings will be effective for the
following fiscal year, and will include any requirements for new colonel billets within the ranking. Rank-
ings will be distributed to the BAs after receipt by XPM.

4. New Billet Requests. These are cases where no existing core billet is identified as an offset. The
requirement is in addition to core billets already authorized. By definition, these requests should be
ranked lower than any existing colonel position owned by the submitting organization. If necessary,
realignment requests should be submitted to insure the requested new billet has the lowest rank. These
requests will be acted upon (as necessary) each year, after receipt of the rankings discussed above.
    4.1. Center Requests. Centers submit such requests, with PD, Organizational Chart, and PEC of the
    proposed position, through their Manpower Office to HQ AFMC/XPM. Upon certification, the BA of
    the proposed location sources from within or as agreed with another BA. The BA may source the
    requirement with an unused billet (if available), choose another core billet within its management to
    use as the offset, or negotiate with another BA for a billet. If the BA is unable to source the new
    request, it is forwarded to the AFMC Resource Board (ARB), which will make a recommendation for
    AFMC/CC/CV. Upon resolution, XPM authorizes the involved Centers to adjust their UMDs accord-
    ingly.
    4.2. HQ AFMC Directorate Requests. Directorates submit such requests, with PD and Organiza-
    tional Chart, to HQ AFMC/XPM. Upon certification, the ARB may recommend sourcing the require-
    ment with an unused billet (if available), or choose another core billet to use as the offset. Upon CC/
    CV decision, XPM adjusts the UMD accordingly.

5. ARB Resolution Process. Upon receipt of an unsourced colonel requirement as described above, the
Program Review Panel (PRP), an O-6/GM-15 level working group of the ARB, will use the following
procedure to determine a recommendation for ARB action.
AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000                                                                               3

  5.1. A group of candidate colonel positions will be assembled for consideration as offsets. The BAs
  will be responsible for determining a pool of offset candidates for the Centers and XP will assemble
  the pool for HQ. In either case, the pool should be at least three times the number of new requests.
  The rankings submitted by the Centers/Directorates will be the primary basis for selection, using those
  ranked lowest.
  5.2. The PDs of candidate positions will be scored using the attached evaluation criteria, which were
  developed to match up with the colonel PD, and are consistent with the General Schedule Supervisory
  Grade Guide used to classify civilian high grades throughout federal service.
  5.3. Each working group member will score all candidate PDs. After throwing out the high and low
  scores, the average of the remaining scores will be the baseline position. Additional information may
  be used by the PRP to determine recommended options for ARB consideration.



                                        TODD I. STEWART, Major General, USAF
                                        Director, Plans and Programs
4                                                              AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000

                                   Attachment 1
                     PROCESS FOR CENTER REQUESTS




      Center
    Realignment        H Q Coord           Y        XPM                    Approved
                        on PD?                    Certify PD             as Requested
      Request

                      N
                          Return




      Center
     New Billet         H Q Coord          Y       BA Source        Y       Approved
                         on PD?                   from Within?            as Requested
      Request


                          N                         N
            Return                                Source from        Y
                                                  Another BA?

                                XPM
                              Certify PD
                                                    N
                                                      ARB
                                                     Resolve




                                                       - BAS identify Offset Pool
                                                       - PRP scores PDs
                                                       - ARB recommends to CC/CV
AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000                                                          5




       Directorate
      Realignment          HQ Coord      Y     XPM                   Approved
                            on PD?           Certify PD            as Requested
        Request

                           N
                               Return




       Directorate
       New Billet          HQ Coord      Y       XPM                   ARB
                            on PD?            Certify PDF             Resolve
        Request


                           N
                                Return




                                               - XP identifies Offset Pool
                                               - PRP scores PDs
                                               - ARB recommends to CC/CV
6                                                                          AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000

                                              Attachment 2
                                       EVALUATION FACTORS
A2.1. Instructions: For each Factor (A2A1 - A2F1), determine the Level that best matches the entire
PD. When all factors have been rated total the points, including those from the Colonel Position Scoring
Key (A2G1). Factors should be scored on the basis of the PD as a whole. Centers/Directorates must con-
struct PDs to highlight levels and importance of responsibilities.
A2.1.1. Factor 1 - Supervisory And Managerial Authority. This factor covers the authorities and
management responsibilities which are exercised in the position on a recurring basis. Points assigned
under this factor apply equally to the direction of specialized program management organizations, line
functions, staff functions, and operating and support activities.
A2.1.1.1.. 1 Point Level: Plans and schedules ongoing work on a quarterly/annual basis, or directs
assignments of similar duration. Adjusts staffing levels or work procedures to accommodate resource
allocation decisions made at higher echelons. Justifies the purchase of new equipment. Improves work
methods and procedures. Oversees the development of technical data, estimates, statistics, suggestions,
and other information useful to higher level managers. Decides the methodologies to use in achieving
work goals and objectives, and in determining other management strategies. Typically provides direct
supervision over one or fewer O-6/GM-15 position.
A2.1.1.2. 2 Point Level: Exercises authority to set a series of long-range work plans and schedules for
in-service or contracted work. Assures implementation (by subordinate organizational units or others) of
the goals and objectives for the program segment(s) or function(s) they oversee. Determines goals and
objectives that need additional emphasis; determines the best approach or solution for resolving budget
shortages; and plans for long range staffing needs, including such matters as whether to contract out work.
These positions are closely involved with high level program officials (or comparable staff personnel) in
the development of overall goals and objectives. For example, they direct development of data; provision
of expertise and insights; securing of legal opinions; preparation of position papers or legislative propos-
als; and execution of comparable activities which support development of goals and objectives. Typically
provides direct supervision over two or three O-6/ GM-15 positions.
A2.1.1.3. 3 Point Level: Exercises delegated authority for the overall planning, direction, and timely exe-
cution of a program, several program segments (managed through separate subordinate organizational
units), or comparable staff functions, including development, assignment, and higher level clearance of
goals and objectives for supervisors or managers of subordinate organizational units. Approves
multi-year and longer range work plans developed by subordinate organizational units, and subsequently
manages the overall work to achieve goals and objectives. Manages policy in response to changes in lev-
els of appropriations or other legislation. Manages organizational changes throughout the organization
directed, or major change to the structure and content of the program or program segments directed.
Exercises discretionary authority to approve the allocation and distribution of funds in the organization's
budget. Exercises final authority for the full range of personnel actions (military and civilian) and organi-
zation design proposals recommended by subordinate supervisors. This level may be credited even if for-
mal clearance is required for a few actions, such as removals and incentive awards above set dollar levels.
AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000                                                                                      7

Exercises UCMJ authority. Typically provides direct supervision over four or more O-6/GM-15 posi-
tions.
                                                    - OR-
Exercises command authority.
A2.1.2. Factor 2 - Resources. This factor assesses the overall importance of the position in terms of
resources ($$ and manpower) controlled, as well as the impact of those resources, both within and outside
the immediate organization.
A2.1.2.1. 1 Point Level: Controls or impacts large resource areas, and directs a program segment that
performs complex administrative, technical, protective, investigative, or professional services directly
affecting a large or complex installation. Typically responsible for supervision of up to 500 people. The
work directly involves or substantially impacts the provision of essential support operations to numerous,
varied and complex functions.
Illustrations:
- Directs design, oversight, and related services for the construction of complex facilities at multiple sites.
- Directs administrative services (personnel, supply management, budget, facilities management, or simi
  lar) which support and directly affect the operations of a major command headquarters, or a large or
  complex multi-mission military installation.
A2.1.2.2. 2 Point Level: Controls or impacts very large resource areas. Directs a segment of a profes-
sional, highly technical, or complex administrative program involving the development of major aspects
of key scientific, medical, legal, administrative, regulatory, policy development or comparable programs;
or that includes major operations at complex industrial installations. Typically responsible for supervi-
sion of 500-800 people. Impacts headquarters operations or several programs, or facilitates the accom-
plishment of primary missions or programs of national significance, receiving frequent or continuing
congressional or media attention.
Illustrations:
- Directs mission-essential, major operating programs or program segments at:
- A research and development center;
- The production division of an aircraft management directorate at an Air Logistics Center;
- Major medical centers which include research programs or other medical programs of national interest
  and standing.
- Directs administrative activities (such as budget, management analysis, or personnel) conducted
  throughout, or covering the operations of, the agency's headquarters or most of its field establishment.
  The program segments directed materially shape or improve the structure, effectiveness, efficiency, or
  productivity of major portions of the primary missions, headquarters-wide operations, or projects of
  national interest.
8                                                                            AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000

A2.1.2.3. 3 Point Level: Controls or impacts extremely large resource areas. Directs a program for
which both the scope and impact directly involve the national interest or the organization’s national mis-
sion; are subject to continual or intense congressional and media scrutiny or controversy; or have perva-
sive impact on the general public. Typically responsible for supervision of over 800 people.
                                                     - OR-
Directs critical program segments, major scientific projects, or key high level organizations with compa-
rable scope and impact.
Illustrations:
- Directs the development of the most critical and complex subsystem(s) in a major aerospace or weapons
  system development program. The work has significant direct impact on one or a few major industries,
  the organization’s national mission, or the national defense.
A2.1.3. Factor 3 - Most Difficult Type Problems. This factor measures the difficulty and complexity
of the work most typical of the position itself, and the organization(s) directed, as well as other line, staff,
or contracted work for which the job has technical or oversight responsibility, either directly or through
subordinate military/civilian supervisors.
A2.1.3.1. 1 Point Level: Procures funds for operations, maintenance and construction. Programs annual
O&M contract and obligated funds to satisfy base level needs. Negotiates with state/county/city officials
on special programs. Implements energy policies. Responsible for staffing and manpower issues, both
military and civilian.
A2.1.3.2. 2 Point Level: Manages large resource volume system(s) in a highly complex System Program
Office environment, involving a matrixed workforce made up of highly trained and professional civilians
and military members. Risk is high and consequences of program failure are great.
                                                    - OR -
Develops and implements command level policy to support a field level mission which depends upon the
coordinated efforts of a mix of military and civilians (O&M and industrial funded) with complex and var-
ied missions.
                                                    - OR -
Exercises command authority over a wide variety of people from many different functions, or represents
command authority and positions on major resource areas.
A2.1.4. Factor 4 - Communication Levels. This factor measures the relative impact the incumbent has
while representing the organization at various functions or events. It includes consideration of the expe-
rience and protocol requirements associated with performance at increasing levels of exposure to the
media and to contacts within other MAJCOMs and Services.
A2.1.4.1. 1 Point Level: Frequently communicates at levels comparable to any below. Contacts may be
informal, occur in conferences and meetings, or take place through telephone, televised, radio, or similar
contact, and sometimes require non-routine or special preparation.
- Members of the business community or the general public;
- Higher ranking managers, supervisors, leaders and staff of program, administrative, and other work
  units and activities throughout the field activity, installation, command (below major command level)
  or major organization level;
AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000                                                                                      9

- Representatives of local public interest groups; - case workers in congressional district offices;
- Reporters for local and other limited media outlets reaching a small, general population.
A2.1.4.2. 2 Point Level: Frequently communicates at levels comparable to any below. Contacts include
those which take place in meetings and conferences and unplanned contacts for which the incumbent is
designated as a contact point by higher management. They often require extensive preparation of briefing
materials or up-to-date technical familiarity with complex subject matter.
- High ranking military or civilian managers, supervisors, leaders and technical staff at major organiza-
  tion levels; with headquarters administrative support staff; or with comparable personnel in other Federal
  agencies;
- Key staff of public interest groups (usually in formal briefings) with significant political influence or
  media coverage;
- Journalists representing influential city or county newspapers or comparable radio or television cover-
  age;
- Congressional committee and subcommittee staff assistants below staff director or chief counsel levels;
- Contracting officials and high level technical staff of large industrial firms;
- Local officers of regional or national trade associations, public action groups, or professional organiza-
  tions; and/or State and local government managers doing business with the organization.
A2.1.4.3. 3 Point Level: Frequently communicates at levels comparable to any below. Contacts may
take place in meetings, conferences, briefings, speeches, presentations, or oversight hearings and may
require extemporaneous response to unexpected or hostile questioning. Preparation typically includes
briefing packages or similar presentation materials, requires extensive analytical input by the incumbent
and subordinates, and/or involves the assistance of a support staff.
- Influential individuals or organized groups from outside the Air Force, such as executive level contract-
  ing and other officials of major defense contractors or national officers of employee organizations;
- Regional or national officers or comparable representatives of trade associations, public action groups,
  or professional organizations of national stature;
- Key staff of congressional committees, and principal assistants to senators and representatives. For
  example: majority and minority staff directors, chief counsels, and directors of field operations;
- Elected or appointed representatives of State and local governments;
- Journalists of major city, regional, or national newspapers, magazines, television, or radio.
- SES, flag or general officer, or Executive Level heads of bureaus and higher level organizations in other
  Federal agencies.
A2.1.5. Factor 5 - Judgement And Decision Making.
A2.1.5.1. 1 Point Level: Ensures that information provided to outside parties is accurate and consistent;
plans and coordinates the work directed with that of others outside the subordinate organization; and/or
resolves differences of opinion among managers, supervisors, leaders, employees, contractors or others.
A2.1.5.2. 2 Point Level: Justifies, defends, or negotiates in representing the program, activity seg-
ment(s), or organizational unit(s) directed, in obtaining or committing resources, and in gaining compli-
10                                                                      AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000

ance with established policies, regulations, or contracts. Decisions at this level usually involve active
participation in conferences, meetings, hearings, or presentations involving problems or issues of consid-
erable consequence or importance to the program or program segment(s) managed.
A2.1.5.3. 3 Point Level: Influences, motivates, or persuades persons or groups to accept opinions or take
actions related to advancing the fundamental goals and objectives of the program or segments directed, or
involving the commitment or distribution of major resources, when intense opposition or resistance is
encountered due to significant organizational or philosophical conflict, competing objectives, major
resource limitations or reductions, or comparable issues. At this level, the persons contacted are suffi-
ciently fearful, skeptical, or uncooperative that highly developed communication, negotiation, conflict
resolution, leadership, and similar skills must be used to obtain the desired results.
A2.1.6. Factor 6 - Planning:
A2.1.6.1. 1 Point Level: Selects the most economical and timely methods of execution in light of
urgency or need and available resources and chooses between in-house and contract accomplishment.
A2.1.6.2. 2 Point Level: Develops long-term strategic plans. Integrates planning from development and
user organizations and implements changes in on-going programs to satisfy new requirements.
                                                 - OR -
Assists two-letter chief at Command level in establishing organizational objectives in consonance with
AFMC goals. Assists the two-letter in developing short and long range plans for meeting the demands of
the functional area within the constraints of Air Force guidance, public law and budget resources.
A2.2. Colonel Position Scoring Key.


     Criticality to Mission       Level of Organization           Execuvity Level Reponsibility
                                  Field
Support Area            1.0       Squadron CC or CV     1.0       Deputy/Vice                 1.0
- Personnel                       Wing 2-Letter
- Financial Management
- Contracting
- Plans
Business Area           1.2       Group CC or CV      1.3         Commander/Chief             1.5
- T&E                             Center/Lab Director             Director/Division Chief
- S&T                             or 2-Letter
- Corporate Information           SPO Chief or Deputy
Business Area           1.4       Wing CC or CV       1.6
- Operations
- Acquisition/Logistics           Center CC or CV          1.9
                                  HEADQUARTERS
                                  3-Letter                 1.0
                                  2-Letter                 1.3
AFMCI38-202 10 JULY 2000                                            11

NOTES:
Score at highest qualified Level of Organization.
Detachments are one level lower than their parent.
Score all FIELD positions separately from HEADQUARTERS positions.
