Administrative Changes to AFMCI 36-2645, Senior Functional Roles and Responsibilities

OPR: HQ AFMC/A1R

Reference in Attachment 3, Functional Management Primary Roles and Responsibilities,
Note **, to “Paragraph 7.5” is hereby changed to “Paragraph 6.5”.



21 July 2014
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 36-2645

                                                                                    20 JUNE 2014

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                                SENIOR FUNCTIONAL ROLES
                                                                    AND RESPONSIBILITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/A1R                                                     Certified by: HQ AFMC/A1R
                                                                                 (David L. Taylor)
Supersedes:    AFMCI36-2645,                                                            Pages: 23
               31 January 2011


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-26, Total Force
Development. It outlines the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) functional management
construct and the roles and responsibilities of AFMC Senior Functionals. Headquarters (HQ)
AFMC functional management authorities in this AFMC Instruction (AFMCI) are granted to all
HQ AFMC Senior Functionals. Center Senior Functional (CSF) authorities as outlined in this
AFMCI are granted only to those functionals listed in Attachment 2. This AFMCI may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be
routed to HQ AFMC/A1R for coordination prior to certification and approval. This publication
does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
and their units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-260, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of authorities
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to
the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-
tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).
 2                                                                                             AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


This AFMCI establishes a collaborative system of resource and personnel management between
numbered or named unit Commanders/Directors (CC/CL), non-unit Directors (Directors of
Center staff and other Center directorates), CSFs, and ultimately HQ AFMC Senior Functionals,
for those CSFs as outlined in Attachment 2. The relationships laid out in this instruction are
critical to mission success, allowing the functional communities to leverage their expertise in
defining and fulfilling the force management and development needs of their workforces,
develop functional policy, and standardize processes, while allowing leadership to focus on
strategic mission goals and day-to-day mission accomplishment.

This AFMCI documents AFMC senior functional roles and responsibilities only with regard to
workforce management/development. Other functional policies and processes can be found in
appropriate DoD/AF/AFMC instructions. Headquarters, Center, and Organizational Senior
Functionals are responsible for the implementation and standardization of these policies and
processes.

Requests for establishment of additional CSFs must be submitted to the appropriate HQ AFMC
functional directorate for review/concurrence and submission to the AFMC
Group/Board/Council for final approval by AFMC/CC.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This AFMCI has been rewritten and must be completely reviewed. This revised publication
updates the responsibilities of the CSFs and adds to the listing of approved CSFs at Attachment
2. Also, due to the 5 Center reorganization of AFMC during 2012, the number of AFMC
Centers decreased from 12 to 5; 5 installations, Arnold AFB, Eglin AFB, Hanscom AFB, Hill
AFB, and Robins AFB no longer host a Center. The role of the Site Senior Functional (SSF) has
been established to ensure functional collaboration at AFMC locations that do not host a Center
and to assist CSFs in the functional management/development of their workforces.

       1.     Background. ...........................................................................................................         3
       2.     Scope. .....................................................................................................................    3
       3.     Terms. ....................................................................................................................     3
       4.     Senior Functional Framework: ..............................................................................                     3
       5.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................                4
       6.     Shared Roles and Responsibilities. ........................................................................                    11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               15

Attachment 2—MANDATORY FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT AREAS                                                                                           19

Attachment 3—FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT PRIMARY ROLES AND
             RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                21

Attachment 4—CIVILIAN PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK                                                                                       23
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                      3


1. Background.
   1.1. The AF Acquisition Improvement Plan, dated 4 May 2009, provides the foundational
   guidance for implementing functional management within Air Force Materiel Command for
   the purpose of better aligning functional expertise within its acquisition organizations.
   Functional management allows Program Executive Officers (PEO) to focus on program
   execution and supports the Office of the Secretary of Defense policy on independence of
   contracting.
   1.2. To improve the functional management process, AFMC initially decided to utilize
   Headquarters, Center, and Organization Senior Functionals. After AFMC reorganized in
   2012, which resulted in a reduction to five AFMC Centers, it was also decided that SSFs
   were needed to ensure functional collaboration continued at the installations that would no
   longer host a Center. AFMC also expanded functional management beyond traditional
   acquisition functionals. Senior Functionals are responsible for determining functional
   workforce requirements and developing personnel to meet the Command’s mission to ensure
   AFMC has the right talent in the right place at the right time to accomplish the mission.
   Senior functionals are also responsible for developing and implementing functional policies
   and processes.
2. Scope. This AFMCI applies to all AFMC Centers and organizations that report directly to
AFMC/CC, with HQ AFMC functionals providing functional management oversight. It
specifies primary roles and responsibilities of unit and non-unit leaders and CSF/SSFs (reference
Attachment 3 for summary). For the purposes of this instruction, the terms functional personnel
and functional workforce include assigned active duty military, DoD civilians (to include
overhires), Individual Mobilization Augmentees/Individual Reservists, the support contractor
workforce, and all associated manpower authorizations (Note: Senior Functionals will be
involved in the identification of functional contractor workforce requirements, not the
management and development of the contractor workforce).
   2.1. Centers/CSFs may need to develop Center Level Agreements (CLA)/ Memorandums of
   Agreement (MOA) between Centers should one Center’s CSF need to delegate its authority
   to a like functional from another Center (this may be useful at those AFMC installations that
   no longer host a Center but maintain a functional OL presence).
3. Terms. See Attachment 1.
4. Senior Functional Framework:
   4.1. Senior Functional Construct. Implementing a robust functional management process
   involves using a Senior Functional construct. The foundation of this construct is the
   establishment of Senior Functionals to develop and manage the functional policies and
   resources under their purview. Senior Functionals may exist at the Headquarters, Centers,
   Sites, and Organizational Levels.
       4.1.1. HQ Senior Functional. AFMC/CC is responsible for assigning MAJCOM Senior
       Functional responsibilities. MAJCOM Senior Functionals are responsible for advising
       AFMC/CC concerning functional policy, processes, and workforce planning, as well as
       advocating for functional resources across the MAJCOM. The HQ Senior Functional
       manages the development and implementation of functional mission and workforce
       management and development policies and processes across the MAJCOM, to include
 4                                                              AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


        ensuring consistent functional processes across Centers.         Functional workforce
        management processes may include, but are not limited to, the development of policy for
        filling important HQ and Center functional positions, to include HQ functional
        involvement in applicant screening and selection. HQ AFMC/A1 is responsible for
        tracking HQ AFMC functionals who oversee the CSFs governed by this AFMCI.
        4.1.2. Center Senior Functional (CSF). CSFs are dual-hatted, responsible for
        overseeing and standardizing Center functional policy and processes, as well as managing
        the functional workforce, to include workforce planning, advocating for Center resources,
        identifying workforce competencies and gaps, enabling broadening opportunities, and
        providing highly skilled personnel to their supported organizations. The CSF staff, the
        Center Senior Functional Office (CSFO), provides assistance to the CSF by supporting
        force development processes, such as manpower actions, personnel actions, functional
        training management, etc.
        4.1.3. Organization Senior Functional (OSF). OSFs are the senior functionals within
        subordinate units and non-units. OSFs are dual-hatted, performing day-to-day activities
        in support of the mission, and are also responsible for advising leadership in the
        management of functional positions and personnel. OSFs execute all functional policies,
        processes, and force development plans, as delegated by their CSFs, within their
        organizations. OSFs coordinate organizational functional actions, as necessary, with
        their CSFs and communicate functional direction down to like functionals in subordinate
        organizations.
            4.1.3.1. CSF/OSF Relationship. The CSFs are responsible for assigning OSF
            responsibilities within supported organizations. The CSFs maintain a close
            relationship with OSFs with regard to functional policies and processes and may
            delegate their authority to manage certain functional activities to OSFs. CSF
            authorities that are delegated to OSFs must be explicitly delegated through an
            appointment letter and understood by the CSF, the applicable OSF, and the OSF-
            supported organization. Supported organizations shall not assume all CSF authorities
            have been delegated to their OSFs.
        4.1.4. Site Senior Functional (SSF). SSFs are responsible for ensuring functional
        collaboration across their sites and executing those functional management
        responsibilities specifically delegated by the CSFs represented at the site. SSFs are
        responsible for ensuring functional collaboration across their sites. At AFMC
        installations with a collocated host Center (Edwards AFB, Kirtland AFB, Tinker AFB,
        and Wright-Patterson AFB), the CSF will assume SSF responsibilities. At AFMC
        installations that have a functional Center Operating Location (OL), the Senior
        Functional within the OL will be the SSF; if there is no functional OL, then the HQ
        Senior Functional will appoint the SSF, if the size of the functional workforce warrants
        an SSF. At all other AFMC sites (non-AFMC installations), the HQ Senior Functionals
        will appoint SSFs if needed.
5. Roles and Responsibilities. (Note: Attachment 3 outlines primary roles and responsibilities
in tabular form.)
     5.1. Center Senior Functional. The CSF is typically the senior official within each Center
     staff function; however, there may be circumstances where the CSF does not reside on the
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                     5


  Center staff. The Center CC has the responsibility for appointing the location of the CSFs in
  coordination with the HQ AFMC Senior Functionals. Senior Functional authorities are
  granted only for those functionals approved by AFMC/CC (listed in Attachment 2).
     5.1.1. The CSF serves as the primary interface with the HQ AFMC Senior Functional for
     strategic issues and policy formulation in his/her respective areas of expertise.
         5.1.1.1. The CSF assists in the development and implementation of standardized AF
         and MAJCOM functional policy and processes, develops Center-unique functional
         policy and processes, and manages the execution of functional policies and processes,
         ensuring consistent application across organizations.
     5.1.2. The CSF, in collaboration with the Center Director of Personnel (DP), is
     responsible for developing functional requirements, policies, and processes that enable
     effective force development execution for its functional employees.                These
     responsibilities are further outlined in AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development.
     Note that all functional communities, to include those as approved through this AFMCI
     as CSFs, exercise AFI 36-2640 responsibilities.
         5.1.2.1. The CSF provides strategic management of the functional workforce
         (military/civilian/ contractor) across the Center enterprise and is responsible for
         assessing current and projected workforce requirements and its required skills mix
         (demand), assessing the current workforce to determine resource availability (supply),
         determining shortfalls in the workforce (gap analysis), and strategizing to meet any
         shortfalls. (Note: Senior Functionals will be involved in the identification of
         functional contractor workforce requirements, i.e., organic/contractor mix, but not the
         management and development of the contractor workforce.)
         5.1.2.2. The CSF coordinates on new functional manpower and resource
         requirements for non-units.
         5.1.2.3. CSFs will coordinate employee recruiting efforts with the host Center DP,
         the Center DP OL, where applicable, and the appropriate installation Civilian
         Personnel Offices, and develop support agreements with other installation
         organizations to maintain a well-integrated recruiting program.
     5.1.3. The CSF ensures functional development opportunities (i.e., local functional
     training) are made available to the functional workforce across the Center and, to the
     extent that resources allow, to personnel aligned to other CSFs or non-functionally
     aligned personnel.
     5.1.4. The CSF will coordinate with the appropriate HQ AFMC Directorate and HQ
     AFMC/A1L any actions which impact positions covered by any centrally managed
     developmental program, i.e., Civilian Strategic Leader Program, functional Leadership
     Development Initiatives (LDI), or any other AFMC functional-specific program.
     5.1.5. Authorization Management. (Note: Refer to Paragraph 6.5.1 for management
     of contracting authorizations)
         5.1.5.1. Units (numbered or named):
             5.1.5.1.1. The CSF advises the unit CC/CL (who manages the unit
             authorizations) in the assessment of functional workload. The unit OSF, who is in
6                                                            AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


           a position to recognize the tactical needs of the unit, provides inputs to the CSF in
           the development of the strategic functional workforce planning.
           5.1.5.1.2. The CSF will develop recommendations on movement of functional
           authorizations within and between units (or between units and non-units) in
           coordination with applicable leaders.
           5.1.5.1.3. Issues not resolved between the CSF and affected unit leaders will be
           addressed using the resolution process outlined in paragraph 5.5.2.
       5.1.5.2. Non-Units:
           5.1.5.2.1. The CSF is responsible for all functional authorizations on the Unit
           Manpower Document (UMD) of non-units and has decision authority and related
           administrative execution responsibility for all manpower changes, in coordination
           with the affected non-unit leaders and the servicing manpower office. The non-
           unit leader may delegate this coordination to the appropriate OSF.
           5.1.5.2.2. The CSF assesses functional workload, based on communications with
           the OSF, and ensures the positions on the UMD accurately capture needed
           requirements. The CSF coordinates required manpower studies with the servicing
           manpower office.
           5.1.5.2.3. Exception. The CSF cannot delete authorizations or change the
           functional skills mix of positions without coordination of the affected non-unit
           leader or his/her designee. Functional skill mix includes civilian occupational
           series/code, military AFSC, grade level/pay band, supervisory level code,
           authorization type (military, civilian), and APDP position coding (career
           field/level).   If agreement between the CSF and the affected non-unit
           leader/representative cannot be reached, resolution will be made following the
           process in paragraph 5.5.2. If there are wide ranging changes affecting multiple
           units/non-units as well as multiple functionals, consider convening the appropriate
           corporate decision-making body to review.
    5.1.6. Personnel Management. The CSF, or his/her designee, assigns personnel to
    functionally aligned positions, to include initial assignments, reassignments, and civilian
    hiring, in coordination with the OSF and the gaining supervisor. (Note: Refer to
    Paragraph 6.5.2 for management of contracting personnel.)
       5.1.6.1. Civilian Position Fills. The CSF, or his/her designee, will determine the
       method of filling all functional vacancies in coordination with the organization leader.
       Methods of filling the positions may include: reassignment, promotion, or
       recruitment (internal and/or external). In filling vacant positions, provisions of
       applicable local merit promotion plans, negotiated labor agreements, and Air Force
       Personnel Center career field management team requirements must be followed. The
       CSF, or his/her designee, will serve as the approval authority when filling positions.
       5.1.6.2. Civilian Promotions:
           5.1.6.2.1. Functionally aligned positions. For functionally aligned positions,
           the CSF, or his/her designee, will serve as the selection authority when
           competitively filling positions. The organization’s leadership, or his/her designee,
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                   7


            will participate in the candidate evaluation process and will coordinate on all
            promotion decisions. In the event there is disagreement between organization
            leadership and the CSF/CSF designee, the organization leader and the CSF will
            elevate the matter per resolution process outlined in paragraph 5.5.2. When
            promotion panels are used, membership will include representation from
            organization management, as designated by the organization leader, and from the
            applicable functional, as designated by the CSF.
        5.1.6.3. Employee-requested                  Reassignments/Management-directed
        Reassignments (lateral movements). The CSF, or his/her designee (e.g., the OSF),
        will serve as the selection authority when moving personnel laterally within or
        between organizations within the Center to fill functionally managed positions. The
        CSF must coordinate lateral movements with applicable OSF(s) and the affected
        organization leader(s) (or their designees). In the case of movement from one
        functional area to another, both CSFs must be in agreement. In all cases, if there is
        disagreement, the organization leader and the CSF will elevate per resolution process
        outlined in paragraph 5.5.2.
        5.1.6.4. Force Renewal Programs (Palace Acquire (PAQ)/COPPER CAP,
        Pathways Programs Recent Graduates, and Interns (formerly the Student
        Career Experience Program (SCEP)). The CSF is responsible for surveying field
        activities to determine mission requirements and identify organizations and
        supervisors offering the greatest training and placement potential. The CSF will
        prioritize fiscal year requirements to the AFPC Career Field Team (CFT) with a
        commitment to place interns in locally funded authorizations when training is
        complete. Also they ensure supervisors understand and commit fully to their
        assigned responsibilities and cooperate with servicing personnel offices and AFPC
        CFTs. The CSF advises AFMC/A1 and AFPC CFT at least six months before
        scheduled training when management cannot place the intern at the current training
        site. The organization leader is responsible to ensure proper supervision/mentoring
        and on-the-job training.
     5.1.7. Civilian Performance Management. The CSF is responsible for ensuring the
     appropriate application of performance management principles across the functional area,
     to include, but not limited to, establishing a framework of common performance
     objectives and consistent employee assessment, where practicable.
     5.1.8. In collaboration with the Center Director of Personnel (DP), the CSF is
     responsible for succession planning, career broadening, assessing future skills needs,
     developing and executing an effective hiring strategy (including recruitment as
     appropriate), ensuring a sound functional development program, and developing
     functional requirements, policies, and processes that enable effective force development
     execution for its functional employees.
     5.1.9. The Center Senior Functional Office (CSFO). The CSFO is the office which
     supports the CSF by performing the day-to-day activities in carrying out CSF force
     management roles and responsibilities. These activities may be assigned/delegated to
     appropriate Center personnel, to include non-collocated Center SSFs; activities delegated
     across Centers should be documented in appropriate CLAs/MOAs per paragraph 2.1.
8                                                                 AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


           5.1.9.1. CSFO and Authorization Change Requests (ACR). The CSFO is
           responsible for the ACR process for functionally managed authorizations in non-units
           while following the guidance provided in paragraph 5.1.5.2. The administrative
           action of creating and submitting an ACR may be explicitly delegated to supported
           non-units; however, the CSF maintains Operational Control (OPCON) for the ACR
           process for functionally managed authorizations.
           5.1.9.2. CSFO and Requests for Personnel Actions (RPA). The CSFO is
           responsible for the Requests for Personnel Action (RPA) process for functionally
           managed civilian personnel/ positions for units and non-units while following the
           guidance provided in paragraph 5.1.6. The CSFO must coordinate RPAs for position
           fills with the supported organizations to ensure adherence to work year/civilian pay
           goals. The administrative action of creating and submitting an RPA may be explicitly
           delegated by the CSF to supported organizations; however, the CSF maintains
           OPCON for hiring, fills, and the RPA process for functionally managed positions.
           See paragraph 5.3.3. regarding ACR/RPA creation and submission for units.
       5.1.10. AFMC Tenant Organizations and Geographically Separated Units (GSU):
           5.1.10.1. For those AFMC tenant organizations and/or AFMC geographically
           separated units (GSU) located at AFMC installations, the host CSFs are responsible
           for ensuring collaboration with the functional OSFs of those organizations/units to
           leverage resources and gain efficiencies. These plans and activities may include, but
           are not limited to, coordinated recruitment and hiring plans, cross-utilization of
           personnel in order to provide increased breadth of experience, workforce
           development/training activities, etc. The level of collaboration will be based on the
           needs and capabilities of the tenants/GSUs. These relationships may be documented
           in support agreements between the host CSFs and tenant organizations/GSUs.
           5.1.10.2. AFMC tenants/GSUs at non-AFMC locations should collaborate with host
           installation organizations where practicable to leverage functional resources.
           5.1.10.3. CSFs must remain cognizant of the needs of their geographically separated
           personnel and ensure their force development needs are being met.
       5.1.11. AFMC organizations with non-functionally aligned employees who would
       benefit from participation in CSF-provided development plans and activities may
       establish support agreements to allow their employees to participate. Likewise, CSFs
       may work together to provide force development plans and activities across functional
       lines for employees that would benefit from cross-functional development.
    5.2. Site Senior Functional (SSF). SSFs are responsible for ensuring cross-Center
    functional collaboration for their installation/site to leverage resources and gain efficiencies.
    These plans and activities may include, but are not limited to, coordinated recruitment and
    hiring plans, coordinating cross-utilization of personnel in order to provide increased breadth
    of experience, workforce development/training activities, etc. SSFs do not automatically
    have the other authorities, as outlined in this AFMCI, exercised by a CSF (such as
    management of functional authorizations and personnel across the location); additional CSF
    authorities must be explicitly delegated by the supported CSFs.
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                    9


  5.3. Unit Commanders/Directors (CC/CL). Commanders/Directors of units at AFMC
  Centers are responsible for mission accomplishment and organizing, training, and equipping
  their units. They are also responsible for managing all authorizations within their units.
  Within units, CSFs have decision authority and ultimate accountability for functional
  workforce management through hiring, functional training and development, appropriate
  assignment actions, succession planning, performance management, etc. These actions are
  done in coordination with affected unit CCs/CLs.
     5.3.1. The CC/CL is responsible for managing the UMD for all unit positions and has
     decision authority and related administrative execution responsibility for all manpower
     and organizational changes, in coordination with affected CSFs and the servicing
     manpower office (Note: Refer to Paragraph 6.5.1 for management of contracting
     authorizations). The CC/CL or designated representative (e.g., OSF) is responsible for
     aligning functional authorizations within the unit, in coordination with affected CSFs.
         5.3.1.1. The CC/CL, in coordination with the CSFs, assesses the workload and
         ensures the positions/functional skills mix on the UMD accurately captures needed
         requirements, in coordination with the servicing manpower office. CC/CL is
         responsible for coordinating required manpower studies with the servicing manpower
         office.
         5.3.1.2. The CC/CL, with the advice of the OSF and in coordination with the CSF,
         ensures new functional manpower and resource requirements are validated and
         submitted through local Center processes for consideration in the Center POM.
         5.3.1.3. Exception. The CC/CL cannot delete authorizations or change the
         functional skills mix of positions without affected CSF (or designee) coordination.
         Functional skills mix includes civilian occupational series/code, military AFSC, grade
         level/pay band, supervisory level code, authorization type (military, civilian), and
         APDP position coding (career field/level). These types of tactical changes impact the
         strategic functional management at the aggregate level. If agreement cannot be
         reached, resolution will be made following the process in paragraph 5.5.2. If there is
         a broad-spectrum of changes affecting multiple units and crossing functional lines,
         consider convening the appropriate corporate decision making body to review.
     5.3.2. The CC/CL is responsible for filling positions not aligned under functional
     management as well as reassigning personnel not managed by a functional to unit
     positions. The CC/CL coordinates on CSF-recommended personnel reassignments
     within the unit and across organizations. If agreement cannot be reached, resolution will
     be made following the process outlined in paragraph 5.5.2.
     5.3.3. Unit resource management offices are responsible for initiating ACRs for all unit
     authorizations, to include functionally managed authorizations, while following the
     guidance provided in paragraph 5.1.5.1. Unit resource management offices are
     responsible for creating and submitting RPAs for non-functionally aligned civilian
     personnel/positions, and for those functionally aligned civilian personnel/positions for
     which they may have been explicitly delegated RPA duties by Center CSFs (however, the
     CSF maintains OPCON for hiring, fills, and the RPA process for functionally managed
     positions). Contracting authorizations/personnel are managed per paragraphs 6.5.1 and
     6.5.2, respectively.
10                                                             AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


     5.3.4. The CC/CL is specifically vested with the responsibility of ensuring sound
     functional management within the unit. They shall maintain a close relationship with the
     CSFs to ensure integrity of functional policies and processes, capability planning, and
     strategic management of the workforce in support of the Center’s mission.
  5.4. Non-Unit Leaders. The leaders of non-units, such as Center staff directorates, other
  Center directorates, etc., are primarily responsible for mission accomplishment, while relying
  on the CSFs for managing functional organizing, training, and equipping activities.
  Therefore, CSFs are responsible for managing and realigning functional authorizations
  within and between non-units in order to meet the ebb and flow of mission requirements. For
  non-units, as is the case with units, CSFs are responsible for managing the functional
  workforce to include hiring and assigning functional personnel, managing functional training
  and development programs, planning for functional succession, performance management of
  the functional workforce, etc. These actions are done in coordination with the affected
  leadership. Note that the Center staff directorates are also non-units; therefore, the CSFs are
  responsible for both functional authorization and personnel management across the Center
  staffs.
     5.4.1. The non-unit leader coordinates on CSF proposals regarding personnel actions, to
     include hiring, assignments, and training and development. If the non-unit leader does
     not concur with the proposals of the CSF, resolution will be made following the process
     outlined in paragraph 5.5.2.
     5.4.2. The non-unit leader coordinates on CSF proposals regarding the movement of
     functional authorizations within the organization, between organizations, and on changes
     to the functional skill of a position. If the non-unit leader does not concur with the
     proposals of the CSF, resolution will be made following the process outlined in paragraph
     5.5.2.
     5.4.3. The non-unit leader coordinates with the CSFs in the validation and submission of
     new functional manpower and resource requirements, through local Center processes, for
     consideration in the Center POM.
     5.4.4. The non-unit leader, in coordination with his/her OSFs, executes functional
     processes and policies developed by the CSFs. The non-unit leader shall maintain a close
     relationship with the CSFs to ensure integrity of functional policies and processes,
     capability planning, and strategic management of the workforce in support of the
     Center’s mission.
     5.4.5. Non-unit resource management offices are responsible for initiating ACRs for
     non-unit, non-functionally aligned authorizations. Non-unit resource management offices
     are responsible for creating and submitting RPAs for non-functionally aligned civilian
     personnel/positions, and for those functionally aligned civilian personnel/positions for
     which they may have been explicitly delegated RPA duties by Center CSFs (however, the
     CSF maintains OPCON for hiring, fills, and the RPA process for functionally managed
     positions). Contracting personnel are managed as noted in paragraph 6.5.2.
  5.5. Center-level Corporate Board:
     5.5.1. The Center will charter a corporate decision-making body to develop the Center’s
     human capital management plan. This body will be chaired by a Center CC designee
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                    11


      (CV, CA or DS), with Center direct reporting unit CCs/CLs, direct reporting non-unit
      leaders, and the CSFs as primary voting members, with other advisors from the staff as
      necessary.
      5.5.2. The Center will establish an issue-resolution process for the CSFs and supported
      organizations to resolve specific functional process or resource-related issues such as
      functional skills mix changes and manpower reallocations across organizations. The
      expected path for non-Center-wide issue resolution is through the established chain of
      command within the organization, then to the respective directorate chief/unit leader and
      CSF, if necessary. If further arbitration and decision are required, both parties will
      outline the issue to the corporate decision body, or, if appropriate, to the Center/CC for
      decision.
   5.6. Center DP.
      5.6.1. The Center DP and the CSFs are jointly responsible for the development of a
      workforce management program and its deployment. The Center DP is also responsible
      for monitoring the management of workforces that are not overseen by a CSF to assure
      that the needs of the entire Center workforce are being met.
      5.6.2. The Center DP will conduct an annual review with the CSFs to ensure the
      alignment of authorizations/personnel to the appropriate CSF.
      5.6.3. The Center DP, working with the CSFs and tenant organizations, will oversee
      employee recruitment activities to ensure a coordinated Center and installation approach
      to recruitment.
      5.6.4. The Center DP will advise the CSFs on their roles and responsibilities as defined
      in this AFMCI.
6. Shared Roles and Responsibilities. The following paragraphs outline those roles and
responsibilities shared by organizational leaders and the CSFs:
   6.1. Performance Management.
      6.1.1. Civilian Performance Management. Rating guidance for civilian employees
      may be found in performance management program guidance for the applicable pay
      system (e.g., General Schedule (GS), Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System
      (DCIPS), etc.). Unit and non-unit leaders and OSFs share responsibility for assessing the
      performance of the functional workforce to ensure day-to-day performance and
      adherence to functional policies and processes.
         6.1.1.1. Functionally-aligned employees:
             6.1.1.1.1. Functional civilian employees will be rated by their immediate
             supervisors (Raters of record). Any changes to the immediate supervisor of
             record must be coordinated with the CSF.
             6.1.1.1.2. Functional civilian employees will be reviewed by their second level
             supervisor (Reviewer); the Reviewer will be from the same functional area as the
             Ratee. If the situation arises where the Reviewer is not of the same functional
             area as the Ratee, then the Reviewer will be the next higher level senior
             functional. This may be an organizational OSF; if there is no higher functional
12                                                             AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


             within the organization, then the review shall be accomplished by the CSF.
             Attachment 4 depicts the civilian performance management framework to ensure
             proper functional review is obtained.
             6.1.1.1.3. CSFs will be rated by their immediate supervisors. If there is no like
             functional higher than the CSF within the Center, he/she does not require a
             functional review.
         6.1.1.2. Non-Functionally Aligned Employees. Non-functionally aligned employees
         will be rated by their immediate supervisors (Raters of record). Their second level
         supervisors will serve as their Reviewers.
     6.1.2. When preparing performance appraisals, supervisors are expected to solicit input
     from those individuals that have direct knowledge of employees’ work performance.
     6.1.3. Military Performance Management.        Military performance management is
     governed by AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems.
  6.2. Training:
     6.2.1. For all assigned personnel, organizational leaders are responsible for: 1)
     identifying and fulfilling training needs unique to their unit missions; 2) ensuring all
     assigned personnel receive required ancillary training; and 3) identifying annual non-
     functional training requirements and quota needs as prescribed by the appropriate Center
     civilian/military training organization(s). For assigned personnel that are not functionally
     aligned, organizational leaders manage all training, to include determining and fulfilling
     appropriate training required by the job and career development training needs.
     6.2.2. The CSFs manage all functional career development training for their functional
     personnel in all supported organizations, to include identifying functional training
     requirements and quota needs as prescribed by the appropriate Center civilian/military
     training organization(s). The CSF ensures functional employees receive all required,
     prioritized, and funded functional training. If funding is not available or is limited within
     the CSF budget line, the OSF will work with the organization supported to secure
     funding for the requirement.
     6.2.3. The CSF or designee will endorse career development plans (to include plans
     generated in T-CDP or Airman Development Plan (ADP) system) for GS-14/equivalents
     and below.
     6.2.4. The CSF or designee will coordinate on all AF-wide functional career broadening
     opportunities for their assigned functional workforce.
     6.2.5. The OSF and the CSF (or designee) will coordinate on all functional applications
     for military and civilian Developmental Education (DE) programs, to include
     Intermediate and Senior Developmental Education (IDE/SDE).
     6.2.6. Should a CSF believe that training in his/her functional discipline would be of
     benefit to employees aligned under a different CSF, or to non-functionally aligned
     personnel, he/she should consult with the appropriate CSFs/organizational leaders to
     validate that need and determine appropriate resources/methods for satisfying that need.
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                    13


  6.3. Awards. The CSFs manage the annual functional awards for the Center and submit
  nominations per applicable guidance to MAJCOM functionals. For functional communities
  that delineate between installation-level versus Center-level functional awards, organizations
  should follow applicable guidance for submitting functional awards. Organizational leaders
  are responsible for managing their organizational (non-functional) annual and quarterly
  awards program, as well as honorary awards/decorations. See the AFMC Supplement to AFI
  36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, for further guidance.
  6.4. Deployment Readiness:
     6.4.1. Civilian Expeditionary Workforce Deployments. The Unit CC/CL or non-unit
     leader endorses (recommends approval/disapproval) civilian deployment volunteer
     statements in coordination with the appropriate CSF.
  6.5. Exceptions For Contracting Authorizations/Personnel Aligned to the Contracting
  CSF. The Department of Defense policy requiring the functional independence of
  contracting drives the following exceptions which take precedence in the event of conflicts
  with other portions of this AFMCI.
     6.5.1. Management of Contracting Authorizations:
         6.5.1.1. For contracting authorizations, the contracting CSF, in coordination with the
         servicing manpower office, manages all functional authorizations and has decision
         authority and related administrative execution responsibility for all manpower and
         organizational changes for units and non-units. The contracting CSFs will keep
         organization leaders informed of intended changes that impact their organization and
         work with these leaders to resolve any objections they may have. In the event such
         objections cannot be resolved, the organization leader may raise the issue to the
         Center Commander for adjudication. The contracting CSFO is responsible for
         submission of ACRs to initiate authorization changes.
         6.5.1.2. The contracting CSF will assess workload and ensure the contracting
         authorizations in non-contracting organizations accurately capture needed
         requirements. The CSF, with organizational leadership input, can move contracting
         authorizations between units/non-units (subject to any direct program funding
         limitations, such as Foreign Military Sales (FMS) positions) and change the
         functional skills mix of positions as needed to provide the optimal contracting support
         across the Center. In the event there is a prioritization conflict between Centers, the
         HQ AFMC/PK Director of Contracting (AFMC Senior Contracting Official) shall
         have authority to balance workload across the AFMC contracting enterprise as
         necessary to meet mission needs (subject to funding limitations of positions (e.g.,
         FMS positions funded by a particular Letter of Agreement (LOA) or positions funded
         with a particular “color” of money and specific Program Element Code (PEC) that are
         not permitted to cover workload inconsistent with this “color” and PEC). This
         authority allows MAJCOM-level prioritization of work across Center boundaries and
         is a key assumption in achieving functional efficiencies that are key to meeting the
         contracting mission with reduced manpower.
     6.5.2. Management of Contracting Personnel. The contracting CSF is responsible for
     filling or reassigning contracting personnel to organization positions (including
14                                                           AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


     determining the method of filling vacant positions), ensuring sound functional
     management within units/non-units, and executing force development for all contracting
     authorizations/personnel. The contracting CSF is also responsible for ensuring proper
     supervision/mentoring and on-the-job training for all contracting interns. The contracting
     CSFO is responsible for the submission of RPAs to initiate personnel actions.
        6.5.2.1. The contracting CSF will work closely with organization leaders to keep
        them apprised of contracting workforce management activities and to provide an open
        line of communication for organization leaders to provide input and identify issues;
        however, formal coordination of the organization leaders is not required for
        workforce management decisions of the contracting CSF. As stated above,
        organization leaders may raise disputes for adjudication.
        6.5.2.2. Contracting personnel (civilian and military) in each Center will be
        organized under one or more contracting Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) codes
        with subordinate PAS codes aligned under the PAS code of the senior contracting
        leader at the Center. This PAS code construct for contracting implements the
        functional independence requirements of DoDI 5000.66, Operation of the Defense
        Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Workforce Education, Training, and Career
        Development Program.




                                          ADRIAN L. HOVIOUS, Colonel, USAF
                                          Director, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                 15


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006
AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program, 1 July 1999
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 2 January 2013
AFI 36-2640, Executing Total Force Development, 29 December 2011
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 14 March 2013
AFI 36-2805, AFMC Supplement, Special Trophies and Awards, 5 February 2013
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
AFI 38-204, Programming USAF Manpower, 1 August 1999
AFMAN 36-606, Civilian Career Field Management and Development, 3 May 2011
AFMCI 36-2636, Center DP Roles and Responsibilities, 8 May 2013
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
DoDI 5000.66, Operation of the Defense Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Workforce
Education, Training, and Career Development Program, 21 December 2005.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACR—Authorization Change Request
ADP—Airman Development Plan
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program
CA—Executive Director
CC—Commander
CDP—Career Development Plan
CFT—Career Field Team
 16                                                    AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


CL—Civilian Leader
CS—Chief of Staff
CSF—Center Senior Functional
CSFO—Center Senior Functional Office
CV—Vice Commander
DAWIA—Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act
DCIPS—Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DP—Director of Manpower and Personnel
FAC—Functional Accounting Code
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
GS—General Schedule
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
MISCAP—Mission Capability
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OCR—Organizational Change Request
OPCON—Operational Control
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSF—Organization Senior Functional
PAQ—Palace Acquire
PEC—Program Element Code
PEO—Program Executive Officer
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPA—Request for Personnel Action
SDE—Senior Developmental Education
SCEP—Student Career Experience Program
SSF—Site Senior Functional
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
UTC—Unit Type Code
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                       17


Terms
Unit/Non—Unit. The official Air Force definitions of units and non-units are outlined in AFI
38-101, Air Force Organization. For the purposes of this instruction, however, units are deemed
to be CC/CL-led organizations that report to Center/Complex/Wing/Group Commanders,
regardless of their subordinate structures. For example, a CC/CL-led unit that has subordinate
directorates will be considered a unit in its entirety. Directorates that report to the Center
Commander are non-units (e.g., Center staff directorates, other Center directorates, etc.) and are
led by a Director, not a CC/CL.
Organization Leader. The term organizational leader refers to both unit CC/CLs and
non—unit directors and is used in this instruction if there is no difference between the units/non-
units in the application of the referenced policy.
Functional Management. The management of workforces, policies, and processes aligned
by a commonly recognized discipline, such as contracting, finance, engineering, etc. While
all functionals have responsibility for developing functional policy and processes, this
AFMCI gives unique authority to those functionals, listed in Attachment 2, to directly
manage or have input to the management of functionally aligned authorizations/personnel
Center—wide. Functional workforces are typically aligned by common civilian occupational
series, skill sets, etc., and military Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC), etc.
Functional.—The directorate/office responsible for overseeing/managing functional policies,
processes, and workforce.
HQ Senior Functional.—The individual responsible for developing/overseeing/managing the
functional policies, processes, and workforce across AFMC.
Center Senior Functional (CSF).—The individual responsible for overseeing/managing
functional processes/workforce across the Center.
Center Senior Functional Office (CSFO).—The staff which provides assistance to the CSF in
the implementation of force management and development processes.
Functional OL—. An operating location of the Center staff located at an AFMC installation
that doesn’t host an AFMC Center; it is organizationally aligned to one AFMC Center, but may
provide support to the CSFs of multiple Centers.
Site Senior Functional (SSF). The individual responsible for ensuring cross—Center
functional collaboration at an installation/site. Note: The number of SSFs at a particular site
may range from one, if only one functional community exists at a site, to many, if all functionals
as listed in Attachment 2 are represented at a site. SSFs are not necessary at AFMC sites with
only one Center represented and may not be necessary if the size of the multi-Center functional
workforce at a site is minimal.
Organizational Senior Functional (OSF).—The senior functional representative of the CSF
within an organization.
Functional Authorization.—An authorization on the Unit Manpower Document (UMD) that is
aligned to a CSF. Functional authorizations will be identified on the UMD using the appropriate
Program Structure Code (PSC).
 18                                                          AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


Functional Employee.—An employee who, by nature of their career field/position, is aligned to
a CSF, regardless of whether the employee is on a valid UMD authorization. When no UMD
authorization exists, the specific duties need to be reviewed to ascertain proper functional
alignment.
Non—Functionally Aligned Authorization. An authorization on the UMD that is not aligned
to a CSF. The PSC code within the UMD for these authorizations will remain blank.
Non—Functionally Aligned Employee. An employee who is not aligned to a CSF.
Commanders/directors/supervisors are primarily responsible for career management and
development of these employees.
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                     19


                                        Attachment 2
                MANDATORY FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT AREAS

A2.1. The following is a listing of those areas that must implement functional management as
outlined in this AFMCI. This listing also includes specifics on which authorizations/personnel
typically fall within their respective functional areas. Authorizations/personnel should be
examined on a case-by-case basis to determine their functional alignment. When evaluating
personnel classified in general series, e.g., 0301, 0343, etc., specific position duties and/or
AFSCs may need to be reviewed to ascertain possible functional alignment.
   A2.1.1. Program Management. Program management authorizations/personnel are those
   with an AFSC beginning with 060 or 063.                  Civilian program management
   authorizations/personnel are those with a professional occupational series of 1101 on an
   acquisition coded position for Program Management.
   A2.1.2. Contracting. Contracting authorizations/personnel are those with an AFSC
   beginning with 064 or 6C0. Likewise, civilian personnel in the 1102, 1105, and 1106
   occupational series shall be included.
   A2.1.3. Financial Management. Financial management authorizations/personnel are those
   with an AFSC beginning with 065 or 6F0. Civilian personnel in the 05XX occupational
   series, excluding 0511s, should be included. Also, civilian personnel in the 1515
   occupational series which align to AFSC 065 should be included.
   A2.1.4. Science and Engineering. Military science and engineering authorizations/personnel
   are those with an AFSC beginning with 061 or 062. Civilian science and engineering
   authorizations/personnel are those with a professional occupational series (excluding those of
   technicians) of 13XX/15XX (science) or 08XX (engineering), and whose work duties align
   to AFSC 061 or 062. Although not functionally under Science and Engineering, there are
   several closely related technical occupations that require collaboration between CSFs and
   supervisors of these occupations. Some, but not all, examples are engineering technicians,
   equipment specialists, configuration specialist, Cyberspace, Intel, Civil Engineering, etc.
   A2.1.5. Manpower and Personnel. Human resource management (manpower, personnel,
   force development/education and training) authorizations/personnel with an AFSC beginning
   with 038 or 3S. In addition, all authorizations/personnel assigned to an office with
   “Personnel,” “Manpower,” “Force Development,” “Education,” or “Training” in the OSC
   title should be reviewed for inclusion. Likewise, civilian personnel in the 02XX and 17XX
   occupational series should be included.                  General series (0301, 0343, etc.)
   authorizations/personnel that perform manpower, personnel, force development/ education
   and training related duties at least 50 percent of the time should be reviewed for inclusion.
   A2.1.6. Information Protection (IP). Security professionals performing within Information,
   Personnel, and Industrial Security, Scientific/Technical Information (shared with Science and
   Engineering), Foreign Disclosure, NATO, and Technology/Program Protection management
   functions. These may encompass authorizations/personnel in several occupational series
   including 0080 and 0086. The IP CSF will functionally manage employees assigned to the
   Information Protection Offices, those who have duties under the installation Information
 20                                                           AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


   Security Program Manager; and security professionals in Research, Development, Test,
   Evaluation, Logistics, and Acquisition support functions.
   A2.1.7. Logistics. The logistics workforce is defined by four categories: Supply
   Management, Deployment/Distribution/Transportation, Maintenance Support, and Life Cycle
   Logistics (LCL). Functional management includes authorizations/personnel in civilian
   occupational series 0346, 1152, 1601, 1670, 2001, 2003, 2010, 2030, 2032, 2101, 2102,
   2130, 2131, and 2144 (Reference: AFMAN36-606, Civilian Career Field Management and
   Development, Figure 10.1). Logistics Functional management will include all LCL APDP
   coded authorizations/personnel. These positions must perform in LCL competencies at least
   51% of the time as documented in an approved LCL Coding Checklist. LCL members may
   come from the following areas: General Officer AFSC 90GO or 91WO, Officer AFSC
   2XXX, Enlisted 2XXXX, and Civilian Occupational Series 0346 or 1670.
   A2.1.8. Cyberspace Operations Support.          Includes cyberspace operations support,
   information technology, and communications and information professionals primarily in
   AFSCs beginning with 17D or 3D. Occupational series 2210, 0391, and 0335 typically fall
   under cyberspace operations support, as will most 0343 and 0301 positions within an
   installation’s Communications unit (Directorate, Group, or Squadron). Other technical series
   such as 1550, 0854, and 0855 may also be cyberspace operations support but coordination
   with other CSFs, such as the Engineering CSF, is recommended. Cyberspace Operations
   Support functional management will include oversight and administration of Acquisition
   Professional Development Program (APDP) positions and workforce coded as Information
   Technology (IT). The duties and responsibilities described in the AF officers and enlisted
   classification directories determine the appropriate AFSC and functional alignment.
   Intelligence AFSCs and occupational series (e.g., 14N, 1N, and GG-0132) are excluded.
A2.2. Exceptions:
   A2.2.1. Authorizations/personnel assigned to a Small Business Office or the Inspector
   General shall not be aligned to a CSF, with the exception of support personnel, e.g.,
   Manpower and Personnel, etc. CSFs and local Small Business Offices/Inspector Generals,
   working with their respective HQ AFMC functionals, should determine the need for, and
   content of, any agreement on the scope and level of force development support for personnel
   assigned to the local Small Business Offices/Inspector Generals.
   A2.2.2. Authorizations/personnel in the 2210 and 0080 civilian series, assigned to Special
   Security Offices (SSO), will be managed by the Center Senior Intelligence Officers (SIO).
   The COS and IP CSFs will collaborate with the SIOs to ensure force development,
   certification, and career mentoring needs for these personnel are met.
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                                                 21


                                        Attachment 3
    FUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT PRIMARY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Table A3.1. Functional Management Primary Roles and Responsibilities

                                                               Unit            Non Unit
Activity
            C = Coordinate, A =Approval Authority        CSF          CC/CL   CSF    Dir
1. Functional Policy and Processes
a. Develop and deploy functional policies and             A            C       A      C
processes for execution by organization leaders
b. Execute functional policies and processes within       C            A       C      A
the organization
2. Internal Reorganizations (Those initiated by           C            A       C      A
organizational leadership that require an
Organizational Change Request (OCR)) *
3. Authorization Management *, **, ****
a. Identification of position and skill requirements      C            A       A      C
within organization
b. Change in functional skill mix of authorizations       C            A       A      C
within organization
c. Movement of authorizations within the                  C            A       A      C
organization
d. Movement of authorizations between                     C            A       A      C
organizations
e. Assessment of functional workload across               C            A       A      C
organizations
f. Creation and submission of ACRs                        C            A       A      C
4. Civilian Recruiting (external)
a. Analysis of skill requirements, recruiting strategy    C            A       A      C
and recruitment.
b. Authority to fill functional positions externally      A            C       A      C
vice internally.
5. Filling Positions (Civilian and Military) *****,
******
a. Functional reassignments within the organization       A            C       A      C
b. Functional reassignments across organizations          A            C       A      C
c. Functional promotion selections (civilian)             A            C       A      C
d. Planning for O-6/equivalent functional civilian       A***          C      A***    C
positions as applicable.
e. Fills/promotion selections for non-functionally       N/A           A      N/A     A
aligned positions
f. Creation/submission of functional civilian RPAs        A            N/A     A     N/A
6. Workforce Development
22                                                              AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014


a. Management of accession plans and trainee                A           C         A        C
development
b. Management of functional training programs               A           C         A        C
7. Awards
a. Special trophies and awards within organization         N/A          A        N/A       A
b. Annual/quarterly award within organization              N/A          A        N/A       A
c. Annual/quarterly functional awards within                A          N/A        A       N/A
organization
d. Annual/quarterly functional awards across                A          N/A        A       N/A
organizational lines

* Requires coordination with servicing manpower office.
** Note contracting functional exceptions outlined in Paragraph 7.5. The Contracting CSF has
Approval Authority for all authorization management activities related to the contracting
workforce.
*** CSF is conduit to HQ AFMC for management of senior leader planning.
**** Special Program (SP) authorizations are centrally funded/managed by AF SPRG; thus
approval authority resides with MAJCOM SP stewards, HQ AFMC/A5J/A1M, with HQ
AFMC/CC/CV endorsement, as appropriate
***** Special Program (SP) military positions are filled through the AFPC Green Door
Team, which has final assignment approval authority
****** Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) positions are filled by
AFMC/A2 via RPA submission to AFPC
The roles and responsibilities have been categorized as Coordinate (proactively advise/be
informed before action taken), and Approval Authority (manage/accomplish the activity).
Approval authority shall not imply that all activities must occur at Center level in the CSFO;
some authorities may be delegated to OSFs/SSFs, while some activities may be purely
administrative in nature. This matrix is not intended to be all encompassing and should be
augmented at each Center. The intent is to depict the collaborative checks and balances that
must exist between the organization leader and the CSFs; it is expected that specific processes
will be further defined locally.
AFMCI36-2645 20 JUNE 2014                                    23


                                   Attachment 4
           CIVILIAN PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

Figure A4.1. Civilian Performance Management Decision Tree
