BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                        INSTRUCTION 36-402

                                                                         26 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                          PROFESSIONAL MAINTENANCE
                                                        CERTIFICATE PROGRAM (PMXCP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A4PT                                                     Certified by: AFMC/A4P
                                                                          (Mr. Russell Kofoed)
                                                                                      Pages: 46



This instruction implements guidance from AFPD 36-2, Civilian Recruitment and Placement,
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, and
the Department of Defense (DoD) Logistics Human Capital Strategy (HCS)
http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/sci/hcs.htm1. This instruction outlines the objectives, requirements,
assigned responsibilities, and processes to implement and sustain a professional maintenance
certificate program. The purpose of this voluntary certification program is to support the
logistics career development framework by providing a program of recognition that defines
levels of training, formal education, and developmental education, coupled with developmental
assignments, and experiential thresholds that include years and breadth of Air Force maintenance
experience. This instruction applies to all civilian AFMC logistics personnel. This publication
does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserves Command (AFRC)
and their units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.
2                                                                                 AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


Chapter 1—BACKGROUND                                                                                                                        4
     1.1.    DoD Logistics Human Capital Strategy (LOG HCS). ...........................................                                    4
     1.2.    DoD Logistics Career Development Framework (LCDF). ....................................                                        4

Chapter 2—PROFESSIONAL MAINTENANCE CERTIFICATION                                                                                            6
     2.1.    General. ..................................................................................................................    6
     2.2.    Timeline. ................................................................................................................     6
     2.3.    Roles & Responsibilities ........................................................................................              6
     2.4.    Program Documents. .............................................................................................               9
     2.5.    PMxCP Requirements Overview. ..........................................................................                       12
     2.6.    Application Process. ..............................................................................................           14
     2.7.    Application Review Process. .................................................................................                 18
     2.8.    Panel Assessment. ..................................................................................................          20
     2.9.    Continuous Learning. .............................................................................................            21
     2.10.   Training Exemption for Experience. ......................................................................                     22
     2.11.   Equivalents and Fulfillment Review Process. ........................................................                          22

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             24

Attachment 2—LOGISTICS HUMAN CAPITAL STRATEGY COMPETENCIES                                                                                 29

Attachment 3—PROFESSIONAL MAINTENANCE CERTIFICATE PROGRAM
             FRAMEWORK                                                                                                                     30

Attachment 4—MAINTENANCE POPULATION OCCUPATIONAL SERIES                                                                                    31

Attachment 5—SAMPLE CERTIFICATION PACKAGE CHECKLIST (LEVEL 1)                                                                              32

Attachment 6—SAMPLE CERTIFICATION REQUEST COVER LETTER (LEVEL 1)                                                                           33

Attachment 7—SAMPLE PMXCP REQUIREMENTS SHEETS                                                                                              34

Attachment 8—SAMPLE PMXCP COURSE EQUIVALENT/FULFILLMENT MATRIX                                                                             39

Attachment 9—SAMPLE CERTIFICATION FEEDBACK MEMO                                                                                            40

Attachment 10—SAMPLE TRANSMITTAL SHEET                                                                                                     41

Attachment 11—SAMPLE TECHNICAL WRITING EXERCISE (SNAPSHOT)                                                                                 42

Attachment 12—SAMPLE EXECUTIVE CORE QUALIFICATION (ECQ) EXERCISE
             (SNAPSHOT)                                                                                                                    43

Attachment 13—PANEL REVIEW WORKSHEET (SNAPSHOT)                                                                                            44

Attachment 14—SAMPLE CERTIFICATE OF ACHIEVEMENT                                                                                            45
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                3


Attachment 15—SAMPLE APPROVED CONTINUOUS LEARNING COURSES   46
 4                                                         AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                             Chapter 1

                                         BACKGROUND

1.1. DoD Logistics Human Capital Strategy (LOG HCS).
     1.1.1. While its mission and purpose are constant, the logistics workforce faces a
     continuously evolving strategic environment. The DoD Logistics HCS provides a vision that
     establishes the foundation for the future logistics workforce, culture, and human resources
     practices.
     1.1.2. The DoD Logistics HCS vision is an integrated, agile, and high-performing future
     workforce of multi-faceted, interchangeable logisticians that succeed in a joint operating
     environment. The bedrock of this vision is competency-based management of the DoD’s
     logistics workforce, manifest in the creation of a logistics career roadmap with a common
     lexicon and set of core logistics competencies and proficiencies. Operationalized through a
     DoD Logistics Career Development Framework (LCDF), this roadmap will provide the
     future logistics workforce with the right mix of function-specific subject matter experts and
     multi-faceted Enterprise Logisticians.
     1.1.3. The HCS will benefit DoD logisticians, and the Services, Agencies, and Combatant
     Commands (COCOMs). For individuals, the HCS provides a career roadmap and
     development framework with consistent expectations and application of competency
     requirements, in addition to enhanced opportunity for cross-functional development,
     flexibility, and growth. For the Services, Agencies, and COCOMs, the HCS improves
     logistics synergy which, in turn, provides better capabilities for current and emerging mission
     requirements. In addition, the HCS provides an enterprise system that will enable
     identification, development, and utilization of the desired competencies to meet mission
     needs.
     1.1.4. The HCS is the foundation for the Professional Maintenance Certificate Program
     (PMxCP).
1.2. DoD Logistics Career Development Framework (LCDF).
     1.2.1. One of the key pillars of the DoD Logistics HCS is implementation of the LCDF,
     which involves identification, definition, and validation of competencies and proficiencies
     for the logistics workforce. A competency is defined by the Office of Personnel
     Management (OPM) as a measurable pattern of knowledge, skill, abilities, behaviors, and
     other characteristics that are needed to successfully perform work-related tasks.
     Competencies are developed, attained, and sustained through training, developmental and
     rotational assignments, experience (both professional and personal), education, and self-
     development. Attainment of a certain level of competency is assessed based on demonstrated
     abilities to apply the competency in different situations and/or circumstances. Attainment is
     not based just on performance in a role over time, nor is it tied to grade or rank.
     1.2.2. Competencies.
        1.2.2.1. Workforce Category Technical Competencies describe logistics work specific to
        each of the four identified workforce categories: Supply Management (SM),
        Deployment/Distribution/ Transportation (DDT), Maintenance Support, and Life Cycle
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 5


     Logistics (LCL). Workforce Category Technical Competencies are defined and assessed
     from level 1 to level 5, with level 1 reflecting an entry level capability and level 5
     reflecting enterprise-wide recognized subject matter expertise.
     1.2.2.2. Fundamental Competencies describe fundamental skills and abilities necessary
     for all logistics personnel, regardless of specific workforce category. Fundamental
     Competencies, defined by OPM, are defined and assessed at three levels: foundation,
     experienced, and advanced.
     1.2.2.3. Leadership & Management Competencies describe skills and abilities required
     by logistics leaders and managers. Defined by OPM and DoD, these competencies are
     distinguished and assessed at three levels: foundation, experienced, and advanced. Refer
     to Attachment 2 for the Logistics HCS competencies.
  1.2.3. Proficiencies.
     1.2.3.1. Logistics subject matter experts (SMEs) identified a wide range of proficiencies.
     Each proficiency measure of knowledge describes the process for attaining and sustaining
     a competency through increasing levels of relevant, timely, and applicable experiences.
     They are coupled with the employee's ability to apply that competency in increasingly
     broader assignments with wider results.
 6                                                         AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                             Chapter 2

                    PROFESSIONAL MAINTENANCE CERTIFICATION

2.1. General.
     2.1.1. In order to achieve the workforce development goals set forth by DoD, aligned to the
     HCS requirements, yet tailored to the needs of a specific organization, AFMC developed a
     competency-based certificate program in line with the DoD Logistics HCS. This Logistics
     Career Development Framework (LCDF) consists of the competencies defined in the HCS,
     formal education levels, required years of experience, Civilian Development Education
     (CDE), job specific training requirements, as well as supervisor approval and endorsement,
     and panel approval.
     2.1.2. The PMxCP is a voluntary program that recognizes maintenance professionals for
     their subject matter expertise in the maintenance technical competencies, as well as their
     fundamental, and leadership and management capabilities. Refer to Section 2.5.4. for a
     definition of ―maintenance experience‖.            PMxCP considers experience, training
     requirements, education, certification, proficiency documentation, competency-based
     evaluations, mentoring, employee recognition, career broadening, leadership development,
     and assessment via quantifiable workforce readiness metrics. The certification being
     obtained is an occupational certificate, not a training certificate. Refer to Attachment 3 for
     the PMxCP Requirements Framework.
     2.1.3. PMxCP’s goal is to be a world-class development program, designed and
     implemented to create a trained, educated and certified workforce that is empowered to
     continually learn and thrive in a rapidly changing environment. PMxCP is aligned with
     industry best practices, and provides employees with a marketable certification similar to
     those used by other notable organizations.
     2.1.4. The governing body for this program is the Professional Maintenance Certification
     Program (PMxCP) Working Group. The working group is composed of representatives from
     HQ AFMC/A4 Logistics Functional Office, Air Logistics Complexes MXW Training and/or
     MXW Home Office, Test Wing Training, and Air Force Personnel Center Career Field
     Team. The PMxCP Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) is the term used to identify the
     local PMxCP point of contact, unless otherwise stated.
     2.1.5. Employee achievement of the professional maintenance certification is highly
     desirable. When filling vacancies, a selecting official will consider the certification program
     as a delineator, not a qualification, during the selection process.
2.2. Timeline.
     2.2.1. Data call for PMxCP applications will be announced twice a year, usually during first
     and third quarters of the fiscal year. Refer to Section 2.6. for the Application Process.
2.3. Roles & Responsibilities
     2.3.1. HQ PMxCP OPR will:
        2.3.1.1. Chair the PMxCP Working Group.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    7


     2.3.1.2. Perform oversight for the PMxCP.
     2.3.1.3. Maintain application templates on the PMxCP site.
     2.3.1.4. Maintain the PMxCP site content, including the introduction page, frequently
     asked questions, contact information, as well as other details.
     2.3.1.5. Collect certification information from the local PMxCP OPRs.           Maintain a
     record of certification data on applicants. Send data call for applications.
     2.3.1.6. Conduct data analysis and manage program metrics. Present metrics data to
     AFMC leadership, as required. Maintain the policy for metrics reporting, and respond to
     data inquiries on an ongoing basis.
     2.3.1.7. Coordinate and administer the Level 5 panel review, as needed. See Section 2.8.
     Panel Assessment. The HQ PMxCP OPR will have 45 days following the receipt of
     Level 5 applications from the local PMxCP OPR to submit the Level 5 application
     documents to the LAC Executive Panel Manager (LAC EPM) if required for ECQ or
     Technical Writing review.
     2.3.1.8. Maintain the PMxCP overview briefing.
     2.3.1.9. Maintain the procedural guidance for this program.
  2.3.2. Local PMxCP OPR will:
     2.3.2.1. Collect the applications electronically. Evaluate whether additional storage is
     required to record a copy of the application documents in a local repository.
     2.3.2.2. Validate that applications include all required documents. If an application is
     not complete, contact the supervisor to request the required documentation.
     2.3.2.3. Maintain a record of all applications by using a standardized spreadsheet or
     database to track completed PMxCP certification data.
     2.3.2.4. Receive certification recommendations from the supervisor via the transmittal
     form. Use this information to determine the applicant’s certification level.
     2.3.2.5. Prepare the Feedback Memo.            Sign and deliver the Feedback Memo
     electronically to the applicant and courtesy copy the applicant’s supervisor.
     2.3.2.6. Format and deliver the PMxCP Certificate of Achievement to the certified
     applicant. Coordinate the presentation of the certificate to the certified applicant at an
     appropriate recognition forum.
     2.3.2.7. Provide the necessary PMxCP training/mentoring to the maintenance workforce
     and answer applicant’s questions throughout the process.
     2.3.2.8. Advise certified applicants on how to enter the certificate into personnel records.
     2.3.2.9. Coordinate and administer the Level 4 panel review, as needed. See Section 2.8.
     Panel Assessment.
     2.3.2.10. Review and forward Level 5 applications requiring panel review electronically
     to the HQ PMxCP OPR. Comply with local coordination processes.
     2.3.2.11. Report certification data to the HQ PMxCP OPR, as required.
8                                                        AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


    2.3.3. Supervisors will:
       2.3.3.1. Receive and review their employees’ PMxCP application documents. Annotate
       the transmittal sheet as to whether the employee has completed the necessary
       requirements for certification at any level.
       2.3.3.2. Advise their employees to contact the local PMxCP OPR if additional
       information is needed.
       2.3.3.3. Plan for and schedule training during the annual Production Acceptance
       Certification (PAC)/Civilian Training Plan (CTP) or similar review for both required
       PMxCP training and continuous learning.
       2.3.3.4. Submit the signed transmittal sheet along with the employee’s application
       documents for Level 1 or Level 2 electronically to the local PMxCP OPR. Supervisors
       will review the application documents and provide a decision to the local PMxCP OPR in
       accordance with the data call due dates.
       2.3.3.5. Submit the signed transmittal sheet along with the employee’s application
       documents for Levels 3 – 5 to the employee’s second-level supervisor. The second-level
       supervisor provides the approved application documents, including a transmittal sheet
       with the signatures of both the first-level supervisor and the second-level supervisor,
       electronically to the local PMxCP OPR.
       2.3.3.6. Provide details on the transmittal sheet if the application is not approved. This
       information will be included in the feedback memo to be provided to the employee by the
       local PMxCP OPR.
       2.3.3.7. Consider program certification when making selections for vacancies.
    2.3.4. Applicants will:
       2.3.4.1. Review the PMxCP Overview Briefing to learn about the program and how to
       apply for certification. Contact the local PMxCP OPR for this briefing, or visit the
       PMxCP site.
       2.3.4.2. Work with the Supervisor to obtain the necessary PMxCP required training, to
       include continuous learning.
       2.3.4.3. Identify the applicable certification level, and compile and complete the
       certification application documents and submit all necessary documents in accordance
       with the data call due dates as referenced in Section 2.6.
       2.3.4.4. Ensure Civilian Career Brief is up-to-date.
       2.3.4.5. Ensure appropriate supervisor receives all application documents.
       2.3.4.6. Update personnel records after achieving certification in accordance with local
       processes or contact the local training office for guidance
    2.3.5. PMxCP Working Group will:
       2.3.5.1. Meet semi-annually, or as required, to review the PMxCP.
       2.3.5.2. Revise and update PMxCP policy and templates, as required.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    9


     2.3.5.3. Review Level 5 application packages prior to any panel review performed by the
     LAC.
     2.3.5.4. Coordinate LAC-related activities with the LAC Executive Panel Manager
     (EPM) 30 days prior to the LAC panel assessment if required for ECQ or technical
     writing review.
     2.3.5.5. Coordinate with HQ USAF/A4 Logistics Career Field Manager, HQ
     AFMC/A1D and/or HQ AFMC/A1K, and American Federation of Government
     Employees (AFGE), as required.
     2.3.5.6. Support HQ and local PMxCP OPRs, as required.
     2.3.5.7. Adjudicate packages under dispute and serve as final appeal authority.
  2.3.6. Logistics Advisory Council (LAC) will:
     2.3.6.1. Provide guidance and support to the PMxCP Working Group.
     2.3.6.2. Review and determine final decision on Level 5 application packages with
     written exercises (i.e., Executive Core Qualification (ECQ) Exercise or Technical
     Writing Exercise). See Section 2.8. Panel Assessment.
     2.3.6.3. Communicate panel review decisions to the LAC EPM.
2.4. Program Documents. All documents            are   available   on    the   PMxCP     site   at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/AFMCPMxCP
  2.4.1. Certification Package Checklist. The Certification Package Checklist is a tool to help
  the employee, supervisor, and review panel identify the required documents needed for
  certification. This checklist must be included in the application package submitted by the
  employee for each level of certification. Refer to Attachment 5 Sample Certificate Package
  Checklist.
  2.4.2. Certification Request Cover Letter. The purpose of the Certification Request Cover
  Letter is to notify the immediate supervisor that the employee believes they have completed
  the certification requirements at an applicable level, and that they are requesting to apply for
  certification. The Certification Request Cover Letter will be included in the application
  package. Refer to Attachment 6 Sample Certification Request Cover Letter.
  2.4.3. PMxCP Requirements Sheet (by Series). Refer to Attachment 7 Sample PMxCP
  Requirements Sheet.
     2.4.3.1. Most occupational series employed by maintenance have a PMxCP
     Requirements Sheet (RS). The RS list requires standard and series-specific training to
     achieve PMxCP Certification for Levels 1, 2 and 3. In addition to training, the RS for
     Levels 3, 4, and 5, include formal education, developmental education, leadership
     experience, and other workforce category experience.
     2.4.3.2. The PMxCP training requirements include series-specific Civilian Training Plan
     (CTP) training and standard training required for all series. Series-specific training
     includes the training that must be accomplished to successfully and efficiently execute
     the duties of a series-specific position. Standard training, i.e., classroom and/or computer
     based training, is required for all applicants. This training is accessible through an AF-
10                                                      AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


     sponsored program (ex: Defense Acquisition University (DAU), Air Force Institute of
     Technology (AFIT), Community College of the AF (CCAF), SkillSoft, etc. Selected
     readings are also considered as training, and may be selected by the employee and
     approved by his/her supervisor.
     2.4.3.3. The series-specific training is derived from the CTP or Career Field Education
     and Training Plan (CFETP), as applicable. The CTP identifies all required and job-
     related training associated with a particular occupational series and provides the civilian
     employee with a road map with short and long-term requirements for career progression
     in their current job series. This ensures civilian employees receive quality and timely
     training. The PMxCP required training Requirements Sheets for each occupational series
     are uploaded on the PMxCP site. The applicant may contact the supervisor for a copy of
     the CTP or CFETP.
     2.4.3.4. A list of approved training equivalents and fulfillment courses is available on the
     PMxCP site. This list of equivalencies/fulfillments will be updated, as needed. Refer to
     Section 2.11 Equivalents and Fulfillment Review Process and to Attachment 8 for a
     sample list of PMxCP Course Equivalent/Fulfillment Matrix.
     2.4.3.5. The PMxCP certification requirements will be reviewed by the PMxCP Working
     Group on an annual basis to evaluate whether training courses and other certification
     requirements are available and up to date. Additional requirements may be included to
     meet mission goals.
  2.4.4. Civilian Career Brief.
     2.4.4.1. The Civilian Career Brief is an important element of the PMxCP. It provides the
     overall picture of the employee’s completed training, external certifications, education
     level, and experience. Civilian employees are highly encouraged to review and update
     their Civilian Career Brief on a regular basis.
     2.4.4.2. The Civilian Career Brief can be obtained from the applicant’s local Human
     Resources office (e.g. within OB or OM, or FSS) or by visiting the Air Force Personnel
     Center (AFPC) Secure. Applicants to Levels 4 and 5 should request a summary of an
     official Civilian Career Brief from either the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
     (DCPDS) or the Command Human Resources Intelligence System (CHRIS).
     2.4.4.3. Former military personnel should submit a copy of their DD214 (Certificate of
     Release or Discharge from Active Duty), in addition to their Civilian Career Brief, or any
     other documentation that will demonstrate the employee's experience.
     2.4.4.4. Certification level is determined from an applicant’s completion of all
     requirements as determined by the PMxCP Framework. Once all requirements have been
     satisfied and validated by the appropriate reviewing official, a certificate will be awarded,
     to include the appropriate Occupational Certification code. This code designation will
     allow the certification level achieved to be entered on the applicants Civilian Career Brief
     and other personnel records. A list of these codes will be on file in the AFMC Logistics
     Functional Office and the office of the local PMxCP OPRs.
  2.4.5. Certification Feedback Memo. Refer to Attachment 9 Certification Feedback Memo
  Templates.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                11


     2.4.5.1. All applicants will receive a certification Feedback Memo following the review
     of their application documents by their reviewing official, e.g., supervisor(s), PMxCP
     OPR, LAC, or designees as applicable.
     2.4.5.2. The Feedback Memo is used to provide formal feedback to the employee
     concerning their application for certification. Information may include notification of
     approval/disapproval; date and location of certificate presentation; or outstanding
     requirements and information necessary to assist employees in resubmitting their
     application package.
         2.4.5.2.1. Applicants have two (2) years following the date listed on the memo to
         complete any outstanding requirements.
         2.4.5.2.2. Applicants failing to complete outstanding requirements in the two (2) year
         timeframe must reapply under the current PMxCP certification requirements.
  2.4.6. Transmittal Sheet. Serves as a routing document to obtain coordination and annotate
  decisions regarding the application package. The Transmittal Sheet is used as a routing
  document for applications at each of the five levels. Refer to Attachment 10 for a Sample
  Transmittal Sheet.
  2.4.7. Technical Writing Exercise (Levels 4 and 5 only). Refer to Attachment 11 Technical
  Writing Exercise Template.
     2.4.7.1. The Technical Writing Exercise is designed using the technical competencies
     defined in the DoD Logistics HCS. The four workforce categories include Supply
     Management (SM), Deployment/Distribution/Transportation (DDT), Maintenance
     Support, and Life Cycle Logistics (LCL). The SM technical competencies include
     Forecasting and Demand Planning, Inventory Management, Sourcing, and Supply
     Planning. The DDT technical competencies include Deployment Planning and Physical
     Distribution/Transportation Operations.       The Maintenance Support technical
     competencies include Maintenance Operations and Production & Support. The LCL
     technical competencies include Logistics Design Influence, Integrated Logistics Support
     Planning, Product Support & Sustainment, Configuration Management, Reliability &
     Maintainability Analysis, Technical/Product Data Management, and Supportability
     Analysis.
     2.4.7.2. The Technical Writing Exercise is used by Levels 4 or 5 applicants when their
     Civilian Career Brief does not substantiate their experience in another workforce
     category. The Technical Writing Exercise is used to document the applicants’
     competencies acquired through training, education and/or experience at HCS Proficiency
     Level 3. By completing a technical writing exercise for one of the above mentioned
     Technical Competencies, the applicant is certifying they have completed each of the
     proficiency measures of knowledge required at the corresponding level.
  2.4.8. Executive Core Qualification (ECQ) Exercise (Levels 4 and 5 only).           Refer to
  Attachment 12 ECQ Exercise Template.
     2.4.8.1. The ECQ Exercise is designed using the Fundamental, and Leadership and
     Management competencies defined in the DoD HCS. In addition, these competencies are
     the same as those used in the Senior Executive Service (SES) ECQ. There are six
 12                                                     AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


      Fundamental Competencies, and 25 Leadership and Management Competencies that are
      organized into six professional attribute categories.
      2.4.8.2. The ECQ Exercise is used by Level 4 or 5 applicants who do not have at least
      one year experience as either a first-level Supervisor for Level 4 Certification or as a
      second-level Supervisor for Level 5 Certification, as evidenced on the Civilian Career
      Brief. The ECQ Exercise is used to document concrete examples of past or current work
      that validate a certain level of proficiency. Former military or industry employees should
      provide evidence of supervisory experience with a performance report or appraisal. If
      this information is unavailable, they may write to their experience using the ECQ
      Exercise.
   2.4.9. Panel Review Worksheet for Levels 4 and 5. This worksheet is used to document the
   panel decisions during the panel review for both Technical Writing and ECQ exercises.
   Refer to Attachment 13 Sample Panel Review Worksheet.
2.5. PMxCP Requirements Overview.
   2.5.1. As a minimum, employees applying for this voluntary program must accomplish all
   applicable training and must possess the appropriate years of maintenance experience to
   qualify for either certification Level 1 or Level 2.
   2.5.2. To qualify for certification Level 3, employees must have also completed a Bachelor’s
   degree along with Primary Developmental Education (PDE) or higher Developmental
   Education (DE). The formal education requirement is in line with the establishment of
   highly desirable education and professional development as criteria for future Air Force
   leaders.
   2.5.3. Certification Levels 4 and 5 are reserved for the experienced and advanced level
   employees. Experienced and advanced level employees must also have at least one year of
   experience as a first-level supervisor or second-level supervisor respectively, they must
   demonstrate on their Civilian Career Brief that they have two years of experience in either
   one or two other workforce category areas respectively, and they must have completed a
   Master’s degree and either Intermediate Developmental Education (IDE) or Senior
   Developmental Education (SDE). The PMxCP will accept all employee developmental
   education (e.g., PDE, IDE, or SDE programs) as identified in AFI36-2301, Developmental
   Education (DE).
      2.5.3.1. Applicants with leadership experience, but who have not served as a first-level
      supervisor or second-level supervisor, as evidenced on their career brief, will write to
      their experience using the SES Executive Core Qualification Exercise.
      2.5.3.2. Applicants whose career brief does not include evidence of their 2 years of
      experience in another logistics workforce category via job assignments or Acquisition
      Professional Development Program (APDP) certification will write to their other
      workforce category experience using the Technical Writing Exercise.
   2.5.4. ―Maintenance experience‖ constitutes experience in direct support of aerospace
   maintenance. This experience is most frequently in one of the occupational series where the
   position’s career field is coded ―N‖, which is the designator for the Logistics Career Field.
   Refer to Attachment 4 Maintenance Population Logistics Career Field occupational series.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                   13


     2.5.4.1. Experience in non-logistics career fields, in direct support of maintenance, will
     be considered on a case-by-case basis by the local PMxCP OPR.
     2.5.4.2. Employees may combine experience in multiple maintenance-related series to
     make up their total number of years of maintenance experience.
  2.5.5. Once certified, the employee is encouraged to maintain currency and grow via
  continuous learning and development in more challenging roles, while working towards a
  higher certification level. In the instance that evidence of continuous learning is requested,
  the applicant will provide proof of completed continuous learning hours. Refer to Section
  2.9 Continuous Learning.
  2.5.6. Levels 1, 2, and 3 Certification Requirements.
     2.5.6.1. Level 1 Certification requires a minimum of 2 years of Maintenance experience;
     completion of Level 1 (or entry) portion of series-specific and standard training; and first-
     level supervisor endorsement.
     2.5.6.2. Level 2 Certification requires a minimum of 3 years of Maintenance experience;
     completion of Level 1 and Level 2 (or journeyman) portion of series-specific and
     standard training; and first-level supervisor endorsement. NOTE: Two years of college
     or an Associate Degree is highly desired for Level 2 Certification, but not required.
     2.5.6.3. Level 3 Certification requires a minimum of 4 years of Maintenance experience;
     completion of Levels 1 and 2, and Level 3 (or advanced journeyman) portion of series-
     specific and standard training; completion of a Bachelor’s Degree; completion of DE at
     the PDE level or higher; and, both first-level and second-level supervisor endorsement.
  2.5.7. Level 4 Certification Requirements.
     2.5.7.1. Level 4 certification requires a minimum of 6 years of Maintenance experience;
     a minimum of 2 years of experience in another workforce category (SM, DDT, LCL, or
     Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) Certification); completion of
     Levels 1, 2, 3, and Level 4 standard and series-specific training; completion of a Master’s
     Degree; completion of DE at the IDE level or higher; documentation of a minimum of 1
     year experience at the first-level Supervisor experience or higher on the Civilian Career
     Brief; both first-level and second-level supervisor endorsement; and, certification
     approval by the Level 4 review panel if a writing exercise is required.
     2.5.7.2. Level 4 certification applicants who have not served as a first-level Supervisor
     will write to their leadership and management experience using the SES Executive Core
     Qualification exercise. The Level 4 ECQ Exercise requires that the employee ―Apply
     competency concepts to assist in organizational decision-making and problem-solving.‖
     2.5.7.3. Level 4 certification applicants whose Civilian Career Brief does not include
     evidence of their 2 years of experience in another workforce category (i.e., SM, DDT,
     LCL, or APDP Certification) will write to their other workforce category experience
     using the Technical Writing Exercise. Level 4 applicants will effectively complete a
     Technical Writing Exercise for one technical competency in another workforce category.
  2.5.8. Level 5 Certification Requirements.
 14                                                     AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


       2.5.8.1. Level 5 certification requires a minimum of 8 years of maintenance experience;
       a minimum of 2 years of experience in each of two other workforce categories (i.e., SM,
       DDT, LCL, or APDP Certification); completion of Levels 1, 2, 3, 4, and Level 5 standard
       and series-specific training; completion of a Master’s Degree; completion of DE at the
       SDE level; documentation of a minimum of 1 year of second-level Supervisor experience
       on the Civilian Career Brief; both first and second-level supervisor endorsement; and,
       certification approval by the LAC panel if a writing exercise is required.
       2.5.8.2. Level 5 certification applicants who have not served as a second-level
       Supervisor will write to their leadership and management experience using the SES ECQ
       Exercise. The Level 5 ECQ Exercise requires that the employee ―use and mentor others
       in the use of Fundamental, and Leadership and Management competencies‖.
       2.5.8.3. Level 5 certification applicants whose Civilian Career Brief does not include
       evidence of two years of experience in each of two other workforce categories, will write
       to their other workforce category experience using the Technical Writing Exercise.
       Applicants will effectively complete a Technical Writing Exercise for one technical
       competency in each of the two workforce categories. An APDP certification requiring 2
       years’ experience may be used as fulfillment for one of the two workforce categories.
2.6. Application Process. 2.6.1 Levels 1, 2, and 3 Application Process
       2.6.1.1. Following a semi-annual data call for applications, applicants will visit the
       PMxCP site to collect their appropriate PMxCP RS. They may contact their local
       PMxCP OPR for assistance.
       2.6.1.2. Applicants will compare the training completions listed on their Civilian Career
       Brief, or other record, to the PMxCP RS for their applicable series to determine if all
       requirements have been met.
       2.6.1.3. The applicant will document the requirement completion dates on the RS, to
       include equivalencies and fulfillments, and provide proof of completions, as required;
       including printouts from an official government system of record (e.g. Training
       Scheduling System (TSS), Education & Training Management System (ETMS),
       Verification of Military Experience & Training (VMET), Defense Civilian Personnel
       Data System (DCPDS), a Civilian Career Brief, or a formal certificate of completion.
       NOTE: The applicant must also indicate on the RS the course title and hours if an
       equivalency or fulfillment course is used.
       2.6.1.4. Applicants may use an RS for any series they have worked in, but must complete
       all of the applicable training requirements for that series. Experience in the series must
       be verified on the applicant’s Civilian Career Brief.
       2.6.1.5. Once an applicant has verified they have met all requirements for the applicable
       level of certification, they may apply.
       2.6.1.6. The applicant will collect the remaining application documents from the PMxCP
       site for the certification level they are applying for.
       2.6.1.7. Applicants will complete the Certification Request Cover Letter and attach the
       package checklist, PMxCP RS, Civilian Career Brief, and other documentation as
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 15


     appropriate, and submit the application package to their first-level supervisor
     electronically.
     2.6.1.8. Supervisors will review the employee’s certification application package to
     ensure the applicant has met all requirements and the documentation is complete and
     accurate. Refer to Section 2.7. Application Review Process. The applicant will be
     notified of the certification decision following the application review.
  2.6.2. Level 4 Application Process.
     2.6.2.1. Following a semi-annual data call for applications, applicants will visit the
     PMxCP site to collect their series-specific PMxCP RS. They may contact their local
     PMxCP OPR for assistance.
     2.6.2.2. Applicants will compare the training completions listed on their Civilian Career
     Brief, or other record, to the PMxCP RS for their applicable series to determine if all
     requirements have been met.
     2.6.2.3. The applicant will document the requirement completion dates on the RS, to
     include equivalencies and fulfillments, and provide proof of completions, as required;
     including printouts from an official government system of record (e.g. Training
     Scheduling System (TSS), Education & Training Management System (ETMS),
     Verification of Military Experience & Training (VMET), Defense Civilian Personnel
     Data System (DCPDS), a Civilian Career Brief, or a formal certificate of completion.
     NOTE: The applicant must also indicate on the RS the course title and hours if an
     equivalency or fulfillment course is used.
     2.6.2.4. Applicants may use an RS for any series they have worked in, but must complete
     all of the applicable training requirements for that series. Experience in the series must
     be verified on the applicant’s Civilian Career Brief.
     2.6.2.5. Once an applicant has verified they have met all requirements for the applicable
     level of certification, they may apply.
     2.6.2.6. Level 4 applicants whose Civilian Career Brief does not include evidence of
     their 2 years of experience in another workforce category will write to their other
     workforce category experience using the Technical Writing Exercise. Level 4 applicants
     will effectively complete a Technical Writing Exercise for one technical competency in
     another workforce category.
     2.6.2.6.1. Applicants will write to at least one technical competency, addressing all six
     proficiency measures of knowledge. Employees will use clear, concise statements
     (approximately one page per Proficiency Measure of Knowledge) written in the first
     person. Employees will cite examples from past experiences to describe their roles and
     how they relate to the Proficiency Measure of Knowledge. Recommend including
     additional documentation as an attachment to the Technical Writing Exercise to provide
     supporting evidence.
         2.6.2.6.2. Applicants may cite an APDP certification as fulfillment of a competency
         in an additional Logistics Workforce Category, as long as a requirement for the
         certification includes 2 years of experience in that work area. Other logistics-related
         professional certifications will be considered by the PMxCP Working Group on a
 16                                                     AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


           case-by-case basis. Certifications must appear on the applicant’s Civilian Career
           Brief or a copy of the certificate must be provided for consideration. See Section
           2.4.7. for additional details on the Technical Writing Exercise. Refer to Attachment
           11 Sample Technical Writing Exercise for a sample Supply Planning Technical
           Writing Exercise. Technical Writing Exercises for all technical competencies are
           found at the PMxCP site.
       2.6.2.7. Level 4 applicants who do not have experience as a first-level supervisor or
       higher for at least one year noted in their Civilian Career Brief, will use the ECQ
       Exercise to document concrete examples of past or current work that validates their
       experienced level of proficiency. The applicant will complete the Experienced Level
       ECQ Exercise. See Section 2.4.8. for details on the ECQ Exercise.
           2.6.2.7.1. Level 4 applicants will write to each of the six professional attribute
           categories of Leadership and Management Competencies while addressing each of
           the six Fundamental Competencies, as noted in the instructions on the second page of
           the ECQ Exercise.
           2.6.2.7.2. Applicants will use clear, concise statements (no more than one page per
           Competency), written in the first person. Recommend including additional
           documentation as an attachment to the ECQ Exercise to provide supporting evidence.
       2.6.2.8. Applicants will complete the Certification Request Cover Letter and attach the
       package checklist, PMxCP RS, Civilian Career Brief, the Technical Writing Exercise (as
       applicable) and ECQ Exercise (as applicable), and other documentation as appropriate
       and submit the application package to their first-level supervisor electronically.
       2.6.2.9. Supervisors will review the applicant’s certification application package to
       ensure the applicant has met all requirements and the documentation is complete and
       accurate. Refer to Section 2.7 Application Review Process. The applicant will be
       notified of the certification decision following the application review.
2.6.3. Level 5 Application Process.
       2.6.3.1. Following a semi-annual data call for applications, applicants will visit the
       PMxCP site to collect their series-specific PMxCP RS. They may contact their local
       PMxCP OPR for assistance.
       2.6.3.2. Applicants will compare the training completions listed on their Civilian Career
       Brief, or other record, to the PMxCP RS for their applicable series to determine if all
       requirements have been met.
       2.6.3.3. The applicant will document the requirement completion dates on the RS, to
       include equivalencies and fulfillments, and provide proof of completions, as required;
       including printouts from an official government system of record (e.g. Training
       Scheduling System (TSS), Education & Training Management System (ETMS),
       Verification of Military Experience & Training (VMET), Defense Civilian Personnel
       Data System (DCPDS), a Civilian Career Brief, or a formal certificate of completion.
       NOTE: The applicant must also indicate on the RS the course title and hours if an
       equivalency or fulfillment course is used.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 17


     2.6.3.4. Applicants may use an RS for any series they have worked in, but must complete
     all of the applicable training requirements for that series. Experience in the series must
     be verified on the applicant’s Civilian Career Brief.
     2.6.3.5. Once an applicant has verified they have met all requirements for the applicable
     level of certification, they may apply.
     2.6.3.6. Level 5 applicants whose Civilian Career Brief does not include evidence of
     their 2 years of experience in two other workforce categories will write to their other
     workforce category experience using the Technical Writing Exercise. Level 5 applicants
     will effectively complete a Technical Writing Exercise for 1 technical competency in two
     other workforce categories.
     2.6.3.6.1. Applicants will write to at least two technical competencies, addressing all six
     proficiency measures of knowledge. Applicants will use clear, concise statements (no
     more than one page per Proficiency Measure of Knowledge) written in the first person.
     Applicants will cite examples from past experiences to describe their roles and how they
     relate to the Proficiency Measure of Knowledge. Recommend including additional
     documentation as an attachment to the Technical Writing Exercise to provide supporting
     evidence.
        2.6.3.6.2. Applicants may cite an APDP certification as fulfillment of a competency
        in an additional Logistics Workforce Category, as long as a requirement for the
        certification includes 2 years of experience in that work area. Other logistics-related
        professional certifications will be considered by the PMxCP Working Group on a
        case-by-case basis. Certifications must appear on the applicant’s Civilian Career
        Brief or a copy of the certificate must be provided for consideration. Certifications
        can be used as fulfillment for only one of two non-maintenance logistics workforce
        categories. The second workforce category will be documented on the career brief, or
        the applicant will write to the experience using the Technical Writing Exercise. See
        Section 2.4.7. for additional details on the Technical Writing Exercise. Refer to
        Attachment 11 Sample Technical Writing Exercise for a sample Supply Planning
        Technical Writing Exercise.         Technical Writing Exercises for all technical
        competencies are found at the PMxCP site.
     2.6.3.7. Level 5 applicants who do not have experience as a second-level supervisor for
     at least one year noted in their Civilian Career Brief, will use the ECQ Exercise to
     document concrete examples of past or current work that validates their experienced level
     of proficiency. The applicant will complete the Advanced Level ECQ Exercise. See
     Section 2.4.8. for details on the ECQ Exercise.
        2.6.3.7.1. Level 5 applicants will write to each of the six professional attribute
        categories of Leadership and Management Competencies while addressing each of
        the six Fundamental Competencies, as noted in the instructions on the second page of
        the ECQ Exercise.
        2.6.3.7.2. Applicants will use clear, concise statements (no more than one page per
        competency) written in the first person.           Recommend including additional
        documentation as an attachment to the ECQ Exercise to provide supporting evidence.
 18                                                     AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


       2.6.3.8. Applicants will complete the Certification Request Cover Letter and attach the
       package checklist, PMxCP RS, Civilian Career Brief, the Technical Writing Exercises (as
       applicable) and ECQ Exercise (as applicable), and other documentation as appropriate
       and submit the application package to their first-level supervisor electronically.
       2.6.3.9. Supervisors will review the employee’s certification application package to
       ensure the applicant has met all requirements and the documentation is complete and
       accurate. Refer to Section 2.7 Application Review Process. The applicant will be
       notified of the certification decision following the application review.
2.7. Application Review Process. The local PMxCP OPR will accomplish all required tasks in
accordance with the data call timeline and will establish local internal due dates to meet the
deadline of the data call.
   2.7.1. Applicants will complete their application and submit all necessary documents to their
   first-level supervisor.
   2.7.2. The first-level supervisor will review the application package and verify that the
   applicant has included all required application documents for the requested certification
   level, and provide a decision to the local PMxCP OPR.
   2.7.3. The first-level supervisor will use the Transmittal Sheet to document whether the
   applicant has met the required training, experience, and other PMxCP requirements.
       2.7.3.1. Level 1 and Level 2 applications:
          2.7.3.1.1. Once the employee’s first-level supervisor has reviewed the application for
          certification, and has verified that all requirements have been met, the first-level
          supervisor will sign the Transmittal Sheet and forward it, along with the application
          documents, to the local PMxCP OPR electronically. If the first-level supervisor
          determines that the applicant has not completed the certification requirements, they
          will document any missing requirements on the Transmittal Sheet, and will return the
          incomplete package along with the Transmittal Sheet to the applicant electronically.
          2.7.3.1.2. The local PMxCP OPR will review and validate the applicant’s
          certification package to ensure the employee has met all requirements and the
          documentation is complete.
          2.7.3.1.3. The local PMxCP OPR will develop a Feedback Memo to include the
          certification decisions.
          2.7.3.1.4. The local PMxCP OPR will prepare the certificate and coordinate the
          formal certificate presentation. Level 1 and Level 2 certificates will be signed by the
          Air Logistics Complex (ALC) Commander or equivalent, and formally presented at
          an appropriate recognition forum. Reference Attachment 14 Sample PMxCP
          Certificate of Achievement.
       2.7.3.2. Level 3, Level 4 and Level 5 applications:
          2.7.3.2.1. Once the employee’s first-level supervisor reviews the application for
          certification, and verifies that all requirements have been met, the first-level
          supervisor will sign the Transmittal Sheet and forward it, along with the application
          documents, to the applicant’s second-level supervisor electronically. If the first-level
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                   19


         supervisor determines that the applicant has not completed the certification
         requirements, they will document any missing requirements on the Transmittal Sheet,
         and will return the incomplete package along with the Transmittal Sheet to the
         applicant electronically.
         2.7.3.2.2. The second-level supervisor will review/endorse the application package
         and verify that all requirements have been met. If so, the second-level supervisor will
         sign the Transmittal Sheet and forward the Transmittal Sheet and application
         documents to the local PMxCP OPR electronically. If the second-level supervisor
         determines that the applicant has not completed the certification requirements, they
         will document any missing requirements on the Transmittal Sheet and return the
         application package and Transmittal Sheet to the first-level supervisor for appropriate
         action.
         2.7.3.2.3. The local PMxCP OPR will review and validate the applicant’s
         certification package to ensure the employee has met all requirements and the
         documentation is complete. The local PMxCP OPR will follow the panel review
         process if a writing exercise is required for Level 4 and 5 applications (See Section
         2.8 Panel Assessment).
         2.7.3.2.4. The local PMxCP OPR will develop a Feedback Memo to the applicant to
         include the certification decision. If the local PMxCP OPR or the Panel (for Level 4
         and 5 applications) determines that the applicant has not completed the certification
         requirements, the local PMxCP OPR will document any missing requirements on the
         Feedback Memo. The local PMxCP OPR will return the incomplete package along
         with the Feedback Memo to the applicant’s second-level supervisor electronically for
         appropriate action.
         2.7.3.2.5. Upon certification approval, the local PMxCP OPR will prepare the
         certificate and coordinate the formal certificate presentation. Level 3 Certificates will
         be signed by the ALC Commander or equivalent, and formally presented at an
         appropriate recognition forum. Level 4 and 5 Certificates will be signed by
         AFMC/A4 Director or Deputy, and forwarded to the local PMxCP OPR to be
         formally presented at an appropriate recognition forum. Reference Attachment 14
         Sample PMxCP Certificate of Achievement.
  2.7.4. Resubmission Process.
     2.7.4.1. Applicants will have 30 calendar days from the date of the Feedback Memo to
     correct their applications and/or complete missing requirements, and resubmit for review.
     Applicants are required to resubmit only the specific items identified in the feedback
     memo.
  2.7.5. Appeal Process.
     2.7.5.1. The applicant will have 30 calendar days from the date on the Feedback Memo
     to submit an appeal to the appropriate level for consideration.
     2.7.5.2. Appeals from Level 1, 2, and 3 applicants will be submitted to and decided upon
     by the local PMxCP OPR.
 20                                                     AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


      2.7.5.3. Appeals from Level 4 and 5 applicants will be submitted to and decided upon by
      the PMxCP Working Group.
2.8. Panel Assessment.
   2.8.1. Panel Assessment Overview
      2.8.1.1. The panel assessment will be conducted to review and approve/disapprove the
      written exercises submitted by Level 4 and 5 applicants.
      2.8.1.2. The Level 4 review panel will be selected by the local PMxCP OPR. The panel
      members will consist of at least three individuals who combined have the appropriate
      level of maintenance functional area and personnel training, education, and expertise to
      evaluate the application packages.
      2.8.1.3. The Level 5 review panel will be composed of at least 3 members from the
      Logistics Advisory Council.
      2.8.1.4. Panel members will document decisions or make recommendations on the Panel
      Review Worksheet. Reference Attachment 13 for an example of the Panel Review
      Worksheet.
   2.8.2. Level 4 Panel (i.e., when required to review written exercise documents)
      2.8.2.1. The local PMxCP OPR will select the composition of the panel in accordance
      with Section 2.8.1.2. The local PMxCP OPR will provide training and information to the
      panel members. The local PMxCP OPR will schedule the panel review, and provide this
      information to the panel members at least two weeks prior to the panel review. The local
      PMxCP OPR will collect the applicant’s RS, a Civilian Career Brief summary page, the
      written exercises, the panel review worksheets, and any additional documents submitted
      by the applicant for consideration. This information will be posted in a restricted access
      portion of the PMxCP site. The local PMxCP OPR will record any pertinent application
      information in a spreadsheet or database for reference throughout the panel process.
      2.8.2.2. The local PMxCP OPR will provide the appropriate panel review documents to
      the panel members, including the Civilian Career Brief summary page, the written
      exercise, and the panel review worksheets. Additional documentation will be collected
      by the local PMxCP OPR, as requested by the panel members. The panel will review the
      Level 4 written application documents. After reviewing the applicant’s career brief
      summary page, the ECQ Exercise, and/or the Technical Writing Exercise for certification
      at Level 4, each panel member will record their decision on the Panel Review Worksheet.
      2.8.2.3. The local PMxCP OPR will facilitate the panel review, and will document
      decisions throughout the review process. The local PMxCP OPR will provide minutes
      documenting the panel’s decisions.
      2.8.2.4. The local PMxCP OPR will incorporate the decisions from the panel for each
      applicant in a Feedback Memo.
   2.8.3. Level 5 Panel (i.e., when required to review written exercise documents)
      2.8.3.1. The HQ PMxCP OPR will coordinate the Level 5 panel with the LAC EPM.
      The HQ PMxCP OPR will provide the LAC Executive Panel Manager with the
      applicant’s RS, a Civilian Career Brief summary page, the written exercises, the panel
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                21


      review worksheets,      and any additional documents submitted by the applicant for
      consideration. This     information will be posted in a restricted access portion of the
      PMxCP site. Prior       to the panel convening, the HQ PMxCP OPR will record any
      pertinent application   information in a spreadsheet or database for reference throughout
      the panel process.
      2.8.3.2. The LAC EPM will provide training and information to the LAC members. The
      LAC EPM will provide the LAC panel members with the Civilian Career Brief summary
      page, the written exercises, and the panel review worksheets.             If additional
      documentation is requested by the panel, the LAC EPM will collect the documents.
      2.8.3.3. The LAC panel will review the Level 5 written application documents. After
      reviewing the applicant’s Civilian Career Brief summary page, the ECQ Exercise, and/or
      the Technical Writing Exercise for certification at Level 5, each Panel Assessment
      member will record their decision and sign the Panel Review Worksheet.
      2.8.3.4. The LAC EPM will facilitate the panel review, and will document decisions
      throughout the review process. The LAC EPM will provide panel feedback to the HQ
      PMxCP OPR electronically.
      2.8.3.5. The HQ PMxCP OPR will provide panel feedback to the local PMxCP OPR.
      The local PMxCP OPR will incorporate the decisions from the panel for each applicant in
      a Feedback Memo.
2.9. Continuous Learning.
   2.9.1. After achieving certification, it is important that the employee maintain currency in
   new, emerging and evolving knowledge, processes and procedures to remain competent in
   their profession. Continuous learning (CL) demonstrates an employee’s dedication to stay
   up-to-date with changing environments and responsibilities.
   2.9.2. Forty (40) continuous learning hours are recommended to be accomplished every year
   (or 80 hours every two years) after an employee achieves a certification. One continuous
   learning hour is equated to one hour of formal, informal, OJT or self-directed training or
   work-related development activity (e.g., conference attendance). Courses taken towards
   career field certification, work related education/training, or additional levels of PMxCP
   Certification, count for CL hours. NOTE: APDP related courses and continuous learning
   points (CLP) will count towards this recommendation. Refer to Attachment 15 Sample
   Approved Continuous Learning Courses.
   2.9.3. This recommendation may be met in a variety of ways. Supervisors will determine if
   training or work-related activities warrant consideration as PMxCP related continuous
   learning hours and document in TSS, Supervisor's Employee Brief (971 file), ACQ Now or
   by other means. As such, it is important supervisors ensure PMxCP related training and
   work-related activities are directly related to the employee’s functional certification
   requirements. Training plans, including the Individual Development Plan (IDP), for
   personnel should include opportunities for participating in CL activities.
   2.9.4. Hours earned are applied at the time earned, regardless of when the hours are entered
   in to TSS, or equivalent system. It is the employee’s responsibility to verify records to
   ensure accomplishment of CL activities have been recorded. NOTE: Responsibility for
 22                                                     AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


   scheduling, obtaining approval, ensuring documentation, and maintaining currency of
   personal CL records will lie with the employee.
   2.9.5. The employee and their supervisor can reference sites such as DAU for the additional
   continuous learning creditable activities; http://www.dau.mil/clc/pages/pointcredit.aspx.
2.10. Training Exemption for Experience.
   2.10.1. Applicants with 20 years of AF experience (civil service and/or military) officially
   documented in their records will not be required to complete New Employee Orientation
   (NEO) and CTP series-specific training requirements where applicable for PMxCP
   certification. The 20 years of AF experience will include the appropriate maintenance
   experience for the certification level requested. Other DoD aerospace experience will be
   considered on a case-by-case basis.
      2.10.1.1. Level 1 applicants, in addition to possessing the minimum of 2 years of MX
      experience, will be required to complete only the Level 1 standard training requirements.
      2.10.1.2. Level 2 applicants, in addition to possessing the minimum of 3 years of MX
      experience, will be required to complete only the Level 2 and Level 1 standard training
      requirements.
      2.10.1.3. Level 3 applicants, in addition to possessing the minimum of 4 years of MX
      experience, education, and DE will be required to complete only the Level 3, Level 2 and
      Level 1 standard training requirements.
      2.10.1.4. Level 4 applicants, in addition to possessing the minimum of 6 years of MX
      experience, education, DE, leadership experience, and other workforce category
      experience, will be required to complete only the Level 4 and Level 3 standard training
      requirements.
      2.10.1.5. Level 5 applicants, in addition to possessing the minimum of 8 years of MX
      experience, education, DE, leadership experience, and other workforce category
      experience, will be required to complete only the Level 5, Level 4 and Level 3 standard
      training requirements. CDE, SDE and IDE (e.g., AWC and ACSC) may provide
      fulfillments to some of the PMxCP standard training requirements.
   2.10.2. Applicants to Level 4 and Level 5 who have met all of the certification requirements
   except the series-specific and standard training requirements will be granted a Level 2
   certification.
   2.10.3. The training exemption for experience will expire 2 years following the date this
   instruction was published. After that date, all applicants will be required to complete all of
   the training requirements, considering equivalencies. Once an exemption has been awarded
   to an applicant, the exemption is permanent for future certifications.
2.11. Equivalents and Fulfillment Review Process.
   2.11.1. Completion of courses in an AF-sponsored program will be considered for
   equivalence or fulfillment for courses identified on the RS, as long as the course description
   fulfills the requirement of the original course on the RS. Applicants must provide an official
   course description for the equivalent/fulfillment course along with the name of the providing
   institution. The local PMxCP OPR will evaluate whether the institution is part of an AF-
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                               23


  sponsored program. If not, the course equivalent/fulfillment will not be considered. If so,
  the local PMxCP OPR will review the proposed equivalent/fulfillment with the PMxCP
  Working Group to ensure it qualifies as an equivalent/fulfillment for the original course on
  the RS.
  2.11.2. An applicant may access approved AF-sponsored programs at the link indicated for
  the specific program of interest in the Terms and Definitions section in Attachment 1.
  Examples of AF-sponsored programs include, but are not limited to: CCAF, AFIT, DAU,
  SkillSoft, University of Tennessee AF-sponsored program, Air University, Macon State
  College Supply Chain Management Program, and, other DoD-sponsored schools. Additional
  AF-sponsored programs will be considered by the PMxCP Working Group on a case-by-case
  basis.
  2.11.3. Approved course equivalencies and fulfillments will be on file in the AFMC
  Logistics Functional Office and the office of the local PMxCP OPRs. All remaining course
  equivalencies and fulfillment will be considered by the PMxCP Working Group on a case-
  by-case basis.




                                          T. GLENN DAVIS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Director, Directorate of Logistics
 24                                                   AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-2, Civilian Recruitment and Placement, 15 April 2008
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 June 2002
AFI36-2301, Developmental Education, 16 July 2010
AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training, 22 February 2006
Professional Maintenance Certificate Program site: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/AFMCPMxCP
DoD Logistics Human Capital Strategy website: http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/sci/hcs.htm1
DoD Core Logistics Competencies and Proficiencies Booklet, June 1, 2008, Version 1.1:
http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/sci/hcs.htm1
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF 3032, Certificate of Achievement Form

Abbreviations, Acronyms
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
ALC—Air Logistics Complex
APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program
BDE—Basic Developmental Education
CDE—Civilian Developmental Education
CFETP—Career Field Education & Training Plan
CHRIS—Command Human Resources Intelligence System
CL—Continuous Learning
CoP—Community of Practice
CTP—Civilian Training Plan
DAU—Defense Acquisition University
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DE—Developmental Education
DDT—Deployment, Distribution, Transportation
ECQ—Executive Core Qualification
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                  25


ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcements
ETMS—Education and Training Management System
ETR—Employee Training Record
FSS—Force Support Squadron
HCS—Human Capital Strategy
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
IDP—Individual Development Plan
LAC—Logistics Advisory Council
LAC EPM—Logistics Advisory Council Executive Panel Manager
LCDF—Logistics Career Development Framework
LCL—Life Cycle Logistics
LOG HCS—Logistics Human Capital Strategy
MX or Mx— - Maintenance
OPF—Official Personnel Folder
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDE—Primary Developmental Education
PME—Professional Military Education
PMxCP—Professional Maintenance Certificate Program
RS—Requirements Sheet
SCM—Supply Chain Management
SDE—Senior Developmental Education
SM—Supply Management
SME—Subject Matter Expert
TSS—Training Scheduling System
UTM—Unit Training Manager

Terms
Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT)—AFIT is the Air Force’s graduate school of
engineering and management as well as its institution for technical, professional, and continuing
education. A component of Air University and Air Education and Training Command, AFIT is
committed to providing defense-focused graduate and professional continuing education and
research. As with DAU, a number of the courses identified in the PMxCP are AFIT courses.
Members may also retrieve transcripts to include in applications directly from the site. The link
to retrieve AFIT transcripts is: https://www.atrrs.army.mil/channels/afitnow/
 26                                                       AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


AF Virtual Education Center (AFVEC)—Accessible through the Air Force Portal, AFVEC
provides information on Voluntary Education Benefits and offers a variety of self-service
applications to current and past Air Force members. Members sign on using their AF Portal
account which then links them to their Air Force education record, Prior service Air Force,
Guard and Reserve members may find it a valuable alternate source of information.
https://www.my.af.mil/afvecprod/afvec/SelfService/MyAFVEC.aspx
Career Field Education and Training Plan—- A comprehensive, multipurpose document that
encapsulates the entire spectrum of training for a career field or specialty. It outlines a logical
growth plan that includes training resources and makes career field training identifiable,
eliminates duplication, and is budget defensible.
Certification Feedback Memo—letter used to provide feedback to the employee concerning
their application for certification. Information may include notification of approval, date, time
and location of certificate presentation, or missing requirements and information necessary to
assist employees in resubmitting their application package.
Certification Package Checklist—a tool to help the employee, supervisor, and review panel
identify the required documents needed for certification.
Certification Request Cover Letter—used to notify the immediate supervisor that the
employee believes they have completed the certification requirements at an applicable level, and
that they intend to apply for certification.
Civilian Development Education— Civilian development opportunities for individuals with
leadership potential that include in residence Professional Military Education (PME), long-term
academic and experiential programs.
Civilian Career Brief—provides the overall picture of the employee’s completed training,
external certifications, education level, and experience.
Civilian Training Plan—comprehensive core training document that identifies life-cycle
education and training requirements, training support resources, and minimum core task
requirements for an occupational series. It serves as a training roadmap for civilian employees.
Also see Occupational Training Template, Career Field Education and Training Plan.
Community College of the Air Force (CCAF)—The CCAF is a federally-chartered degree-
granting institution that serves the United States Air Force’s enlisted total force. The school
partners with over 90 affiliated Air Force schools, 82 Education Service Offices located
worldwide, and more than 1,500 civilian academic institutions to serve more than 320,000
active, guard, and reserve enlisted personnel, making CCAF the world’s largest community
college system. Students and former students can request official CCAF transcripts on the site.
http://www.au.af.mil/au/ccaf/transcripts.asp
Competency—defined by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) as a measurable pattern
of knowledge, skill, abilities, behaviors, and other characteristics that are needed to successfully
perform work-related tasks.
CTP Series-Specific Training—CTP training that is required for individual series to achieve
PMxCP Certification.
Defense Acquisition University (DAU)— offers formal courses and continuous learning
modules in support of the Defense Acquisition Workforce. A number of the courses identified in
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    27


the PMxCP are DAU courses. Members may also retrieve transcripts to include in applications
directly from the site. The link to DAU site is: https://learn.dau.mil
DoD Logistics Human Capital Strategy (HCS)—provides a clear vision that establishes the
foundation for the future logistics workforce, culture and human resources practices. HCS vision
is an integrated, agile, and high-performing future workforce of multi-faceted, interchangeable
logisticians that succeed in a joint operating environment.
Education and Training Course Announcements (ETCA)—ETCA does not reproduce a
printout or allow the member to order a transcript. However, ETCA contains procedures, fund
citations, reporting instructions, and listings for formal courses conducted/managed by
MAJCOMs, /field operating agencies and those conducted/administered by AF and Reserve
forces. Most notably, it contains course descriptions of formal training courses sponsored by the
aforementioned organizations. Applicants will find the site useful when they would like to
submit a course as a potential fulfillment for an identified PMxCP requirement, but only possess
the course number, your supervisor and/or PMxCP OPR will require a copy of the course
description to make a fair assessment of the courses potential suitability for fulfillment. The
member can input the course number into the appropriate field at the site and retrieve a copy of
the         course        description           for         review        and        submission.
https://www.my.af.mil/etcacourses/default1.asp
Equivalent—Course identified as an ―either‖ ―or‖ to satisfy the specific course requirement.
Executive Core Qualification (ECQ)—The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) helps
make sure the Government selects strong leaders by developing the core qualifications used to
test new career appointees to the Senior Executive Service (SES) and by administering peer
review boards which evaluate whether candidates possess these essential leadership
qualifications.
The Executive Core Qualifications were developed in 1997 after extensive research on the
attributes of successful executives in both the private and public sectors. They were revalidated
and reissued with a few modifications in 2006. In their current form, they represent the best
thinking of organizational psychologists, human resources professionals both at OPM and other
agencies, and Senior Executives themselves. The ECQs are Leading Change, Leading People,
Results Driven, Business Acumen, and Building Coalitions.
Fulfillment—Course that may qualify in lieu of a specific course.
Fundamental Competency—describes fundamental skills and abilities necessary for all
logistics personnel, regardless of specific workforce category.
Integrated Maintenance Data System (IMDS)—Air Force’s Learning Management System to
track and perform professional certification, computer based training, and web based training
functions. Equivalent scheduling system will be used in place of IMDS, as applicable.
Leadership & Management Competencies—Describe skills and abilities required by logistics
leaders and managers.
New Employee Orientation Training—AF orientation and MX orientation training that is
required for all series to achieve PMxCP Certification.
Panel Review Worksheet—A form used by panel members to record their decisions concerning
an employee’s application for certification.
 28                                                       AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


PMxCP Requirements Sheet—A document that lists all required training for each occupational
series to achieve PMxCP Certification for Levels 1 through 5.
Proficiency—Provides a description of attainment through education, training, or increasing
levels of relevant, timely, and applicable experiences.
Standard Training—CTP training that is required for all series to achieve PMxCP Certification.
Subject Matter Expert (SME)—One who has the greatest expertise in a technical topic. SMEs
are often asked to review, improve, and approve technical work; to guide others; and to teach.
SMEs exhibit the highest level of expertise in performing a specialized job, task, or skill.
Supervisor—Supervisor of record.
Technical Competency—Describes logistics work specific to each of the four identified
workforce categories.
Transmittal Form—Used by the applicant’s supervisor to recommend approval of certification
requests for Levels 3, 4 or 5.
Training Scheduling System (TSS)—The Depot Maintenance Learning Management System to
track and perform professional certification, computer based training, and web based training
functions. Equivalent scheduling system will be used in place of TSS, as applicable.
Verification of Military Experience and Training—The issuance of the DD Form 2586
Verification of Military Experience and Training (VMET) document is sponsored by the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management Policy, in cooperation with the military
services. The VMET document is an "all-services" integrated form which displays demographic,
training, and experience information that is retrieved from various automated sources. Use the
document as a tool to prepare resumes and job applications, in concert with evaluation reports,
training certificates, awards, transcripts, and other pertinent documents. It is not an official
transcript for purposes of granting college credit, but it can be used to support your having met
training and/or course requirements to qualify for civilian occupations, certificates, licenses, or
programs of study. https://www.dmdc.osd.mil/appj/vmet/index.jsp
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                 29


                               Attachment 2
         LOGISTICS HUMAN CAPITAL STRATEGY COMPETENCIES

Figure A2.1. LOGISTICS HUMAN CAPITAL STRATEGY COMPETENCIES
 30                                               AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                   Attachment 3
      PROFESSIONAL MAINTENANCE CERTIFICATE PROGRAM FRAMEWORK

Figure A3.1. Professional Maintenance Certificate Program Framework
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 31


                                        Attachment 4
              MAINTENANCE POPULATION OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

Note: The Maintenance population includes, but is not limited, to the occupational series listed
below. These occupational series noted below reflect a variety of positions coded as Logistics
Career Field (―N‖) positions employed by Depot Maintenance PEC 78211A, and are the prime
focus of PMxCP. Personnel with experience in one or more of the series below, or in operational
units working for Maintenance are considered to be maintenance employees in context of
PMxCP. Personnel on other series, in direct support of maintenance, will be considered on a
case-by-case basis by the local PMxCP OPR.

Table A4.1. Occupational Series
 32                                                   AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 5
           SAMPLE CERTIFICATION PACKAGE CHECKLIST (LEVEL 1)

Figure A5.1. Sample Certification Package Checklist (Level 1)




This attachment is for example purposes only and should not be used as part of an application
package.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                  33


                                        Attachment 6
         SAMPLE CERTIFICATION REQUEST COVER LETTER (LEVEL 1)

Figure A6.1. Sample Certification Request Cover Letter (level 1)




This attachment is for example purposes only and should not be used as part
of an application package.
 34                                                    AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 7
                      SAMPLE PMXCP REQUIREMENTS SHEETS

Figure A7.1. Sample PMxCP Requirements Sheet (Level 1)




The templates in attachment 7 are for example purposesonly and should not be
used as part of an application package.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                 35


Figure A7.2. Sample PMxCP Requirements Sheet (Level 2)




The templates in attachment 7 are for example purposes only and should not
be used as part of an application package.
 36                                                    AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


Figure A7.3. Sample PMxCP Requirements Sheet (Level 3)




The templates in attachment 7 are for example purposes only and should not be
used as part of an application package.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                    37


Figure A7.4. Sample PMxCP Requirements Sheet (Level 4)




The templates in attachment 7 are for example purposes only and should not be
used as part of an application package.
 38                                                    AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


Figure A7.5. Sample PMxCP Requirements Sheet (Level 5)




The templates in attachment 7 are for example purposes only and should not be
used as part of an application package.
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                     39


                                   Attachment 8
        SAMPLE PMXCP COURSE EQUIVALENT/FULFILLMENT MATRIX

Figure A8.1. Sample PMxCP Course Equivalent/Fulfillment Matrix
 40                                               AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                   Attachment 9
                  SAMPLE CERTIFICATION FEEDBACK MEMO

Figure A9.1. Sample Certification Feedback Memo
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                        41


                                   Attachment 10
                         SAMPLE TRANSMITTAL SHEET

Figure A10.1. Sample Transmittal Sheet
 42                                                 AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                    Attachment 11
             SAMPLE TECHNICAL WRITING EXERCISE (SNAPSHOT)

Figure A11.1. Sample Technical Writing Exercise (Snapshot)
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                                                  43


                                    Attachment 12
  SAMPLE EXECUTIVE CORE QUALIFICATION (ECQ) EXERCISE (SNAPSHOT)

Figure A12.1. Sample Executive Core Qualification (ECQ) Exercise (Snapshot)
 44                                                AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                   Attachment 13
                   PANEL REVIEW WORKSHEET (SNAPSHOT)

Figure A13.1. Panel Review Worksheet (Snapshot)
AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012                            45


                                    Attachment 14
                    SAMPLE CERTIFICATE OF ACHIEVEMENT

Figure A14.1. Sample Certificate of Achievement
 46                                                    AFMCI36-402 26 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 15
             SAMPLE APPROVED CONTINUOUS LEARNING COURSES

Table A15.1. Sample Approved Continuous Learning Courses


Maintenance-related continuous learning modules:

CLL 006        Depot Maintenance Partnering                                2 hrs
CLL 022        Title 10 Depot Maintenance Statutes                         2 hrs
CLL 023        10 USC 2464 Core Statute Implementation                     3 hrs
CLL 024        10 USC 2466 50-50 Statute Implementation                    3 hrs
CLL 025        Depot Maintenance Interservice Support Agreements (DMISA)   5 hrs
CLL 026        Depot Maintenance Capacity                                  4 hrs

Other Maintenance-related continuous learning modules to consider:

CLL 029        Condition Based Maintenance (CBM+)                          1.5 hrs
CLL 030        Reliability Centered Maintenance (RCM)                      2 hrs
CLL 057        Level of Repair Analysis (LORA) Fundamentals                3 hrs
CLL 058        LORA Theory & Principals                                    3 hrs
