BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                  INSTRUCTION 34-101
                                                                                            1 JUNE 2005

                                                                                                  Services

                                                                    REPORTING AND MONITORING
                                                                       DISTINGUISHED VISITORS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/DSP (Ms. Delma J. Lee)                                        Certified by: HQ AFMC/DSP
                                                                                  (Mr. David C. Thomas)
Supersedes AFMCI 35-101, 4 Jun 02                                                                Pages: 6
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction implements policies contained in AFMCPD 34-1, Reporting and Protocol Arrangements
for Distinguished Visitors. It establishes procedures for reporting and making protocol arrangements for
distinguished visitors (DVs). It applies to all Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command (HQ AFMC),
AFMC field units, and all tenant organizations at Wright-Patterson AFB. For detailed instructions refer to
the HQ AFMC Protocol website “Workspace”, then “Distinguished Visitor (DV) Visits” at https://
www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/HQ-AFMC/DS/dsp.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Instruction series has changed from Public Affairs to Services. Additional instructions have been included
for DV reporting.


1. Distinguished Visitor (DV).
   1.1. Distinguished Visitor (DV) explained:
       1.1.1. Members of the Executive branch of government including: the President; Vice President;
       members of the Cabinet and their staff members; the Secretary, Deputy Secretary and Assistant
       Secretaries of Defense; Secretaries, Under Secretaries, and Assistant Secretaries of all services
       and heads of federal agencies and departments.
       1.1.2. General/flag officers and equivalent civilians of all services. Retired general/flag officers
       and equivalent civilians.
       1.1.3. Members of the Legislative Branch of government including members of Congress, their
       personal staffs and professional committee staff members.
       1.1.4. Members of the Judicial Branch of government including members of the Supreme Court
       and various federal judges.
2                                                                          AFMCI34-101 1 JUNE 2005


       1.1.5. Foreign nationals of general officer grade, and civilians holding positions equivalent to, or
       higher than, those mentioned in paragraphs 1.1.1., 1.1.2., 1.1.3.
       1.1.6. Foreign nationals (military and civilian) serving in diplomatically accredited positions with
       foreign embassies in the United States.
       1.1.7. State governors, chief executive officers of major corporations, nationally prominent citi-
       zens, and other visitors who, in the opinion of the commander concerned, are of such stature, or
       whose purpose is such, that their presence should be reported to the AFMC Commander.
    1.2. DV codes are as follows (Refer to the DoD Table of Precedence & the Air Force Table of Prece-
    dence for a complete listing of DV code positions):
       1.2.1. DV-1. The President of the United States or the head of state of a sovereign nation.
       1.2.2. DV-2. The Vice President of the United States, service secretaries, cabinet and congres-
       sional members, Supreme Court Justices, and service chiefs of staff.
       1.2.3. DV-3. Four-star generals and equivalent.
       1.2.4. DV-4. Three-star generals and equivalent.
       1.2.5. DV-5. Two-star generals and equivalent.
       1.2.6. DV-6. One-star generals and equivalent.

2. Reporting Distinguished Visitors.
    2.1. DVs visiting AFMC Headquarters:
       2.1.1. Directorates will appoint an individual who will report all DVs visiting their directorate to
       HQ AFMC, Command Protocol (HQ AFMC/DSP).
       2.1.2. Directorates will report DV information on the DV Notification Report found on the HQ
       AFMC Protocol website as soon as the reporting office is informed of the projected visit or at least
       two weeks in advance of the visit. Information not available at the time of reporting should be
       updated using the DV Notification Report as soon as the information becomes available. A phone
       call from the POC will also serve to notify Protocol of changes/additions. On short-notice visits,
       no matter what the time frame, report the DV information promptly by telephone or email. The
       location of the DV Notification Report is on the Protocol Website under "Workspace", then "Dis-
       tinguished Visitor (DV) Visits", at https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/HQ-AFMC/DS/dsp.
       Include the following information in the DV Notification Report:
           2.1.2.1. Full name, “go-by name,” rank, duty title or position, DV code, the DV’s organization
           and location, a point of contact from the DV’s organization to include phone number. Also,
           note if spouse is accompanying, and include spouse’s name and “go-by” name.
           2.1.2.2. Dates of visit, including arrival and departure dates/times. If arrival and departure
           information is not immediately known, report what is known and update with confirmed infor-
           mation as soon as it becomes available.
           2.1.2.3. Purpose of visit. Be clear and specific. If you use an acronym, provide the definition.
AFMCI34-101 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                    3


         2.1.2.4. Provide HQ AFMC/DSP itineraries on all DVs at the three-star level (DV-4) or
         higher, including Cabinet and Congressional members, ambassadors, governors, etc. (See
         DoD Table of Precedence and Air Force Table of Precedence.)
         2.1.2.5. Report mode of travel, for example, military air, commercial air, privately owned
         vehicle (POV), etc.
         2.1.2.6. Report the office of primary responsibility (OPR), the project officer’s name, office
         symbol, and telephone number. Provide the name and telephone number of the escort officer,
         if applicable.
         2.1.2.7. Report lodging arrangements, if required. If the DV is staying in Base Lodging,
         AFMC/CC/CV/CD will be given the opportunity to send a welcome note to be placed in the
         visitor’s room.
         2.1.2.8. If any of the above information is not known at the time of reporting, submit the infor-
         mation as soon as it is known using the DV Notification Report.
         2.1.2.9. Submit a DV Notification Report immediately when the visit is canceled or changed.
     2.1.3. Email an itinerary of all DV-4 (3-Star) and above level visits, all congressional visits, and
     all congressional staffer visits as soon as possible, at least 2 days prior, to HQ AFMC/DSP. HQ
     AFMC/DSP will provide the itinerary to AFMC/CC/CV/CD.
     2.1.4. After action reports of all DV-4 (3-Star) and above level visits, all congressional visits, and
     all congressional staffer visits must be emailed from the unit commander to AFMC/CC directly
     within 24 hours of the visit. Identify the date of visit, location of visit, names and positions of vis-
     itors, purpose of visit, and unit commander’s assessment of visit.
  2.2. DVs visiting AFMC field units (centers, wings, or laboratories).
     2.2.1. Each field unit commander/director will appoint an individual who will report to their local
     protocol office the DVs visiting the field unit.
     2.2.2. Each field unit (not located at Wright-Patterson AFB OH) will report ONLY DV-4 (3-Star)
     and above level visits, all congressional visits, and all congressional staffer visits. Each field unit
     located at Wright-Patterson AFB OH will report all levels of DV visits.
     2.2.3. Information for DVs visiting AFMC field units should be entered into the HQ AFMC Pro-
     tocol database by the field unit protocol office. The field unit protocol office will combine the field
     unit’s DV information and report information to HQ AFMC/DSP as soon as the field unit or the
     protocol office is aware of the DV visit or at least two weeks in advance of the visit. Updated DV
     information should be entered into the HQ AFMC Protocol database.
     2.2.4. The appointed field unit individual will report the information contained in paragraphs
     2.1.2.1. through 2.1.2.7. to their local protocol office. The field unit local protocol office will
     report the information using the on-line access to the HQ AFMC Protocol database.
     2.2.5. If any of the above information is not known at the time of reporting, inform the local pro-
     tocol office as soon as the missing information becomes available so they can update the Protocol
     database. On short notice visits, no matter what the time frame, report the DV information in the
     Protocol database as soon as possible.
4                                                                            AFMCI34-101 1 JUNE 2005


       2.2.6. Notify the field unit protocol office IMMEDIATELY when the visit is canceled, so they can
       update the Protocol database. If time does not permit, notify HQ AFMC/DSP directly.
       2.2.7. Email an itinerary of all DV-4 (3-Star) and above level visits, all congressional visits, and
       all congressional staffer visits as soon as possible, at least 2 days prior, to HQ AFMC/DSP. HQ
       AFMC/DSP will provide the itinerary to AFMC/CC/CV/CD.
       2.2.8. After action reports of all DV-4 (3-Star) and above level visits, all congressional visits, and
       all congressional staffer visits must be emailed from the unit commander to AFMC/CC directly
       within 24 hours of the visit. Identify the date of visit, location of visit, names and positions of vis-
       itors, purpose of visit, and unit commander’s assessment of visit.
    2.3. DVs visiting Wright-Patterson AFB tenant organizations.
       2.3.1. Each tenant organization will appoint an individual who will report all DVs visiting their
       organization to the HQ AFMC, Command Protocol office (HQ AFMC/DSP).
       2.3.2. Tenant organizations will report DV information on the DV Notification Report found on
       the HQ AFMC Protocol website as soon as the reporting office is informed of the projected visit
       or at least two weeks in advance of the visit. Information not available at the time of reporting
       should be updated using the DV Notification Report as soon as the information becomes available.
       A phone call from the POC will also serve to notify Protocol of changes/additions. On short-notice
       visits, no matter what the time frame, report the DV information promptly by telephone or email.
       2.3.3. The appointed tenant organization individual will report the information contained in para-
       graphs 2.1.2.1. through 2.1.2.7. to their local protocol office. The tenant organization protocol
       office will report the information using the on-line access to the HQ AFMC Protocol database, or
       via the website DV Notification Report form if they do not have access to the database.
       2.3.4. If any of the above information is not known at the time of reporting, inform the HQ AFMC
       protocol office as soon as the missing information becomes available so they can update the Pro-
       tocol database. On short notice visits, no matter what the time frame, report the DV information in
       the Protocol database as soon as possible.
       2.3.5. Notify the tenant protocol office IMMEDIATELY when the visit is canceled, so they can
       update the Protocol database.

3. Daily Distinguished Visitor Slides.
    3.1. HQ AFMC/DSP will compile DV information from the HQ AFMC directorates, field units and
    Wright-Patterson AFB tenant organizations for AFMC/CC/CV/CD. The following information will
    be reflected on the slides prepared by HQ AFMC/DSP: Date of visit, rank, named with “Go-by”
    name, title, purpose of visit, and organization being visited. This information will be used for the daily
    stand-ups and weekly staff meetings for CC, CV, CD and staff.
    3.2. HQ AFMC/DSP will prepare for AFMC/CC/CV/CD a daily DV report using the DV slides.
    AFMC/CC/CV/CD will appropriately annotate those visitors to receive DV welcome notes. HQ
    AFMC/DSP will deliver all AFMC/CC/CV/CD welcome notes to visitors at Wright-Patterson AFB
    OH. For visitors at AFMC field units, not located at Wright-Patterson AFB OH, an electronic DV wel-
    come note from AFMC/CC/CV/CD will be sent to the local field unit protocol office for printing and
    delivery.
AFMCI34-101 1 JUNE 2005                                                                                                             5


4. The OPR is the office having primary interest in the visit. The OPR will appoint a project officer who
will complete visit arrangements and coordinate all visit activities with appropriate offices. The project
officer may also be required to work closely with other external offices as required. The project officer
may want to appoint an escort officer, as appropriate.
   4.1. The project officer for all DVs will do whatever is required to support the visit. The duties will
   vary from visit to visit, but for almost any visit the following duties will be required:
       4.1.1. When DVs arrive at base operations, a senior officer/civilian should greet the DVs. The
       project officer and escort officer should be there as well. The local protocol office will help you
       determine the rank of the greeter. DVs should be greeted, if possible, by a DV of equal rank.
       4.1.2. Create the itinerary with transportation arrangements included; plan and prepare the brief-
       ing agenda; prepare interest items and list of attendees; contact all other internal/external staff
       offices to schedule visits or briefings; prepare other necessary backup information of interest to
       the DVs, briefers or other people involved in the visit; and reserve required meeting rooms and
       equipment. Reserve rooms for social activities, as appropriate.
       4.1.3. At the request of the DV, schedule a courtesy visit with the commander, vice commander,
       or executive director (CC, CV, CD).
       4.1.4. Arrange billeting at base lodging. Lodging arrangements for DV-6 and above will be made
       through protocol. The DV reservation process may differ at each protocol office. Contact your
       local protocol office for details.
       4.1.5. Make transportation arrangements with the base motorpool. Provide the escort officer a
       copy of the transportation schedule and itinerary.
       4.1.6. Reserve parking slots, as appropriate.
       4.1.7. Plan social functions for DVs. Work closely with protocol in planning, organizing, and
       scheduling functions.
       4.1.8. Prepare welcome packages for all DVs, as required.
       4.1.9. When the civilian media is expected to be involved with your visit, notify Public Affairs.
   4.2. The escort officer for DVs will perform duties as outlined by the project officer. Duties will vary
   from visit to visit, but the following duties will be required for almost any visit. For additional escort
   information, refer to the HQ AFMC Protocol Escort Guide found on the HQ AFMC Protocol website
   u n d e r " Wo r k s p a c e " , t h e n " D i s t i n g u i s h e d Vi s i t o r s " , " E s c o r t G u i d e " ( h t t p s : / /
   www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/HQ-AFMC/DS/dsp). The field unit protocol offices should have an
   escort guide tailored to their local community.
       4.2.1. Consult with HQ AFMC/DSP for advice on appropriate protocol policies.
       4.2.2. Coordinate with the project officer on agenda, lodging, and transportation requirements.
       Obtain a copy of the transportation request. Be familiar with the DV’s biographical information.
       Confirm daily transportation requirements/schedules with motorpool. If major changes occur,
       notify the project officer if time permits; otherwise notify the other people involved in the visit.
       Pick up two lodging room keys. Check lodging room; make sure you can open room door easily.
       When you meet the DV at base operations give him/her one lodging room key. Keep the other
6                                                                       AFMCI34-101 1 JUNE 2005


    room key yourself so you can have access to the DV’s room. You may need to make special
    arrangements for the luggage.
    4.2.3. Meet the DV at base operations. Load the luggage into base transportation and transport to
    lodging.
    4.2.4. Escort the DV to quarters. Provide the visitor with a copy of the DV package to include
    agenda, transportation schedules, and any briefing charts, as appropriate. Review the itinerary to
    ensure the DV understands the visit plan.
    4.2.5. Accompany the DV (ride on base transportation) to all official functions, as required, and
    advise the project officer and the DV of any changes. The project officer will coordinate all
    changes with affected staff offices.
    4.2.6. Confirm DV’s flight information.
    4.2.7. Prior to DV departure check with the lodging office to ensure lodging and beverage charges
    have been paid. If not, present the bill to the DV’s aide or to the DV, as appropriate.
    4.2.8. Ensure lodging key is turned in and luggage, etc., is loaded into the transportation vehicle.
    4.2.9. Accompany DV to base operations and ensure luggage is loaded on to the aircraft. Do not
    leave the facility until the aircraft has departed.



                                            GREGORY S. MARTIN, General, USAF
                                            Commander
