BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      AFMC INSTRUCTION 63-501
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                        14 DECEMBER 2001
                                               AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
                                                                       Supplement
                                                                                 12 MAY 2011

                                                                                   Acquisition

                                                             AFMC QUALITY ASSURANCE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFMC/ENPD                                                  Certified by: HQ AFMC/EN
     (Mr. Douglas K. Buse)                                           (Mr. James A. Papa, SES)
                                                                                      Pages: 9

                                          (AFNWC)
OPR: AFNWC/ENS                                                       Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                            (Dr. Yolanda King)
                                                                                       Pages:4


This instruction provides quality assurance (QA) policy and assigns QA responsibilities for all
AFMC centers, units, and headquarters (HQ) functions. It implements Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 63-5, Quality Assurance, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 63-501, Air Force
Acquisition Quality Program, AFI 21-101 Maintenance Management of Aircraft, and AFI 21-
102, Depot Maintenance Management, and applicable provisions in other Air Force and
Department of Defense (DoD) directives. Organic quality assurance policy for operational
aircraft/equipment for AFMC Test Centers will be in accordance with AFI 21-101, Maintenance
Management of Aircraft, and AFMCI 21-119, Objective Center/Test Wing Aircraft Maintenance
Management Policy. This is the initial publication of this instruction.

(AFNWC) This publication supplements Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI)
63-501, AFMC Quality Assurance, and is supplemented as follows. This supplement establishes
the AFNWC Quality Assurance (QA) Program through clarifying guidance and procedures for
managing QA for all programs, within all acquisition and sustainment organizations managed by
AFNWC. It documents QA guidance and it further specifies requirements of the QA plans
prescribed in AFMCI 63-501, by specifying minimum QA plan scope of functional activities.
This supplement does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG), the Air Force Reserve
 2                                                AFMCI63-501_AFNWCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


Command (AFRC), or Civil Air Patrol units and members. This supplement may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this supplement must be
routed to AFNWC/ENS for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form
847s from the field through the appropriate functional's chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.

1. AFMC Quality Assurance. AFMC is committed to providing superior quality weapon
systems, end-items, supplies, and services. AFMC program offices, buying offices, Air Force
Research Laboratory, and all Centers must maintain acquisition and/or sustainment quality
assurance processes that:
     1.1. Align the quality management system with strategic planning and AFMC’s management
     commitment.
     1.2. Provide essential quality policy and objectives for quality planning.
     1.3. Ensure the overall effectiveness of these efforts throughout the life-cycle of weapon
     system management including operational support and disposal.
     All acquisition and sustainment personnel will be responsible for performing quality
     functions involved in their assigned duties. Program documentation will describe the
     quality management system and how it will contribute to minimizing cost, schedule, and
     performance risks throughout the product life cycle.
2. Relationship to Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E). Quality
management is an important tool of the chief engineer and lead engineer to ensure OSS&E in
support of the single manager. Quality assurance trends are means for verifying the associated
systems or the processes used in support of such systems are operationally safe, suitable, and
effective. While authority for decisions affecting system configuration, maintenance procedures,
and authorized usage can be delegated, the chief engineer or lead engineer remains accountable
and responsible. The chief engineer or lead engineer will coordinate OSS&E activity with the
single manager in accordance with AFMCI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety,
Suitability, & Effectiveness.
3. Responsibilities and Authorities:
     3.1. AFMC acquisition and sustainment organizations will ensure the applicable QA
     provisions are defined, documented, and implemented in their areas of responsibility. This
     responsibility includes gaining a clear understanding of the organization’s objectives as they
     relate to quality and of the expectations and needs of the customer throughout the weapon
     system lifecycle. They will monitor and control all activities that impact quality and ensure
     quality requirements and standards are consistently met.
AFMCI63-501_AFNWCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                            3


  3.2. International Acquisitions.      AFMC organizations responsible for international
  acquisitions must adhere to international QA policy defined in AFI 63-501, paragraph 3.
  3.3. HQ AFMC functional organizations will use QA techniques to measure, assess, report,
  and improve performance. A QA council, composed of HQ AFMC and center QA
  representatives as determined by the Center Commander or designee, will meet annually to
  work common QA issues and assess the overall health of AFMC quality assurance.
     3.3.1. HQ AFMC/EN, Directorate of Engineering and Technical Management, will
     monitor implementation of and ensure compliance with QA policies. They will provide
     management guidance, assist field activities, and monitor the effectiveness of all AFMC
     organizations. They will coordinate with SAF, USAF, other MAJCOMs, DoD
     components, federal agencies, and industry to resolve QA issues of mutual interest and to
     ensure joint service strategies are provided to all AFMC organizations. They will chair
     the QA council and manage deficiency reporting policy.
     3.3.2. HQ AFMC/LG manages the Supply Management and Depot Maintenance Mission
     Areas (SMMA and DMMA). The LG directorate will manage assigned DoD and Air
     Force programs and provide the environment for continual improvement of products,
     services, and processes associated with item management, transportation, supply, and
     Depot maintenance activities/policy.
         3.3.2.1. The SMMA will promote quality assurance in providing logistics services
         and processes to fulfill Air Force spare parts requirements. This includes
         requirements forecasting, item introduction, cataloging, procurement, repair, technical
         support, data management, item disposal, distribution management, and
         transportation. They will provide policy, guidance, and resources that create an
         environment for continuous improvement in the supply processes.
         3.3.2.2. The DMMA will promote quality assurance in the overhaul and repair of
         systems and spare parts, accomplished by both AFMC depots and contract operations.
         They will provide policy, guidance, and resources that create an environment for
         continuous improvement in maintenance and repair processes.
     3.3.3. HQ AFMC/CE manages the AFMC Installations and Support Mission Area (I&S
     MA). The I&S MA will employ quality processes in support of units, operations, and
     their people with facilities, infrastructure, and base support.
     3.3.4. HQ AFMC/DO manages the AFMC Test and Evaluation Mission Area (TEMA).
     The TEMA will employ quality processes in providing support for AFMC's
     developmental test and evaluation (DT&E) requirements, its T&E infrastructure, and
     other operational services. The DO directorate will manage operational
     aircraft/equipment maintenance policy for AFMC product, test, and specialized centers,
     not including air logistic centers.
     3.3.5. HQ AFMC/DR manages AFMC product support mission area (PSMA) and the
     information services activity group mission areas (ISAG).
         3.3.5.1. The PSMA will ensure the quality of resources, policies, and processes
         required to plan, manage, and integrate weapon systems throughout their life cycles.
4                                               AFMCI63-501_AFNWCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


           3.3.5.2. The ISAG will ensure that quality requirements are defined and maintained
           throughout the development, maintenance, integration, and sustainment of the combat
           support information systems they provide to the user.
       3.3.6. HQ AFMC/PK will ensure that proper QA requirements, as requested by the
       responsible engineering organization, are included in all AFMC solicitations and
       contracts. HQ AFMC/PKO is the office of primary responsibility for the QA program for
       service contracts. (See AFI 63-124, Performance Based Service Contracts.)
       3.3.7. HQ AFMC/SC manages the AFMC information management mission area
       (IMMA). The IMMA will employ quality processes in its business operations.
    3.4. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) will ensure the Technology Directorates and
    Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR) are supported with trained and competent
    personnel responsible for QA. They will be responsible for appropriate quality process flow
    down through their directorates and for integrating quality processes into their research and
    development efforts. Directorate organizations that organically produce maintenance
    products, test models, hardware/software changes, or modifications to AFMC systems will
    document their QA programs in a quality plan.
    3.5. Product centers, test centers, and air logistics centers will ensure integrated product
    teams and/or program offices are supported with well-trained competent personnel
    responsible for providing quality products and services.
       3.5.1. System program directors (SPD) and product group managers (PGM) are
       responsible for implementing the Acquisition Quality Program of AFI 63 -501.
       Integration of QA processes with operational support and applicable test and laboratory
       activities will be considered to ensure a quality product.
           3.5.1.1. Chief engineers in support of single managers are accountable and
           responsible for QA duties to ensure manufacturing and repair entities deliver quality
           products. This includes the selection and qualification of new sources.
       3.5.2. Test centers are responsible for contract administration QA and organic
       maintenance QA.
           3.5.2.1. Test center Contract Administration Offices (CAO) are Air Force Contract
           Administration Service (CAS) components as identified in the Federal Directory of
           CAS Components, and perform test center CAS activities as prescribed in FAR Part
           42 and Part 46. Test center CAS QA representatives are responsible for ensuring QA
           contract administration and audit services are performed in accordance with formal
           agreements or delegations received from delegating agencies for contracts being
           performed at their centers.
           3.5.2.2. Test Center Organic Maintenance QA will be accomplished in accordance
           with AFI 21-101 as implemented by AFMCI 21-119.
       3.5.3. ALCs and Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Center (AMARC). ALCs
       and AMARC will implement this instruction using provisions contained in functional QA
       policy directives.
           3.5.3.1. ALC and AMARC commanders will designate a center QA focal point
           responsible for implementing this instruction. Responsibilities will include the
AFMCI63-501_AFNWCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                            5


         receipt, interpretation, distribution, and implementation of policies and procedures
         affecting QA and assessment of their effectiveness.
         3.5.3.2. ALC Quality Manuals and Plans. All ALCs must maintain a center quality
         manual. All major organic depot maintenance workloads must be documented by the
         directorate QAP and/or supporting QAPs (see AFMCI 21-115). Figure 1. illustrates
         the hierarchy of quality program documentation flow. ALCs will establish internal
         reviews to measure compliance with AFMCI 63-501. The quality manual must be
         compatible with the provisions of ISO 9001 in order to allow expansion to achieve
         ISO 9000 registration if required by customers or desired in the future.
         3.5.3.3. AMARC. A center quality manual is not required; however, all major
         workloads must be documented by a QAP.
         3.5.3.4. ISO 9000 registration of AFMC QA programs is not required. Second party
         certification or third party registration is left to the discretion of the center
         commander.
  3.6. Air Force Security Assistance Center (AFSAC). AFSAC will ensure that the required
  level of QA is provided in all Foreign Military Sales (FMS) contracts that it manages.
  AFSAC will tailor QA options for FMS purchasers based on the purchasers’ identified
  unique requirements.
  3.7. (Added-AFNWC) AFNWC Responsibilities and Authorities. QA plans must be
  established and maintained by all AFNWC acquisition and sustainment management
  organizations performing any of, but not limited to, the following functional activities:
     3.7.1. (Added-AFNWC) Early Systems Engineering (SE). Early SE is the application
     of SE activities before and during the Materiel Solution Analysis, Materiel Development
     Decision and through Milestone A. Early SE activities are initiated when a capability
     need is identified, before requirements are defined.
     3.7.2. (Added-AFNWC) Engineering                      and               Manufacturing
     Development. Engineering and Manufacturing Development involves developing a
     system or increment capability, integrating full system, developing executable
     manufacturing processes, ensuring operational supportability, reducing logistic footprint,
     integrating human systems, designing for reducibility, protecting critical program
     information and demonstrating system integration, safety and utility.
     3.7.3. (Added-AFNWC) Field Maintenance. Field Maintenance refers to any
     organization which performs maintenance at a field location for nuclear munitions,
     maintenance operations support, Minuteman III ICBMs, associated missile alert facilities,
     logistics support for the wing's Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) fleet, including
     nuclear configured Rotary Launcher Assemblies. EXCEPTION: AFMC Munitions
     Squadron (MUNS) organizations will follow AFI 21-2XX series Quality Assurance
     guidance.
     3.7.4. (Added-AFNWC) Depot Maintenance. Depot Maintenance refers to any
     organization which performs maintenance that cannot be at a field location, and is
     therefore completed at depot facilities. Depot Maintenance includes that maintenance
     performed on materiel requiring major overhaul or a complete rebuild of parts,
6                                            AFMCI63-501_AFNWCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


    assemblies, subassemblies, and end-items, including the manufacture of parts,
    modifications, testing, and reclamation as required. Depot maintenance serves to support
    lower categories of maintenance by providing technical assistance and performing that
    maintenance beyond their responsibility. Depot maintenance provides stocks of
    serviceable equipment by using more extensive facilities for repair than are available in
    lower level maintenance activities.
    3.7.5. (Added-AFNWC) Facility/Infrastructure              Support. Facility/Infrastructure
    Support includes but is not limited to activities that sustain assigned forces assigned to
    AFNWC, including equipment, training, personnel administration, benefits, medical care,
    installations communications/information infrastructure, base operating support, facilities
    sustainment, restoration, modernization, environmental safety compliance and
    occupational health considerations.
    3.7.6. (Added-AFNWC) Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E). DT&E refers
    to any technical test conducted to provide data on the achievability of critical system
    performance parameters performed on components, subsystems and/or system level
    hardware/software configurations.
    3.7.7. (Added-AFNWC) Solicitation and Contract Management. Solicitation and
    Contract Management refers to the process of systematically planning, organizing,
    executing and controlling the mutually binding legal relationship obligating a seller to
    furnish supplies/services and a buyer to pay for them, including communicating
    government requirements, proposals, requests for price, delivery, capability information.
    3.7.8. (Added-AFNWC) Training. The processes, procedures, techniques, training
    devices, and equipment used to train civilian and active duty and reserve military
    personnel to operate and support a materiel system. This includes individual and crew
    training; new equipment training; initial, formal, and on-the-job training; and logistics
    support planning for training equipment and training device acquisitions and installations.
    3.7.9. (Added-AFNWC) Logistics. Technical and management activities conducted to
    ensure supportability implications are considered early and throughout the acquisition
    process to minimize support costs and to provide the user with the resources to sustain
    the system in the field.
    3.7.10. (Added-AFNWC) Demilitarization (DEMIL)/Disposal. Demilitarization is
    the act of destroying the military offensive or defensive advantages inherent in certain
    types of equipment or material. The term comprehends mutilation, dumping at sea,
    cutting, crushing, scrapping, melting, burning or altercation designed to prevent further
    use of this equipment and material for its originally intended military or lethal purpose
    and applies equally to material in unserviceable or serviceable condition that has been
    screened through the Inventory Control Point (ICP) and declared surplus or foreign
    excess.
    3.7.11. (Added-AFNWC) Sustainment. Sustainment refers to the process used to
    prepare for and execute the support, maintenance, repair, and disposal of a product while
    ensuring it is safe, suitable and effective.
    3.7.12. (Added-AFNWC) Supply Management. Supply Management refers to item
    accounting and inventory stock control including but not limited to identification of
AFMCI63-501_AFNWCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                                                           7


       supplies, equipment requirements, storage, inspection, identification, receipt of items,
       facility safety and security, manual and/or automated inventory control actions, timely
       correction of discrepancies, information, services and any other resources needed to
       satisfy organizational supply requirements, including program's supply chain
       management concept and approach.
4. (Added-AFNWC) QA Plan Functional Support. QA plans must be defined, documented
and implemented for all AFNWC sustainment and acquisition organizations. EXCEPTION:
AFMC MUNS organizations will follow AFI 21-2XX series Quality Assurance guidance. At a
minimum, all QA plan functional support activities must:
   4.1. (Added-AFNWC) Establish and maintain a description of all processes;
   4.2. (Added-AFNWC) Establish and maintain plans for performing all processes;
   4.3. (Added-AFNWC) Provide adequate resources for performing all processes;
   4.4. (Added-AFNWC) Assign responsibility and authority for performing all processes;
   4.5. (Added-AFNWC) Train the people performing or supporting the processes;
   4.6. (Added-AFNWC) Monitor and control the processes;
   4.7. (Added-AFNWC) Review the activities, status, and results of the processes;
   4.8. (Added-AFNWC) Assess metrics;
   4.9. (Added-AFNWC) Plan for continuous improvement;
   4.10. (Added-AFNWC) Evaluate customer feedback;
   4.11. (Added-AFNWC) Report discrepancies;
   4.12. (Added-AFNWC) Utilize corrective actions;
   4.13. (Added-AFNWC) Utilize preventive actions;
   4.14. (Added-AFNWC) Utilize internal audits;
   4.15. (Added-AFNWC) Document all quality records;
   4.16. (Added-AFNWC) Utilize root-cause analysis;
   4.17. (Added-AFNWC) Maintain Configuration Management of quality records.
5. (Added-AFNWC) QA Plan Compliance.
   5.1. (Added-AFNWC) All AFNWC acquisition and/or sustainment organizations will
   utilize self-inspection checklists to ensure complete compliance with this policy.
   5.2. (Added-AFNWC) AFNWC/EN will conduct Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs) annually
   to ensure compliance with this policy.

6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

6.1. Prescribed forms.

There are no prescribed forms.
 8                                      AFMCI63-501_AFNWCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011


6.2. Adopted forms.

(Added-AFNWC) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                      LESTER L. LYLES, General, USAF
                                      Commander

                                      (AFNWC)

                                      GARRETT HARENCAK, Brigadier General,
                                      USAF
                                      Commander, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFMCI63-501_AFNWCSUP_I 12 MAY 2011                               9


                             Attachment 1 (Added-AFNWC)
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(AFNWC) AFMCI 63-501, AFMC Quality Assurance, 14 December 2001
(AFNWC) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(AFNWC) AF—Air Force
(AFNWC) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
(AFNWC) AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
(AFNWC) AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
(AFNWC) AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
(AFNWC) AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(AFNWC) ANG—Air National Guard
(AFNWC) DEMIL—Demilitarization
(AFNWC) DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
(AFNWC) ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
(AFNWC) ICP—Inventory Control Point
(AFNWC) MUNS—Munitions Squadron
(AFNWC) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(AFNWC) QA—Quality Assurance
(AFNWC) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
(AFNWC) SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
(AFNWC) SE—Systems Engineering
