BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                     10-210
                                                                    TINKER AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              SUPPLEMENT

                                                                              10 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                      Operations

                                                                AIRCRAFT BATTLE DAMAGE
                                                                    REPAIR ENGINEERING

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OC-ALC/ENSP                                                   Certified by: OC-ALC/ENS
                                                                          (Kristian A. Olivero)
                                                                                       Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace
Equipment Maintenance, and AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management,,
and establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for AFMC's Aircraft Battle Damage Repair
(ABDR) engineers as they prepare to achieve and maintain the required level of readiness
necessary to meet their assigned tasking. Waiver authority is HQ AFMC/ENR. This instruction
does not apply to Air National Guard units or members. This instruction describes the Aircraft
Battle Damage Repair (ABDR) program for Tinker AFB, specifically how the ABDR Engineers
are organized, managed, trained, and equipped. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 37-123 (this number will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s through the appropriate chain of command to OC-ALC/ENSP.
This instruction is applicable to OC-ALC/GK, 76 MXW, OC-ALC/EN, 498 NSW/NWB, 848
SCMG, and all organizations with assigned ABDR engineers. This is a new document and
should be viewed in its entirety

1. Mission Description . Tinker ABDR Engineers provide on-site engineering support to the
unified Commanders in Chief and AF commanders for the B-1, B-2, B-52, and KC-135.
Engineers can fill a variety of roles which can include being part of a Depot Field Team (DFT),
 2                                      AFMCI 10-210_TINKERAFBSUP 10 JANUARY 2012


part of an Expeditionary Depot Maintenance (EDMX) deployment team, or as a representative of
the System Program Office (SPO). Depending on the role assigned, the ABDR engineer can
possess the authority and responsibility granted to a weapon system chief engineer. Specifically,
the deployed ABDR engineer will perform damage assessments, design non-standard structural
repairs, define and impose flight limitations, perform liaison duties between the local commander
responsible for maintenance and the Weapon System Engineering Authority, and other duties
assigned by the local commander.
2. Organization. ABDR engineering draws on active duty, and tenet organizations, mechanical
and aeronautical engineers assigned to Tinker AFB. If there is an insufficient number of active
duty engineers that meet ABDR requirements, IMA and then Air Force civilian engineers may
be used with a waiver found in AFMCI 10-210 Chapter 5. The Tinker AFB ABDR Chief
Engineer will reside in the Engineering Directorate (OC-ALC/EN). All other ABDR Engineers
will be assigned to Tinker AFB units for their primary duty responsibilities and will be pulled
from their primary duty for training, exercises, and deployments. All ABDR Engineers will be
assigned to an ABDR UTC managed by the ABDR Unit Deployment Manager (UDM) also
located in OC-ALC/EN.
3. Responsibilities. In addition to those outlined in AFMCI 10-210
3.1. Directorate of Engineering and Technical Management (OC-ALC/EN) will:
3.1.1. Manage placement of engineers in coordination with OC-ALC/GK Aerospace
Sustainment Directorate, 76 MXW, 848 SCMG, and 498 NSW/NWB in positions will facilitate
experience as Depot Liaison Engineer.
3.1.2. Appoint experienced journeyman engineers to assist and advise the Chief ABDR Engineer
on training, engineering activities, and provide reach back capability for deployed engineers.
This advisory position may be held by more than one person and be located outside the
Directorate itself. The individuals will also be trained and available to act as Exercise Evaluation
Team (EET) members during the pad exercises.
3.2. Chief ABDR Engineer, Tinker AFB (OC-ALC/ENSP) will:
3.2.1. Facilitate ABDR training for engineers not contained in the standard curriculum to
include but not limited to: KC-135 Liaison Engineering Course, corrosion and fatigue courses,
DLE training, graduate mechanical and material engineering courses.
3.2.2. Create training events and realistic scenarios to provide on aircraft experience that
matches a deployment environment.
3.2.3. Identify qualified ABDR Engineers to fill positions for experience needed to be a Depot
Liaison Engineer.
3.2.4. Assess individuals for desired professional qualities to fill ABDR Engineering Positions
and provide recommendations to the EN Director for approval.
3.2.5. Manage Engineering Kits and other ABDR supply and Individual Equipment Issue (IEU).
3.2.6. Establish and maintain a recall roster to facilitate rapid response to recalls.
3.2.7. Manage ABDR budget.
AFMCI 10-210_TINKERAFBSUP 10 JANUARY 2012                                                          3


3.2.8. Coordinate maintenance and issuance of weapons and ammunition for exercises, training,
and deployments.
3.2.9. Maintain ABDR community of practice and base website to facilitate communication with
ABDR engineers across functional areas.
3.3. Deputy Chief ABDR Engineer will:
3.3.1. Perform the duties of the Chief ABDR Engineer as required.
3.4. Unit Deployment Manager (OC-ALC/ENR) will:
3.4.1. Notify designated ABDR Engineers of training opportunities in direct support of
engineering deployments to include but not limited to: Flight line driver’s license, confined
space, egress training, high risk of capture, and medium risk of isolation.
3.4.2. Provide funding for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) the engineers need for
deployment.
3.5. ABDR Engineers will:
3.5.1. Participate in training activities as scheduled by UDM and Chief ABDR Engineer. All
training should be coordinated with the engineer’s immediate supervisor. The engineer should
attend ABDR related training events, refresher, or exercises to maintain ABDR status.
3.6. Expeditionary Depot Maintenance Flight, Tinker AFB (76 MXW/AMXS/EDMX)
3.6.1. Provide training to ABDR engineers through two main courses; the Technician course and
the Assessor Course. Provide maintenance and deployment experience and expertise during
exercises and other joint training events.
4. Depot Liaison Engineering
4.1. Overview. Depot Liaison Engineer (DLE) is a position created in 2004 to provide AOR
operations support for deployed forces. DLE’s provide on-site engineering support for aircraft
issues such as structural, electrical, avionics, aircraft systems, and act as a liaison between field
maintenance and the SPO. The accomplishments of DLE’s work have been well documented as
being a force multiplier. DLE’s have shortened depot responses to technical assistance and
provided many more opportunities for TO clarification and engineering assistance. DLE’s
handle AFMC Form 107 requests, long and short term engineering projects, and damage
evaluation.
4.2. Requirements.
4.2.1. Must be at least a 1st Lt at time of arrival to AOR.
4.2.2. Fully qualified and current ABDR engineer IAW AFMCI 10-210.
4.2.3. Have 1 year experience within a System Program Office working AFMC Form 107/202
requests (for organizations that meet this requirement refer to section 4.5), the ability to
communicate with senior leadership, handle new and complex problems, and be flexible and
adaptable to new situations.
4.3. Training.
4.3.1. The minimum training required for DLE participation includes the ABDR Engineering
course, ABDR Technician course, participation in 1 pad exercise, and mobility training classes.
 4                                   AFMCI 10-210_TINKERAFBSUP 10 JANUARY 2012


Additional training may be required but is dependent on the location the DLE will be deployed
to. Engineering training including KC-135 Boeing Liaison Engineering Course, as well as
courses in corrosion and fatigue are also encouraged.
4.3.2. Weapon system specific familiarization includes visits to the other Air Logistics Centers
and SPO of the major weapon systems that the individual will need to be familiar with.
4.3.3. Maintenance operations familiarization.     Participation in TDY’s to understand
maintenance at a main operating base for a weapon system found at the forward location is also
encouraged.
4.3.4. The DLE should prepare for deployment by working AFMC Form 107/202 engineering
support requests for unfamiliar weapon systems that the DLE will be in theater with prior to the
deployment. It is recommended that the engineer answer at least five engineering support
requests from a variety of the OC-ALC weapon systems particularly those with assets deployed
to regions the DLE will be assigned.
4.4. System Program Office (SPO) Positions. Not all SPO engineering positions meet DLE
requirements. The following describes the office and job experience needed to be a qualified
DLE candidate. For all positions the completion of 5 engineering support requests from each
support element is required.
4.4.1. Engineers assigned to the B-1 SPO (OC-ALC/GKB) need to be placed in the Engineering
Branches, Airframe and Mechanical Systems section. The engineer should have a workload of
both long term engineering projects as well as a substantial workload of engineering support
requests. If the engineer does not have a significant number of engineering requests to their
assigned mechanical system, they will work structural engineering support requests as required.
4.4.2. Engineers assigned to the B-52 SPO (OC-ALC/GKD) need to be placed in the
Engineering Branches, Airframe and Mechanical Systems Section. The engineer should have a
workload of both long term engineering projects as well as a substantial workload of engineering
support requests. If the engineer does not have a significant number of engineering support
requests to their assigned mechanical system, they will work structural engineering support
requests as required.
4.4.3. Engineers assigned to the KC-135 SPO (OC-ALC/GKC) may be placed in either the
Logistics Support Branch (field support) or the Production Support Branch (PDM). The
engineer should have a workload of both long term engineering projects as well as engineering
support requests. The engineer should be assigned mechanical systems and structural requests
from both branches to acquire a broad experience.
4.4.4. Engineers assigned to the B-2 SSM (OC-ALC/GKABA) need to be placed in the
Engineering Branches, Low Observables, Airframe Structures and Mechanical Systems Section.
Since the B-2 has unique Low Observables (LO) requirements, for Engineers to qualify and
maintain ABDR/DLE status for the B-2 requires additional training. Minimum requirements are
the completion of one deployment to a Main Operating Base or Forward Operating Location and
two engineering projects.
4.4.5. Engineers assigned to the Propulsion Group (OC-ALC/GKG) can be located in the
F100/TF33/F119/F117 Branch, F101/F108/F110/F118 Branch, or TF34/TF39/T56/J85 Specialty
Engineer Branch. Engineers will be assigned engineering support requests as one of their
AFMCI 10-210_TINKERAFBSUP 10 JANUARY 2012                                                    5


primary duties. Additional duties should also include long-term engineering projects as well as
other field and depot related issues.
4.4.6. Engineers assigned to the Missile Sustainment Division (498 NSW/NWBA) need to be
placed in the Engineering Branch. The engineer should have a workload of both long term
engineering projects as well as a substantial workload of engineering support requests.




                                           ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, Colonel USAF
                                           72 ABW/CC, Commander
 6                                AFMCI 10-210_TINKERAFBSUP 10 JANUARY 2012


                                      Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMCI 10-210, AIRCRAFT BATTLE DAMAGE REPAIR ENGINEERING
AFMAN 37-123, MANAGEMENT OF RECORDS

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABDR— Aircraft Battle Damage Repair
ACSS— Aircraft Combat Support Squadron
AFGLSC— Air Force Global Logistics Support Center
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AOR— Area of Responsibility
ASW— Aircraft Sustainment Wing
DFT— Depot Field Team
DLE— Depot Liaison Engineer
EDMX— Expeditionary Depot Maintenance
EN— Engineering Directorate
ENSP— Engineering Directorate Systems Programs
ETAR— Engineering Technical Assistance Request (107/202)
EAF— Expeditionary Air Force
FAM— Functional Area Manager
IEU— Individual Equipment Issue
MXW— Maintenance Wing
NSW/NWB— Missile Sustainment Division
OC—ALC – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
PDM— Program Depot Maintenance
SPO— System Program Office
SORTS— Status of Resources and Training System
TDY— Temporary Duty Yonder
UDM— Unit Deployment Manager
UMD— Unit Manning Document
UTC—Unit Type Code
AFMCI 10-210_TINKERAFBSUP 10 JANUARY 2012                                               7


Terms
Area of Responsibility (AOR)— Region of world in which combat operations are being flown.
