BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            AFMC POLICY DIRECTIVE 99-1
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                          4 NOVEMBER 2004

                                                                                    Test and Evaluation

                                                                                TEST MANAGEMENT




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/DOF (Lt Col David Snyder)                Certified by: HQ AFMC/DOF (Col Stetson Siler)
Supersedes AFMCPD 99-1, 13 May 1998                                                       Pages: 2
                                                                                   Distribution: F

This policy directive outlines test and evaluation (T&E) policy within the Air Force Materiel Command
(AFMC). This publication applies to all personnel who conduct or are involved with T&E. This directive
applies to T&E conducted by test centers, product centers, air logistics centers, and the Air Force
Research Laboratory for which AFMC has accountability, whether or not it is conducted on
AFMC-owned or controlled test assets.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This directive supersedes AFMCPD 99-1, 13 May 1998. Title was changed from “Test and Evaluation
(T&E) Risk Management” to reflect the more general nature of this document. Entire document was
rewritten to focus on the revised concepts and associated AFMC responsibilities related to the implemen-
tation of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation and identifies strat-
egies to achieve them.


1. Scope. This directive identifies processes and organizational constructs in support of Capabilities
Based T&E. AFMC addresses T&E responsibilities in primarily five areas: 1) support of specific program
test activities, 2) support of program decision making, 3) early tester involvement in the capability
requirements development process, 4) provide inputs for investment in test capabilities, and 5) policy
development, implementation and oversight.

2. Program Support. In order to provide program managers (PM) and integrated test teams (ITT) with
the resources and expertise necessary to properly establish and execute sound T&E plans, commanders of
product and logistic centers shall establish Center Test Authorities (CTA). These organizations shall pro-
vide direct T&E support to specific PMs/ITTs with limited T&E resources or experience, and overarching
support of PMs/ITTs through policy development and training.

3. Decision Making Support. As approval authorities for T&E strategies and plans, Program Executive
Officers (PEO) and center commanders often require the advice of T&E experts to ensure these strategies
2                                                                   AFMCPD99-1 4 NOVEMBER 2004


and plans are adequate. CTAs shall provide these decision makers with expert advice as required to sup-
port them in their decision making process. Additionally, test center/wing commanders shall provide suf-
ficient support to these CTAs through the use of test representatives (TESTREP). These TESTREPs shall
be capable of providing insight into test center/wing capabilities, best practices, and lessons learned capa-
ble of supporting test programs.

4. Early Tester Involvement. Capabilities based requirements development requires T&E involvement
in the development of early requirements documents to ensure requirements are testable and realistic.
Additionally, test centers require insight into future T&E requirements to ensure the required test facilities
and associated resources are available to support them. AFMC/DO and the test center/wing commanders
will ensure that early tester involvement with HQ USAF/XOR and HQ USAF/TE is conducted to accom-
plish each of these mandates.

5. Policy. CTAs and test centers/wings shall develop, implement, and oversee local policies and proce-
dures in support of capabilities based T&E consistent with the DOD 5000-series regulations and Air
Force and AFMC 99-series policy directives and instructions.



                                                      JEFFREY R. RIEMER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                      Director of Operations
