BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                        AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                  INSTRUCTION 23-205

                                                                                                                         26 APRIL 2012

                                                                                                              Material Management

                                                                                      PLANNING FOR DLA-MANAGED
                                                                                            CONSUMABLES (PDMC)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/A4R                                                                                     Certified by: HQ AFMC/A4
                                                                                                        (Col John G. Waggoner)
                                                                                                                       Pages: 44


This instruction implements AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management. This instruction provides
procedures for the demand and supply planning and forecasting of Defense Logistics Agency
(DLA)-managed consumables. It applies to the Air Force Global Logistics Support Center
(AFGLSC) and Air Logistics Centers (ALC). Specifically, all organic AF requirements,
including field requirements, will be transmitted to DLA via Demand Data Exchange (DDE).
This AFMCI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements must be routed to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional‘s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This publication does not
apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG).
Deviations and waivers require OPR approval of this publication prior to implementation. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.



Chapter 1—PLANNING OF DLA-MANAGED CONSUMABLE                                                                                              3
       1.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Program Goal. ........................................................................................................      3
 2                                                                                         AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


       1.3.   Program Objectives. ...............................................................................................      3
       1.4.   Program Scope. ......................................................................................................    3

Chapter 2—PROCESS                                                                                                                      5
       2.1.   Process Overview. .................................................................................................      5
       2.2.   Process Diagrams. ..................................................................................................     6
Figure 2.1.   AF/DLA Demand and Supply Planning Processes ................................................                             6

Chapter 3—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                   8
       3.1.   Information Flow Overview. .................................................................................             8
Figure 3.1.   Information Flow through the PDMC ....................................................................                   8
       3.2.   Process Initiator Responsibilities. ..........................................................................           8
       3.3.   Process Execution. .................................................................................................    12
       3.4.   Process Owner. ......................................................................................................   13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        15

Attachment 2—INFORMATION AND DATA FORMAT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                 20

Attachment 3—AFGLSC DEMAND TRIGGERS AND DEMAND INPUT GENERATION
             METHODOLOGY                                                                                                              27

Attachment 4—ASD/SPO DEMAND TRIGGERS AND DEMAND INPUT GENERATION
             METHODOLOGY                                                                                                              28

Attachment 5—MXW DEMAND TRIGGERS AND DEMAND INPUT GENERATION
             METHODOLOGY                                                                                                              30

Attachment 6—NWI DEMAND TRIGGERS AND DEMAND INPUT GENERATION
             METHODOLOGY                                                                                                              32

Attachment 7—DEMAND PLAN AGGREGATION AND SUPPLY PLAN GENERATION
             METHODOLOGY                                                                                                              35

Attachment 8—SUBMISSION DECISION METHODOLOGY                                                                                          37

Attachment 9—DDE/CDD DATA FORMAT REQUIREMENTS                                                                                         39
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                        3



                                           Chapter 1

                    PLANNING OF DLA-MANAGED CONSUMABLE

1.1. Overview. Planning for DLA-Managed Consumables (PDMC) is the strategic planning
process the Air Force (AF) employs to proactively notify DLA when there is a significant change
in the future requirements for a DLA-managed consumable item. The PDMC process is not
intended to resolve short term supportability issues. The PDMC process develops and provides
item, location, and date specific future requirements to DLA for consumable items that the AF
anticipates requisitioning. This process covers DLA-managed consumable item demand across
organic1 AF locations including the depots and field bases. The AF participates with DLA in
their Customer Collaboration (CC) process using DDE. DDE is the method by which AF
requirements are passed electronically to DLA‘s Enterprise Business Solution (EBS). The AF‘s
DDE/CC requirements represent the AF‘s supply plan for that National Item Identification
Number (NIIN) for the AF Department of Defense Activity Address Codes (DoDAAC). The
quantity documented in the DDE represents the anticipated quantity that will be requisitioned by
the AF at that respective DoDAAC during the month represented. The goal of DDE and web-
based CC is to improve DLA support to the AF Enterprise by improving collaborative demand
plan accuracy/percent forecast error (DPA/PFE) and improving supply responsiveness. This
process improves customer-supplier relations by implementing a well documented and mutually
agreed upon CC process with clearly defined roles and responsibilities as defined in the body of
this instruction. In addition, this process improves parts support and manpower efficiency by
optimizing Department of Defense (DoD) supply chain resources through collaborative planning,
feedback, and Continuous Process Improvement (CPI). In the future, this process will be
automated by the AF‘s Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, which will forecast at the
independent demand level and expand requirements through Bill of Materials (BOMs) to
generate dependent demand. This instruction details the AF‘s interim state, which is supported
by manual requirements calculations and existing Information Technology (IT) systems
Repairability Forecast Model-Integrated System (RFM-IS) to enable the process until
Expeditionary Combat Support System (ECSS) is implemented. The partnering agreement with
DLA for the coordination, execution and reporting of the PDMC activity is outlined in the AF
and DLA Performance Based Agreement (PBA). The AF PBA and associated Annexes can be
located                   at                 the                following                   site:
https://headquarters.dla.mil/DLA_Customer/Operations/PBAs.aspx#AirForcePBA
1.2. Program Goal. Improve materiel availability of DLA-managed consumables across the
AF enterprise at the time of need.
1.3. Program Objectives.
   1.3.1. Reduce AF stock outs through improved DLA demand and supply plans.
   1.3.2. Reduce DLA forecast error.
1.4. Program Scope. Plan for DLA-managed Class of Supply IX consumable item sustainment
demand for AF base level, depot, Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (AMARG),

Contractors under contractor furnished materiels (CFM) will be responsible for collaboratively
forecasting requirements with their suppliers.
 4                                                       AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


contractor if under government furnished material (GFM), Depot Maintenance Inter-Service
Agreement (DMISA) customers, and Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) as applicable.
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                  5


                                        Chapter 2

                                        PROCESS

2.1. Process Overview. The AF and DLA optimize DoD supply chain resources by
coordinating their planning efforts.
  2.1.1. DLA forecasts using mathematical techniques that are based on historic data and
  assumes that past order rates from their customers will reflect their future ordering rates
  (reactive planning).
     2.1.1.1. DLA employs four basic sustainment strategies for supplying the consumables
     they manage.
         2.1.1.1.1. Forecastable/Stockable items: DLA develops a forecast based on historic
         demand and develops a Time Phased Inventory Plan (TPIP) to support the plan
         (Example: medium – higher demand volume, AAC ―D‖).
         2.1.1.1.2. Non-forecastable/stockable items: DLA does not forecast future demand
         but plans minimum safety stock levels and maximum on hand levels based on two
         years demand history (Example: insurance/ Numerical Stockage Objective (NSO)
         items, AAC ―Z‖).
         2.1.1.1.3. Non-stocked items: DLA does not forecast and does not stock. DLA
         initiates procurement only after receipt of a requisition (Example: AAC ―J‖).
         2.1.1.1.4. Forecastable/Non-Stockable items: DLA develops a forecast based on
         historic demand (if it exists) but does not develop a Time Phased Inventory Plan
         (TPIP) to support the forecast because the supply planning function is managed under
         a government contract by a contractor. These items are shipped direct to the
         customer by the contractor only after receipt of a requisition and are typically AAC
         ―H‖ (higher/medium/low demand).
     2.1.1.2. The AF will submit supply plans (DDEs) generated from future organic AF
     requirements for DLA-managed consumable items that could not otherwise be accurately
     forecasted by DLA using demand history. DDEs are only required when there is a future
     change in requirements driven by a known demand trigger event (demand triggers are
     defined in Chapter 3).
         2.1.1.2.1. These supply plans will include requirements for organic depot and field
         use that originate in the Aircraft Sustainment Directorates (ASDs), Planning and
         Execution Supply Chain Management Groups (P&E SCMGs) of the 448th Supply
         Chain Management Wing (SCMW), the Maintenance Wings (MXW), and the
         Nuclear Weapons Intercontinental Ballistics Missile (ICBM) Division (NWI). These
         requirements will be vetted with the 635th Supply Chain Operations Wing (SCOW),
         and as necessary with the MAJCOMs.
         2.1.1.2.2. The AF will communicate field level requirements to DLA through DDE
         transactions instead of SPRs.
 6                                                              AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


            2.1.1.2.3. The AF will ensure that supply plans represent the total anticipated
            quantity by National Item Identification Number (NIIN) that will be requisitioned by
            the respective DoDAAC during the month represented.
2.2. Process Diagrams. The set of four Supplier Input Process Output Customer (SIPOC)
diagrams in Figure 2.1 provide a visual overview of how the AF will collaborate with DLA to
plan for DLA-managed consumables.

Figure 2.1. AF/DLA Demand and Supply Planning Processes




     2.2.1. AF Demand Planning. The first SIPOC diagram in Figure 2.1. provides an overview
     of the first step in the AF demand planning process. Various AF organizations will initiate
     demand planning when events occur that make future demand different from historic
     demand. This AFMCI refers to these events as ―demand triggers.‖ These events may make
     DLA‘s statistical forecast, which is based on AF requisition history, inaccurate to the point
     that it disrupts materiel availability. AF organizations will be assigned responsibility for
     defined sets of demand triggers and will be responsible for initiating the PDMC process
     when those triggers occur. These organizations are referred to as process initiators. At the
     time the organizational demand trigger occurs, the responsible process initiator organization
     will generate the new requirement for DLA-managed consumables affected by the trigger.
     When the trigger affects more than one DoDAAC, the total requirement must reflect the
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                  7


  requirement by DoDAAC. This includes assembling the data necessary to generate a
  NIIN/DoDAAC level requirement for the demand trigger event, performing the standard
  calculation for the respective demand trigger, generating the supporting information that
  provides detail to the input, and transmitting their information to the PDMC flight of the
  AFGLSC for consideration to be included into the AF aggregated demand plan. The PDMC
  Flight will then consolidate all requirements for that demand trigger to include other user
  requirements to develop an aggregate demand plan for each NIIN/DoDAAC combination.
  The second SIPOC diagram in Figure 1 shows how those raw demand inputs are
  consolidated and aggregated into a single AF demand plan. At this point in the process, the
  requirement represents the AF requirement, or demand plan, at the NIIN/DoDAAC level.
  2.2.2. Supply Planning. The fourth SIPOC diagram in Figure 2.1. shows that after the
  aggregated AF demand plan is calculated, the AF generates the supply plan for each
  NIIN/DoDAAC combination. The supply plan represents the total requirement at the
  NIIN/DoDAAC level.
  2.2.3. Submission Decision. Once the supply plan is developed, the AF assesses the new
  requirement to determine whether the requirement should be submitted to DLA via DDE.
  This decision is based on whether the new requirement will adversely affect material
  availability if it is not provided to DLA. Factors influencing this decision include the AF
  market share for the NIIN, the size of the change from DLA‘s forecast and the AF‘s new
  requirement. Lastly, the AF will generate a DDE file containing all the requirements at the
  NIIN/DoDAAC level that have passed the submission decision test and will transmit this
  information to DLA. DLA prioritizes the requirements received based on the Weapons
  System Code (WSC). PDMC will provide feedback to the process initiator to advise them of
  the decision and the action taken on the submission.
  2.2.4. DLA Demand and Supply Planning. DLA will receive the AF DDE file and
  incorporate the AF‘s new requirements into its demand and supply planning process that are
  documented at a high level in the third and fourth SIPOC diagrams of Figure 2.1. Feedback
  from DLA on the DDE file submitted is in the form of exceptions generated from the DLA
  collaboration tool. Exceptions are part of the AF/DLA collaboration process whereby DLA
  may require additional information or validation prior to developing a procurement strategy
  for the collaborative NIIN.
  2.2.5. Continuous Process Improvement. The last major sub-process of the AF PDMC
  process is CPI. The AF will retain its demand and supply plan information to measure the
  performance of the process. It will identify areas for improvement and develop plans to
  continually improve under-performing components of the processes.
 8                                                               AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


                                            Chapter 3

                              ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. Information Flow Overview. Figure 3.1. provides a visual overview of the information
flow from process initiation through DDE submission to DLA and back through the
collaboration process. There are three basic roles required to support the PDMC process: (1)
Process Owner, (2) Process Execution, and (3) Process Initiator. Blue circles represent the types
of organizations that fill the Process Initiator role. These organizations are responsible for
initiating the process when their assigned demand triggers occur. The demand triggers assigned
to each type of organization are listed in Figure 3.1 to the left of that organization‘s circle. The
initial demand inputs generated by the Process Initiators flow to the PDMC Flight. This second
essential role is represented by the 448 SCMW in Figure 3.1. This role is responsible for
aggregating the demand plan, generating the supply plan, executing the submission decision
methodology, transmitting DDE to DLA, maintaining DDE, and collaborating by exception with
DLA and trigger organizations. The final essential role is the Process Owner, 948th Supply
Chain Management Group (SCMG) and it is not represented by a single node in Figure 3.1. This
role is responsible for process design and CPI.

Figure 3.1. Information Flow through the PDMC




3.2. Process Initiator Responsibilities.
     3.2.1. Organizations assigned the Process Initiator role are responsible for a defined set of
     demand triggers as shown in Figure 3.1. Note: DLA will only accept organic AF DDE
     submitted through the PDMC Flight of the AFGLSC. Other AF organizations that identify
     potential demand triggers that are not identified in this AFMCI should contact the AFGLSC
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                  9


  PDMC Flight to begin analysis of the potential demand triggers impact on material
  availability.
  3.2.2. Process Initiator organizations, upon the occurrence of an assigned demand trigger,
  will:
     3.2.2.1. Assemble the necessary demand data for NIINs. The scope of the NIINs for this
     process is DLA Source of Supply (SOS) code Strategic Materiel Supportable (SMS)
     items only. However, it is the responsibility of the initiating organization to
     communicate to other SOSs, i.e. 448 SCMW, requirements for end item NIINs under
     their management also.
     3.2.2.2. Validate the NSN in D043.
     3.2.2.3. Validate unit of issue in D043.
     3.2.2.4. Validate the NIIN‘s AAC. Do not submit demand inputs for NIINs with AAC
     of ―J,‖ ―V‖ or ―Y.‖
     3.2.2.5. Submit Industrial Prime Vendor (IPV) Requirements to PDMC items as adds
     only. PDMC will not perform any analysis on these however will process through the
     PDMC Analysis Tool and forward output to the IPV Contractor. Contractor will
     subsequently perform all analysis and determine requirement for DDE submittal to DLA.
     3.2.2.6. As necessary, collaborate with AF and other item stakeholders to develop the
     most accurate program requirement for their program prior to submitting a demand input
     to the PDMC Flight. Stakeholders may include all MAJCOMs, lead MAJCOMs, 635
     SCOW, or contractors.
     3.2.2.7. Perform the requirement calculation for each affected NIIN at each affected
     DoDAAC.
     3.2.2.8. Generate the complete demand for NIINs in your work stream that have SMS as
     the SOS using the template as outlined in Attachment 2.
     3.2.2.9. Transmit demand input to the AFGLSC‘s PDMC Flight 428th Supply Chain
     Management Squadron (SCMS), 948 SCMG, 448 SCMW. Process initiators will receive
     feedback via response form from the PDMC Flight on all submissions.
     3.2.2.10. After reworking demand inputs rejected by the PDMC Flight, resubmit
     corrected demand input template.
     3.2.2.11. Upon request from the PDMC Flight, collaborate on DLA-generated
     exceptions. If a stock level is required for a DLA-managed AAC ―J‖ item, a DLA Form
     1913,      Adjusted      Stock      Level,      must   be    submitted      (reference
     http://www.dla.mil/dss/forms/fillables/dl1913.pdf). If approved, DLA will manually
     change the AAC ―J‖ to an AAC ―D‖ or ―Z.‖ Once the AAC is changed the initiator must
     submit a DDE. DLA Form 1913 indicates that the upcoming requirement is changing
     from past usage.
     3.2.2.12. If a requirement changes after it has been submitted to the PDMC Flight, it is
     the responsibility of the Process Initiator (PI) to notify the PDMC Flight if the change
     occurs outside 90 days from the date of need. If the requirement is generated in the
     PDMC IT system, the requirement will be updated within the system by the PI. If the
10                                                         AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


     requirement is generated out side the system, a demand input with the Action Type –
     Requirement Change will be submitted to the PDMC Flight.
     3.2.2.13. If the submitting information on a demand input template changes after
     submittal to the PDMC Flight, the PI will submit the change in the information to the
     PDMC Flight on a demand input with the Action Type – Supporting Info Change.
     3.2.2.14. Submit requests for removal of inputs no longer requiring collaborative
     planning with DLA by submitting a demand input to the PDMC Flight with the Action
     Type – Remove. This occurs when the DLA forecast accurately reflects future demand.
  3.2.3. AFGLSC Planning and Execution Groups. The Planning and Execution Groups (638
  SCMG, 748 SCMG, and 848 SCMG) of the 448 SCMW will generate demand inputs for the
  DLA-managed items indentured to the DLRs they manage using the methodology described
  in Attachment 3 when the following demand triggers occur:
     3.2.3.1. Change to Depot Level Reparable (DLR) Workload. This demand trigger
     applies to the DLA-managed piece parts that are associated with changes at the DLR
     level including any changes that affect the commodity level organic repair workload or
     contract repair workload that are supported by GFM. This trigger includes
     Aircraft/Missile Requirements (AMR) changes effecting commodities and engine DLR
     repair.
     3.2.3.2. Commodity Modification. This demand trigger occurs when modifications
     (form/fit/function, Improved Item Replacement Program [IIRP]) to commodities affect
     future DLA-managed consumable demand of piece parts within the commodity.
     3.2.3.3. Commodity Level Time Change Technical Order (TCTO). This demand trigger
     occurs when a commodity level TCTO affects future DLA-managed consumable demand
     of piece parts within the commodity.
     3.2.3.4. Commodity Level Time Changes. This demand trigger occurs when the
     cognizant engineering authority (CEA) decides to replace a commodity item and/or the
     DLA piece part within the commodity at different time intervals, either more or less
     frequently, than historically changed.
     3.2.3.5. Changes to Items on a Commodity BOM. This demand trigger occurs when
     DLA-managed consumables are added to or removed from a commodity BOM.
     3.2.3.6. Workload Transitions to/from Organic USAF Source of Repair (SOR). This
     demand trigger occurs when workload that is transitioning to or from organic AF sources
     of repair affects demand for DLA-managed consumables outside of 90 days.
  3.2.4. Aerospace Sustainment Directorates (ASDs)/System Program Offices (SPOs).
  ASDs/SPOs will generate demand inputs for DLA-managed items that go directly onto the
  aircraft/weapon/engine system using the methodology described in Attachment 4 when the
  following demand triggers occur:
     3.2.4.1. Weapon System Level TCTOs. This demand trigger occurs when a TCTO (i.e.
     inspection TCTO) is created at the weapon system level that will affect demand for DLA-
     managed consumables outside of 90 days.
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                  11


     3.2.4.2. Changes to Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM) Workload. This demand
     trigger occurs when there are new/future PDM requirements that have been approved
     through the AMR process which affect demand for DLA-managed consumables. These
     DLA parts go directly on to the aircraft and are not associated with the repair of an AF-
     managed commodity.
     3.2.4.3. Weapon System Modifications. This demand trigger occurs when modifications
     to weapon systems affect demand for DLA-managed consumables that go directly onto
     the aircraft and are not associated with the repair of an AF managed commodity outside
     of 90 days.
     3.2.4.4. Weapon System Level Time Changes. This demand trigger occurs when the
     CEA decides to replace a DLA-managed consumable which goes directly on the
     aircraft/weapon system at different time intervals, either more or less frequently, than
     historically changed
     3.2.4.5. Changes to a Weapon System BOM. This demand trigger occurs when an ASD
     engineer adds or removes DLA-managed consumables to a weapon system BOM but
     does not include factor changes.
     3.2.4.6. Workload Transitioning to/from Organic USAF SOR. This demand trigger
     occurs when workload that is transitioning to or from organic AF SOR affects demand
     for DLA-managed consumables outside of 90 days.
     3.2.4.7. Engine Overhaul. This demand trigger occurs when changes to whole up engine
     level overhaul requirements affect demand for DLA-managed consumables outside of 90
     days.
     3.2.4.8. GFM for Production.      This demand trigger is used when contractors are
     authorized GFM.
     3.2.4.9. Site Activation. This demand trigger is used when a base is being activated to
     beddown a new weapon system.
     3.2.4.10. Depot activation. This demand trigger is used when the depot is activated for
     new repair workload.
  3.2.5. Maintenance Wings (MXWs). MXWs will generate demand inputs using the
  methodology described in Attachment 5 when the following demand triggers occur:
     3.2.5.1. Changes to Factors. This demand trigger occurs when changes to replacement
     or occurrence factors affect demand for DLA-managed consumables outside of 90 days
     from date of need.
     3.2.5.2. T-Jobs / M-Jobs. This demand trigger occurs when additions, deletions, or
     changes to temporary or manufacture jobs affect demand for DLA-managed consumables
     outside of 90 days from date of need.
     3.2.5.3. DMISA. This demand trigger occurs when changes to DMISA affect demand
     for DLA-managed consumables outside of 90 days from date of need.
     3.2.5.4. Private Partnership Agreements (PPA). This demand trigger occurs when
     changes to PPA affect demand for DLA-managed consumable outside of 90 days from
     date of need.
 12                                                           AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


   3.2.6. Nuclear Weapons Inter-Continental Ballistic Missile Division (NWI). NWI will
   generate demand inputs for DLA-managed items that               go directly onto the
   missile/weapon/engine system using the methodology described in Attachment 6 when the
   following demand triggers occur:
      3.2.6.1. Aircraft/Missile Requirements (AMR) Changes to Programmed Depot
      Maintenance (PDM) Workload. This demand trigger occurs when there are new/future
      PDM requirements that have been approved through the Aircraft/Missile Requirements
      Document (AMR) process that affect demand for DLA-managed consumables.
      3.2.6.2. Weapon System Modifications. This demand trigger occurs when modifications
      to weapon systems affect demand for consumables outside of 90 days from date of need.
   3.2.6.3. Weapon System Level Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO). This demand
   trigger occurs when a TCTO is created at the weapon system level that will affect demand for
   DLA-managed consumables outside of 90 days.
   3.2.6.4. Weapon System Level Time Changes. This demand trigger occurs when an
   Engineering Support Authority (ESA) decides to replace a DLA-managed consumable at a
   predetermined time in order to maintain the item‘s integrity before actual failure occurs to
   minimize risk of larger, unscheduled failures. Frequency is based on scheduled time
   intervals such as operations hours.
      3.2.6.5. Changes to a Weapon System Bill of Material (BOM). This demand trigger
      occurs when DLA-managed consumables are added to or removed from a weapon system
      BOM but do not include factor changes.
      3.2.6.6. Workload Transitioning to/from Organic USAF Source of Repair (SOR). This
      demand trigger occurs when workload that is transitioning to or from organic AF sources
      of repair affects demand for DLA-managed consumables outside of 90 days from date of
      need.
3.3. Process Execution.
   3.3.1. The PDMC Flight, 428 SCMS, 948 SCMG, 448 SCMW of the AFGLSC is assigned
   the role of process execution. It is responsible for performing the following functions:
   3.3.2. Demand Plan Consolidation and Aggregation. The PDMC Flight will consolidate all
   demand inputs from the Process Initiator organizations and develop an aggregate demand
   plan for each NIIN/DoDAAC combination This NIIN/DoDAAC demand plan should
   represent the total requirements for that NIIN at that DoDAAC. The demand input received
   from the Process Initiating organization may not represent the NIINs total demand at that
   DoDAAC so the PDMC Flight will ensure that the NIIN‘s total demand is accounted for at
   that DoDAAC. The PDMC Forward Demand Planners are responsible for facilitating a
   working meeting with all stakeholder organizations that may be affected by the changes in
   demand at the NIIN/ DoDAAC level if the total demand cannot be accurately calculated
   using available data. The demand plan aggregation methodology is documented in detail in
   Attachment 7.
   3.3.3. Supply Plan Generation. After the aggregate AF demand plan is calculated, the
   PDMC Flight will generate the AF enterprise supply plan for DLA-managed consumables for
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                     13


   each NIIN/DoDAAC combination. The supply plan generation methodology is documented
   in detail in Attachment 7.
   3.3.4. DDE Submission Decision Methodology. Once the supply plan is developed, the
   PDMC Flight will assess the new requirement to determine whether the requirement should
   be submitted to DLA via DDE. This decision is based on whether the new requirement is
   significantly different, as defined in Attachment 8.
   3.3.5. The PDMC Flight will provide feedback to the process initiator for all submissions on
   the response form.
   3.3.6. Remove items no longer requiring collaboration with DLA when the following
   conditions exist:
      3.3.6.1. The demand input end date falls in the current month.
      3.3.6.2. The demand input is within tolerance of the DLA forecast
   3.3.7. DDE Transmission to DLA. The PDMC will generate a DDE file containing all the
   new requirements at the NIIN/DoDAAC level that have passed the submission decision test
   and transmit this information to DLA. The DDE formatting requirements are documented in
   Attachment 9.
   3.3.8. DLA Exception Management. The PDMC Flight will collaboratively work all DLA-
   generated exceptions with DLA NLT the Demand Month End (DME). As a courtesy to the
   DLA Demand Planners (DP), the PDMC Flight will make every effort to work their
   exceptions during the first ½ of the open window [Day 7 and the DME] to allow their DLA
   DPs time to review the PDMC Flight comments/changes. These exceptions include:
      3.3.8.1. Significant Forecast Changes. Identifies items where the customer forecast is
      significantly different than the forecast the customer sent to DLA the previous month.
      3.3.8.2. Significant Variances from Statistical Forecast. Identifies projected changes that
      have not materialized in customer buying patterns, significant over/under forecasting
      based on history, or significant differences between the DLA statistical forecast and the
      customer forecast.
3.4. Process Owner. AFGLSC will act as the process owner for the PDMC process.
   3.4.1. The 948 SCMG (428 SCMS) will:
      3.4.1.1. Be responsible for the overall process design and business rules.
      3.4.1.2. Assess and report on the overall process performance and submit to
      AFGLSC/CC.
      3.4.1.3. Direct PDMC process design changes as necessary.
      3.4.1.4. Develop process improvement objectives and schedules to improve the process.
      3.4.1.5. Utilize standardized optional fields in the demand inputs and on the DDE
      transaction to enable process assessment and improvement.
      3.4.1.6. Support CPI and use analysis to improve or discontinue underperforming
      demand triggers.
14                                                           AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


     3.4.1.7. Perform analysis of stock outs, DLA – DLR Parts Constraints, and other critical
     items to identify new demand trigger opportunities that arise from (1) root cause analysis
     or (2) changes in demand or other processes that impact demand calculations.
     3.4.1.8. Use the demand trigger process to develop possible approaches to predicting
     demand change. The requirements for additional data fields are documented in
     Attachments 2 and 10.
  3.4.2. The 591SCMG (401 SCMS) will:
     3.4.2.1. Act as the chair of the Functional Review Board (FRB) for IT to support the
     PDMC process owner.
     3.4.2.2. Ensure the IT supports the PDMC process by:
        3.4.2.2.1. Forming the FRB as required.
        3.4.2.2.2. Working with the FRB members including process execution and process
        initiator organizations to define IT requirements.
        3.4.2.2.3. Communicating requirements to the Configuration Control Board (CCB).
        3.4.2.2.4. Working with organizations that support the IT to prioritize workload.




                                          LORNA B. ESTEP, SES, DAF
                                          Deputy Director of Logistic
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                  15


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management, 15 February 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DLA Form 1913, Adjusted Stock Level, 1 August 2011

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAC—Acquisition Advice Code
AFGLSC—Air Force Global Logistics Support Center
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMARG—Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group
AMR—Aircraft/Missile Requirement
AMRD—Aircraft/Missile Requirement Document
ANG—Air National Guard
APS—Advanced Planning Scheduling
ASDs— - Aerospace Sustainment Directorate
BOM—Bill of Material
CC—Customer Collaboration
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CDD—Collaboration Demand Data
CEA—Cognizant Engineering Authority
CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
DDE—Demand Data Exchange
DHA—Demand History Allocation
DIC—Document Identifier Code
DIT—Demand Input Template
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DLR—Depot Level Reparable
DMISA—Depot Maintenance Inter-Service Agreement
DoD—Department of Defense
 16                                                      AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


DoDAAC—Department of Defense Activity Address Code
DPA/PFE—Demand Plan Accuracy/Percent Forecast Error
DSN—Defense Service Network
EBS—Enterprise Business Solution
ECSS—Expeditionary Combat Support System
ERP—Enterprise Resource Planning
ESA—Engineering Support Authority
FRB—Functional Review Board
FSC—Federal Stock Class
GFM—Government Furnished Material
IIRP—Improved Item Replacement Program
IPB—Illustrated Parts Breakdown
IPV—Industrial Prime Vendor
IT—Information Technology
JOQ—Job Order Quantity
MAJCOM—Major Command
MISTR—Management of Items Subject To Repair
M-Job— - Manufacture Job
NIIN—National Item Identification Number
NSN—National Stock Number
NSO—Numerical Stockage Objective
NWI—Nuclear Weapon Inter-Continental Ballistic Missile
OCC—Occurrence Factor
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
P&E SCMG—Planning and Execution Support Chain Management
PI—Process Initiator
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
PDMC—Planning For DLA Managed Consumables
PDN—Production Number
PPA—Private partnership Agreements
PPP—Public Private Partnerships
QPA—Quantity per Application
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                               17


RFM—IS - Repairability Forecast Model-Integrated System
RPF—Replacement Factor
SCMG—Supply Chain Management Group
SCMS—Supply Chain Management Squadron
SCMW—Supply Chain Management Wing
SCOW—Supply Chain Operational Wing
SIPOC—Supplier Input Process Output Customer
SMS—Strategic Materiel Supportable
SOR—Source of Repair
SOS—Source of Supply
SPO—System Program Office
SPR—Special Program Requirement
SSR—Supply Support Request
TCTO—Time Change Technical Order
T-Job— - Temporary Job
TPIP—Time Phased Inventory Plan
UPA—Units Per Assembly
WSC—Weapon System Code
WSDC—Weapon System Designator Code
WSEC—Weapon System Essentially Code
WSIC—Weapon System Indicator Code

Terms
Acquisition Advice Code— One-position alpha code indicating how (as distinguished from
where) and under what restrictions an item will be acquired.
Bill of Material— A descriptive and quantitative listing of material, supplies, parts, and
components required to produce a designated complete end item, assembly, or subassembly, to
overhaul/repair such an item, or to construct/repair a structure or facility item.
Classes of Supply— Terminology used to divide supplies and equipment into 10 easily
identifiable categories of materiel that are depicted by Roman Numerals.
Collaboration Demand Data (CDD)— Document Identifier Code (DIC) for the DDE
transaction.
Department of Defense Activity Address Code— A six-digit alphanumeric code used for
providing a uniform method for controlling U.S. Government assets and for recording
transactions that reflect receipts and disposition of property transferred to an activity.
 18                                                            AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


DDE/CDD Transactions— Transactions structured such that all fields include but are not
limited to the transaction position, the transaction field name, and the required forecast
requirements as outlined in the DDE Template, Attachment 9, within this document.
Dependent Demand— The demand generated to support an independent demand. This is
commonly done via dependencies established in the parent item‘s BOM. If an assembly fails,
then the demand for the component to repair the assembly is a Dependent Demand.
Demand Data Exchange (DDE)— The systemic method used for submitting collaborative
customer materiel requirements to DLA in lieu of SPRs.
Demand Input— The complete set of requirement information at the NIIN/DoDAAC level
related to the occurrence of a specific demand trigger. Includes the NIIN level requirement by
DoDAAC by month and all supporting information.
Demand Trigger— Pre-defined events that make future demand significantly different from
historic demand.
Enterprise Resource Planning System— The integration of internal and external management
information across an entire organization, embracing finance/accounting, manufacturing, sales
and service, customer relationship management, etc. It automates activity with an integrated
software application. Purpose is to facilitate the flow of information between all business
functions inside the boundaries of the organization and manage the connections to outside
stakeholders.
Government—Furnished Materiel - Material owned by the U.S. Government and furnished to
a contractor to use for specific contract purposes. Title to all material furnished by the U.S.
Government remains with the U.S. Government. GFM is property that may be incorporated into
or attached to a deliverable end item or that may be consumed or expended in performing a
contract. GFM does not include materiel sold by the U.S. Government to a contractor.
Independent Demand— Demand generated by the end user. This is also thought of as direct
needs of an end-user customer. If an assembly fails due to a component then the demand for the
assembly is an Independent Demand because the customer needs a new assembly.
Integrated Prime Vendor— Support program that provides cost effective, integrated supply
chain management and logistics support of expendable items, such as consumable spare parts
and industrial hardware, to customers involved in maintenance, repair, and overhaul operations.
JDA— The Advanced Planning Scheduling (APS) System for implementing Customer
Collaboration. For more information go to www.JDA.com.
JDA Collaborate— Web-based tool that DLA and participating customers will use to review,
update, and validate monthly Customer Collaborative supply plans submitted via DDE.
National Item Identification Number (NIIN)— Last 9 digits of the National Stock Number
that differentiates each individual supply item from all other supply items. The first 2 digits
signify the National Codification Bureau that assigned the NIIN, while the last 7 digits are non-
significant and are sequentially assigned by the FLIS.
National Stock Number (NSN)— A 13-position alpha/numeric field used to identify items of
supply. It consists of a 4-digit Federal Supply Class and a 9-digit National Item Identification
Number (NIIN).
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                   19


Planning for DLA Managed Consumables— The strategic planning process the Air Force
employs to proactively notify DLA when there is a significant change in the future requirements
for a DLA managed consumable item.
Process Execution— One of three primary PDMC process roles. This role is responsible for
receiving and aggregating the demand plans, generating the supply plan, executing the
submission decision methodology, providing feedback to initiators, transmitting DDE to DLA,
and managing/collaborating on exceptions.
Process Initiator— One of three primary PDMC process roles. The organizations responsible
for initiating the process when their assigned demand triggers occur.
Process Owner— One of three primary PDMC process roles. This role is responsible for
process design and CPI.
Source of Repair— An industrial complex (organic, commercial contract, or inter-service
facility) with required technical capabilities to accomplish repair, overhaul modification, or
restoration of specific types of military hardware or software.
Supplier Input Process Output Customer— A tool used to identify and categorize the parts of
a process as relating to either the suppliers, inputs, process, outputs, or customers.
Time Compliance Technical Order— Instructions provided to modify military systems or
commodities within specified time limits, initiate special ―one time‖ inspections, or impose
temporary restrictions and track configuration on systems or equipment.
 20                                                           AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


                                        Attachment 2
                INFORMATION AND DATA FORMAT REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. Each demand input must be accompanied by information detailing the nature of the
demand and the NIIN required to initiate the demand planning process. The following table
describes each field and provides a short description of the information that should be entered
and its purpose in the PDMC process.

Table A2.1. Data Requirements
                         Field Required/
ID          Field:                        Entry:             Field Description:
                        Length: Optional:
1        Organization    N/A       R      1.     ASD Major organization at the depot
                                          2.     AFGL in which the PI works
                                            SC
                                          3.     MXW
                                          4.     PDMC
2      Originating Name   20       R                  This field will list the
           (Person)                                   originator‘s name. It should list
                                                      last name first, followed by a
                                                      comma, and then the first name.
3        Planner Code      5       R                  This field is your plan code.
                                                      This field will uniquely
                                                      identify the position and the
                                                      person responsible for the
                                                      DDE.
4       Submitting Org     8       R                  Submitting Organization at
                                                      Squadron Level or Division
                                                      Level
5      Submitter Phone     8       R                  This field will list the Defense
                                                      Service Network (DSN) phone
                                                      number of the person who
                                                      submitted the demand input.
6     Submitter DoDAAC     6       R                  This field will contain the six-
                                                      position DoDAAC of the
                                                      submitting organization.
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                          21


                      Field Required/
ID       Field:                        Entry:                 Field Description:
                     Length: Optional:
7 Type of Requirement N/A       R       1.      Field 3.       Field – DDE forecast is
                                        2.      Depot: for field requirements (not
                                          1.          R depot)
                                             FM-IS     4.      Depot – DDE forecast is
                                          2.          n for depot repair
                                             ot RFM-     1.           RFM-IS (Short
                                             IS             form) Selected – using
                                                            RFM-IS to compute
                                                            requirements
                                                         2.           RFM-IS (Long
                                                            form) NOT selected;
                                                            computing requirements
                                                            manually
22                                                     AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


                      Field Required/
ID      Field:                         Entry:                 Field Description:
                     Length: Optional:
8    Action Type      N/A       R      Add           In this field you choose what
                                                      type of action is requested.
                                             Requir    Add: Adding an item to
                                         ement            collaboration
                                         Change         Supporting Info Changes:
                                       Supporting       Use when making changes to
                                         Info Change      information in items such as
                                       Turn-on in       weapon system and reason for
                                         RFM-IS           asset being in collaboration
                                       Remove         Requirement Changes: Use
                                                          when changing forecasted
                                                          monthly demands for items
                                                          already in collaboration. This
                                                          type is only used on the Long
                                                          Form. Changes to
                                                          requirements in RFM-IS do
                                                          not require a new Demand
                                                          Input Template (DIT).
                                                        Turn-on in RFM-IS: Use this
                                                          action type ONLY if your item
                                                          is already in collaboration, but
                                                          RFM-IS was not previously
                                                          used as the source of your
                                                          requirements. This action type
                                                          will cause the requirements for
                                                          your DDE to be sent from
                                                          RFM-IS instead of the
                                                          manually entered monthly
                                                          quantities previously used.
                                                          This type is only used on the
                                                          Short Form.
                                                        Remove: Removing an item
                                                          from collaboration
9       NIIN            9        R                     Nine-position National Item
                                                       Identification Number (NIIN) of
                                                       the item the submitter wishes to
                                                       collaborate on.
10       FSC            4        R                     Federal Stock Class
11      AAC             1        O                     Acquisition Advice Code
12   Unit of Issue      2        O                     Unit of Issue
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                      23


                       Field Required/
ID       Field:                         Entry:         Field Description:
                      Length: Optional:
13       WSIC            1       O               Weapon System Indicator Code.

                                                 This code is found in Emall. If
                                                 the PI does not include the code,
                                                 the PDMC Flight will add it to
                                                 the template upon submission.
14       WSEC            1                       Weapon System Essentiality
                                                 Code.

                                                 Only appears for ASD
                                                 submissions. This code is found
                                                 in Emall.
15       WSDC            3                       Weapon System Designator
                                                 Code.

                                                 Only appears for ASD
                                                 submissions. This code is found
                                                 in Emall.
16 Customer DoDAAC       6        R              This field will contain the six-
                                                 position DoDAAC of the
                                                 customer‘s user‘s organization
                                                 that will be requisitioning the
                                                 item. This DoDAAC is found
                                                 in the first six positions of a
                                                 requisition document number
17   Ship To DoDAAC      6        R              This field will contain the six-
                                                 position DoDAAC of the ―Ship
                                                 to‖ organization. In many cases
                                                 the customer and ship-to
                                                 DoDAAC will be the same on
                                                 the transaction
18   Demand Trigger      5        R              This field will document the
         Type                                    origin of the demand input.
                                                 Demand inputs received must
                                                 have this field populated with a
                                                 valid Demand Trigger Type to
                                                 be considered for submission on
                                                 a DDE. See list of demand
                                                 trigger types.
24                                              AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


                      Field Required/
ID        Field:                       Entry:          Field Description:
                     Length: Optional:
19 Program/Task/TCTO   20       R               This field will contain the
                                                Program/Task/TCTO. The
                                                information should represent the
                                                project or initiative driving the
                                                demand input. Once this
                                                information is created, the same
                                                description should be used for
                                                all related future work.
20       Supporting      41      R              This field will be a narrative that
        Information                             allows the submitter to provide
                                                additional information about the
     (all Action Types                          demand input being submitted.
      except Remove)                            It should include any additional
                                                relevant information about the
                                                program. The more specific and
                                                useful the information is, the
                                                less likely PDMC personnel will
                                                have to re-validate with the PI.
                                                This field will be combined with
                                                Increase/Decrease to make up
                                                Optional Field 4.
21 Reason for Removal    41      R              When Remove is selected this
                                                field will be on the form. The PI
     (Only when Action                          must enter the reason the item is
      Type is Remove)                           being removed from
                                                collaboration.
22   Dependency Link     1       R     Y or N   This field will be used to assess
                                                the supportability of the NIINs
                                                associated with jobs requiring
                                                the demand input. It will
                                                identify the NIIN as being
                                                dependent upon other NIINs
                                                listed with the same ―Supporting
                                                Document Identifier‖ (see next
                                                description below). If
                                                dependent NIINs are not all
                                                available at the required date,
                                                this identifier will allow analysis
                                                of the impact of the unsupported
                                                NIIN.
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                               25


                           Field Required/
ID         Field:                           Entry:              Field Description:
                          Length: Optional:
23     Supporting Doc       18       R                    This field will contain the
          Identifier                                      unique document number
                                                          associated with the origin of the
                                                          demand input. This would be
                                                          the unique identification
                                                          tracking number from the
                                                          TCTO, AMRD, contract
                                                          number, Mod, Engineering
                                                          form, Workload change name,
                                                          Temporary - Job (T-job) or
                                                          Manufacture – Job (M-job) #,
                                                          DMISA, PPA or PDN. For
                                                          BOM Changes, Factor Changes,
                                                          MISTR and some engine
                                                          overhaul, the End Item NSN
                                                          (the NSN for which the demand
                                                          trigger was submitted) should be
                                                          listed.
24    Increase/Decrease      8        R     Increase or   This field tells whether the
                                            Decrease      triggered event was an increase
                                                          or decrease to the historical
                                                          requirement system.
25     Initiator Notes     N/A        O                   Free form text box for PI to
                                                          include any additional
                                                          information pertinent to demand
                                                          trigger that will not fit in the
                                                          other required fields
26    Requirement Start      5        R                   Format MM/DD/YYYY when
            Date                                          the trigger event begins. (Only
      (Field and Depot                                    used on the Long Form)
     when RFM-IS is not
            used)                                         When the Action Type is
                                                          Remove, this field will not
                                                          appear.
27    Requirement End        5        R                   Format MM/DD/YYYY when
            Date                                          the trigger event ends(Only used
      (Field and Depot                                    on the Long Form)
     when RFM-IS is not
            used)                                         When the Action Type is
                                                          Remove, this field will not
                                                          appear.
26                                                   AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


                           Field Required/
ID         Field:                           Entry:         Field Description:
                          Length: Optional:
28   Demand Input Qty       15       R               The template contains 60
       Periods 1- 60                                 separate demand input fields
                                                     representing 60 forecast months.
      (Field and Depot                               The quantities input will
     when RFM-IS is not                              correspond to the periods
            used)                                    covered between the Demand
                                                     Input Start Date and the
                                                     Demand Input End Date
                                                     reflecting the month material
                                                     will be requisitioned from DLA.
                                                     In cases where the trigger is a
                                                     decrease to historical usage (not
                                                     the previous DDE quantity)
                                                     place the minus sign before the
                                                     quantity. (Only used on the
                                                     Long Form)
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                               27


                                      Attachment 3
       AFGLSC DEMAND TRIGGERS AND DEMAND INPUT GENERATION
                         METHODOLOGY

Table A3.1. AFGLSC Demand Trigger Types

 Demand Trigger Code                     Trigger
1. GDLRC                  DLR Workload Change
2. GMODS                  Commodity Modifications
3. GTCTO                  TCTO
4. GTIMC                  Time Change
5. GBOMC                  BOM Changes
6. GTWKD                  Transitioning Workloads to/from USAF
A3.1. AFGLSC Demand Input Generation Methodology.
   A3.1.1. Requirement Calculation. The following data calculation will be used to generate
   the demand input for changes to DLR workload: Units Per Assembly (UPA) * End Item
   Rqmt * Replacement Factor (RPF)* Occurrence Factor.



Table A3.2. AFGLSC Data Sources
Data Element            Standard Source
UPA                     G005M/IMPRESA
End Item Requirement    D200A, D075, Maintenance Work Load Review or D363
Replacement Factor      G005M/IMPRESA
Occurrence Factor       G005M/IMPRESA



Table A3.3. AFGLSC Business Rules
Demand Trigger                            Business Rule
Change to DLR Workload                    Validate BOM against current
                                          technical data Illustrated Parts
                                          Breakdown (IPB)
Changes to Items on a Commodity BOM       Zero out the old NIIN and
                                          calculate requirements for the new
                                          NIIN
 28                                                         AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


                                      Attachment 4
       ASD/SPO DEMAND TRIGGERS AND DEMAND INPUT GENERATION
                          METHODOLOGY

Table A4.1. ASD/SPO Demand Trigger Types
Demand Trigger Code        Trigger
1. AENOH                   Engine Overhaul
2. APDMI                   AMR Changes to PDM
3. AWSMD                   Weapons System Modifications
4. ATCTO                   TCTO
5. ATIMC                   Time Change
6. ABOMC                   BOM Changes
7. ATWKD                   Transitioning Workloads to/from USAF
8. AGFMP                   GFM for Production
9..ASTAF                   Site Activation
10. ATWKD                  Depot Activation
A4.1. ASD/SPO Demand Generation Methodology.
   A4.1.1. Weapons System Requirement Calculation. The following data calculation will be
   used to generate the demand input for changes to weapon system workload: Quantity Per
   Application (QPA) * # of Aircraft * Replacement Factor (RPF)* Occurrence Factor (OCC).
   A4.1.2. Engine Requirement Calculation. The following data calculation will be used to
   generate the demand input for changes to engine workload: Units Per Assembly (UPA) * # of
   End Items * Replacement Factor (RPF) * Occurrence Factor (OCC).

Table A4.2. ASD/SPO Data Sources
Data Element         Standard Source
QPA                  Technical Order
UPA                  G005M/IMPRESA
# of Aircraft        System Program Office (SPO) Office
# of Engines         D200A, In execution year use Workload Review
Replacement Factor Engineer, Equipment Specialist, or Program Manager
Occurrence Factor  G005M/IMPRESA
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                           29




Table A4.3. ASD/SPO Business Rules
Demand Trigger                Business Rules
Changes to PDM Workload       New materiel requirements communicated to the
                              PDMC Flight NLT 30 days after Aircraft/Missile
                              Requirements Document (AMRD) approval or
                              positive stock listing action (SSR issue). Each
                              weapon system will have a focal point to aggregate
                              data to submit to AFGLSC for AMRD.
Weapon System Modifications   Materiel requirements communicated to PDMC
                              Flight NLT 30 days after modification approval or
                              positive stock listing action. ASD will notify PDMC
                              Flight of any decreased requirements as a result of
                              replaced parts.
Weapon System Level Time      Materiel requirements communicated to AFGLSC as
Changes                       soon as new interval determined (preferably lead
                              time away).
Changes to Weapon System      Need to zero out the old NIIN with a DDE and
BOM if a NIIN is replaced     calculate the requirements for the new NIIN.
 30                                                         AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


                                      Attachment 5
         MXW DEMAND TRIGGERS AND DEMAND INPUT GENERATION
                         METHODOLOGY

Table A5.1. MXW Demand Trigger Types

Demand Trigger Code                     Trigger
1. MFACH                  Factor Changes
2. MTJMJ                  T-Jobs/M-job
3. MDISA                  DMISA workload repaired by AF
4. MXPPA                  Private Partnership Agreements
A5.1. MXW Demand Input Generation Methodology.
   A5.1.1. Changes to Factors Calculation. The following data calculation will be used to
   generate the demand input for changes to factors: UPA * End Item Requirement *
   Replacement Factor (RPF) * Occurrence Factor (OCC).
   A5.1.2. T-Jobs / M-Jobs Calculation. The following data calculation will be used to
   generate the demand input for changes to T-Jobs / M-Jobs: [First Article Test + Job Order
   Quantity] * List of Materials + Any special instructions.
   A5.1.3. DMISA and PPA Calculation. The following data calculation will be used to
   generate the demand input for changes to DMISA: [End Item Requirement] * [List of
   Materials] + Any special instructions.

Table A5.2. MXW Data Sources
Data Element                 Standard Source
UPA                          G005M/IMPRESA
End Item Requirement         D200A, D075, Maintenance Workload
Replacement Factor           Review, D363, Engineering
                             G005M/IMPRESA     or MXWdocuments,
                                                         Planner etc.
Occurrence Factor            G005M/IMPRESA or MXW Planner
First Article Test           Organic Repair Contract
Job Order Quantity           Organic Repair Contract, PPA Implementation
List of Materials            Agreement,
                             PPA        DMISA SOW
                                 Implementation  Agreement, DMISA
Special Instructions         SOWImplementation Agreement, DMISA
                             PPA
                             SOW
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                  31




Table A5.3. MXW Business Rules
Demand Trigger        Business Rule
Changes to Factors    Changes in demand due to factor changes must be
                      for future requirements and not a reaction due to
                      past requisition history. Past performance will be
                      captured by DLA historic demands.

                      Validate verbal notification in ABOM/NIMMS or
                      G005M/IMPRESA

                      Update G005M/IMPRESA/ (replacement) and/or
                      E046B (occurrence) with new factor or PBOM
T-Jobs / M-Jobs       Submit demand input for >90 days T-jobs and M-
                      jobs (within DDE process time)
                      Must submit Demand History Allocations (DHA) to
                      DLA retail for Job Order Quantity (JOQ) as work is
                      completed
 32                                                           AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


                                        Attachment 6
NWI DEMAND TRIGGERS AND DEMAND INPUT GENERATION METHODOLOGY

Table A6.1. NWI Demand Trigger Types

 Demand Trigger Code       Trigger
 1. NPDM1                  AMR Changes to PDM
 2. NWSMD                  Weapon Systems Modifications
 3. NTCTO                  TCTO
 4. NTIMC                  Time Change
 5. NBOMC                  BOM Changes
 6. NTWKD                  Transitioning Workloads to/from USAF
A6.1. NWIs will generate demand inputs for DLA managed items that apply directly to the
weapon system using the methodology described below:
   A6.1.1. Aircraft/Missile Requirements (AMR) Changes to Programmed Depot Maintenance
   (PDM) Workload. This demand trigger occurs when there are new/future PDM requirements
   that have been approved through the Aircraft/Missile Requirements Document (AMR)
   process that affect demand for DLA managed consumables.
   A6.1.2. Weapon System Modifications. This demand trigger occurs when modifications to
   weapon systems affect demand for consumables outside of 90 days.
   A6.1.3. Weapon System Level Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO). This demand
   trigger occurs when a TCTO is created at the weapon system level that will affect demand for
   DLA managed consumables outside of 90 days.
   A6.1.4. Weapon System Level Time Changes. This demand trigger occurs when an ESA
   decides to replace a DLA managed consumable at a predetermined time in order to maintain
   the item‘s integrity before actual failure occurs to minimize risk of larger, unscheduled
   failures. Frequency is based on scheduled time intervals such as operations hours.
   A6.1.5. Changes to a Weapon System Bill of Material (BOM). This demand trigger occurs
   when DLA managed consumables are added to or removed from a weapon system BOM but
   do not include factor changes.
   A6.1.6. Workload Transitioning to/from Organic USAF Source of Repair (SOR). This
   demand trigger occurs when workload that is transitioning to or from organic AF sources of
   repair affects demand for DLA managed consumables outside of 90 days.
A6.2. NWI Demand Generation Methodology.
A.6.2.1. Weapons System Requirement Calculation. The following data calculation will be used
to generate the demand input for changes to weapon system workload:
A.6.2.1.1. Quantity Per Application (QPA) * # of Missile Subset* Replacement Factor (RPF)*
Occurrence Factor (OCC)
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                               33




Table A6.2. NWI Data Sources
 Data Element           Standard Source
 QPA                    Technical Order
 UPA                    G005M/IMPRESA
 # of Missile Subsets   System Program Office (SPO) Office
 Replacement Factor     Engineer, Equipment Specialist, or Program
 Occurrence Factor      Manager
                        G005M/IMPRESA



Table A6.3. NWI Business Rules
 M
 Demand   Trigger              Business Rules
 MMMMMMIFFFF
 Changes to PDM Workload       New materiel requirements communicated to the
                               PDMC Flight NLT 30 days after AMRD approval or
                               positive stock listing action Supply Support Request
                               (SSR issue). Each weapon system will have a focal
                               point to aggregate data to submit to AFGLSC for
                               AMRD.
 Weapon System Modifications      Materiel requirements communicated to PDMC
                                  Flight NLT 30 days after modification approval or
                                  positive stock listing action. ASD will notify PDMC
                                  Flight of any decreased requirements as a result of
 Weapon System Level Time         replaced requirements
                                  Materiel  parts.        communicated to AFGLSC as
 Changes                          soon as new interval determined (preferably lead
                                  time away).
 Changes to Weapon System         Need to zero out the old NIIN with a DDE and
 BOM if a NIIN is replaced        calculate the requirements for the new NIIN.
 34                                                 AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012




Table A6.4. NWI Requirements Generation Checklist
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                    35


                                        Attachment 7
       DEMAND PLAN AGGREGATION AND SUPPLY PLAN GENERATION
                         METHODOLOGY

Figure A7.1. Methodology Flowchart




A7.1. PDMC Flight Processing. The PDMC Flight will receive all the demand inputs
generated by the process initiating organizations.
   A7.1.1. Multiple User Check. The PDMC Flight will determine whether there are multiple
   users for the NIIN at each DoDAAC for which a demand input was submitted.
      A7.1.1.1. Multiple Demand Inputs. Multiple Demand Inputs. If more than one demand
      input is received for the NIIN/DoDAAC combination, the PDMC Flight will determine if
      these are duplicates or need to be aggregated.
   A7.1.2. Depot DoDAACs. The PDMC Flight will determine whether the NIIN has multiple
   users within the depot DoDAAC. The PDMC Forward Demand Planners will coordinate
   with all stakeholder organizations to meet and collaboratively generate the total requirement
   for the NIIN/DoDAAC if multiple users are identified
   A7.1.3. Field level DoDAACS. The PDMC Flight will add the requirements to the
   historical usage at the NIIN DoDAACs level.
 36                                                            AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


A7.2. Additive Check. Process initiating organizations will be required to specify whether their
demand input is purely an ―additive‖ or if it is a ―total requirement‖ for the NIIN at the
DoDAAC level. ―Additive‖ indicates that the demand input is adding to the historic demand for
the item for the respective customer DoDAAC. If all demand inputs are ―additive,‖ the
following calculation will be used to aggregate demand and generate the supply plan for the
NIIN/DoDAAC: Demand Input(s) + History.
   A7.2.1. If there are not multiple users of the NIIN at the affected DoDAAC and the demand
   input is characterized as ―total requirement,‖ the following calculation will be used to
   aggregate demand and generate the supply plan for the NIIN/DoDAAC: Demand Input(s).
A7.3. AF Collaboration for NIINs with Multiple Users. The demand input received from the
Process Initiating organization may not represent the NIINs total demand at that DoDAAC so the
PDMC Flight will ensure that the NIIN‘s total demand is accounted for at that DoDAAC. If
multiple users are identified for a NIIN/DoDAAC combination for which a demand input was
received, the PDMC Forward Demand Planners will coordinate for all stakeholder organizations
to meet and collaboratively generate the total requirement for the NIIN/DoDAAC. These
organizations may include the Process Initiating organizations and 635 SCOW. The PDMC
Flight will work through the 635 SCOW when MAJCOM input is required.
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                      37


                                         Attachment 8
                       SUBMISSION DECISION METHODOLOGY

A8.1. Submission Decision Methodology. The AFGLSC‘s PDMC Flight will use the
methodology developed by HQ AFMC/A9A to determine whether a DDE should be submitted
for each NIIN. Demand Change and Market Share are taken into account together. These two
tests determine if the new aggregate AF enterprise demand for a NIIN is statistically different
from the AF‘s demand history and whether or not the new demand will make up a significant
percent of future DLA demand.

Figure A8.1. DDE Submission Criteria




   A8.1.1. Demand Change. This test determines whether or not the new aggregate AF
   enterprise demand for the NIIN is statistically different enough from the AF‘s demand
   history to affect DLA‘s supply plan.
       A8.1.1.1. The PDMC Flight will check if there is any AF history for the NIIN in the last
       two years.
       A8.1.1.2. If there is demand history, the new forecast is compared to it.
          A8.1.1.2.1. If the change is not significant from history, it will not be forwarded to
          DLA
          A8.1.1.2.2. If the change is significant, the market share test will be performed
          A8.1.1.2.3. If there is no demand history, the market share test will be performed
   A8.1.2. Market Share. This test determines if the new AF Enterprise demand for the NIIN
   makes up a significant percent of future DLA demands. Other services, Foreign Military
   Sales (FMS), and contractors may also be users of DLA NIINs and could have a share of the
   market as well.
       A8.1.2.1. If the NIIN is an NSO item, the AF market share must be greater than 20%.
       A8.1.2.2. If the NIIN is a Replenishment item, the AF market share must be greater than
       30%.
38                                                      AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


  A8.1.3. When the new aggregate AF enterprise demand for the NIIN falls outside of the
  demand change/market share thresholds, all DDE candidates for subject NIIN will be
  submitted to DLA via DDE.
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                        39


                                           Attachment 9
                        DDE/CDD DATA FORMAT REQUIREMENTS

A9.1. DDE/Collaboration Demand Data (CDD) Information.
     A9.1.1. Each CDD data record is categorized by a field legend, and provides details on the
     following: field position, whether the field data is required or optional, and field contents.2
     The PDMC Flight uses these data formats to send DDE information to DLA
     A9.1.2. NOTE: Where the field is identified as OPTIONAL below, please refer to this as a
     ‗mandatory / optional‘ field. The field should still be programmed in the formatting;
     however, the data inside the field is OPTIONAL

Table A9.1. Field Data
      Field Legend: Transaction Type
         Field Position: 01-03 -- REQUIRED
         This field will contain a constant of ‗CDD‘ which indicates Collaboration Demand
         Data. All collaboration forecast submittals will reflect CDD in positions 1-3.
      Field Legend: Source of Supply
         Field Position: 04-06 -- REQUIRED
         This is the RIC of the destination Source of Supply. The only allowable entry in
         this field is ‗SMS‘ indicating that the NIIN is managed in the DLA EBS program.
      Field Legend: Submitter DoDAAC
         Field Position: 07-12 -- REQUIRED
         This field will contain the six-position DoDAAC of the submitting organization.
         Identified as Location 3 within JDA.
      Field Legend: Customer DoDAAC
         Field Position: 13-18 -- REQUIRED
         This field will contain the six-position DoDAAC of the customer‘s user‘s
         organization that will be requisitioning the item. This DoDAAC is found in the first
         six positions of a requisition document number. Identified as Location 2within JDA.
      Field Legend: Ship To DoDAAC
         Field Position: 19-24 -- REQUIRED
         This field will contain the six-position DoDAAC of the ―Ship to‖ organization. In
         many cases the submitter and ship-to DoDAAC will be the same on the transaction.
         Identified as Ship To Location within JDA.




2
    From Demand Data Exchange Job Aid, dated 9 July 2007
40                                                               AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


     Field Legend: NIIN
        Field Position: 25-33 -- REQUIRED
        Nine-position National Item Identification Number (NIIN) of the item the submitter
        wishes to collaborate on.
     Field Legend: Unit of Issue
        Field Position: 34-35 -- REQUIRED
        Two-position unit of issue for the nine-position NIIN identified in positions 25-33
        above.
     PDMC Flight Use: Demand Trigger Type
        FROM THE DEMAND INPUT
        This field will document the origin of the demand input. Demand inputs received
        must have this field populated with a valid Demand Trigger Type to be considered
        for submission on a DDE. For NIIN/DoDAACs that receive multiple demand
        inputs, the Demand Trigger Type should be set to ―Multi.‖
     DDE field characteristics:
        Field Legend: Planning Code
        Field Position: 36-40 -- Required
        Five-position planning code to be used by the DDE transaction Submitter to identify
        any unique planning code. The planning code will be reflected in the submitter‘s
        collaboration forecast as input by the submitter. This field can be blank or contain
        maximum of five alpha/numeric characters.
        For NIIN/DoDAACs that receive multiple demand inputs, the Demand Trigger
        Type should be set to ―Multi.‖
        NOTE: The intent of this field is to provide the user with a field that may be useful
        for either internal service analysis or the collaboration process. DLA will perpetuate
        the data in this field and it will be visible in the online JDA Collaborate tool as a
        drill down field.
     Field Legend: Supply Plan Start Date
        Field Position: 41-45 -- REQUIRED
        Five-position Julian date that the supply plan will begin. The supply plan start date
        indicates the beginning of the collaboration (forecast) time period and is the 1st day
        of the month in which collaboration transactions are submitted. This date field must
        reflect the 1st day of the month in which the DDE transactions are submitted to
        DLA. Example: If DDE is submitted on April 28, 2007, the supply start date must
        be 07121.
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                        41


   Field Legend: Supply Plan End Date
      Field Position: 46-50 -- REQUIRED
      Five-position Julian date that the supply plan will end. The supply plan end date
      indicates the end of the collaboration (forecast) time period and is the last day of the
      final forecast period (or month). Time periods beyond the final forecast period are
      not considered in the collaboration process. When submitting monthly requirement
      quantities, the supply plan end date must reflect the last day of the last month in the
      forecast period/ quantities are expected to end. Example: If DDE is submitted on
      May 1, 2007 for two years of forecast quantities, the supply end date must be 09120
      (April 30, 2009).
   Field Legend: Supply Plan Type
      Field Position: 51 -- REQUIRED
      This field is a one-position Supply Plan (forecast) Type and is a required field. The
      transaction allows input of one of the following codes: M = Monthly, Q =
      Quarterly, S = Semi-Annually, and A = Annually. This field reflects the period in
      which the supply plan quantity fields will be expressed. If the Submitter puts an
      ―M‖ in this field the quantity fields in transaction position 52-951 (60 individual
      quantity fields of 15 positions each) of this transaction are forecast periods of
      monthly quantities required. If the user puts a Q in this field, forecast periods of
      quarterly quantities are required. If the user puts an S in this field, forecast periods
      of semi-annual quantities are required. If the user puts a Y in this field, forecast
      periods of yearly quantities are required.
      NOTE: The monthly, ―M‖ supply plan type is the only process currently supported
      by the DLA collaboration software; functionality for Q = quarterly, S = semi-
      annually, or Y = yearly forecast quantities may be implemented in a later software
      release.
42                                                                  AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


     Field Legend: Supply Plan Period Quantities
        Field Position: 52-951 -- REQUIRED
        This field will contain up to 60 separate supply plan quantities in fifteen-position
        fields per quantity and should correspond to the periods covered between the
        Supply Plan Start Date and the Supply Plan End Date, in terms of the Supply Plan
        Type. Positions 52-951 of the DDE transaction are designed as an array to hold the
        60 separate supply plan quantities (forecast quantities) required by the Submitter
        based upon the supply plan start date, the supply plan end date, and the supply plan
        type. Quantities are to be whole numbers; no decimal numbers are allowed. Each of
        the Quantity fields must be filled either with a numeric quantity or zeros (each field
        must be left padded with zeros to fill out the entire field space allocated) and should
        correspond to the periods covered between the Supply Plan Start Date and the
        Supply Plan End Date and in terms of the Supply Plan Type. Quantities must be
        entered starting with the first field in the Array and continuing with quantity entries
        that correspond with to the Start Plan End Date and the Supply Plan Type. All sixty
        fields must be populated with either a numeric quantity or zero; a Null (no data) in a
        supply plan quantity field will cause the transaction to fail validation. The forecast
        period is defined by the Supply Plan Start and End dates. Quantities of zero in a
        field representing a month within the Supply Plan Start Date and Supply Plan End
        Date will indicate that the submitter does not have a requirement in that month.
        NOTE: If quantity is entered outside of the Supply Plan End Date specified in Field
        Position: 46-50, this quantity will default to null and an error message will be
        generated.
     Field Legend: Supply Plan Removal Code
        Field Position: 952 -- OPTIONAL
        This field should contain an ‗R‘ to indicate that this Supply Plan DFU should be
        deleted when the submitter wants to remove the item from the collaboration efforts.
        When this field is used, ALL other required fields must be valid data. If a NIIN is
        submitted to DLA for collaboration, DLA ―marks‖ it as a collaborative item and
        ―looks‖ for it in each subsequent submission from the user. If the item is missing,
        the DLA edit will trigger an inquiry to the submitter. The ‗R‘ supply plan removal
        code advises DLA that the submitter intentionally deleted the item.
        NOTE: If field is blank, file must still contain 1 space.
     PDMC Flight Use: Supply Plan Identifier
     DDE field characteristics:
        Field Legend: Optional Field 1
        Field Position: 953-972 -- OPTIONAL This field contains free form text which may
        be used as a field for the submitter to provide information of value to the
        collaboration participants. This field may also be used by the submitter to provide
        information deemed useful to their planners during collaboration as it will be
        available for their viewing in the JDA Collaborate tool. This field is optional and
AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012                                                                      43


      informational in nature; the data in this field will be perpetuated into the JDA
      Collaborate tool and can be viewed by all participants in the collaboration process.
      NOTE: If field is blank file must still contain 20 spaces.
      NOTE: The intent of this field is to provide the user with a field that may be useful
      for either internal service analysis or the collaboration process. DLA will perpetuate
      the data in this field and it will be visible in the online JDA Collaborate tool as a
      drill down field.
   PDMC Flight Use: Planner Code & Submitting Organization
      FROM THE DEMAND INPUT
      This field will combined with the Planner Code fields And Submitting
      Organization.
      Planner Code will uniquely identify the position submitting the demand input. It
      should unique to a position not an individual
      Submitting Organization identifies the organization submitting the demand input.
      This should be at the Squadron/Division level.
      .
      For NIIN/DoDAACs that receive multiple demand inputs, the field should be set to
      ―Multiple.‖
   DDE field characteristics:
      Field Legend: Optional Field 2
      Field Position: 973-992 -- OPTIONAL
      Same as Optional Field 1
      NOTE: If field is blank file must still contain 20 spaces.
   PDMC Flight Use: Dependency Link (Y/N) & Supporting Document Identifier
      FROM THE DEMAND INPUT
      This field will combined with the Dependency Link and Supporting Documents
      Identifier fields.
      Dependency Link (Y/N) will be used to assess the supportability of the NIINs
      associated with jobs requiring the demand input. It will identify the NIIN as being
      dependent upon other NIINs listed with the same ―Supporting Document
      Identifier.‖ If dependent NIINs are not all available at the required date, this
      identifier will allow analysis of the impact of the unsupported NIIN.
      If Dependency Link is N, then no supporting document identifier is required.
      Supporting Document Identifier will contain the unique document number
      associated with the origin of the demand input. This would be the unique
      identification tracking number from the TCTO, AMRD, contract number, CTO,
      Mod, Engineering form, Workload change name, T-job or M-job #, DMISA, PPA.
44                                                               AFMCI23-205 26 APRIL 2012


        For BOM Changes, Factor Changes, MISTR (some engine overhaul), the End Item
        NIIN (the NIIN for which the demand trigger was submitted) should be listed.
        For NIIN/DoDAACs that receive multiple demand inputs, the field should be set to
        ―Multiple.‖
     DDE field characteristics:
        Field Legend: Optional Field 3
        Field Position: 993-1012 -- OPTIONAL
        Same as Optional Field 1
        NOTE: If field is blank file must still contain 20 spaces.
     PDMC Flight Use: Increase/Decrease
        FROM THE DEMAND INPUT
        This field will combine with the Program Description and Demand Trigger
        Supporting Information fields.
        Program Description will contain a unique alpha/numeric string that identifies the
        program generating the demand input. This field should list a program more
        specific than the weapon system. The program should represent the project or
        initiative driving the demand input. An example would be the KC-135 flight
        control project. Once a program description is created, the same description should
        be used for all related future work.
        Demand Trigger Supporting Information will be a narrative that allows the
        submitter to provide additional information about the demand input being
        submitted. It should include any additional relevant information about the program.
        This field will require the development of a standard format for submitting
        additional information.
        For NIIN/DoDAACs that receive multiple demand inputs, the field should be set to
        ―Multiple.‖
     DDE field characteristics:
        Field Legend: Optional Field 4
        Field Position: 1013-1062 -- OPTIONAL
        Same as Optional Field 1
        NOTE: If field is blank file must still contain 50 spaces.
