BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                      AFMC INSTRUCTION 21-126
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                                    19 JULY 2005
                                                                                        Certified Current 3 JANUARY 2012
                                                                                                               Maintenance

                                                                           TEMPORARY 2 (T-2) MODIFICATION OF
                                                                                        AEROSPACE VEHICLES



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/LGMM (MSgt Nepomuceno)                                                             Certified by: HQ AFMC/LGM
                                                                                                      (Col Peaches Kavanaugh)
Supersedes AFMCI21-126, 30 November 2000                                                                             Pages: 26
                                                                                                                Distribution: F

This instruction establishes Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) policy, implements the intent of AFI
21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, AFPD62-6, USAF Aircraft Airworthiness Cer-
tification, AFI 63-1101, Modification Management, and AFPD 63-1, Acquisition System. The weapons
System Program Manager (SPM) is the modification approval authority for all aerospace vehicles under
their control. This instruction specifically prescribes procedures for managing, controlling, documenting,
and processing Temporary 2 (T-2) modifications of aerospace vehicles. This instruction applies to all T-2
modifications accomplished by AFMC to any assigned, possessed, loaned or leased aerospace vehicles.
This instruction also applies when AFMC has liability for damage or responsibility for configuration con-
trol to the aerospace vehicle. This instruction does not apply to space launch boosters, upper stages,
orbital stages, satellites and their subordinate and interfacing subsystems, components, and support equip-
ment, or Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certified, commercial derivative aircraft prior to Air
Force acceptance or issuance of the DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, unless
invoked by the HQ AFMC and SPM.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction has been revised to include recent changes to Air Force modification policy and configu-
ration control measures. These changes are not major, but are aligning this instruction with associated Air
Force and command instructions. The SPM is the decision authority for all modifications unless dele-
gated to an AFMC Test Center or Laboratory.
      1.      Temporary 2 (T-2) Modifications Defined. ...............................................................               3
      2.      Functional Manager for T-2 Modifications. ..............................................................               3
      3.      Acronyms and Terms Explained. ...............................................................................          3
      4.      Uncertified External and Internal Stores (General). ..................................................                 3
      5.      Modification Classification. .......................................................................................   4
2                                                                                               AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


     6.   Independent Modification Review (IMR). ................................................................                        4
     7.   Approval Authority. ...................................................................................................       5
     8.   Procedures and Control. .............................................................................................          7
     9.   Post Modification Acceptance (PMA). ......................................................................                    13
    10.   Physical Configuration Inspection (PCI). ..................................................................                   13
    11.   Safety Requirements. .................................................................................................        13
    12.   Demodification Plan. .................................................................................................        14
    13.   Flight Releases. ..........................................................................................................   14
    14.   Modification Revalidation. ........................................................................................           15
    15.   Contracted Modifications and Lease or Loan Agreements. ......................................                                 15
    16.   Funding Reimbursement. ...........................................................................................            16
    17.   Local Supplements. ....................................................................................................       16
    18.   List of Prescribed Forms. ...........................................................................................         16

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         17

Attachment 2— T-2 MODIFICATION LESSONS LEARNED                                                                                          23
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                                   3


1. Temporary 2 (T-2) Modifications Defined.
   1.1. T-2 modifications are configuration changes that support research and development; design
   changes to existing T-2 modifications; and Developmental Test and Evaluation programs or in-service
   testing of systems or equipment. The T-2 modifications are temporary hardware or software changes
   or alterations to aerospace vehicles (aircraft, guided weapons, drones, Remotely Piloted Vehicles
   (RPV), Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), and their associated ground stations, and missiles other than
   strategic), airborne support equipment, external and internal stores, subsystems, components, or sup-
   port equipment which is governed by Technical Orders (T.O.) that interface with an aerospace vehicle.
   T-2 modifications include instrumentation modifications, but can also be temporary changes to prove,
   develop, or characterize future permanent modifications.
   1.2. T-2 modifications may be installed only for the duration of the flight test program unless stated in
   the demodification plan or an extension is approved by the Modification Engineering Authority
   (MEA) (reference paragraph 12.2.).
   1.3. Carrying of uncertified aircraft/stores combinations for other than certifying the store is consid-
   ered a T-2 modification. AFI 63-104, The Seek Eagle Program, governs formal certification of exter-
   nal and internal stores through the US Air Force aircraft/stores certification program, and issuance of
   flight clearances for Initial Operational Test and Evaluation (IOT&E) purposes.
   1.4. Hardware & Software Change Actions. Form, fit, and function exchanges of hardware or soft-
   ware offering negligible risk do not need to adhere to the strict requirements identified in this instruc-
   tion. However, they do require approval of the T-2 Mod MEA, and will be accomplished In
   Accordance With (IAW) local procedures approved by the T-2 Mod Configuration Control Board
   (CCB) authority. Configuration control will be maintained at all times.
   1.5. Aircraft Modifications for Ground Testing Only. The rigorous requirements identified in this
   instruction are not intended to be applied to modifications intended for ground testing only, and which
   are completely removed prior to flight. However, such modifications do require approval of the T-2
   Mod MEA, and will be accomplished IAW local procedures approved by the T-2 Mod CCB authority.
   Verification must be made by either analysis or testing, indicating that after removal, no flight critical
   systems have been affected. No modifications shall be made under this provision for which T.O.
   repair provisions are insufficient to restore the test article to its pre-modified configuration. Configu-
   ration control will be maintained at all times.

2. Functional Manager for T-2 Modifications. HQ AFMC/LGMM is the functional manager for the
T-2 modification instruction. The Instrumentation Division, 412 TW, Air Force Flight Test Center
(AFFTC), Edwards AFB, California, is the Center of Expertise for T-2 modification procedures. HQ
AFMC/LGMM performs staff surveillance over the AFMC T-2 modification process and staff assistance
visits.

3. Acronyms and Terms Explained. Acronyms and terms are explained in Attachment 1.

4. Uncertified External and Internal Stores (General).
   4.1. Although clearance of stores is part of the T-2 modification process, it involves highly special-
   ized engineering disciplines and experience generally not available within modification activities. As
   a result, AFMC has set up a separate stores compatibility activity at the Air Force SEEK EAGLE
4                                                                           AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


    Office (AFSEO), Eglin AFB, Florida. While each MEA is responsible for the successful conclusion
    of a T-2 modification, the MEA will contact the AFSEO to issue a flight clearance for all uncertified
    stores on all aircraft. For aircraft not assigned to a SPM, the modification activity will request a flight
    clearance for stores carried on those aircraft.
    4.2. To be able to recommend a flight clearance, the stores compatibility activity often must conduct
    extensive analyses and tests, some of which may involve contracts. The modification activity or
    applicable store design activity is responsible for providing any necessary engineering data (physical,
    aerodynamic, structural, aero thermal, and electromagnetic) on the store and for providing funds to
    support compatibility studies and tests. To minimize program delays, it is recommended that the
    stores compatibility efforts be initiated early, usually well before the T-2 modification action itself is
    initiated.
    4.3. The compatibility activity, after completing analyses and tests, can issue flight clearances to the
    modification activity. After MEA approval, the clearances will become part of the modification doc-
    umentation. If a change is needed on a cleared store, aircraft configuration, or flight envelope, the
    modification activity will contact the issuing office for aircraft compatibility to determine if additional
    clearance is warranted.

5. Modification Classification. All T-2 modifications, to include hardware/software, will be classified
as either Major or Minor.
    5.1. A modification will be classified as Major if it involves a high degree of technical uncertainty,
    and it affects critical portions of one or more of the following areas: structure, propulsion sub-sys-
    tems, avionics systems, software, aerodynamics, stability and control, etc. A high degree of technical
    uncertainty may exist if available technical data or analytical techniques are insufficient to provide an
    adequate basis for sound engineering design of the modification, and sufficient testing has not been
    accomplished to resolve the technical uncertainties. A reportable modification, as defined in
    MIL-HDBK-514, Operational Safety, Suitability, And Effectiveness For The Aeronautical Enterprise
    paragraph 11.10.1, would also be classified as Major. When determining classification, it is recom-
    mended that the MEA's technical staff review the proposed modification. All other modifications are
    classified as Minor.
    5.2. The MEA is the classification approval authority (see paragraph 7.1.).
    5.3. The proposed T-2 modification will be reviewed by the MEA and the SPM to ensure technical
    data and/or analytical techniques are adequate to provide a basis for sound engineering and for resolu-
    tion of technical uncertainties. If the MEA has any questions as to the technical uncertainty for a par-
    ticular modification, they should contact the responsible SPM.

6. Independent Modification Review (IMR).
    6.1. All Major T-2 aircraft modifications require an Independent Modification Review (IMR) by the
    responsible SPM. The comprehensiveness and extent of the IMR will be negotiated and agreed upon
    by the responsible program SPM and the MEA prior to approval of the preliminary modification pack-
    age. Minor modifications and demodifications do not require an IMR. The IMR is a technical review
    of the modification from an airworthiness point of view. It will include a detailed review of the mod-
    ification's engineering (including software and information security changes), impacted air vehicle
    characteristics, systems and flight safety, drawings, analyses, test plans, data, changes to related flight
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                               5


   manuals, operating and maintenance instructions, and the demodification plan with its associated
   analyses and drawings. This detailed review will concentrate on those areas of the modification that
   are the basis for declaring the modification Major. The SPM should ensure that verification activities
   are in place to support any necessary subsequent airworthiness recertification efforts
   (MIL-HDBK-514, section 11.10).
   6.2. The classification of the modification as either Major or Minor must be made as early as possible
   so the IMR requirements will be fulfilled. If the modification is classified as Major, the responsible
   program SPM will be contacted before formalizing any program schedules so all IMR required docu-
   mentation can be identified.
   6.3. As a part of the IMR, the responsible program SPM and the MEA may take part in the prelimi-
   nary design review (PDR) and critical design review (CDR), the Physical Configuration Inspection
   (PCI), and the review of all test results. The MEA will recommend Safety of Flight approval or dis-
   approval to the responsible program SPM unless delegated to the AFMC Test Center, test organization
   or laboratories IAW AFPD 62-6 para. 2.8.4.

7. Approval Authority.
   7.1. Modification Engineering Authority (MEA).
      7.1.1. The SPM is the approval authority for all T-2 modifications, including engineering and
      Safety of Flight approval, to aircraft unless delegated to AFMC Test Centers or Laboratory IAW
      AFPD 62-6. Normally, this responsibility is delegated to the MEA leader who then functions as
      the modification engineering approval authority for all aerospace vehicles under his/her control.
          7.1.1.1. The authority to approve Minor modifications, including engineering and Safety of
          Flight approval, to aerospace vehicles is the responsibility of the SPM unless delegated to the
          Test Centers and Laboratory.
          7.1.1.2. T-2 modifications are unique and only remain on a specific aerospace vehicle for the
          duration of the flight test program. An approved T-2 modification shall not be installed on a
          different aerospace vehicle without a CCB action.
          7.1.1.3. Approval or disapproval recommendations for Major modifications to aerospace
          vehicles are assigned to the responsible program SPM. Engineering approval for Major T-2
          modifications is the responsibility of the MEA if delegated by the SPM.
      7.1.2. When Government Furnished Property (GFP) aircraft are assigned and/or possessed by a
      contractor (EB coded), the SPM functions as the MEA authority. When the GFP aircraft are to be
      flight tested by an AFMC test organization, the test organization must take part in the CCB. The
      test organization will participate in other reviews as requested by the MEA authority.
      7.1.3. For unaccepted aerospace vehicles, the MEA authority will be the SPM responsible for the
      program. If the aerospace vehicle is to be flown at an AFMC test facility, the AFMC test organi-
      zation will be a member of the MEA.
      7.1.4. For leased or loaned aerospace vehicles, or Laboratory-assigned and possessed (XY
      coded), the lease or loan agreement will specify which government agency, such as the FAA,
      SPM, or MEA has modification approval authority.
6                                                                           AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


       7.1.5. For non-AFMC aerospace vehicles not under lease or loan agreement, the MEA will be
       specified in the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). Normally, this authority is delegated to the
       AFMC Test Centers or Laboratory. This approval will be coordinated with the appropriate SPM.
    7.2. MEA Responsibilities.
       7.2.1. Recommends approval/disapproval for all T-2 modifications and demodifications to the
       CCB.
       7.2.2. Approves/disapproves the preliminary modification design and releases it for final design,
       and fabrication, and subject to CCB approval before installation.
       7.2.3. Reviews all modification contracts and documents.
       7.2.4. Utilizes appropriate airworthiness criteria (MIL-HDBK-516, Airworthiness Certification
       Criteria or FAA FARs) to accomplish preliminary Safety of Flight assessments (ref para 8.2.) in
       order to evaluate if the technical approach to the modification will provide acceptable margins of
       safety.
       7.2.5. Approves PDR and CDR for contracted T-2 modifications and design reviews for T-2 mod-
       ifications conducted in-house.
       7.2.6. Directs the development of local procedures to make sure that appropriate review and
       approval of subsequent changes to the design are assessed for their cost, schedule, safety, techni-
       cal, and operational performance impacts.
       7.2.7. Identifies areas of concern to the IMR in the case of Major modifications.
       7.2.8. Safety Determination.
           7.2.8.1. Ensures the accomplishment of design safety reviews and makes final Safety of Flight
           determination utilizing either MIL-HDBK-516 or FAA FAR criteria. The SPM may delegate
           Safety of Flight determination IAW AFPD 62-6. Normally, this is the delegated MEA leader.
           7.2.8.2. Identifies aircraft flight test requirements for Safety of Flight determination as the
           result of modifications to aerospace vehicles.
           7.2.8.3. Reviews results of laboratory, ground, or Safety of Flight tests.
       7.2.9. Recommends assignment of status prefix symbol “N” (special test permanent) according to
       AFI 16-401, Designating and Naming Defense Military Aerospace Vehicles.
       7.2.10. Approves tailoring and waivers to military standards and specifications that will be used
       to document and accomplish the modification.
       7.2.11. Sends an information copy of the T-2 modification package to the appropriate AFMC item
       manager or weapons system SPM when requested.
       7.2.12. The responsible MEA will ensure a PCI is conducted when modification, installation,
       design baseline changes, or demodifications are accomplished. The PCI is required before issu-
       ance of a flight release.
       7.2.13. Addresses the following areas during revalidation:
           7.2.13.1. Necessity of modification for current or future use.
           7.2.13.2. Estimated demodification costs.
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                              7


          7.2.13.3. Increased Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM) cost as the result of revalidated
          modifications.
   7.3. CCB Concept.
       7.3.1. The primary purpose of the CCB is to disposition proposed modification packages, waivers
       and deviations against established configuration baselines. The hardware and/or software autho-
       rized to be changed must represent the current configuration baseline. The purpose of the CCB is
       to control these baselines. They are documented in the form of weapon system specifications,
       drawings, software code listings, etc.. The CCB functions as an advisory body to the CCB Chair-
       person and meets at the discretion of the Chairperson. The weapon SPM has the CCB responsibil-
       ity for his/her respective weapons systems. The CCB Chairperson is the modification process
       approval authority and may approve variances to normal procedures to accomplish modifications.
       7.3.2. Configuration Control Board Delegation. The SPM may delegate CCB and MEA to AFMC
       Test Centers and Laboratory for the purpose of accomplishing T-2 modifications on test center or
       laboratory assigned, possessed, loaned, or leased aerospace vehicles. The CCB authority may not
       be delegated to other activities other than the AFMC Test Centers and Laboratory for the purposes
       of accomplishing T-2 modifications. Delegation from the SPM also may not bypass the estab-
       lished CCB authority at the AFMC Test Centers and Laboratory by going direct to subordinate
       organizations.
       7.3.3. Major Modifications. The weapons SPM will approve all Major T-2 modifications.
       7.3.4. For additional CCB guidance, see MIL-HDBK-61A, Configuration Management Guidance
       and AFMC Pamphlet 63-104, IWSM Configuration Management Implementation Guide.
   7.4. CCB Membership. The following minimum membership is recommended for the CCB to advise
   the Chairperson in the discharge of his/her responsibilities:
       7.4.1. Safety.
       7.4.2. Maintenance/Logistics.
       7.4.3. Engineering.
       7.4.4. Operations.
       7.4.5. Quality Assurance/Control.
       7.4.6. Responsible Test Organization (RTO) (if CCB authority is not the RTO).
       7.4.7. Responsible SPM for Major modifications.
       7.4.8. Contracting (When the modification effort requires contracting or involves a lease or loan
       agreement, identify contracting as part of the CCB membership).
       7.4.9. Configuration management.
       7.4.10. Information Security.
       7.4.11. Others as identified by the CCB Authority.

8. Procedures and Control. Guidelines for a typical implementation of this instruction are provided
within this section. This instruction may be supplemented according to paragraph 17. to suit local
requirements and capabilities.
8                                                                          AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


    8.1. Modification Phases. The modification process will be accomplished in the following phases:
    identification of modification requirements, preparation of the preliminary modification package, pre-
    liminary CCB approval, CCB approval, modification design, modification, Safety of Flight determi-
    nation, and demodification.
       8.1.1. Identification of Modification Requirements.
           8.1.1.1. Initial Identification. Early identification of a T-2 aircraft modification requirement is
           vital. As soon as a program with modification requirements is initiated, the organization that
           has modification management responsibility will be contacted by the Program Manager (PM).
           This contact will be made before preparing the modification request to ensure smooth transi-
           tion into the modification process (for more information, see T-2 Modification Lessons
           Learned, Attachment 2).
           8.1.1.2. Formal Identification. As soon as funding and schedule parameters allow, a modifica-
           tion request will be sent to the MEA by the PM. The AFMC Test Centers, and Laboratory will
           use locally established funding processes.
       8.1.2. Preparation of the Preliminary Modification Package.
           8.1.2.1. Before initiating detailed design, a preliminary modification package will be prepared
           by the PM or his representative for MEA review and approval. The designated modification
           organization, with the assistance of the RTO and the organization initiating the modification,
           will prepare the package that will contain as a minimum the following:
               8.1.2.1.1. An initial AFMC Form 244, T-2 Modification Configuration Control Board
               Directive.
               8.1.2.1.2. Preliminary hazard analyses.
               8.1.2.1.3. Justification and HQ AFMC program directives (where applicable).
               8.1.2.1.4. Preliminary design information, profile, and support engineering data, as avail-
               able.
               8.1.2.1.5. Environmental, Safety & Occupational Health (ESOH Analysis).
               8.1.2.1.6. Major Modifications: Identification of the airworthiness certification criteria to
               be considered during PDR, CDR, and Safety of Flight assessments.
           8.1.2.2. For Major modifications, the responsible modification organization will send a copy
           of the package to the responsible SPM (if applicable) before MEA review and coordination.
       8.1.3. Preliminary Modification Approval.
           8.1.3.1. Preliminary modification approval is authority to proceed with detailed modification
           design, at which time the functional baseline for the modification is defined. The MEA is the
           approval authority.
       8.1.4. Modification Design.
           8.1.4.1. The final design must include all information necessary to fabricate, install, function-
           ally check out, and verify Safety of Flight of the modification. The design must be accom-
           plished with considerations for demodification. Approval from the SPM is required whenever
           standard T.O. repair procedures are insufficient to restore the test article to the pre-modified
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                              9


        configuration. The requirements of MIL-STD-27733, Modification and Marking Require-
        ments for Test and Aerospace Vehicles and Related Support Equipment, will be satisfied for
        all T-2 modifications to air vehicles and alternate mission equipment. Deviations to this engi-
        neering standard can be approved by either the Modification Engineering Authority (MEA),
        or the CCB Chairperson
        8.1.4.2. If the modification is Major and with contracted engineering design, then the AFMC
        organization awarding the contract will conduct a PDR and a CDR. When aircraft with con-
        tracted modifications are to be flight tested by an AFMC test organization, that test organiza-
        tion must take part in the PDR and CDR. The test organization will participate in other
        reviews as requested by the MEA. If the modification is Minor and with contracted engineer-
        ing design, the MEA will determine PDR and or CDR requirement.
        8.1.4.3. For those modifications with in-house design, a design review will be established.
        8.1.4.4. A PDR will normally address the following areas:
           8.1.4.4.1. Preliminary design data, including preliminary drawings, diagrams, and
           sketches.
           8.1.4.4.2. System safety.
           8.1.4.4.3. Preliminary analyses and tests including Loads and Structural Analyses.
           8.1.4.4.4. Mass properties.
           8.1.4.4.5. External stores compatibility.
           8.1.4.4.6. Power requirements, subsystems compatibility, and electrical loads analysis.
           8.1.4.4.7. Electromagnetic compatibility.
           8.1.4.4.8. Operating restrictions.
           8.1.4.4.9. Changes to performance, stability, and control.
           8.1.4.4.10. Preliminary flight test plan for Safety of Flight determination.
           8.1.4.4.11. Group B Safety of Flight determination.
           8.1.4.4.12. Demodification plan.
           8.1.4.4.13. Schedule.
           8.1.4.4.14. Thermal design and constraints.
           8.1.4.4.15. Human factors.
           8.1.4.4.16. Corrosion control.
           8.1.4.4.17. Interface requirements.
           8.1.4.4.18. Producibility (including the capabilities of manufacturing processes to meet
           design requirements).
           8.1.4.4.19. Affordability.
           8.1.4.4.20. Information security.
10                                                                 AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


     8.1.4.5. A CDR will normally address changes to scope, features and capabilities from those
     presented at the PDR. The CDR will also identify design and operating requirements or spec-
     ifications not satisfied by the proposed design. In addition, the following areas should also be
     included:
        8.1.4.5.1. Final design data, including detailed design drawings and diagrams.
        8.1.4.5.2. System safety.
        8.1.4.5.3. Final analyses and tests.
        8.1.4.5.4. Detailed mass properties.
        8.1.4.5.5. External stores compatibility.
        8.1.4.5.6. Detailed power requirements, subsystems compatibility, and electrical loads
        analysis.
        8.1.4.5.7. Updated electromagnetic compatibility.
        8.1.4.5.8. Strength summary and operating restrictions.
        8.1.4.5.9. Changes to performance, stability, and control.
        8.1.4.5.10. Flight test program for Safety of Flight determination.
        8.1.4.5.11. Operation, maintenance, and inspection instructions.
        8.1.4.5.12. Project equipment list.
        8.1.4.5.13. Drawing list.
        8.1.4.5.14. Lists of engineering analyses, tests, and reports.
        8.1.4.5.15. Flight test plan.
        8.1.4.5.16. Updated demodification plan.
        8.1.4.5.17. Thermal design and constraints.
        8.1.4.5.18. Human factors.
        8.1.4.5.19. Corrosion control.
        8.1.4.5.20. Interface requirements.
        8.1.4.5.21. Software detailed design.
        8.1.4.5.22. Producibility (including the capabilities of manufacturing process to meet
        design requirements).
        8.1.4.5.23. Affordability.
        8.1.4.5.24. Information security.
        8.1.4.5.25. Reliability, Maintainability, and Availability (RMA statistics/projections).
     8.1.4.6. The CDR or the final in-house design review establishes the design baseline of the
     modification.
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                               11


     8.1.5. CCB Approval. CCB approval is authority to proceed with the modification installation.
     When time is critical and risk is determined by the MEA to be minimal, the CCB authority may
     provide interim approval to accomplish installation concurrent with engineering and fabrication.
     (Exercise of this provision does not relieve any final documentation requirements contained
     herein.) CCB approval is accomplished through the signing of the CCB directive by the CCB
     Chairperson. CCB approval establishes the configuration baseline for the modification; however,
     change is a normal part of the modification process, and it is important that local procedures
     clearly define CCB involvement in design baseline changes. The changes must not affect critical
     flight systems, such as, flight controls or cockpit instruments, nor can the function of the software
     go beyond the functional range envisioned when the original T-2 modification was approved. Any
     alteration to design that meets the Major modification criteria will cause the entire modification to
     be classified as Major. If that occurs, Major modification procedures apply.
     8.1.6. Modification.
         8.1.6.1. Normally, fabrication begins after the CDR for contracted modifications or after an
         internal design review for in-house modifications. Installation may only occur after CCB
         approval.
         8.1.6.2. After the PCI, the responsible CCB authority ensures final documentation matches
         the current aircraft configuration.
     8.1.7. Safety Determination. The SPM is responsible for ensuring design safety and Safety of
     Flight determination, unless delegated authority to MEA. By approving the modification, the
     CCB approves the requirements for laboratory, ground, and flight tests, as contained in the modi-
     fication package.
     8.1.8. Demodification. When flight testing is completed, the demodification plan (paragraph
     12.), certified during the MEA review and approval process (or as later amended), will be imple-
     mented, except as noted in paragraph 14..
  8.2. Documentation Requirements. The T-2 modifications will be documented in a modification file
  that will be maintained by the organization possessing configuration control responsibility for the
  aerospace vehicles. Follow documentation and TCTO waiver procedures in AFI 21-101, Air and
  Space Equipment Maintenance Management, AFI 21-101_ 21-101 AFMCSUP 1; and the 00-20
  Series Technical Orders. For contracted T-2 modifications, the responsible organization will ensure
  the modification is properly documented according to this instruction by using appropriate tasking in
  the Statement Of Work (SOW)/Request for Proposal (RFP) while identifying the necessary data in the
  Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL). Portions of the file may be decentralized (e.g., drawings;
  Modification Flight Manuals; operation, maintenance, and inspection instructions; etc.); however, ref-
  erences to location of decentralized documents will be maintained in the modification file. A com-
  plete modification package will be provided to the gaining organization when an aircraft is
  transferred. When an aircraft is temporarily assigned to support test programs at other locations, a
  MOA between the affected organizations will address the transfer of T-2 modification packages. The
  modification file will contain all of the following data, if applicable to the modification:
     8.2.1. Table of Contents for the entire modification package.
     8.2.2. AFMC Form 243, Temporary Release for Flight Certificate.
     8.2.3. AFMC Form 244, T-2 Modification Configuration Control Board Directive.
12                                                                    AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


     8.2.4. AFMC Form 272, Physical Configuration Inspection (PCI) Report.
     8.2.5. AFMC Form 273, Final Release for Flight Certificate.
     8.2.6. Preliminary hazards analysis.
     8.2.7. Weight and balance data.
     8.2.8. Inventory and disposition of equipment removed to facilitate the modification.
     8.2.9. Stress and loads analysis.
     8.2.10. Aerodynamic analysis.
     8.2.11. Hydraulic load analysis.
     8.2.12. Pneumatic load analysis.
     8.2.13. Flutter analysis.
     8.2.14. Ejection/jettison analysis.
     8.2.15. Life support analysis.
     8.2.16. Uncertified stores flight clearance.
     8.2.17. Applicable airworthiness criteria and Safe for Flight determination.
     8.2.18. Electrical loads analysis.
     8.2.19. Ground support equipment analysis.
     8.2.20. T-2 modification wire list.
     8.2.21. On-board calibration procedures.
     8.2.22. T-2 modification acceptance test plan.
     8.2.23. System maintenance concept.
     8.2.24. Group B components maintenance and calibration procedures.
     8.2.25. Periodic inspection and maintenance requirements.
     8.2.26. Ground crew preflight procedures.
     8.2.27. Ground crew operation checklist.
     8.2.28. Aircrew operation checklist.
     8.2.29. Modification flight manuals.
     8.2.30. Ground crew post-flight procedures.
     8.2.31. Flight test plan.
     8.2.32. Aircraft modification worksheets.
     8.2.33. T-2 modification drawings list.
     8.2.34. T-2 modification drawings.
     8.2.35. Photographic records of T-2 modification installation.
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                                13


       8.2.36. Orange-bordered AFTO Form 781As, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document.
       8.2.37. Design review meeting minutes.
       8.2.38. CCB meeting minutes.
       8.2.39. Orange-bordered AFTO Form 95, Significant Historical Data.
       8.2.40. Variances and Request for Variances.
       8.2.41. ASC/EN coordination for Major modifications.
       8.2.42. Man-hours and cost documentation.
       8.2.43. Project Equipment List

9. Post Modification Acceptance (PMA). A PMA will normally be completed prior to the PCI and
before issuance of a flight release. The PMA consists of a ground-based checkout of the modification
(when possible) to verify the following:
   9.1. System operation.
   9.2. Compliance with applicable airworthiness criteria Safety of Flight determination, to include,
   completion of electromagnetic interference and electromagnetic compatibility tests of the modifica-
   tion.
   9.3. Modification satisfies the users' requirements as specified in the Program Introduction (PI) Doc-
   ument, Engineering Change Proposal (ECP), or AFMC Form 244.
   9.4. Adequacy of the operation, maintenance, inspection instructions, and associated work cards. The
   PMA requirements will be recorded on an orange-bordered AFTO Form 781A. or a headquarters
   approved, locally developed form. All discrepancies will be reported to the CCB. The PMA findings
   will be considered before release for flight test or issuance of flight releases.

10. Physical Configuration Inspection (PCI). A PCI will be conducted for each modification, design
baseline change, or demodification before it is released for operation. The PCI is a detailed inspection of
the modification to ensure that the installation was done as prescribed by the approved modification pack-
age. It requires, as a minimum, an inspection of hardware and documentation to include engineering
drawings, approved changes, maintenance instructions, work cards, and weight and balance mass proper-
ties. The PCI may be done in phases or when the work is completed, depending upon the magnitude of
work. When a PCI is completed, the organization performing the inspection will certify its accomplish-
ment. All discrepancies observed during a PCI will be recorded on an orange-bordered AFTO Form
781A and reported to the cognizant CCB. The PCI findings will be considered before Final Flight release
for flight test or issuance of the final Safety of Flight determination. The PCIs will be documented on an
AFMC Form 272.

11. Safety Requirements. As a minimum, T-2 aircraft modifications will incorporate the following
requirements:
   11.1. Group B Safety of Flight Determination. The government PM, initiating government organiza-
   tion, or the government organization providing the equipment will determine the Safety of Flight of
   the Group B components and identify associated hazards and limitations. The component's determi-
14                                                                        AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


     nation will be documented using the AFMC Form 3, Component Safety of Flight Certificate. Final
     determination of Safety of Flight will rest with the T-2 MEA lead if delegated by the SPM.
     11.2. System Safety. The engineering design must include safety program requirements. These
     requirements will be determined by tailoring the current version of MIL-STD-882, Department of
     Defense Standard for System Safety, to the complexity of the modification and the degree of risk cre-
     ated by the modification. The SOWs/RFP will specify those safety program tasks required for the
     modification or equipment (Group B) development. Ensure the appropriate tasking is included for
     both modification and demodification when uses of known or potentially hazardous agents are being
     considered.
     11.3. Safety Review Board (SRB). The MEA will ensure a SRB, or equivalent review, is conducted
     to provide formal safety reviews of ground and flight-test plans associated with the modification (ref-
     erences: AFMCI 99-103, Test Management, and AFI 91-202_AFMCSUP1, The US Air Force Mishap
     Prevention Program). The SRB will include representatives from safety, engineering, operations,
     project personnel, maintenance, cognizant test organization(s), and other disciplines as appropriate,
     including the SPM for Major modifications. Utilize appropriate airworthiness criteria (paragraph
     8.1.2.1.6.) as a checklist for Safety of Flight assessments.

12. Demodification Plan.
     12.1. This plan details the procedures necessary for return of the test vehicle to its premodification
     configuration. The demodification plan must be as complete as possible and should address such
     items as funding, disposition of removed Group A and Group B assets, location of basic aircraft
     equipment removed to accommodate the modification, and other areas which may not have been
     resolved during the modification. A demodification plan will contain enough detail to allow the MEA
     to approve the concept. The organization funding the modification is responsible for funding the
     demodification unless specific arrangements are formalized for other disposition.
     12.2. The demodification plan must be reviewed, and approved by the MEA, as necessary, before the
     actual demodification. The demodification must be done after flight test is completed, unless the CCB
     determines that all or portions of the modification should be preserved to support known future test
     requirements or general support test programs (see paragraph 14. for revalidation).
     12.3. The IMR procedures do not apply to demodification unless specifically requested by the MEA.
     12.4. The demodification plan will include estimates of man-hours and cost required to return the
     modified aerospace vehicle or support equipment to its premodified configuration.
     12.5. The plan will address necessary action for parts that have been repaired or altered through
     demodification. These parts should be marked IAW the 00 series TOs and will not commingle with
     standard items.

13. Flight Releases.
     13.1. Final Flight Releases. The responsible CCB authority will issue an AFMC Form 273 for the air-
     craft after a PCI and positive Safety of Flight determination has been accomplished.
     13.2. Temporary Flight Releases. When a final flight release cannot be issued (e.g., an incomplete
     modification/demodification not affecting flight safety or a program requirement), then an AFMC
     Form 243 of up to 180 days may be issued by the responsible CCB authority. Subsequent temporary
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                                  15


   flight releases may be issued, as deemed necessary, by the responsible SPM or CCB authority if dele-
   gated. Temporary flight releases cannot be utilized to retain residual T-2 modifications after flight
   testing is completed. (see paragraph 12.2.)
   13.3. Major Modification Flight Releases. The MEA will provide recommendations for release or
   non-release to the responsible program SPM, unless the SPM has delegated Safety of Flight determi-
   nation to the MEA.

14. Modification Revalidation.
   14.1. The CCB authority may elect to retain all or portions of the modification through revalidation.
   Revalidation must be accomplished at least annually or at the completion of each test program:
      14.1.1. To preserve some portion of the modification to be used on another program.
      14.1.2. If portions of the modification cannot be removed without extensive damage and repair to
      the aerospace vehicle or system.
   14.2. Revalidations can be made to either of the following:
      14.2.1. An existing modification program.
      14.2.2. A general test support program.
   14.3. For revalidation due to paragraph 14.1.2., the CCB authority will gain a one-time concurrence
   from the SPM prior to authorizing the revalidation. The CCB will ensure that analyses, tests, and
   installation actions necessary to qualify the residual modification comply with the current design cri-
   teria for permanent modifications and the airworthiness certification basis for the aircraft. In the event
   that the SPM does not concur, the test article will be fully demodified and the organization funding the
   modification will be responsible for funding the demodification.
   14.4. Revalidation will be reviewed and approved by the responsible CCB authority who will ensure
   adequate management and technical controls exist to document the residual configuration. The
   responsible SPM (if applicable) will advise the CCB on the affected areas of a Major modification.

15. Contracted Modifications and Lease or Loan Agreements.
   15.1. All organizations utilizing contractual support to accomplish T-2 modifications will comply
   with this instruction.
      15.1.1. Purchase Request must be coordinated through the organization having test vehicle modi-
      fication management responsibility during the modification installation to ensure the appropriate
      T-2 modification design standards, airworthiness criteria, and data are included. Instrumentation
      installed by contractors to support Test and Evaluation (T&E) is considered a T-2 modification
      regardless whether the aircraft has been accepted or rejected without a design baseline.
   15.2. If a lease or loan agreement does not specifically require complete demodification upon lease or
   loan termination, or if the aerospace vehicle is to be returned in a modified configuration, a complete
   T-2 modification package will accompany the aerospace vehicle.
   15.3. The responsible SPM will coordinate on all contracts, leases, and loan agreements involving air-
   craft requiring modification installation, flight test, or demodification for which the government has
   assumed the risk of loss, damage, or destruction. This includes aircraft that have not undergone final
16                                                                      AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


     acceptance by the government and aircraft provided as government furnished property. The docu-
     mentation of the responsible SPM coordination must comply with AFI 21-101 and
     AFI21-101_AFMCSUP1.

16. Funding Reimbursement. Modification and demodification costs of an aerospace vehicle will be
reimbursed by the requesting activity using locally established funding processes or processes similar to
AFMCI 65-602, Uniform Reimbursement and Pricing Procedures. When modifications are done for
organizations outside of AFMC, the agreements will call for reimbursement similar to the procedures in
AFMCI 65-602.

17. Local Supplements. AFMC field activities may prepare locally approved supplements and forms, as
required, to detail procedures. These local supplements must be coordinated through HQ AFMC/LGM
prior to unit Group-level approval. Once approved, send one copy of the official supplements and forms
to HQ AFMC/LGMM for reference.

18. List of Prescribed Forms. DD Form 250, Orange-bordered AFTO Form 95, Orange-bordered
AFTO Form 781A, AFMC Form 3, AFMC Form 243, AFMC Form 244, AFMC Form 272, and AFMC
Form 273.



                                              LOUISE M. DEWILDER, COLONEL, USAF
                                              Deputy Director of Maintenance
                                              Directorate of Logistics and Sustainment
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                         17


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-101_AFMCSUP1, Air and Space Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 63-104, The Seek Eagle Program
AFI 63-1101, Modification Management
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program and AFMC Supplement 1
AFI 16-401, Designating and Naming Defense Military Aerospace Vehicles
AFMCI 65-602, Uniform Reimbursement and Pricing Procedures
AFMCI 99-103, Test management
AFMC Pamphlet 63-104, IWSM Configuration Management Implementation Guide
AFPD 62-6, USAF Aircraft Airworthiness Certification
AFPD 63-1, Acquisition System
MIL-HDBK-61, Configuration Management Guidance
MIL-HDBK-514, Operational Safety, Suitability, & Effectiveness for the Aeronautical Enterprise
MIL-HDBK-516, Airworthiness Certification Criteria
MIL-STD-882, Department of Defense Standard Practice for System Safety
MIL-STD-27733, Modification and Marking Requirements for Test Equipment in Aerospace Vehicles and
Related Support Equipment

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFTC—Air Force Flight Test Center (Edwards AFB CA)
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSEO—Air Force SEEK EAGLE Office (Eglin AFB FL)
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
ASC/EN—Aeronautical Systems Center, Engineering Directorate (WPAFB OH)
CCB—Configuration Control Board
18                                                      AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


CDR—Critical Design Review
CDRL—Contract Data Requirements List
ECP—Engineering Change Proposal
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
GFE—Government Furnished Equipment
GFP—Government Furnished Property
HQ AFMC—Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command
HQ AFMC/LGMM—HQ AFMC Director of Logistics and Sustainment, Base-Level Maintenance
Division
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
IMR—Independent Modification Review
IOT&E—Initial Operational Test and Evaluation
MEA—Modification Engineering Authority
MIL-STD—Military Standard
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
PCI—Physical Configuration Inspection
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PHA—Preliminary Hazard Analysis
PI—Program Introduction Document
PM—Program Manager
PMA—Post Modification Acceptance
RPV—Remotely Piloted Vehicle
RTO—Responsible Test Organization
SC—Statement of Capability
SOW—Statement of Work
SPM—System Program Manager
SRB—Safety Review Board
T&E—Test and Evaluation
T-2—Temporary 2
T.O.—Technical Order
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                                 19


UAV—Unmanned Aerial Vehicle

Terms
AFMC Test-Bed Aircraft—An aerospace vehicle that is assigned to AFMC for the purpose of providing
long-term general test-bed capability in support of research and development testing, as well as
operational testing and evaluation. This definition does not apply to an aerospace vehicle assigned to
AFMC from another MAJCOM for a limited test period; that is, in support of a specific program for a
specified duration.
Airworthiness Certification Basis—This is the subset of MIL-HDBK-516 airworthiness certification
criteria and/or FAA type certifications that have been identified as applicable for the system being
certified.
Component Safety of Flight Certificate (AFMC Form 3)—Verification that sufficient engineering or
flight tests have been done to ensure safe flight of an aerospace vehicle or component within a specified
envelope. This determination must also address the crashworthiness of the article.
Certification of Stores—The determination of a specific store or aircraft compatibility and the formal
publication of all information necessary for appropriate employment of the store in the applicable
technical and flight operations manuals.
Configuration Control Board (CCB)—A Board composed of representatives from program or project
functional areas; such as, safety, maintenance and logistics, engineering, operations, quality assurance and
control, RTO, ASC/EN (Major modifications), contracting, configuration management, and using or
supporting organizations. The Board recommends approval or disapproval of proposed modifications to
the CCB Chairperson. The Chairperson makes the final decision on all modifications, design baseline
changes, revalidations, and demodifications unless otherwise directed by command policy. The CCB
issues a directive to implement its decision (AFMC Form 244).
Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL)—The Contract Data Requirements List, DD Form 1423,
Contract Data Requirements List is the standard format for identifying potential data requirements in a
solicitation and deliverable data requirements in a contract. The CDRL is used to define data
requirements, delivery requirements, approval criteria, references to tasking documents, and distribution
statements. The compilations of specific CDRLs are exhibits to the contract. The CDRLs are specified
as contract line items. With the exception of data specifically required by Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR) or Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation (DFARS), the CDRL is the contractual instrument used
to establish data requirements.
Critical Design Review (CDR)—A formal technical review of the detailed design of a modification. It
will be conducted before fabrication or production design release so the detail design solutions satisfy
performance requirements set by the PDR. Incremental reviews may be conducted instead of a single
CDR.
Design Baseline—The baseline established by either the CDR (for contracted modifications) or the final
in-house design review. This baseline delineates the necessary design interface requirements between the
aerospace vehicle and the modification components (Group A and Group B).
Demodification—Removal of a modification (Group A and Group B components) related to a specific
program/project.
EB-Coded Aircraft—Contractor test/test support: Aerospace vehicles provided to contractors as GFP in
20                                                                        AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


support of a prime Air Force contract. These aerospace vehicles will be utilized for complete system
evaluation, testing to improve the capabilities of the designated aerospace vehicles, support of specific
test programs, or production support. This code is for use as possession reporting identifiers only.
Final Flight Release—An AFMC Form 273 is issued to formally release an aerospace vehicle for
mission use based upon sufficient engineering and flight tests to ensure safe flight within a specified
envelope. Final flight release implies completion of the modification installation and documentation or
demodification process.
Flight Clearance—An authorization for flight after appropriate engineering analyses have been made
that an aircraft and store combination precludes an unacceptable risk for a specific, limited purpose of a
munition or other external store. The flight clearance attests to the physical, mechanical, electrical, and
aerodynamic compatibility of the aircraft-store configuration. The flight clearance will specify flight
limits for the loading configuration desired and tolerances on store physical properties to include weight,
center of gravity, moments of inertia, and employment.
Functional Baseline Configuration—The initial configuration of the modification as approved by the
CCB. This configuration reflects the functional requirements associated with the modification as
described in the program directive, PI, ECP, or other modification program requirement documents.
Group A—The items to be installed as part of a modification to support, secure, interconnect, or
accommodate the Group B components. In general, anything that cannot be readily removed, provides
support, or provisions for equipment installation is considered Group A. Examples of Group A items are:
electrical wiring, power junction boxes, brackets, oxygen lines, signal wiring, interconnect cabling,
waveguide, racks, beams, longerons, skins, spars, stringers, intercostals, plates, seats, mounts, trays/
slides, fairings, lighting, and other structural support equipment for Group B items.
Group B—The equipment installed as part of a modification which is readily removable. Examples of
Group B items: computers, printers, controllers, digital recorders, digital formatters, avionics encoders,
antennas, radomes, and, in general, “black boxes.”
Independent Modification Review (IMR)—A detailed technical review of Major modifications by
ASC/EN personnel and the weapons system SPM of the modification engineering data, impacted air
vehicle characteristics, drawings, analyses, test plans, and changes to related flight manuals and operating
and maintenance instructions required to ensure safe operation. Personnel having no prior involvement in
the modification will accomplish this review.
Initial Operational Test and Evaluation (IOT&E)—The first phase of operational test and evaluation
conducted on preproduction items, prototypes, or pilot production items and normally completed prior to
the first major production decision. It is conducted to provide a valid estimate of a system's operational
effectiveness and operational suitability prior to the first major production decision.
Memorandum Of Agreement (MOA)—A document signed by authorized representatives of
organizations which are working together such as a program office and a test and evaluation activity. The
agreement establishes the organizational relationships and agreements.
Modification Engineering Authority (MEA)—The engineering activity responsible for the safe
integration of the T-2 modification into the aerospace vehicle.
Physical Configuration Inspection (PCI)—A detailed inspection of the modification to ensure the
modification has been installed as prescribed in the modification package.
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                                    21


Post Modification Acceptance (PMA)—A power up, ground test, and functional checkout of the
equipment/modification to the maximum extent possible. During this system checkout, operation,
maintenance, and inspection instructions will be evaluated for adequacy, and electromagnetic
interference/electromagnetic compatibility test will be accomplished as required.
Preliminary Design Review (PDR)—A formal technical review of the basic approach for a modification
design. It will be held after the preliminary design efforts are done, but before start of the detailed design.
Preliminary Hazard Analysis (PHA)—An analysis of hazardous conditions as an initial risk assessment
of a concept or system identifying safety critical areas, evaluating hazards, and identifying the safety
design criteria to be used.
Preliminary Hazard List—A list which identifies potential hazards associated with the modification
(see AFMC Form 244).
Program Introduction (PI) Document—The PI document officially introduces the test program to the
support agencies. The PI is a long-range planning document submitted by a potential user to the support
agency immediately upon identification of the scope and duration of program activity. The potential user
should submit the PI using best available information, enabling the support agency to initiate resource and
technical planning. This information, while sometimes fragmentary and incomplete, is of substantial
value to the support organization in determining the scope of the program. For minor or short lead-time
programs, the PI is designed to eliminate further documentation except for conduct of specific tests. The
PI is submitted by a user to a Range or Test Center to officially identify test support requirements. It
should be initiated early enough to interface with test activity, fiscal, and planning cycles. The individual
test activity should be consulted for assistance in preparation. When appropriate, the using command
should assist in preparing the PI.
Program Manager (PM)—The designated individual assigned by an organization (i.e., the organization
making the modification request in support of a project flight test) to oversee the project accomplishment.
Remotely Piloted Vehicle (RPV)—An aerospace vehicle that is remotely controlled. NOTE: For this
instruction, an RPV is not considered a store and does not include guided bombs or missiles.
Responsible Test Organization (RTO)—The organization responsible for accomplishing the test
program.
Revalidation—A method by which all, or portions, of a T-2 modification are retained after the project is
completed. Documentation records are annotated to reflect the residual configuration as part of another
modification program or a general test support program.
Request for Variance (RFV)—A request to determine the hazards and assess the risk of the proposed
variance from or waiver of a requirement, or a specified method or process. The change in the risk
involved in accepting the variance shall be identified when variance request, alter the requirement,
method, or process will reduce the level of safety of the system.
Safety of Flight—The property of a particular air system configuration to safely attain, sustain, and
terminate flight within prescribed and accepted limits for injury/death to personnel and damage to
equipment, property, and/or environment. The intent of the Safety-of-Flight assessment is to show that
appropriate risk management has been completed and the level of risk (hazards to system, personnel,
property, equipment, and environment) has been appropriately identified and accepted by the managing
activity prior to first flight of the air system. Component Safety of Flight is documented on AFMC Form
3.
22                                                                       AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


Safety Review Board (SRB)—A board convened to review the project flight test plan and the Safety of
Flight determination flight test plan (if applicable) to ensure all hazards have been identified and
considered.
System Program Manager (SPM)—The designated individual with responsibility and authority to
accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s
operational needs. Depending on the phase of the system (acquisition or sustainment), the SPM will
normally reside at either a Product Center or Air Logistics Center (ALC). If a program is in acquisition,
the SPM will be at the Product Center and will be supported by a System Support Manager (SSM)
normally located at an ALC. If a program is in Sustainment, the SPM will normally reside at the
appropriate ALC or other Sustainment location and will be supported by a Developmental System
Manager (DSM) normally located at a Product Center. In all cases, except for Acquisition Category
(ACAT) 1D programs, the SPM is the supported commander.
Software—A set of computer programs, procedures, and possible associated documentation concerned
with the operation of a data processing system (compilers, library routines, manuals).
Statement of Capability (SC)—The SC is an activity's formal response to a request for test support
listing capability and cost which, when signed, is a formal commitment of resources.
Stores—Any item suspended from a standard weapons station or in the bomb bays of an aerospace
vehicle (e.g. bombs mounted on pylons, electronic countermeasure pods, missiles, external fuel tanks, and
instrumentation pods and their suspension equipment).
Temporary Flight Release—AFMC Form 243 issued for no more than 180 days for an aerospace
vehicle, due to incomplete installation or documentation of a T-2 modification.
Unaccepted Aerospace Vehicle—Aerospace vehicles being procured on an Air Force contract that are
past final assembly, have not been accepted as completed per contract requirements, and a DD Form 250
has not been signed to accept the vehicle.
Uncertified Store—The particular aircraft-store configuration is not authorized in Section 5 of the Flight
Manual (-1 T.O.) or wherever aircraft-store limitations are depicted for the aircraft.
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)—An unmanned aerospace vehicle with autonomous guidance and
control capability. NOTE: For this instruction, a UAV is not considered a store and does not include
guided bombs or missiles. However, a UAV can carry stores as defined in this instruction.
XY-Coded ACFT—Leased, or loaned aerospace vehicles or trainers on lease to commercial agencies or
loaned to other governmental agencies for accomplishment of test or other projects. This code is for use
as possession reporting identifiers only.
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                                 23


                                              Attachment 2

                             T-2 MODIFICATION LESSONS LEARNED
The following lessons learned have been identified to assist program managers involved in T-2 modifica-
tions in developing effective T-2 modification program plans. The listing provides questions that are pre-
sented in chronological sequence, which provides the user with an outline that follows the modification
process. Since this listing is not necessarily exhaustive, the individual initiating the T-2 modification is
encouraged to contact the activity performing the T-2 modification to learn more about local lessons
learned.

A2.1. Initial Contact With RTO.
   A2.1.1. Has the planning PI been accomplished? Not using a PI for planning normally results in
   higher cost due to confusion as to the job content.
   A2.1.2. Has the test approach been agreed upon? A vague test approach often results in high cost due
   to out-of-scope changes for reconfiguration and additional instrumentation.
   A2.1.3. Has aircraft availability and suitability been addressed? Aircraft that are not operationally
   suitable or supportable, especially at off-site locations, have increased program costs in the past.
   A2.1.4. Have certification requirements been established and coordinated?
   A2.1.5. Have the requirements for utilization of existing DoD ranges, facilities, or other resources to
   support the T-2 modification been addressed (e.g. waivers, etc.)?

A2.2. Group B.
   A2.2.1. Has a Group B Safety of Flight determination been addressed? Rejection due to lack of anal-
   yses after design have, in the past, greatly increased program costs and stretched out modification
   schedules. Non-flight qualified hardware must be identified early in the program to ensure correct
   installation during the modification.
   A2.2.2. Has AFSC DH l-X, Design Handbook, been used to design Group B components? In the past,
   non-use of this design handbook has resulted in high recertification and documentation costs.
   A2.2.3. Have deliverable Group B components and data been addressed as items for delivery to the
   government under the Group B, CDRL?
   A2.2.4. If Group B components cannot be delivered in time for use during modification, have
   arrangements been made for high fidelity (accurate size and mounting dimensions, electrical,
   waveguide, and cooling interfaces) Group B mockups? Failure of the mockup to accurately reflect
   Group B configuration has resulted in Group A rework with impact on program cost and schedule.
   A2.2.5. Have spare components been identified and allowances been made for procurement?
   A2.2.6. Have arrangements been made for the contractor to supply peculiar system equipment and
   components to the modification facility?
   A2.2.7. Have substitutions for long-lead items been addressed?
   A2.2.8. Have the modification and the Group B component delivery schedules been integrated?
24                                                                        AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


     A2.2.9. Has contractor peculiar instrumentation been identified? Lack of identification usually results
     in increased costs due to out-of-scope changes.
     A2.2.10. Has the organization with aerospace vehicle T-2 modification CCB authority coordinated on
     all Group B contractual documents prior to contract award?

A2.3. Modification Planning.
     A2.3.1. Have the modification requirements been clearly defined and conveyed to the activity per-
     forming the modification design? Failure to clearly define and convey the design requirements, cou-
     pled with requirement changes, are a significant source of rework. This will result in increases to
     modification program cost and schedule.
     A2.3.2. Has complete funding for the modification been identified by source and fiscal year?
     A2.3.3. Has demodification funding been identified by source and fiscal year?
     A2.3.4. Is the modification a Major modification? If so, has consideration been given to independent
     modification review, ASC/EN requirements, SPM coordination, documentation, and contractor sup-
     port for the modification?
     A2.3.5. Has a decision been made to design the modification in-house or through a contractor?
     A2.3.6. Has aircraft assignment by tail number been done?
     A2.3.7. Is the flight testing of the modification considered hazardous? If so, has HQ AFMC/LGM
     been notified?
     A2.3.8. Have modification marking, master power switch installation, and polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
     wiring (described in MIL-STD-27733, Modification And Marking Requirements For Test Equipment
     In Aerospace Vehicles and Related Support Equipment) been identified?
     A2.3.9. Does the present modification schedule have any conflicts between Group B delivery, aircraft
     modification, and requirement for use of the vehicle for flight test? Have modification, post modifica-
     tion, maintenance interface, and checkout schedules been developed?
     A2.3.10. Has the CCB authority been determined?
     A2.3.11. Has the system safety preliminary hazard analysis been performed? Use of this technique
     often finds system deficiencies.
     A2.3.12. Have the Safety of Flight determination flight test requirements been defined (pace, chase,
     photographic requirements, required test results, test technique, and schedule)?
     A2.3.13. Have the responsibilities for Government Furnished Equipment (GFE) instrumentation been
     outlined (supply, format, calibration, and data reduction)?
     A2.3.14. Has support GFE, such as, special aerospace ground equipment, including suitable substi-
     tutes and spares, been identified?
     A2.3.15. Has an off-site support or range agreement been coordinated (special ramp and hangar facil-
     ities, safety zones, and power requirements)?
     A2.3.16. Has an environmental assessment been done?
     A2.3.17. Have radio and telemetry frequencies been coordinated with appropriate agencies?
AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005                                                                             25


   A2.3.18. Have other support requirements, such as special construction, rehabilitation, new range
   facilities, or special use simulators, been identified?
   A2.3.19. Have flight performance and operational systems impacts been carefully considered?
   A2.3.20. Are there any known requirements for military specifications? Many military specifications
   have been deleted, therefore, a waiver may be required to invoke a military specification.
   A2.3.21. Are there any known requirements for waiver of military specifications?
   A2.3.22. Has consideration been given to Programmed Depot Maintenance impacts coming due dur-
   ing the modification installation duration? This issue can result in schedule and cost impacts if the
   modification Group B equipment must be removed and reinstalled to support aircraft maintenance.
   These costs are normally borne by the organization requesting the modification.
   A2.3.23. Have fabrication and assembly processes been identified and their capabilities assessed and/
   or have constraints related to fabrication and assembly processes been communicated to the activity
   performing the design? Failure to consider manufacturing process capabilities during the design pro-
   cess often results in expensive rework of designs and/or manufacturing.

A2.4. Modification Phase.
   A2.4.1. Have firm Group B delivery schedules been set up and have these schedules been checked for
   impact on the overall modification timetable?
   A2.4.2. Have long-lead time items been delivered or reasonable substitutes found, or has a delivery
   schedule been agreed to that does not affect the modifications?
   A2.4.3. Has design data for the modification been approved?
   A2.4.4. Have mockups been delivered if it was agreed that the Group B items would not be available
   for the modification, fabrication, and installation phase?
   A2.4.5. Have quality assurance inspections been scheduled and accomplished (in progress, blind area
   closeout, final, and functional)?
   A2.4.6. Has the detailed fabrication and installation plan been coordinated?
   A2.4.7. Has on-site contractor support been obtained?
   A2.4.8. Have base support agreements at test operating locations been completed?
   A2.4.9. Have maintenance support agreements at operating locations been completed?
   A2.4.10. Has special maintenance support equipment been delivered and have special maintenance
   agreements been formalized?
   A2.4.11. Have disposition instructions (storage, shipment, turn-in) been developed and implemented
   for basic aircraft equipment removed to accommodate the modification? Do these instructions address
   reinstallation requirements at demodification?
   A2.4.12. Have control measures, such as, caution and warning notes identified in the PHA and failure
   mode, effects, and criticality analysis that affect operations and maintenance, been incorporated in
   modification flight manuals and maintenance instructions?
26                                                                        AFMCI21-126 19 JULY 2005


     A2.4.13. Have deficient fabrication and assembly processes been improved, new processes devel-
     oped, and/or designed robustness improved to ensure all such processes are capable?

A2.5. Demodification.
     A2.5.1. Has a demodification schedule and funding profile been coordinated?
     A2.5.2. Have requirements for functional check flights after completion of the demodification been
     identified?
     A2.5.3. Has a disposition of the removed Group A and Group B components been coordinated?
     A2.5.4. Has the possibility of revalidation been considered versus demodification?
     A2.5.5. Have follow-on test requirements been identified?
     A2.5.6. Has the impact of the demodification on other test programs been identified?
     A2.5.7. Has a return agreement to other major commands (assumes aircraft not from AFMC inven-
     tory) been completed?
     A2.5.8. Have transfer inspection requirements been identified?
     A2.5.9. Has a requirement for revalidation of flight and technical manuals been addressed?
     A2.5.10. Have residual special maintenance requirements been addressed?
     A2.5.11. Has recertification of basic aircraft systems been addressed if those systems were affected
     by the modification?
     A2.5.12. If the demodification requires the reinstallation of standard aircraft equipment (aircraft-21
     equipment, such as an external tank), has re-procurement of the aircraft equipment been considered?
