BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                   INSTRUCTION 90-104
                                                                                  29 SEPTEMBER 2008
                                                                      Certified Current 16 November 2011
                                                                                    Specialty Management

                                                             IMPLEMENTING AFSO21 INITIATIVES



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFMC/A8T                                                               Certified by: HQ AFMC/A8/9
                                                                             (Maj Gen Marshall K. Sabol)
Supersedes AFMCI90-104, 23 March 2007                                                         Pages: 34

This instruction implements DOD Continuous Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma Guidebook and the
Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century (AFSO21) Playbook. The instruction applies to the HQ
AFMC staff, Centers, direct reporting units, field operating agencies, and all other organizations assigned
or attached to AFMC. It does not apply to Air National Guard (A NG) or Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units. Send comments and suggestions about this publication for improvements on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Dis-
position Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This major revision streamlines th e original version of AFMCI 90-104, Implementing Improvement and
Change Initiatives: An Integrated AFSO21 and Balanced Scorecard Approach. The title changed to
reflect an increased emphasis on AFSO21 (Air Force Smart Operations for the 21 st Century) initiatives.
This version outlines a new governance structure fo r AFSO21 and Balanced Scorecard (BSC) strategy
map activities conducted within AFMC . It also eliminates previous guidance on initiative management
and replaces it with the Plan , Conduct, Implement, Sustain model used in the Continuous Process
Improvement – Management Tool (CPI-MT). It adds direction on CPI-MT, formerly known as Power
Steering and covered in the or iginal instruction as the “SAF/SO automated/tracking tool.” It also adds
direction on the AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template. It updates major roles an d responsibilities,
AFSO21 processes and operations, and AFSO21 training requirem ents as outlined in the new AFSO21
Playbook, version 2.0, publi shed in October 2007. It supersedes Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
(TTP) 1.2, AFSO21 Training and Certification (22 February 2008). Finally, it updates all attachments
from the original instruction with a new Charter template at Attachment 1, Change/Knowledge Manage-
ment Concepts and Tools at Attachment 2, and sample A3 Report templates at Attachment 3.
2                                                                                      AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


      1.    AFSO21 Definition and Primary Goals of the AFSO21 and BSC Mapping
            Efforts. .......................................................................................................................    3
      2.    Purpose of AFMCI 90-104. .......................................................................................                    3
      3.    AFMC Commander’s Intent – Performance, Alignment, Integration. ......................                                               4
      4.    An Integrated AFSO21 and BSC Environment. ........................................................                                  4
Figure 1.   AF-Level Governing, Core, And Enabling Processes. .............................................                                     5
      5.    Major Roles and Responsibilities. .............................................................................                     6
Figure 2.   AFMC AFSO21 Council Governance Structure ......................................................                                     7
      6.    AFSO21 Processes and Operations. ..........................................................................                        11
Figure 3.   Internal AFMC AFSO21 Initiative Process Flow .....................................................                                 12
      7.    CPI-MT and the AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template. ........................................                                       18
      8.    AFSO21 Training and Certification. .........................................................................                       20
Table 1.    Air Force AFSO21 Level 1 and 2 Certification Requirement ..................................                                        22
      9.    Conclusion. ................................................................................................................       23
    10.     Adopted Forms: .........................................................................................................           24

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                25

Attachment 2 —PROJECT CHARTER                                                                                                                  26

Attachment 3— CHANGE/KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT CONCEPTS AND TOOLS                                                                                   28

Attachment 4— A4. REPORT GUIDELINES AND TEMPLATES                                                                                              32
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                           3


1. AFSO21 Definition and Primary Goals of the AFSO21 and BSC Mapping Efforts.
   1.1. AFSO21 Definition: AFSO21 represents an Air Force m odel for Continuous Process Improve-
   ment (CPI) that uses various methodologies depending on the needs of the situation or problem under
   review. Methodologies include Lean, Six Sigma, Theory of Constrai nts, Problem Solving, and Busi-
   ness Process Reengineering. Use of the term “AFSO21 initiatives” within this AFMCI encompasses
   all CPI, problem solving, improvement, and change activities conducted across AFMC.
   1.2. AFSO21 Goals:
       1.2.1. To fundamentally change the cult ure of the Air Force (AF) so that all Airmen understand
       their individual role in improving their daily processes and eliminating wasted efforts that add no
       value to mission accomplishment.
       1.2.2. To instill a mindset of continuous process improvement and problem solving acr oss the
       USAF workforce.
   1.3. BSC Strategy Map Goals:
       1.3.1. To clearly capture and communicate the strategic pr iorities outlined by the AFMC Com-
       mander into an integrated set of objectives, measures, and initiati ves that drive performance and
       results across the Command.
       1.3.2. To serve as a strategy management framework designed to clarify the strategic priorities of
       leadership and translate strategic objectives into operational terms.

2. Purpose of AFMCI 90-104. The purpose of this instruction is to formalize and codify the Command’ s
AFSO21 program and outline a disciplined process for the execution of AFSO21 initiatives. The follow-
ing influencing factors shaped the development of AFMCI 90-104:
   2.1. AFSO21 Mindset: USAF emphasis on implementing an AFSO21 culture of continuous process
   improvement will generate numerous opportunities for change that require a governance pr ocess.
   AFSO21 is an all-encompassing program for CP I which could in clude any number of process
   improvement tools or methodologies, but primarily consists of the following five: Problem Solving,
   Lean, Business Process Reengineering, Six Sigma, and Theory of Constraints—with Lean making up
   roughly 80% of the overall AFSO21 program.
   2.2. Common Governance: The complexity of change requires the Command provide a single, uni-
   fied governance process that elimin ates redundancy in managing init iatives. This document outlines
   an enterprise approach for continuous improvement that will integrate efforts from HQ AFMC across
   all AFMC Centers. An enterprise-level, integrated approach will maximize efficiencies across the
   Command, contribute to a culture of continuous improvement throughout the entire workforce, and
   develop our Airmen in a structured and consistent manner.
   2.3. Resource Allocation: The process of prioritizing AFSO21 initiatives for resource allocation and
   redistribution requires consistent information and leadership insight.
   2.4. Cultural Challenges: To achieve success, th e Command must overcome historic and cultural
   challenges with initiative implementation to include:
       2.4.1. Lack of follow-through to results.
       2.4.2. Lack of accountability for initiative performance.
4                                                                AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


       2.4.3. Lack of strategic alignment to leadership goals.
       2.4.4. Insufficient resources allocated for change initiatives.
    2.5. Results of an Effective Governance Process:
       2.5.1. Accountability: Clear lines of a ccountability for specific objectives that af fect Com-
       mand-wide performance.
       2.5.2. Control: Effective decision making at the leadership levels to ensure appropriate emphasis
       and resource allocation are applied to priorities.
       2.5.3. Alignment: Sufficient insight for senior leadership into th e design and execution of initia-
       tives to ensure alignment with Command goals and objectives.
       2.5.4. Transparency: Effective visibility for leadership and the entire workforce into the processes
       that steer the Command to perform the mission as effectively as possible and achieve the Com-
       mand vision with greater clarity and precision.
       2.5.5. Results: Fact-based, quantifiable data s howing measured improvements, elimination of
       waste, and/or tangible cost savings.
       2.5.6. Best Practices: Enable sharing of best practices, also referred to in this instruction as Com-
       mand Standard Processes, across all units a nd all levels within AFMC by employing a common
       process for identifying, coordinating, and communicating best practice candidates.

3. AFMC Commander’s Intent – Performance, Alignment, Integration.
    3.1. Performance: Accountable, measurable, continuously improving performance across the Com-
    mand.
       3.1.1. Lead implementation of process improvement techniques end-to-end.
       3.1.2. Set tangible performance targets for cost, schedule, performance; measure, report, compare,
       reward results.
       3.1.3. Create an environment that inspires trust, teamwork, and continuous improvement.
    3.2. Alignment: Linkage to, and alignment w ith, AF-level core, enabli ng, and governing processes
    and process owners. In particul ar, initiatives that impact D&SWS processes must align with the
    D&SWS Focus Areas and Objectives.
    3.3. One Materiel Enterprise. Seamless integration across Centers and core missions.

4. An Integrated AFSO21 and BSC Environment.
    4.1. The Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of S taff defined the following AF SO21 objectives,
    which in part form the basis for the AFMC Commander’s Intent:
       4.1.1. Provide a standard AF approach to continuously improve all processes that employ our AF
       capabilities to deliver required effects.
       4.1.2. Develop a c ulture which promotes elimination of waste, sharing of best practices, and
       reduction of cycle times across all products and services; involve all Airmen in the relentless pur-
       suit of excellence.
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                          5


      4.1.3. Ensure all Airmen understand their role, develop the ability to effect change, and continu-
      ously learn new ways to improve processes in thei r daily activities in order to save resources and
      eliminate waste.
   4.2. AF-Level Framework. The AF-level AFSO21 Process Council defined ten governing, core, and
   enabling processes which encompass all missions across our AF and establish a framework for all pro-
   cess improvement efforts.

Figure 1. AF-Level Governing, Core, And Enabling Processes.




   AFSO21 process improvement efforts within AFMC and the ot her Major Commands (MAJCOMs)
   will occur within this AF-level framework and must contribute toward optimization of one or more of
   the AF governing, core, and enabling processes.
   4.3. Integration and Role of the BSC Strategy Map.
      4.3.1. AFMC employs the BSC strategy map a s a tool to de velop and drive Command s trategy
      which includes specific objectives, measures, and ini tiatives targeted to address gaps in perfor-
      mance or other problem areas.
      4.3.2. The BSC strategy map must align with AF-level governing, core, and enabling processes.
      4.3.3. The BSC strategy map serves as a pointing mechanism for Command improvement oppor-
      tunities. AFMC will use AFSO21 tools where appropriate to address gaps in performance identi-
      fied either within the strategy map or by proc ess teams associated with the AF governing, core,
      and enabling processes.
   4.4. AFSO21 De sired Effects. The Air Force defined five desired effects that organizations should
   target and strive to achieve with tangible improvement results:
      4.4.1. Productivity. Increase the productivity of our most valued resource: people.
      4.4.2. Asset Availability. Achieve significant increases in critical asset availability rates.
      4.4.3. Agility. Improve response time and decision making agility.
      4.4.4. Safety and Reliability. Sustain safe and reliable operations.
      4.4.5. Energy. Improve energy efficiency.
6                                                               AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


    4.5. AFMC/CC fully supports all AFSO21 desired effects. With regard to increasing asset availabil-
    ity, the AFMC approach couples availability and cost. The Command will strive to achieve increased
    equipment availability while reducing overall operating and support costs.

5. Major Roles and Responsibilities.
    5.1. AFMC Commander, Vice Commander, and Executive Director.
       5.1.1. Establish and articulate key themes, organizational direction, and specific priorities for the
       Command.
       5.1.2. Oversee Command performance and execution of selected AFSO21 initiatives through the
       corporate structure and AFMC AFSO21 Council.
    5.2. Commanders/Directors at all Levels.
       5.2.1. Establish Commander/Director intent for AFSO21 CPI and strategy development and exe-
       cution efforts and, specifically, implementation of AFSO21 initiatives.
       5.2.2. Align organizational activities and mission performance in accordance with Command and
       Center strategic requirements and focus.
       5.2.3. Strive to support all Airmen by removing barriers that inhibit improved mission effective-
       ness and efficiency.
       5.2.4. Lead and/or participate in the HQ AFMC, Center, or Wing council, steering group, or other
       senior leader forum charged with governing AFSO21 initiatives.
    5.3. AFMC AFSO21 Council. The AFMC AFS021 Council is re sponsible to the AFMC Com-
    mander for overseeing, prioritizing, implementing, and managing AFSO21 initiatives and for remov-
    ing barriers to effective execution of the overall AFSO21 program. The AFSO21 Council focuses on
    internal AFMC improvement efforts, but also supports process coun cils aligned with AF governing,
    core, and enabling processes by prioritizing those improvement initiatives identified by AF Process
    Owners which are executed within AFMC.
       5.3.1. Responsibilities and governance structure.
           5.3.1.1. Align AFSO21 ini tiatives to Command strategy a nd ensure Command strategy sup-
           ports AF governing, core, and enabling processes.
           5.3.1.2. Review AFSO21 initiatives that meet the reporting crit eria outlined below; approve
           recommendations on Command Standard Processes; and make recommendations to the
           AFMC Council on those AFSO21 initiatives requiring Council approval as outlined below.
               5.3.1.2.1. AFMC AFSO21 Council Review.
                  5.3.1.2.1.1. Potential application across two or more AFMC Centers or core missions
                  (Technology, Acquisition, Test, Sustainment).
                  5.3.1.2.1.2. Potential application to other AF MAJCOMs.
                  5.3.1.2.1.3. Potentially impacts a performance gap in the Command strategy or in an
                  Air Force-level governing, core, or enabling process.
               5.3.1.2.2. AFMC Council Approval.
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                      7


                5.3.1.2.2.1. Requires inclusion in the AFMC POM.
                5.3.1.2.2.2. Required to meet tar gets in an AF-funded or DoD-funded transformation
                effort; e.g., Depot Maintenance Transformation.
                5.3.1.2.2.3. Implementation co sts require resources beyond the budget scope of the
                originating Center.
         5.3.1.3. Oversee Command-wide AFSO21 CPI performance.
         5.3.1.4. Direct HQ AFMC policy action to codify, execute, and measure selected AFSO21 ini-
         tiatives.
         5.3.1.5. Publish Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTPs) and/or other direction as neces-
         sary to prevent duplication of effort and/or redundant commitment of resources between Cen-
         ters and other higher headquarters efforts.
         5.3.1.6. Make rec ommendations to the AFMC Council on those AFSO 21 initiatives that
         require resources or action in the AFMC POM.
         5.3.1.7. Review AFSO21 initiatives submitted to the AF AFSO21 Council and provide rec-
         ommendations to AFMC/CC.

Figure 2. AFMC AFSO21 Council Governance Structure




      5.3.2. Composition and Meeting Schedule.
         5.3.2.1. The AFMC Vice Commander chairs the AFMC AFSO21 Council and serves as Com-
         mand AFSO21 Champion. Membership on the AFSO21 Council includes HQ Staff Directors
8                                                              AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


          and Center Vice Commanders/Directors and/or Executive Directors. HQ AFMC/A8/9 admin-
          isters all AFMC AFSO21 Council meetings; i.e., schedules meetings, notifies members, pub-
          lishes minutes.
          5.3.2.2. The AFMC AFSO21 Council meets quarterly, usually just prior to the AF AFSO21
          Process Council.
    5.4. HQ AFMC Directorates.
       5.4.1. Serve on the AFMC Council, AFMC AFSO 21 Council, and/or AFMC Group for the pur-
       pose of defining and executing Command strategy and managing AFSO21 initiatives.
       5.4.2. Sponsor field-le vel AFSO21 initiatives that require Command-level support in terms of
       policy, funding, resourcing, or Command sponsorship.
       5.4.3. Inform the AFMC AFSO21 Council and/or co rporate structure of directorate efforts sup-
       porting one or more of the AF governing, core, or enabling processes. Formally coordinate direc-
       torate efforts through the AFMC AFSO21 Council or corporate structure as necessary when those
       efforts impact Command strategy or when AFMC is requested to expend Command resources in
       support of such efforts.
       5.4.4. Serve as objective owners for key strategic objectives.
       5.4.5. Follow through with implementation and overs ight responsibilities as defined in this
       instruction.
       5.4.6. Monitor Center, Wing, and below level initiativ es for best practices, potential Command
       Standard Processes, and other synergies that could potentially extend across multiple Centers and/
       or mission areas. Identify potential candidates to HQ AFMC/A8T and HQ AFMC/A8C via work-
       flow email.
    5.5. HQ AFMC/A8/9 Strategic Plans, Programs, and Analyses Directorate.
       5.5.1. Plan and execute AFMC AFSO21 Council meetings and meetings of the AFMC corporate
       structure as necessary to review or make decisions on Command strategy or AFSO21 activities.
       5.5.2. Lead and manage AFSO21 and the implementation of AFSO21 initiatives across the Com-
       mand along with development, execution, and management of Command strategy.
       5.5.3. Lead and oversee Command-wide change management activities associated with AFSO21,
       the BSC strategy map, and all improvement initiatives.
    5.6. HQ AFMC/A8T Strategic Management Division.
       5.6.1. Provide BSC strategy ma pping and execution expertis e to the AFMC Commander , HQ
       Staff, AFMC corporate structure, and field organizations. Develop and publish policy governing
       the formulation and execution of Command strategy and BSC strategy mapping efforts.
       5.6.2. Provide AFSO21 ex pertise to the AFMC Commander , HQ Staff, AFMC corporate struc-
       ture, and field organizations. Develop and publish policy governing the Command AFSO21 Pro-
       gram. Establish the framework, policy, procedures, and advocacy for resources necessary to train,
       organize, and equip AFSO21-certified staff within AFMC.
       5.6.3. Implement AF standards fo r AFSO21 facilitator training a nd for certification in AFSO21
       tools, and identify approved training sources.
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                       9


     5.6.4. Lead Command-wide integration of all AFSO21 initiatives. Facilitate rapid dissemination
     of Wing-level improvements across the Command in order to maximize efficiencies and establish
     standard processes. Maintain a portfolio of Command-wide initiatives, make those initiatives vis-
     ible across the Command, initiate policy cha nges through the appropriate HQ AFMC functional
     directorate to codify Command -wide improvements and/or Comm and Standard Processes, and
     lead cross-Command implementation of those improvements or standard processes.
     5.6.5. Review initiatives conducted by other MAJCOMs to select those with potential application
     within AFMC. Maintain a proces s to push information regardin g selected initiatives to AFMC
     Centers/Wings.
     5.6.6. Lead selected ente rprise-level AFSO21 efforts. Provide qualified facilitators to address
     enterprise improvement opportunities identified by the AFMC Commander or tied to AFSO21 ini-
     tiatives related to the AF cor e process of Develop & Sustain Warfighting Systems (D&SWS) or
     one of the other AF governing, core, or enabling processes.
     5.6.7. Issue to AFMC field units AFSO21 and BSC mapping Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
     (TTP) as required to provide Command-wide direction that complements, supplements, clarifies,
     or adds to this instruction.
     5.6.8. Maintain open communication channels an d conduct regular meetings with AFSO21 and
     strategy development points of contact across the AFMC Centers along with selected HQ AFMC
     Staff. HQ AFMC/A8T will chair the meetings, publish an agenda, and post read-ahead and fol-
     low-up material as necessary on the shared Comm unity of Practice (CoP ). Maintain Command
     Strategy and AFSO21 CoPs.
     5.6.9. Plan, schedule, coordinate, and administer all AFMC AFSO21 Council meetings and meet-
     ings of the AFMC corporate structure which focus on Command strategy or AFSO21 activities.
     5.6.10. Serve as the AFMC single focal point for all activities associated with strategy develop-
     ment and execution and AFSO21 continuous improvement efforts. SAF/SO should work all
     AFSO21 issues through HQ AFMC/A 8T versus going directly to Center AFSO21 offices. Like-
     wise, Center AFSO21 offices should work exclusively through HQ AFMC/A8T.
     5.6.11. Establish business rules to prevent duplication of effort and/or redundant commitment of
     Command resources.
     5.6.12. Develop and oversee exec ution of the Command AFSO21 Maturity Assessment model
     criteria outlined in TTP 2.0, AFSO 21 Maturity Assessment. Assess the overall maturity level of
     HQ AFMC and the Command as a whole.
  5.7. HQ AFMC/A8C/A9L Strategic Organizational Development and Lessons Learned Divi-
  sion.
     5.7.1. Provide Change Manageme nt (CM) and Knowledge Manage ment (KM) expertise to the
     AFMC Commander, HQ Staff, AFMC corporate structure, and field organizations.
     5.7.2. Develop CM tools, techniques, and processes; publish guidance for use by AFMC organi-
     zations to manage their change initiatives.
     5.7.3. Develop and publish business rules for CM/KM to ensure a common AFMC approach.
10                                                              AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


        5.7.4. Facilitate rapid disseminati on of best practices and lesso ns learned across the Command,
        including those identified by ot her MAJCOMs and Key Processes which have potential applica-
        tion within AFMC.
        5.7.5. Integrate CM/KM into the overarching improvement process to include improvement,
        problem solving, and change initiatives related to the D&SWS AF core process.
        5.7.6. Provide training on the AFMC CM process to AFMC Center Plans and Programs person-
        nel. Provide information on CM training available from other sources.
     5.8. HQ AFMC/FMC Cost Analysis Division.
        5.8.1. Assist HQ AFMC S taff in completing the AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template when
        used for initiatives conducted at MAJCOM level.
        5.8.2. Review and validate AFSO21 Financial Reporting Templates that meet threshold criteria in
        AFI 65-501, Economic Analysis.
     5.9. AFMC Corporate Structure. HQ AFMC/A8/9 is re sponsible to the AFMC Commander for
     developing Command strategy; overseeing strategy execution and overall effectiveness; prioritizing,
     implementing, and managing AFSO21 in itiatives; removing barriers to effective strategy execution
     and AFSO21 CPI efforts; and guiding the Command-wide AFSO21 Program. HQ AFMC/A8/9 uses
     the existing corporate structure, the AFMC Council and AFMC Group, as necessary to obtain
     resources, formulate decisions on major issues, review progress and performance, and make necessary
     adjustments. At a minimum, the AFMC Council reviews total a nnual expenditures by Center on
     AFSO21, strategy development, and related CPI or transformational activities to assess focus, parity,
     and resource commitment on a Command level.
     5.10. AFMC Centers and Equivalent Organizations.
        5.10.1. Establish an integrated capability on the Center Staff to: lead and execute a Center
        AFSO21 Program in compliance with the Command program; develop and execute a Center strat-
        egy aligned with the Command strategy; and plan, conduct, implement, and sustain Center
        AFSO21 initiatives. Organize the office in accordance with the AFMC Center staff template.
        5.10.2. Implement a Wing AFSO21 organizational structure that takes advantage of Center/Wing
        synergies and potential efficiencies. For example, Air Base Wing organizations will typically
        require a dedicated AFSO21 of fice focused on installation level pr ocesses. However, acquisition
        and sustainment Wings reporting to a Center may not require a dedicat ed AFSO21 office and
        could instead obtain oversight, guidance, and support from the Center AFSO21 office.
        5.10.3. It is important for AFMC to strike a balance in dedicated Center/Wing personnel assigned
        AFSO21 duties. HQ AFMC will provide staf fing templates, and the AFSO21 Playbook provides
        an excellent guideline to help Center Commande rs/Directors determine the proper balance and
        synergy between dedicated Center/Wing staffing and organizational structure.
        5.10.4. Executive Council. Center and W ing Commanders/Directors establish an Executive
        Council, as outlined in the AF SO21 Playbook, or use an existing corporate st ructure, to govern
        and lead integrated AFSO21 and st rategic planning efforts. The purpose of the Council is to pro-
        vide governance and leadership to AFSO21 and strategic planning efforts within the organization.
        At Center level, the Executive Council integrates AFSO21 and s trategic planning activities and
        oversees development and implementation of AF SO21 initiatives; at Wing level it typically
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                        11


      focuses on specific AFSO21 CPI ac tivities and strategy execution. It is chaired by the Center/
      Wing Commander/Director or Vice Commander/Director and is composed of the Center/Wing
      senior Commanders/Directors.
   5.11. AFMC Center AFSO21 and Strategic Planning Offices.
      5.11.1. Maintain a portfolio of all Center AFSO21 initiatives th at directly support the Center’s
      strategic plan. Identify to HQ AF MC/A8T those events which meet one or more of the Improve-
      ment Initiative Reporting Criteria outlined below in paragraph 6.
      5.11.2. Oversee and manage AFSO21 training across the Center.
      5.11.3. Represent the Center to HQ AFMC/A8T and communicate Center concerns, issues, initi-
      atives, and any other relevant information.
      5.11.4. Work with HQ AFMC/A8T to request facilitation, training, or other support not available
      or accessible at Center-level.
      5.11.5. Work with HQ AFMC/A8C to request Change/Knowledge Management training or other
      support not available or accessible at Center-level.
      5.11.6. Report to HQ AFMC/A8T via workflow email those AFSO21 initiatives that could poten-
      tially apply across the Command as Command Standard Processes or impact the D&SW S core
      process or any other AF-level governing, core, or enabling process. Ensure local Labor Relations
      Officers are notified when it is determined that an initiative will or may af fect bargaining unit
      employees.
      5.11.7. Serve as focal point for all CM/KM communications from HQ AFMC/A8C. Disseminate
      information as required to the Center workforc e. Serve as liaison between field- level CM teams
      and HQ AFMC/A8C to ensur e integration of change efforts across the enterprise. Represent the
      Center at HQ-sponsored meetings regarding CM/KM.
      5.11.8. Integrate CM/KM strategies across the Center.
      5.11.9. Periodically assess the maturity of the AFSO21 program using TTP 2.0, AFSO21 Matu-
      rity Assessment.

6. AFSO21 Processes and Operations.
   6.1. AFSO21 Initiative Processing. This paragraph outlines the AFSO21 initiative processing steps
   from the perspective of a field organization located at an AFMC Center . Figure 2. depicts the
   high-level process flow in an optimal environment with a fully mature CPI-MT, and framed within the
   Plan, Conduct, Implement, and Sustain model of CPI-MT.
12                                                       AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


Figure 3. Internal AFMC AFSO21 Initiative Process Flow
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                           13


  6.2. Categories of Initiatives. An AFSO21 initiative typically fo cuses on saving time, money , or
  other resources; or on improving performance and/or product quality; or on eliminating waste and/or
  non-value added activities. We typically classify AFSO21 initiatives as follows:
     6.2.1. “Just Do It.” Y ou will hear the term “just do it” to describe those small, common-sense
     improvements that the implementing office has complete control and authority over. “Just do its”
     are also quick fixes made to processes and products identified during an AFSO21 event and com-
     pleted during the event week or as quickly as possible afterwards. They are part of the CPI process
     and results are captured as part of the overall execution and su stainment of an entire AFSO21
     event. These improvements are not typically staf fed or tracked by the Center AFSO21 Of fice or
     HQ AFMC/A8T. Events categorized as “just do it” would not c    ount toward AFSO21 Level 1, 2, or
     3 certification requirements (defined in paragraph 8.).
     6.2.2. Rapid Improvement Event (RIE). An RIE is a short-term, high intensity effort to address a
     specific problem. The focus is typically in a dedicated 3-day to 5-day session, though the prepara-
     tion normally begins several weeks in advance and follow-up continues after. It generally follows
     a structured, systematic approach to identifying and eliminating waste by developing baseline per-
     formance measures, current and future state maps, key metrics, an action plan, and possibly other
     deliverables. RIEs are sometimes identified as a result of Value Stream Mapping efforts or Enter-
     prise Value Stream Mapping efforts.
     6.2.3. Improvement or Change Project. Longer term improvement events are referred to as
     improvement projects and involv e processes that are lar ge in scope or complexity and could
     require application of AFSO21 to ols such as Six Sigma, Busine ss Process Reengineering, and
     Theory of Constraints.
  6.3. Sources of AFSO21 Initiatives – Internal to AFMC.
     6.3.1. Strategy Driven. Initiatives that directly contribute to achieving a strategic objective on the
     Command BSC strategy map.
     6.3.2. Process and Operations. Initiatives that improve Command processes or operations, includ-
     ing the D&SWS AF core process or any other AF-level governing, core, or enabling processes.
     6.3.3. Commander/Director or Leadership Insight. Initiatives directed by the Commander/Direc-
     tor as a result of leadership insight into performance issues or required changes.
  6.4. Sources of AFSO21 Initiatives – External to AFMC.
     6.4.1. AF Processes. Initiatives identified by an AF governing, core, or enabling process owner
     that require execution within AFMC, but are driven by process teams and governing councils out-
     side of AFMC.
     6.4.2. Higher Headquarters Direction. Department of Defense (DoD), AF, or other agency direc-
     tion to change AFMC operations or policies requiring an internal initiative.
     6.4.3. Other DoD Transformational Efforts. Improvement initiatives generated from efforts such
     as Depot Maintenance Transformation or other similar efforts.
  6.5. Plan, Conduct, Implement, Sustain Model. The process for planni ng an AFSO21 initiative,
  conducting the AFSO21 event, executing through to completion, and implementing and reporting
  results should follow a standard, consistent process throughout the Command, although the nature of
14                                                                 AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


     the initiative and source will cause the initiative to follow different paths as appropriate. The follow-
     ing paragraphs provide specific guidance applicable to all AFMC AFSO21 initiatives.
        6.5.1. Plan. The Center AFSO21 Office serves as focal point for all AFSO21 initiatives conducted
        across the Center and for managing the Center portfolio of initiatives. HQ AFMC/A8T performs
        the same function for HQ Staff directorates in addition to managing the Command portfolio of ini-
        tiatives. Individual organizations and process ow ners, however, are responsible for identifying
        improvement opportunities, developing those opportunities into specific improvement initiatives,
        executing those initiatives, and following up in a spirit of Continuous Process Improvement. Once
        an improvement opportunity or initiative is identified, the re sponsible organization takes the fol-
        lowing actions:
            6.5.1.1. Check CPI -MT or other known sources f or a similar improvement initiative con-
            ducted across AFMC or across the AF.
            6.5.1.2. If a similar improvement initiative exists, determine if it’s possible to adapt the results
            to shape the planned in itiative or possibly re -scope the planned initi ative based on the work
            already accomplished.
            6.5.1.3. Complete the Charter Template at Attachment 1. The charter completely defines the
            improvement initiative and esta blishes scope and responsib ility. The Charter Template at
            Attachment 1 contains all of the re quirements specified in the AFSO21 Playbook and estab-
            lishes additional requirements in AFMC for the appropriate signatures of those who own the
            process and lead the im provement event. The signatures of these key leader s are critical to
            agreement and overall understanding, commitment , and accountability. The exact format of
            the charter may differ from Attachment 1 as long as the items s hown in the attachment are
            addressed.
            6.5.1.4. Determine whether the improvement initiative requires action by the AFMC AFSO21
            Council or AFMC Council based on the following criteria:
                6.5.1.4.1. AFMC AFSO21 Council Review.
                    6.5.1.4.1.1. Potential application across two or more AFMC Centers or core missions
                    (Technology, Acquisition, Test, Sustainment).
                    6.5.1.4.1.2. Potential application to other AF MAJCOMs.
                    6.5.1.4.1.3. Potentially impacts a performance gap in the Command BSC strategy map
                    or in an AF-level governing, core, or enabling process.
                6.5.1.4.2. AFMC Council Approval.
                    6.5.1.4.2.1. Requires inclusion in the AFMC Program Objective Memorandum
                    (POM).
                    6.5.1.4.2.2. Required to meet tar gets in an AF- or DoD-funded transformation effort;
                    e.g., Depot Maintenance Transformation.
                    6.5.1.4.2.3. Implementation co sts require resources beyond the budget scope of the
                    originating Center.
            6.5.1.5. If the improvement initiative requires AFMC AFSO21 Council review only and does
            not require HQ AFMC approval, the responsible organization or process owner notifies the
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                          15


       Center AFSO21 Office which will evaluate th e initiative and, when necessary , notify HQ
       AFMC/A8T through workflow email. The resp onsible organization or process owner then
       schedules and conducts the event. For HQ Staff initiatives that require AFMC AFSO21 Coun-
       cil review, the responsible directorate notif ies HQ AFMC/A8T through workflow email. In
       either case, the workflow email should include a copy of the event charter.
       6.5.1.6. If the improvement init iative meets one or more of the above criteria for AFMC
       Council approval, the responsible organization or process owner notifies the Center AFSO21
       Office which will evaluate the initiative and, when necessary, notify HQ AFMC/A8T through
       workflow email. HQ AFMC/A8T reviews the charter and event de tails, then staffs it to the
       AFMC AFSO21 Council which makes a recommendation to the AFMC Council. For HQ S           taff
       initiatives that require approval, the responsible directorate notifies HQ AFMC/A8T through
       workflow email. HQ AFMC/A8T reviews the charter and event de tails, then staffs it to the
       AFMC AFSO21 Council and on to the AFMC Council if required.
       6.5.1.7. An appropriate financ ial analysis will accompany improvement initiatives that
       require insertion into the AFMC POM or other resource support from HQ AFMC. The
       AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template could satisfy this requirement. Validation of the finan-
       cial analysis by the base comptroller and/or AFMC/FMC shall follow the responsibilities and
       thresholds in AFI 65-501, Economic Analysis. Cost savings apply if you reduce or eliminate
       dollars already programmed (documented in ABIDES); they represent actual savings that the
       initiative will realize, to in clude reductions or el imination of existing e xpenses such as for
       staff, operating costs (i.e. utilities, supplies, travel, and repair), and reduced or removed parts
       and contracts. Cost savings contrast with cost avoidance, a be nefit from actions that remove
       the need for an increase in manpower or costs and necessary if present management practices
       continue. Examples include such things as price increases, re placement of aging or obs olete
       equipment, overtime pay due to increased workload resulting from poorly functioning pro-
       cesses or equipment, etc. In general, cost avoidance dollars are not in the baseline program and
       have been funded with year-end fallout, while cost savings dollars reflect specific reductions
       in the approved program or budget after the initiative is implemented.
       6.5.1.8. AFMC AFSO21 Council and AFMC Corporate Structure Actions.
          6.5.1.8.1. The AFMC A FSO21 Council determines if the improvement initiative aligns
          with long-term Command strategy as expressed in the BSC strategy map and aligned with
          the AF governing, core, and enabling processes.
          6.5.1.8.2. For those improvement initiatives generated internally that require insertion into
          the AFMC POM or other resource support, the AFMC AFSO21 Council reviews the finan-
          cial analysis to determine value from a Command-wide pe rspective, and makes a recom-
          mendation to the AFMC Council for approval/disapproval.
          6.5.1.8.3. HQ AFMC/A8T facilitates the coordi nation and approval process through the
          AFMC AFSO21 Council and/or AFMC Corporate Structure. Improvement initiatives dis-
          approved by the AFMC AFSO21 Council or AFMC Corporat e Structure get returned to
          the originating office and are either terminat ed with no further action or re-scoped and
          reentered into the improvement initiative process at the beginning.
          6.5.1.8.4. AFMC AFSO21 Council and AFMC Corporate Structure Decision Criteria.
16                                                           AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


               6.5.1.8.4.1. Does the improved process have the potential to become a Command
               Standard Process used across every Center in AFMC?
               6.5.1.8.4.2. Does the imp roved process cut across two or more AFMC core mission
               areas and, therefore, have the potential to se rve as an integrating force for those core
               missions?
               6.5.1.8.4.3. How much wi ll the improvement cost and what are the risks of failure
               given that the Command could lose the projected savings up front?
               6.5.1.8.4.4. How long will it take to execute the improvement event/project and imple-
               ment the result?
               6.5.1.8.4.5. Does the pa yback or Return on Investment (ROI) associated with the
               improvement event/project outweigh or have a higher impact th an another Command
               priority?
               6.5.1.8.4.6. Will the improvement event/project significantly impact in a positive way
               AFMC support to the operational AF?
               6.5.1.8.4.7. Will the improvement event/project significantly impact in a positive way
               one of the ten AF governing, core, or enabli ng processes or one of the five desired
               effects?
               6.5.1.8.4.8. What are the measures of success for the improvement effort?
        6.5.1.9. The AFMC AFSO21 Council and AFMC Corporate Structure evaluate AFSO21 ini-
        tiatives using both objective and subjective criteria. The Center/Wing Executive Council per-
        forms the same analysis on Center/Wing initiatives.
     6.5.2. Conduct. The responsibl e organization or process owner works with the Center/W ing
     AFSO21 Office or HQ AFMC/A8T as necessary to obtain facilitation su pport and conduct the
     improvement event. For many AFSO21 events, the responsible office or process owner conducts
     the event using internal resources.
        6.5.2.1. The AFSO21 Playbook outlines a standard approach for all improvement events mod-
        eled after a systematic problem solving methodology.
        6.5.2.2. Solving day-to-day prob lems within our work areas, re gardless of the level of the
        organization, goes to the heart of AFSO21 and CPI efforts. Problems essentially equate to
        improvement opportunities. SAF/SO implemented a proven, systematic problem-solving
        model which serves as the foundation for all Lean, Six Sigma, Theory of Constraints, or other
        CPI initiatives within the Ai r Force. The model is based on a concept known as the OODA
        Loop (Observe, Orient, Decide , Act). Additional detail on eac h of the steps shown below is
        included at Attachment 2.
            6.5.2.2.1. Step #1: (Observe) Clarify the problem.
            6.5.2.2.2. Step #2: (Observe) Break down problem; identify performance gaps.
            6.5.2.2.3. Step #3: (Orient) Set improvement target.
            6.5.2.2.4. Step #4: (Orient) Determine root causes.
            6.5.2.2.5. Step #5: (Decide) Develop countermeasures.
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                          17


            6.5.2.2.6. Step #6: (Act) See countermeasures through.
            6.5.2.2.7. Step #7: (Act) Confirm results and process.
            6.5.2.2.8. Step #8: (Act) Standardize successful processes.
     6.5.3. Implement.
        6.5.3.1. At the conclu sion of the AFSO21 even t, the facilitator, working with the process
        owner and, if necessary, the Center/Wing AFSO21 Office or HQ AFMC/A8T, completes an
        A3 Report as outlined in the AFSO21 Playbook. A3 reporting guidelines and templates appear
        in Attachment 3. Other documentation typically required at the conclusion of an event
        includes an out-brief to the process owner/champion, action or implementation plan, value
        stream or process maps, AFSO21 Financial Repor ting Template or other financial analysis,
        and any other documentation deemed appr opriate or dictated by the ev ent. The facilitator or
        responsible organization enters the final A3 Report and all other docu mentation (or links to
        documentation) into CPI-MT (if applicable).
        6.5.3.2. At this point, the Champion and/or Process Owner takes responsibility for implement-
        ing the actions reported out from the improvement event.
     6.5.4. Sustain. The Center AFSO21 Of fice or HQ AFMC/A8T est ablishes a reporting proc ess
     (typically at the 30, 60, 90 day point and, if necessary, 6 and 12 month points) for selected initia-
     tives through the Champion and/or Process Owner to monitor execution of the improvement plan
     and measure and record results in CPI-MT (if applicable). In the end, the process owner is respon-
     sible for execution of the improvement plan and for recording results in CPI-MT (if applicable).
        6.5.4.1. The implementing office reports results on selected initiatives to the Center AFSO21
        Office or HQ AFMC/A8T as appropriate based on agreements made during or immediately
        before the improvement event/project. Otherwis e, the implementing office tracks results and
        reports to the process owner. Results could include one or more of the following items or other
        results captured by the implementing office.
            6.5.4.1.1. Improvement objectives achieved/not achieved.
            6.5.4.1.2. ROI.
            6.5.4.1.3. Cycle time reduction.
            6.5.4.1.4. Direct/Indirect cost savings.
            6.5.4.1.5. Personnel savings.
            6.5.4.1.6. Tangible/Intangible results impacting one or more of the five AFSO21 desired
            effects.
        6.5.4.2. The Center AFSO21 Of fice will conduct a follow-up on selected initiatives with the
        event owner at the 30/60/90-day, 6-month, and/or 12-month points as appropriate after imple-
        mentation to ensure the improvement is bei ng sustained. The Center AFSO21 Of fice deter-
        mines the appropriate time frame for follo w-up. A key area to examine during follow-up is
        whether the improved process caused any unintended consequences; i.e., the transfer or
        increase of non-value added wo rk to another process. Unin tended consequences are not
        always visible immediately. HQ AFMC/A8T performs follow-up on selected HQ AFMC initi-
        atives.
18                                                                AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


            6.5.4.3. Process owners identi fy one or more key measures , preferably during the actual
            improvement event, to help ensure newly improved processes remain under control and on
            track. The Center AFSO21 Office or HQ AFMC/A8T can help establish measures and control
            systems for newly improved processes.
     6.6. Command Standard Processes. Selected improvements have potential application across
     AFMC Centers and/or core missions and are designated as Command Standard Processes.
        6.6.1. The Center AFSO 21 Office identifies selected Center improvements that have potential
        Command-wide application and works through HQ AFMC/A8T and the AFMC AFSO21 Council
        to designate those improvements as Command Standard Processes.
        6.6.2. HQ AFMC/A8T will periodi cally sponsor a meeting or Command conference to review
        and select “Best of Breed” AFSO21 improvements that have potential to become Command Stan-
        dard Processes.
        6.6.3. HQ AFMC/A8T staffs potential Command Standard Processes through the appropriate HQ
        AFMC functional directorate, the AFMC Group, and on to the AF MC AFSO21 Council for final
        approval. The AFMC AFSO21 Co uncil directs HQ AFMC policy ac tion to codify, execute, and
        measure approved Command Standard Processes.
        6.6.4. The AFMC AFSO21 Council makes recommendations to the AFMC Council for those ini-
        tiatives that require Council action.
     6.7. Process Owners. Must closely manage changes associat ed with AFSO21 init iatives to ensure
     leadership alignment and organizational commitment, and to identify and address barriers to success-
     ful implementation. The standard processes outlined in the AFSO21 Playbook and this instruction to
     conduct AFSO21 activities incorporate change management practices at every level. For example, the
     process of developing the event charter clearly defines the initiative, change, or problem solving activ-
     ity for all involved up and down the chain of comma facilitating leadership alignment. The practice
                                                          nd,
     of bringing together the right subject matter experts to analyze the problem and formulate action and
     implementation plans capitalizes on clear and ope n communication to all those involved with the
     improvement, and involves the right people in order to facilitate follow through. The scope and com-
     plexity of the AFSO21 initiative dictates the leve l of effort involved in identifying subject matter
     experts—from a simple meeting where the process owner and team lead select participants, to a com-
     prehensive stakeholder analysis possibly including a Voice of the Customer analysis. And finally, the
     standard A3 reporting and out-brief processes serv e as a means to keep ev eryone involved with the
     improvement informed of progress and the way ahead. The AFMC Change Management Process
     described in Attachment 2 complements the AFSO21 Playbook by providing expanded definitions
     and reference to an automated tool with templates and tutorials for developing and executing change
     management strategies.

7. CPI-MT and the AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template.
     7.1. CPI-MT. As we work to implement process change s, SAF/SO envisions CPI-MT as a tool to
     enable leaders at all levels to oversee their initiatives in a single integrated platform, and to ensure
     strategy alignment, maintain visibility, and drive productivity. In addition, at some future point
     CPI-MT will facilitate upward reporting of results and the use of lessons learned across the Air Force.
     Full implementation of CPI-MT is pending Air Force-level governance and business rules.
        7.1.1. Purpose of CPI-MT:
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                         19


        7.1.1.1. Serves as the central repository for project management, reports, and queries.
        7.1.1.2. Provides real-time visibility of project status, documents, issues, metrics, etc.
        7.1.1.3. Aids in executing projects to completion.
        7.1.1.4. Facilitates team collaboration.
        7.1.1.5. Aids in tracking/monitoring with use of portfolios and dashboards.
        7.1.1.6. Potentially reduces email chains and manual status reporting.
     7.1.2. Each Center AFSO21 Of fice and HQs staff agency will assign one primary and one alter-
     nate as CPI-MT focal points who wi ll take responsibility for overall CPI-MT issues within their
     organizations. Focal points will develop local plans to enter all approved current/ongoing projects
     and projects completed on or after 1 Oct 2007 for their organization into CPI-MT. Plans will also
     include all historical projects completed on or after 1 Oct 06 wh ich have a formal charter. HQ
     AFMC/A8T will adjust these requirements throu gh TTPs as procedures a nd business rules for
     CPI-MT mature.
     7.1.3. Roles and Responsibilitie s. Rights and privileges with in CPI-MT are associated with
     assigned roles and groups . Users are assigned to one or more ro les and/or groups based on the
     tasks they perform in CPI-MT. Note that some CPI-MT roles/groups have the same names as for-
     mal AFSO21 roles (for example, Process Owner/ Champion), but the actual tasks within CPI-MT
     may differ and require delegation to other users.
        7.1.3.1. Users (In General) – Are not assigned to a specific CP I-MT role/group. They main-
        tain their CPI-MT profile (cont act information and preferences) and can search/view every-
        thing in the database except metrics.
        7.1.3.2. Team Members – Have the same rights as general users plus can collaborate on
        projects to which they are assigned using CPI-MT discussions, issues, and taskings. They can
        also view, add, or e dit documents and view metrics and status reports for their assigned
        projects.
        7.1.3.3. Team Leads – Have the same rights as Team Members for the projects to which they
        are assigned plus they enter information into CPI-MT. They can create or modify charters, cre-
        ate or manage projects, add or remove team members, update metric s (performance, opera-
        tional), and request permission to proceed to the next project phase (gate approval). NOTE:
        Team Leaders are responsible for the accuracy of the data loaded into CPI-MT.
        7.1.3.4. Process Owners/Champions – Have the same rights as T eam Leads plus approve/
        reject requests to proceed to the next project phase (gate).
        7.1.3.5. Financial Representatives – Currently , the Financial Representatives have the same
        rights as Team Members plus they can validate and lock performance tracking (financial) met-
        rics. This role/group is under review based on efforts to import applicable data from the
        AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template into CPI-MT.
        7.1.3.6. Work Tree Administrators (WTA) – Create or modify the work tree structure. They
        can edit/move projects within their respective branch of the work tree, invite new users, assign
        users rights/privileges, edit user profiles, and delete users. They also perform database quality
        control with respect to work tr ee issues (location of projects, user accounts, etc.). WTAs are
20                                                                 AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


            not responsible for the accuracy of data associated with individual projects (i.e., planned/
            actual milestone dates, metrics, etc.)
            7.1.3.7. Master Process Officers (Certification Group Members) – Updates user AFSO21 cer-
            tification status. HQ AFMC/A8T serves as the AFMC Master Process Officer for AFMC per-
            sonnel.
        7.1.4. CPI-MT Content Organization. Projects are organized in CPI-MT under a work tree (a hier-
        archical structure, much like th e Windows file system). The root directory, “AFSO21 Projects,”
        contains two branches: “AF Ke y Processes” and “AF Or ganization Type & Location.” AFMC is
        one of the branches under “AF Or ganization Type & Location” and is further decomposed into
        branches for each major installation. HQ AFMC/A8T will create branches for additional installa-
        tions as necessary and, under installations, branches for major organizational elements.
            7.1.4.1. HQ AFMC/A8T has appoint ed a primary and an altern ate WTA for AFMC and will
            appoint additional WTAs as needed for subordinate work tree branches.
            7.1.4.2. Users create and maintain AFMC AFOS21 projects in the appropriate AFMC work
            tree branch. No AFMC AFOS21 projects will appear above the AF MC subordinate branch
            work tree level without approval of the AFMC WTA.
        7.1.5. Facilitators and team leads should ensure appropriate member s of a project team have a
        CPI-MT account established in order to participate in the collaborative environment. In addition,
        post in CPI-MT (or provide links to) all significant documents related to a project (most file for-
        mats supported). As a minimum, post the deliverables for each phase of the project; e.g., Charter,
        Event Agenda, Event Out-brief, A3 Report, V alue Stream Maps, Action and/or Implementation
        Plan, AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template, and any other documents deemed necess ary or
        potentially helpful from a lessons learned or historical perspective.
     7.2. AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template. The AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template is one
     method the Air Force designated to collect and track financial information related to AFSO21
     projects. A brief overview of the template, its purpose, the roles and responsibilities of individuals and
     organizations, and detailed instructions for completing the template are all includ ed in the user’s
     guide. The template and associated user’s guide is available on the Business Case Analysis Air Force
     Knowledge Now Community of Practice: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOC-
     Main.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-FM-CO-01-4-1&Filter=OO-FM-CO-01
     Or through the AF Portal: https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/docman/DOC-
     Main.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-FM-CO-01-4-1&Filter=OO-FM-CO-01
     HQ AFMC/A8T will adjust requir ements for the AFSO21 Financial Reporting Template through
     TTPs as Air Force-level procedures and business rules mature.

8. AFSO21 Training and Certification.
     8.1. HQ AFMC/A8T. Serves as the office of primary responsibility for AFSO21 training and certifi-
     cation throughout AFMC based on various levels of AFSO21 training and certification prescribed by
     the AF.
        8.1.1. Awareness Training. Consists of basic AFSO21 training and an overview of the thrust, ben-
        efits, principles, and expected outcomes associated with the AFSO21 Program and CPI. Although
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                        21


     AFSO21 CPI involves various methodologies, the awareness training focuses on a standard
     approach to Lean.
     8.1.2. Level 1 Training. Consists of applied process improvement training in a classroom environ-
     ment to include group dynamics a nd facilitation skills. Certificat ion also requires candidates to
     lead three AFSO21 process improvement/problem solving events and teach one AFSO21 Aware-
     ness Course. An individual cer tified at Level 1 or above can also conduct ongoing Awareness
     Training.
     8.1.3. Level 2 T raining. Consists of advan ced process improvement methodologies, group
     dynamics, facilitation, and process engineering training in a cla ssroom environment followed by
     participation and application of skills in a series of Lean, process reengineering, or other AFSO21
     improvement events/projects in more than one CPI methodology—with one or more events at a
     cross-functional or enterprise-wide level. The University of Tennessee AFSO21 course, sponsored
     by SAF/SO, satisfies Level 2 certification requirements.
     8.1.4. Level 3 T raining. Consists of additional expe rience of up to 20 process improvement
     events/projects in more than one process improvement methodology done primarily at a
     cross-functional or enterprise-wide level in addition to classroom training as necessary to satisfy
     knowledge and skill requirements.
     8.1.5. Senior Leader and Executive Training. SAF/SO sponsors senior leader (targeted for colo-
     nels, GS-15s and equivalents, and CMSgts) and ex ecutive (targeted for General Officer and Senior
     Executive Service personnel) trai ning at various time s throughout the year. The senior leader
     course is scheduled through HQ AFMC/A1L a nd the executive course through the Air Force
     Senior Executive Management Office.
  8.2. SAF/SO. Establishes standards for AFSO21 education and training course material and instruc-
  tion. The AFSO21 Playbook outlines specific requirements for Leve l 1, 2, and 3 certification. This
  instruction amplifies what’s already contained in the AFSO21 Playbook and establishes specific
  responsibilities within AFMC. It’s focused on Level 1 and 2 as Level 3 certifications are limited and
  apply only to MAJCOM and above level positions.
  8.3. Responsibilities.
     8.3.1. HQ AFMC/A8T.
         8.3.1.1. Assists Centers in establishing and sustaining training programs.
         8.3.1.2. Serves as AFMC’s sole authority for Level 1 certification.
         8.3.1.3. Maintains a list of approved Level 1 trainers.
         8.3.1.4. Monitors training and certification for all Level 2 trainees.
         8.3.1.5. Manages Level 1 and 2 training for HQ AFMC staff elements.
     8.3.2. HQ AFMC Staff Elements. Identifies training requirements to HQ AFMC/A8T.
     8.3.3. AFMC Center AFSO21 and Strategic Planning Offices.
         8.3.3.1. Manages the Level 1 training program.
         8.3.3.2. Approves qualified personnel to serve as Level 1 trainers.
         8.3.3.3. Identifies requirements for Level 1 and 2 certified individuals to HQ AFMC/A8T.
22                                                                AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


     8.4. AFSO21 Level 1 and 2 Certification Requirements. Table 1. highlights top-level Air Force
     Level 1 and 2 certification requirements contained in the AFSO21 Playbook, including standard aca-
     demic requirements. The remainder of this section outlines additiona l, or amplifies existing, Level 1
     and 2 certification requirements applicable to AFMC personnel.

Table 1. Air Force AFSO21 Level 1 and 2 Certification Requirement
             Requirement                     Level 1 Certification            Level 2 Certification
Problem-Solving Prerequisite           N/A                              Lead 10 Events
(Desired)                                                               (13 total cumulative)
Problem-Solving Certification          Lead Problem Solver/             Lead Problem Solver/ Facilitator
Requirement                            Facilitator for 3 Events         for 5 Events
(minimum)                                                               (18 total cumulative)
Teaching Requirement                   Teach One Awareness Class        Teach One Level 1 Class
(minimum)
Training Time-Frame                    6-12 months                      12-24 months
(suggested)
Academic Requirements                  SAF/SO Approved Level 1          SAF/SO Approved Level 2
(minimum)                              Course                           Course

     8.5. Level 1 Training/Certification.
        8.5.1. Only approved trainers are authorized to teach the Leve l 1 course. Centers approve and
        maintain a pool of certified trai ners as determined by the needs of the organization. HQ AFMC/
        A8T designates trainers for HQ AFMC staf f elements. The minimum qualifications for trainers
        are that they are Level 2 certified (or in training to become Level 2) and possess teaching compe-
        tencies (ability to communicate ef fectively, desire to teach, etc). AFSO 21 offices shall periodi-
        cally monitor Level 1 training classes to ensure consistency and adherence to standards. Centers
        forward to HQ AFMC/A8T the names of all approved trainers for inclusion in the master listing
        posted on the AFMC AFSO21 Community of Practice (CoP). Center AFSO21 offices and HQ
        AFMC/A8T have authority to remove people from the approved trainer list at any time.
        8.5.2. Centers and HQ AFMC/A8T schedule and conduct Level 1 courses to meet organizational
        needs. Key considerations include the ability of the organization to certify students in the pre-
        scribed timeframe and the number of students re quiring training and/or coaching/mentoring. If
        open seats exist for a class, Ce nters should contact HQ AFMC/A8T to potentially fill the seats
        with students from other locations.
        8.5.3. Qualified contractors may mentor, coach, evaluate, or otherwise assist Level 1 candidates at
        the discretion of the re sponsible Center AFSO21 Office. Contractors cannot, however, attend
        Level 1 training courses conducted within AFMC as those courses apply only to the organic work-
        force.
        8.5.4. Trainers use only SAF/SO approved training material lo cated on the AF MC CoP. Addi-
        tional material as determined lo cally may supplement or augment the Level 1 course as long as
        SAF/SO approved material is taught in its entirety.
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                          23


       8.5.5. Upon completion of each Level 1 class, Center AFSO21 offices report to HQ AFMC/A8T
       the names of students who successfully completed the class. HQ AFMC/A8T will update the AF
       training database in CPI-MT.
       8.5.6. Centers assign a coach/mentor to each Level 1 trainee to mentor students through the certi-
       fication process. Coaches/Mentors must either hold Level 2 certifi cation or be a candidate in the
       SAF/SO Level 2 program. Coache s/Mentors should strive to ensure students receive as much
       practical experience as possible to build on t he material taught in the Level 1 course, including
       observing events conducted by experienced facilitators.
       8.5.7. Centers ensure students complete all certification requirements. Once verified, forward the
       names and a short synopsis on each student to HQ AFMCA8T. The synopsis will include the date
       trained, the date the student taught the awareness course, and title/date of events conducted. All
       AFSO21 events performed by Le vel 1 candidates must appear in CPI-MT. HQ AFMC/A8T will
       enter the names into CPI-MT, generate certificates of completion, and forward certificates to Cen-
       ter AFSO21 offices.
NOTE: HQ AFMC/A8T will manage the training program for HQ AFMC to include determining needs,
scheduling classes, filling student quotas, assigning coaches/mentors, and tracking student progress to
certification.
   8.6. Level 2 Training/Certification.
       8.6.1. Level 2 training and certification is managed at SAF/SO. AFMC’s role is limited to identi-
       fying training requirements and providing high quality students and coaches/mentors.
       8.6.2. Centers will identify training requirements and the names of candidates to HQ AFMC/A8T.
       The candidate’s organization is normally responsible for all travel costs associated with training.
       8.6.3. HQ AFM C/A8T manages training allocations for the Co mmand and forwards names of
       candidates to SAF/SO.
       8.6.4. HQ AFMC/A8T, working with the Centers, assigns a qualified co ach/mentor certified at
       Level 2 to each student. Ideally, coaches/mentors and students reside at the same location to min-
       imize travel costs and enable greater coach/student interaction.
       8.6.5. Coaches/Mentors monitor student progress and periodic ally update the Center AFSO21
       office and HQ AFMC/A8T. All AFSO21 events performed by Level 2 candidates must appear in
       CPI-MT.
   8.7. Equivalency Certification. HQ AFMC/A8T only accepts equivalency packages on newly hired
   government/military personnel who have considerab le previous experience in continuous process
   improvement methodologies. Equivalency packages are handled on a case by case basis. Contact HQ
   AFMC/A8T for specific guidance.
   8.8. Training Documentation. Supervisors should ensure AFSO 21 training is documented within
   the appropriate system as require d depending on whether th e individual is a military member or AF
   civilian; e.g., AF Form 623 Training Record, Individual Development Plan, or Education & Training
   Management System.

9. Conclusion. Our goal in AFMC is to create and sustai n an environment of continuous improvement
across the Command, from the top of the organization down to each individual squadron, flight, and work
24                                                            AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


center. Within this environment, however, we must strive for integration acr oss core missions and Cen-
ters, codify and implement Command Standard Processes where possible, eliminate duplication of effort
or redundant commitment of resources, and learn from each other as we push to achieve higher levels of
productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness across One Materiel Enterprise.

10. Adopted Forms: AF847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                             MARSHALL K. SABOL, Major General, USAF
                                             Director of Strategic Plans, Programs, and Analyses
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                            25


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Continuous Process Improvement/Lean Six Sigma Guidebook, July 2008
AFSO21 Playbook, October 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFKN—Air Force Knowledge Now
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSO21—Air Force Smart Operations for the 21st Century
ANG—Air National Guard
BSC—Balanced Scorecard
CM—Change Management
CoP—Community of Practice
CPI—Continuous Process Improvement
CPI-MT—Continuous Process Improvement Management Tool
D&SWS—Develop & Sustain Warfighting Systems
DoD—Department of Defense
KM—Knowledge Management
KCO—Knowledge-Centric Operations
MAJCOM—Major Command
OODA—Observe, Orient, Decide, Act
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RIE—Rapid Improvement Event
ROI—Return on Investment
TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
WTA—Work Tree Administrator
26                                               AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                  Attachment 2

                               PROJECT CHARTER
Figure A2.1. Project Charter
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                              27


Figure A2.2. Project Charter – Block Form (Optional form sometimes used at the very beginning
of charter definition).




NOTE: Use “X” to indicate which desired effects the event impacts.
28                                                               AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                              Attachment 3

              CHANGE/KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT CONCEPTS AND TOOLS

A3.1. Change Management (CM). CM is a planned and systematic process of continuously aligning
and improving an organization’s people, structure, and culture to meet organizational strategy. Its purpose
is to help organizations initiate, accept, adapt to, and ultimately integrate changes to improve productivity
and customer support. CM strategies are normally determined by the scope and size of the change initia-
tive, and the priority senior management places on the initiative. The AFMC CM Process was developed
to provide a structured, consistent approach for change initiative teams responsible for building and exe-
cuting effective CM strategies.

A3.2. Objectives of the AFMC CM Process.
     A3.2.1. Minimize the disr uption often associated with the impa cts of change, whil e increasing the
     pace of change, improving the ef ficiency of implementation, and allowing the or ganization to focus
     on continued growth.
     A3.2.2. Build ownership and comm itment to change, enhanced cap ability to support envisioned
     changes and an organizational environment that makes changes work.
     A3.2.3. Ensure leadership alignment and commitment, communication and organizational buy-in,
     effective training and education for the workforce and sustainability of the change anchoring it into
     the organization’s systems and structures.
     A3.2.4. Anticipate and address potential obstacles to implementing change initiatives.

A3.3. AFMC Change Management (CM) Method. The AFMC CM Method desc ribes five essential
elements for successfully implementing change (Leadership Mobilization and Alignment, Assessing and
Managing Readiness and Risk, Communicating and E ngaging with Stakeholders, Preparing and Equip-
ping the Workforce, and Institutionalizing the Change). These elements can be performed as a sequential
process, where one builds upon the results of the previous element, or they can be performed individually,
depending on the size and scope of the change initiative. Table 1. shows the critical success factors for
each of the five AFMC Change Management Elements. Instructions for completing steps associated with
each element can be found on the AFMC Change Management Community of Practice (CoP), at https://
afkm.wpafb.af.mil/Procmgmt/Entry.aspx?Filter=OO-XP-MC-52&ControlID=2&ProcessID=1.
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                                              29


Table A3.1. Change Management Elements: Critical Success Factors.
           CM             Leadership          Assessing and       Communicating Preparing and              Institutionalize
         Element:         Mobilization         Managing            and Engaging Equipping the                    the
                              and             Readiness and            with      Workforce                 Infrastructure
                           Alignment              Risk             Stakeholders
                          Leadership         Identification and   Clear, consistent,   Motivational       A process is in
                          buy in and         removal of           constant             factors that       place for future
                          commitment to      barriers to          messages             build and          decision-making,
                          the vision of      successful           delivered by the     maintain active    managing and
                          the future state   implementation       appropriate          participation of   monitoring the
                          that will result   of the change        messenger, to the    the workforce      progress of the
                          from the           initiative, both     appropriate          and solidify its   change initiative
                          change             within the           audience             commitment to
                          initiative         stakeholder                               the change
                                             audience and the                          initiative
                                             workforce
                                             affected by the
                                             change initiative
                          Well-defined       Effective use of     Messages are         Necessary          Roles and
Critical Success Factor




                          roles for          enablers and         delivered in a       competencies       responsibilities
                          decision           supporters of the    timely manner,       and skills are     have been defined
                          making,            change initiative    using the most       being              for sustaining the
                          problem                                 efficient methods    developed to       change
                          solving and                             of delivery          accommodate
                          leadership                                                   process changes
                          involvement
                          throughout the
                          change process
                          Effective          Acknowledgeme        Well-used            Education and      Celebration
                          coalitions         nt and mitigation    feedback methods     training needs     strategies are
                          across and         of risks, issues     between the          have been          executed as
                          within             and concerns         change initiative    addressed to       milestones are
                          organizational     among                owner, the change    accommodate        reached
                          boundaries.        stakeholders         team,                process changes
                                                                  stakeholders, and
                                                                  the affected
                                                                  workforce
                          Demonstrated leadership engagement with stakeholders, change initiative team members,
                          and the workforce

A3.4. Knowledge Management (KM). According to Wikipedia, “KM comprises a range of practices
used by organizations to identify, create, represent, and distribute knowledge.” Over time the Air Force
has had many KM definitions, but the latest isfound in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Informa-
tion Management, “The capturing, organizing, and storing of knowledge an d experiences of individual
30                                                               AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


workers and groups within an organization and making this information available to others in the organi-
zation.” Lessons learned, best practices, storytelling, and communities of practice (CoPs) are examples of
typical KM practices.
     A3.4.1. What is knowledge? The Air Force officially defines knowledge as, “Information from mul-
     tiple domains that has been synthesized, through inference or deduction, into meaning or understand-
     ing that was not previously known (AFPD 33-3). The Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary defines
     knowledge as, “The fact or condition of knowing something with familiarity gained through experi-
     ence or association.” The short definition of knowledge combines both the Air Force and dictionary
     definitions. Knowledge is understanding gained through experience.
     A3.4.2. Knowledge comes in two form s, tacit and explicit. Explicit knowledge is that which can be
     codified or “explicitly” captured in some media (documents, videos, databases, etc.). Tacit knowledge
     is that which is difficult—if not impossible—to capture. Tacit knowledge is found in personal experi-
     ences, practices and expertise. Because of it s difficulty to capture, it be comes important to enable
     effective sharing of the experiences and practices. Successful KM provides processes to employ both
     types of knowledge to achieve objectives.

A3.5. Air Force Knowledge Now (AFKN). HQ AFMC/A8C is home of the AFKN team, recognized as
the Air Force’s KM Center of Excellence, and who provides KM expertise for the Air Force. The AFKN
team can enable organizations to design and implement knowledge-centric solution-sets. The AFKN KM
system is a virtual envir onment of CoPs (shared work spaces) and capabilities that comprise Air Force’ s
official KM system. The AFKN team and system employ KM principles and practices to enable groups to
collaborate, share ideas and solve problems.

A3.6. Knowledge-Centric Operations (KCO) Concept. KCO’s desired effects:
     A3.6.1. A boundary less knowledge sharing culture.
     A3.6.2. Knowledge base expansion.
     A3.6.3. Optimized use of information technology.
     A3.6.4. Transformed combat support and business practices.
     A3.6.5. Continuous innovation.
     A3.6.6. Decision superiority.

A3.7. KM and AFSO21. KM provides principles and practices which complement AFSO21 methodol-
ogies. As stated previously, successful KM employs both tacit and explicit knowledge to achieve ob jec-
tives.
     A3.7.1. Defining process is key. The improvement initiative process is defined in AFMCI 90-104.
     Capturing the status and history of improvement initiatives should be done in CPI-MT. CPI-MT is the
     source for the majority of explicit AFSO21 knowledge.
     A3.7.2. Gartner research has shown, however, that 80 percent of an organization’s knowledge is tacit
     and can never be captured. For this reason it may also be necessary for improvement initiative leaders
     to establish effective knowledge sharing and collaboration business rules for initiative team members.
     Rules should address the following collaboration needs:
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008                                                                   31


     A3.7.2.1. Where collaboration is conducted and when.
     A3.7.2.2. Where and how content will be stored (if outside CPI-MT).
     A3.7.2.3. Who will manage/sustain the content.
     A3.7.2.4. What key words or taxonomy will be applied to content.
     A3.7.2.5. How often will content be reviewed for currency?
  A3.7.3. Available KM assets. AFSO21 provides additional KM cap abilities for both explicit assets
  and collaboration:
     A3.7.3.1. AFSO21 Deskbook. SAF/ SO has provided AFSO21 “Wisdom & Advice,” “Common
     Practices,” and “Samples & Examples.” Thes e resources are reviewed annually and can be
     accessed via:
     A3.7.3.2. Direct Link: AF Portal: http://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/deskbook/
     index2.asp?Filter=OO-21&Cat=21&Type=DP
     A3.7.3.3. AFMC AFSO21 Neighborhood. HQ AFMC/A 8T has provided a neighborhood clear-
     inghouse of AFSO21 CoPs and information at:
     A3.7.3.4. Direct Link: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/AfsoCoP.asp?Fil-
     ter=OO-TR-MC-21
     A3.7.3.5. AF Portal: http://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/AfsoCoP.asp?Fil-
     ter=OO-TR-MC-21
     A3.7.3.6. AFSO21 practitioners should seek to employ KM principles and practices within
     improvement initiatives, not just to support the improvement process itself.
  A3.7.4. A structured approach to performance measurement is critical for successful management of
  KM. To create necessary alignment between KCO a nd KM efforts, every effort should be made to
  integrate AFMC and AFSO 21 KM efforts with BSC strategy maps. AFKN consulting services sup-
  port the BSC approach and may be an additional resource to assist in this area.
32                                                      AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


                                      Attachment 4

                  AFMC/A3 REPORT GUIDELINES AND TEMPLATES

Figure A4.1. AFMC/A3 Report Guidelines and Templates.
AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008         33


Figure A4.2. Sample AFMC/A3 Report.
34                                    AFMCI90-104 29 SEPTEMBER 2008


Figure A4.3. Sample AFMC/A3 Report.
