BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                         INSTRUCTION 64-116

                                                                                    9 MAY 2013

                                                                                    Contracting

                                                  LOCAL AFMC CONTRACTING SUPPORT
                                                     TO GEOGRAPHICALLY-SEPARATED
                                                                  BUYING OFFICES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasable restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/PKX                                                  Certified by: HQ AFMC/PK-1
                                                                   (Col Roger H. Westermeyer)
                                                                                      Pages: 8


This instruction implements AFPC 64-1, The Contracting System. It outlines the Organize,
Train, and Equip (OT&E) type staff support that will be provided to AFMC Centers’
geographically-separated contracting organizations at AFMC bases. Reference AFMCI 36-2645,
Senior Functional Roles and Responsibilities, for overarching contracting functional
management roles and responsibilities. Reference Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR),
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), Air Force Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement (AFFARS), and AFMC/PK Mandatory Procedures for contracting
technical guidance (i.e. clearance and review, competition advocacy, etc.). This publication does
not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
their units.

In addition to the above exclusions, this publication also does not apply to the following
organizations: Enterprise Sourcing Group (ESG) Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL)
organizations located at Wright-Patterson AFB and Kirtland AFB AFMC contracting
organizations located at non-AFMC bases/installations

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR using the AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
 2                                                                  AFMCI64-116 9 MAY 2013


Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). See Attachment 1 for glossary of references and
supporting information.

1. Background.
     1.1. The Center Senior Functional (CSF), as defined in AFMCI 36-2645, is responsible for
     functional management of their Center’s functional resources and has the authority to assign
     responsibilities to Organization Senior Functionals (OSFs) (senior functionals within
     subordinate supported units and non-units). Under this construct, functional management
     responsibilities and authority flow down from the CSF to subordinate functionals (including
     subordinate geographically-separated offices).          Consequently, a CSF may have
     geographically-separated subordinate functionals located at an AFMC base where another
     CSF also has subordinate functionals. For example, the Air Force Test Center (AFTC)
     contracting CSF (AFTC/PK) not only has subordinate functionals located on-site at Edwards
     AFB, but also has subordinate functionals located at Eglin AFB where the Air Force Life
     Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) contracting CSF (AFLCMC/PK) also has subordinate
     functionals. In such cases, given limited resources available and the challenges of providing
     remote support for functional management, AFMC will leverage a primary contracting
     support staff at the base to provide base-wide staff-level support. In the case of the example
     given above, the AFLCMC contracting support staff at Eglin AFB will support both their on-
     site AFLCMC and the AFTC geographically-separated subordinate contracting functionals
     located at Eglin AFB (a “supporting” and “supported” relationship with AFLCMC
     supporting and AFTC being supported).
     1.2. The on-site primary contracting support staff at each impacted AFMC base is identified
     in the table below:

Figure 1. On-Site Primary Contracting Support Staff
AFMC Base                           Primary Contracting Support Staff
Eglin AFB                           AFLCMC Contracting Staff (led by the Operating Location
                                    (OL) PK)
Tinker AFB                          Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC) Contracting Staff
                                    (led by AFSC/PK)
Robins AFB                          AFSC Contracting Staff (led by OL PK)
Hill AFB                            AFSC Contracting Staff (led by OL PK)
Edwards AFB                         AFTC Contracting Staff (led by AFTC/PK)
Note: Contracting organizations located at other AFMC bases will rely on organic Center
functional staff support unless such support is provided by other staff support organizations IAW
established support agreements.]
2. On-Site Primary Contracting Support Staff (OSPCSS) Roles and Responsibilities:
     2.1. The OSPCSS will provide the following support to other Centers’ geographically-
     separated contracting functionals located at the same base as follows (unless waived by HQ
     AFMC/PK):
        2.1.1. RESERVED
        2.1.2. RESERVED
AFMCI64-116 9 MAY 2013                                                                       3


     2.1.3. Source Selection Support and Contracting Processes/Procedures. The OSPCSS
     will provide applicable advice, functional training, and source selection support (where
     applicable).
     2.1.4. Protests and Claims. The OSPCSS will provide guidance and input to the protest
     and claims process; however, the supported organization will remain responsible to report
     protest status to their CSF.
     2.1.5. Pricing. The OSPCSS will provide required pricing support, subject to applicable
     pricing support thresholds and request for waiver procedures specified in the HQ
     AFMC/PK Mandatory Procedures.
     2.1.6. RESERVED
     2.1.7. Warrants.     The OSPCSS will issue, review, annually certify, and/or
     revoke/terminate warrants in accordance with AFFARS and AFMC procedures and in
     coordination with the CSF. The OSPCSS will administer warrant tests/boards and
     conduct warrant training as applicable. The supported organization’s CSF will be
     entitled to voting member representation on the warrant board. Warrants issued through
     the OSPCSS will be recognized by the supported organization’s CSF and will be
     transferable and/or eligible for reinstatement at other locations in accordance with
     AFFARS and AFMC procedures. As the warrant issuing organization, the OSPCSS will
     be responsible for maintaining the warrant documentation required by the HQ AFMC/PK
     Mandatory Procedures. The OSPCSS will respond to requests for warrant data (such as
     total number of unlimited warrants, number of limited warrants, number of
     suspended/terminated warrants, etc.).
     2.1.8. RESERVED
     2.1.9. Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). The FOIA requests are generally received at
     the geographic location where the contract files are located, consequently, local FOIA
     monitors will receive and distribute requests. The OSPCSS is responsible for FOIA
     tracking and reporting.
     2.1.10. Undefinitized Contracting Actions (UCAs). The OSPCSS will provide UCA
     advice, process guidance, and monthly UCA data reporting to the supported
     organization’s CSF. The supported organization’s CSF is responsible for the monitoring
     and reporting of all UCA actions in accordance with DFARS, AFFARS, and AFMC
     procedures (including required reporting through the execution chain).
     2.1.11. RESERVED
     2.1.12. Unsolicited Proposals. Each buying office is responsible for unsolicited
     proposals and will manage all required actions.           The OSPCSS will provide
     guidance/assistance via their Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) as requested.
     2.1.13. Compliance Inspections and Audit/Inspector General (IG) Visits. The OSPCSS
     will provide general guidance, policy interpretation, and support to inspection teams;
     however, the supported organization’s CSF is responsible for tracking, reporting, closing,
     and/or implementing findings and recommendations relative to compliance inspections
     and audit/IG visits. The OSPCSS will assign a single point of contact/trusted agent to
4                                                               AFMCI64-116 9 MAY 2013


    help coordinate contracting inspection logistics and to assist the supported units to track
    and post the advance information, organizational charts, and other required deliverables.
    2.1.14. Self-Assessment Programs (including functional inspection (e.g., Management
    Internal Controls Program (MICP)). The supported organization will be included in the
    OSPCSS’s local self-assessment programs and will use their local self-assessment
    processes. The OSPCSS will assist the supported organization’s development of
    corrective action plans for items discovered during self-assessment; however, the
    supported organization’s CSF will be the approval authority for such plans. The
    supported organization will be responsible for documenting the results in accordance
    with AFI 90-201 and providing annual Statement of Assurance inputs to their CSF.
    [Exemption: AFRL/PK will be responsible for arranging and conducting self-assessment
    programs, and identifying self-assessment processes for all AFRL organizations.]
    2.1.15. Metrics. The OSPCSS will provide metrics data collection support as needed and
    will assist with data analysis. The supported organization will be responsible for
    packaging and providing metrics inputs to their CSF.
    2.1.16. Awards Program. The OSPCSS will include supported contracting organizations
    in any local contracting awards programs if the supported organization’s CSF does not
    include them in comparable programs. Any associated monetary awards shall be
    approved by the supported organization’s CSF. The supported organization’s CSF is
    responsible for AFMC/PK annual contracting award nominations.
    2.1.17. Facilities and Day-To-Day Operations Expenses. The OSPCSS will provide
    facilities and management/support of all local contracting facility issues via their local
    facilities point of contact (POC) (unless these responsibilities are performed and managed
    by a non-contracting organization for the supported organization). The OSPCSS will
    make best efforts to match facilities to the needs of the personnel; however, the supported
    organization’s CSF will be responsible for funding any required facility modifications or
    non-Government office space/facilities. Unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the
    affected Centers, the supported organization will receive their day-to-day operating
    budget (for items such as supplies, cellular phone/data service, travel, organization-
    funded training, purchase/maintenance of Automated Data Processing Equipment
    (ADPE), etc.) from either their Center or the Program Executive Officer (PEO)
    program(s) which they support, subject to applicable financial management policy and
    procedures. [Exemption: AFRL’s geographically-separated buying offices receive their
    operating budgets from their respective Technical Directorates, Air Force Office of
    Scientific Research, or 711th Human Performance Wing whom they support.]
    2.1.18. Safety, Security, and Operations Security (OPSEC) Programs. The OSPCSS will
    manage the safety/security/OPSEC programs and related actions, tracking, and reporting
    (unless said programs and related activity is performed and managed by a non-
    contracting organization). In the case of personal accountability recalls (in cases of
    emergencies/disasters, for instance), the supported contracting organization’s personnel
    will follow local reporting procedures and the on site primary contracting support staff
    will inform the supported organization’s CSF of any accountability issues/impacts.
    [Exemption:     The AFRL subordinate organizations will follow their Technical
AFMCI64-116 9 MAY 2013                                                                         5


     Directorate’s reporting procedures and will inform their Technical Directorate of any
     accountability issues/impacts.]
     2.1.19. Workforce Management. At each AFMC base, the OSPCSS and supported
     contracting organizations will collaboratively manage the on-site contracting workforce,
     with the OSPCSS being the process lead. Supported contracting organizations may retain
     their hiring authority or their CSF may delegate these authorities to the OSPCSS (if the
     OSPCSS concurs with the delegation). As workforce management process lead, the
     OSPCSS will be responsible for the following:
        2.1.19.1. Reviewing/screening resumes for Expedited Hiring Authority (EHA)
        actions.
        2.1.19.2. Facilitating information sessions and collaborative interview panels for
        EHA actions.
        2.1.19.3. Managing intern recruiting and rotations.
        2.1.19.4. Processing personnel transactions (i.e., Requests for Personnel Actions
        (RPAs)) and other personnel administrative actions (unless these responsibilities are
        performed and managed by a non-contracting organization for the supported
        organization). [Exemption:         AFRL retains centralized personnel transaction
        processing for their subordinate functionals.]
        2.1.19.5. Facilitating standing and ad hoc collaborative workforce management
        meetings/forums.
        2.1.19.6. Issuing base-wide civilian vacancy announcements                to   facilitate
        collaborative hiring of multiple positions across the base.
        2.1.19.7. Working closely with the supported organizations (and their CSF’s as
        necessary) to foster the collaborative environment and maintain an open line of
        communication).
        2.1.19.8. Managing local career development rotations.
        2.1.19.9. Managing base-wide workforce development.
        2.1.19.10. Providing functional career guidance/mentoring.
        2.1.19.11. Managing and tracking Acquisition Professional Development Program
        (APDP) certifications and providing status to the supported organization’s CSF
        (supported organization’s CSF is responsible for any required Center-level reporting).
        [Exemption: AFRL retains this responsibility for their subordinate functionals.]
        2.1.19.12. Managing and tracking Continuous Learning currency and providing
        status to the supported organization’s CSF (supported organization’s CSF is
        responsible for Center-level reporting).           [Exemption: AFRL retains this
        responsibility for their subordinate functionals.]
        2.1.19.13. Managing local functional training programs/events and including
        supported contracting organizations in these programs/events.
        2.1.19.14. Managing personnel security actions/responsibilities such as in-
        processing, reinvestigations, and incident investigations (unless these responsibilities
6                                                              AFMCI64-116 9 MAY 2013


       are performed and managed by a non-contracting organization for the supported
       organization).
       2.1.19.15. Providing a trusted agent for all Drug Testing designated positions.
       [Exemption: AFRL will provide a trusted agent for all Drug Testing designated
       positions located within AFRL subordinate organizations.]
       2.1.19.16. Including supported contracting organization military personnel in any
       local military physical training (PT) programs managed by the OSPCSS unless the
       supported contracting organization is the host managing the local military PT
       program.
       2.1.19.17. Providing deployment management support comparable to the local
       support they provide to their Center’s functional personnel (unless these
       responsibilities are performed and managed by a non-contracting organization for the
       supported organization).
       2.1.19.18. Preparing and processing military decorations/awards (unless these
       responsibilities are performed and managed by a non-contracting organization for the
       supported organization).
       2.1.19.19. Providing input for supported organization’s recommendations to their
       CSF for military Officer Performance Report (OPR), Enlisted Performance Report
       (EPR), and Performance Recommendation Form (PRF) stratifications.
    2.1.20. Systems Support. The OSPCSS will provide system support for those systems
    managed functionally. For those systems managed by the site Communications
    Squadron, the on-site primary contracting support staff will provide functional support as
    outlined in any established Service Level Agreement (SLA) or Memorandum of
    Agreement (MOA). Overall portfolio management responsibilities for the contracting
    business systems are retained by HQ AFMC/PK or SAF/AQC. Electronic Information
    Management (EIM) is an enterprise capability and is not considered a separate
    functionally-managed business system. The supported contracting organization is
    responsible for establishing and managing their EIM site(s) within established EIM
    capability. The OSPCSS will provide EIM content guidance, as necessary. For all other
    systems support, the OSPCSS will provide support comparable to the support they
    provide to their Center’s local contracting functionals.
    2.1.21. Contracting Data Queries/Reporting. The OSPCSS will perform functional data
    queries as requested and may assist in evaluation/analysis upon request and subject to
    other workload priorities.
    2.1.22. File Room Support. If a contracting file room capability is available, the
    OSPCSS will provide the same capability to supported contracting organizations.




                                         PATSY J. REEVES, SES
                                         Director of Contracting
AFMCI64-116 9 MAY 2013                                                         7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System, 07 December 2006
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 04 April 2006
AFMCI 36-2645, Senior Functional Roles and Responsibilities, 31 January 2011
AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System, 23 March 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
AFB—Air Force Base
AFFARS—Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center
AFTC—Air Force Test Center
ANG—Air National Guard
APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program
CSF—Center Senior Functional
DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
EHA—Expedited Hiring Authority
EIM—Enterprise Information Management
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
ESG—Enterprise Sourcing Group
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
 8                                          AFMCI64-116 9 MAY 2013


HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
MICP—Management Internal Controls Program
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OL—Operating Location
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPR—Officer Performance Report
OPSEC—Operations Security
OSF—Organization Senior Functional
OT&E—Organize, Train and Equip
PEO—Program Executive Officer
POC—Point of Contact
PRF—Promotion Recommendation Form
PT—Physical Training
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RPA—Request for Personnel Action
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SLA—Service Level Agreement
SME—Subject Matter Expert
UCA—Undefinitized Contract Action
