BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                        INSTRUCTION 10-210

                                                                                 18 JULY 2012

                                                                                    Operations

                                                              AIRCRAFT BATTLE DAMAGE
                                                                  REPAIR ENGINEERING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/ENR                                                  Certified by: HQ AFMC/ENR
                                                                        (Mr. Dominick Tuccillo)
                                                                                     Pages: 14
Supersedes:   AFMCI10-210, 05 July 2012


This instruction implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace
Equipment Maintenance, and AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management,
establishes policy, and assigns responsibilities for AFMC's Aircraft Battle Damage Repair
(ABDR) engineers as they prepare to achieve and maintain the required level of readiness
necessary to meet their assigned tasking. HQ AFMC/ENR is the waiver authority for individual
education and training requirements for the ABDR engineer in accordance with this instruction.
This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard units or members. This instruction applies
to Robins, Tinker and Hill locations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. All references to
the Combat Logistics Support Squadron (CLSS) have been changed to Expeditionary Depot
Maintenance (EDMX). It replaces AFI 10-215, Personnel Support for Contingency Operations
(PERSCO) with AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations. It replaces the word center with
 2                                                               AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012


base. It adds the requirement for MAJCOM Functional Area Manager (FAM) approval on
ABDR Authorization Change Requests (ACRs). It replaces aeronautical with aerospace for
861s. It replaces System Support Manager (SSM) with System Program Office (SPO). It
replaces AF Chief ABDR engineer located at the Technical Support Office (TSO) with one of
the three Chief ABDR engineers assigned to his/her home center. It adds the AF Research
Laboratory and the AF Nuclear Weapons Center. This regulation adds FAM responsibilities to
advise the unit commander of recommended Air and Space Expeditionary Force Indicators
(AEFIs) to correct erroneous or blank AEFIs. It adds a FAM requirement to have a SECRET
Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) account. It deletes references to the AFMC War
Mobilization Plan (WMP-1) and AFMC WMP-3. This regulation deletes most references to
Designed Operations Capability (DOC) and all references of Status of Resources and Training
System (SORTS) reporting. It adds center chief ABDR engineer responsibilities to ensure
deployment procedures in accordance with the host Installation Deployment Plan (IDP). It adds
center chief ABDR responsibilities to ensure all tasked ABDR engineers obtain required training
per the Unit Training Manager (UTM) and/or Unit Deployment Manager (UDM). Annual has
been replaced by eighteen months for readiness and deployment exercises. It adds center chief
ABDR engineer responsibilities for Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs). It adds all personnel
who are subject to deployment must meet requirements contained in the host IDP. This revision
replaces AFMCI 21-107, Tool Control and Accountability Program with AFI 21-
101_AFMCSUP. It adds ABDR engineers must obtain and maintain all required deployment
training as directed by their UDM. It adds all instructors to team teach at least one Introduction
to ABDR Engineer course before being fully qualified to teach the course alone.
AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012                                                                     3



                                         Chapter 1

                               GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General Policy:
   1.1.1. ABDR engineering unit type codes (UTCs) are single-person UTCs that provide a
   high degree of structural engineering capability. ABDR engineering UTCs can deploy
   independently or in conjunction with Expeditionary Depot Maintenance (EDMX) ABDR
   teams.
   1.1.2. Centers will fill ABDR engineering deployment tasking requirements first by active
   duty military resources, then if available, by Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs),
   [AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations], and Air Force federal civilian resources
   (not contractors). All ABDR engineers must be qualified for worldwide deployment.
   1.1.3. UTCs are postured and assigned to AFMC Sustainment center by the ABDR
   Engineering Functional Area Manager (FAM) located in HQ AFMC/ENR. All UTCs
   assigned to a specific center will be filled only by engineers located at that base.
      1.1.3.1. Military individuals assigned to fill ABDR engineering UTCs must possess an
      Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) of 62EXA (aeronautical engineer), 62EXB
      (astronautical engineer), 62EXH (mechanical engineer), or 62EXG (project engineer with
      a degree in aeronautical, astronautical, or mechanical engineering). Chapter 5, ABDR
      Engineer Waivers, describes the waiver process for those engineers not possessing the
      proper AFSC or degree.
      1.1.3.2. Each center will maintain a sufficient number of authorized aeronautical and/or
      mechanical engineering positions to meet ABDR engineer UTC taskings.
      1.1.3.3. Each center will ensure that conversion of military aeronautical and/or
      mechanical engineering billets to civilian engineering billets will not negatively affect
      center ABDR engineering UTC taskings.
      1.1.3.4. Each center will ensure that AFSCs of a position are not changed without
      considering negative impacts upon the ABDR engineering UTCs.
      1.1.3.5. Unit Identification Code (UIC) Change Request: A UIC Change Request is a
      process to change the center engineer to be assigned for a deployment. To do a UIC
      change request the base Installation Deployment Officer (IDO) is authorized to do a UIC
      change request via the Reclama Processing Tool (RPT) in accordance with AFI 10-401.
      The MAJCOM FAM can also do a UIC change request via the RPT. Contact HQ
      AFMC/A3XO for assistance if necessary.
      1.1.3.6. Any Unit Manpower Document (UMD) change to AFSC or military to civilian
      conversion must obtain prior MAJCOM FAM approval prior to processing any
      Authorization Change Request (ACR) to ensure no disruption to the ABDR capability.
   1.1.4. The center decides whether or not to assign civilians to ABDR engineering UTCs;
   however, civilians will be accepted into the ABDR engineering program only after all
   military resources not specifically exempted from ABDR duty by the center's Director of
 4                                                                AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012


     Engineering have been exhausted. Actions involving civilian volunteers will be coordinated
     as appropriate with Civilian Personnel counterpart. AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian
     Work Force, contains specific guidance for civilians.
        1.1.4.1. Civilians may volunteer as ABDR engineers. If a civilian volunteers, he/she
        must sign DD Form 2365, DoD Civilian Employee Overseas Emergency-Essential (E-E)
        Position Agreement. Possible deployment then becomes a condition of employment.
        1.1.4.2. Civilians accepted into the program will receive all training required of the
        military ABDR engineers.
        1.1.4.3. Civilian engineers volunteering to fill ABDR engineering UTCs must occupy an
        861 (aerospace engineer), an 830 (mechanical engineer) or an 801 (general engineer with
        a degree in aeronautical, aerospace, astronautical or mechanical engineering). The
        waiver process described in Chapter 5 also applies to civilian engineers.
1.2. Objective:
     1.2.1. ABDR engineers provide on-site engineering support to unified combatant
     commanders and AF commanders for all phases of maintenance, modification, and aircraft
     damage assessment and repair during contingency or wartime operations. Engineers design
     non-standard repairs, define and impose flight restrictions, authorize deviations to TO 1-1H-
     39, and act as a liaison between the System Program Office (SPO) and the local commander
     responsible for maintenance.
1.3. Organizational Structure:
     1.3.1. The Command Functional Area Manager (FAM) for ABDR engineering UTCs is
     located in HQ AFMC/ENR. ABDR engineering UTCs are assigned to the Engineering &
     Technical Management Directorate (EN). The Director of Engineering & Technical
     Management Directorate will appoint a Chief ABDR Engineer to manage the ABDR
     engineering function for the center. Once the UTCs have deployed they are under the
     command of the theater commander. One of the three Chief ABDR Engineers is designated
     as the AF Chief ABDR Engineer. The EN Directorate selects the AF Chief ABDR Engineer
     by consensus. The AF Chief ABDR Engineer instructs the Introduction to ABDR
     Engineering Course. The AF Chief ABDR Engineer remains assigned to his/her home base.
     1.3.2. The ABDR program includes those engineers assigned to the Air Force Research
     Laboratory (AFRL) and the Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC). Any AFMC
     engineer who has the proper qualifications and is located at Robins, Tinker and Hill locations
     is expected to fulfill the responsibilities of an ABDR engineer.
AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012                                                                      5


                                          Chapter 2

                                    RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. HQ AFMC/ENR: Assigned as office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the ABDR
Engineering functional area. Establishes Command ABDR Engineering Functional Manager
position. Responsible for policy, guidance, procedures, standards, and oversight of all ABDR
engineer operations. Approves all ABDR engineer waiver requests in accordance with Chapter 5
of this instruction.
   2.1.1. MAJCOM FAMs, UDMs in conjunction with the Installation Deployment Readiness
   Cell (IDRC) AEF Cells will advise the unit commander of recommended AEFIs to correct
   erroneous or blank AEFIs.
2.2. Command ABDR Engineering Functional Area Manager (FAM):
   2.2.1. Manages the Command ABDR engineering UTCs. Performs functional manager
   responsibilities outlined in AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, and
   AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution. The FAM is located in HQ AFMC/ENR.
   The FAM is required to have a SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET)
   account.
   2.2.2. Establishes policy for the ABDR engineering UTCs.
   2.2.3. Establishes policy for use of Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) and
   civilians as ABDR engineers.
   2.2.4. Ensures the development of IG checklists to be used during inspections or evaluations.
2.3. AF Chief ABDR Engineer:
   2.3.1. Manages ABDR engineer training qualification program. Conducts, schedules, and
   coordinates formal ABDR engineer training.
   2.3.2. Develops, publishes, and maintains formal ABDR engineer training course standards,
   requirements, and curriculum.
   2.3.3. Manages the development, publication, and maintenance of the Engineering
   Handbook for ABDR engineers.
   2.3.4. Manages ABDR engineering kit requirements.
   2.3.5. Supports AFMC laboratories and System Program Offices (SPO) in determining
   technical requirements, repair techniques, combat forensics for weapons effects (JCAT), and
   repair materials in research and development efforts.
   2.3.6. Provides engineering support for ABDR activities associated with Joint Live Fire
   (JLF) testing.
2.4. Center Engineering & Technical Management Directorate (EN):
   2.4.1. Responsible for management and funding of the center ABDR engineering UTCs.
       2.4.1.1. Responsible for funding all training and equipment required by ABDR
       engineers.
 6                                                                AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012


     2.4.2. Appoints an engineer to serve as the center Chief ABDR Engineer and to act as the
     single point of contact for ABDR engineer issues. The Command ABDR Engineer FAM
     located at HQ AFMC/ENR will be notified as soon as possible after this appointment has
     been made.
     2.4.3. Responsible to provide engineer kits for each engineer.
2.5. Center Chief ABDR Engineer:
     2.5.1. Acts as the Functional Area Manager (FAM) for center ABDR engineers IAW with
     AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution.
        2.5.1.1. Ensures all tasked ABDR engineers obtain required training per Unit Training
        Manager (UTM) and/or UDM and ensures each engineer participates per para 4.2.1 of
        AFMCI 10-210 in a readiness or deployment exercise with their assigned Expeditionary
        Depot Maintenance flight. Participation includes being a member of the exercise
        evaluation team.
     2.5.2. Ensures deployment procedures are in accordance with host Installation Deployment
     Plan (IDP).
     2.5.3. Establishes and conducts periodic ABDR engineer meetings.
     2.5.4. Maintains liaison between center ABDR engineers, supported System Program
     Offices (SPOs), and associated EDMX flight.
     2.5.5. Assesses deployment and employment effectiveness and efficiency of each ABDR
     engineer. Ensures assessment includes applicable Air Force common inspection items from
     AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, and AFI 90-201_AFMC SUP_1, Inspector
     General Activities.
     2.5.6. Responsible for the overall technical competency of the center's ABDR engineers.
     This includes evaluating and reporting engineering performance during field employment
     exercises.
     2.5.7. Center Chief ABDR Engineer will maintain a listing of all Weapon System Chief
     Engineers for their assigned UTCs and will relay this information to the center ABDR
     engineers.
     2.5.8. Center Chief ABDR Engineer is the final authority to certify engineers for
     deployment.
     2.5.9. Center Chief ABDR Engineer will be responsible for tracking, coordinating,
     initializing, and modifying Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs) for qualified and aircraft
     specific ABDR engineers per para 4.4 of AFMCI 10-210.
2.6. ABDR Engineers:
     2.6.1. Responsible for attending initial and recurring qualification training and all mobility
     training.
     2.6.2. Will attend engineer meetings established by the center Chief ABDR Engineer.
     2.6.3. Will ensure all required deployment documents and immunizations are up to date.
AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012                                                                       7


   2.6.4. Will inform the center Chief ABDR Engineer of medical profiles or reasons why
   he/she cannot deploy.
   2.6.5. Will participate in a readiness or deployment exercise per AFMCI 10-210, para 4.2.
   2.6.6. Responsible to know which Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) he/she is
   assigned to support (AFI 10-401, AF Operations Planning & Execution).
   2.6.7. Will establish and maintain contact with supported Weapon System Program Offices
   and Weapon System Chief Engineer.
   2.6.8. Must maintain all required clothing and personal items to satisfy deployment
   requirements (AFI 10-403).
2.7. Center Weapon System Chief Engineer: Ensure significant weapon system specifics
such as the Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP) service life extensions, major
modifications, major Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs), and T.O.s are available to
ABDR engineers.
 8                                                              AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012


                                           Chapter 3

            ABDR ENGINEER CAPABILITIES & MISSION REQUIREMENTS

3.1. Contingency and Wartime Capabilities: During contingencies (including AEF taskings)
and wartime, ABDR engineers deploy as single person UTCs and usually integrate with
associated ABDR maintenance team(s). ABDR engineer UTCs can also be deployed separately.
Each engineer is trained to support a primary weapon system but can provide limited assistance
on other aircraft. Deployed engineers are dependent on available facilities and require Base
Operating Support (BOS). Deployed engineers can also be redeployed to other locations to meet
new mission requirements.
3.2. Peacetime Organization: ABDR engineers work for the various SPOs in support of center
workloads. The use of these engineers in an ABDR capacity provides valuable experience which
contributes to their increased expertise as an aircraft engineer.
3.3. Mission Requirements: ABDR engineer mission requirements are unique and fall into the
category of war or contingency tasks.
     3.3.1. All personnel who are subject to deployment must meet requirements contained in the
     host IDP in accordance with AFI 10-403.
3.4. Deployment Requirements/Individual Equipment/Engineer Kits:
     3.4.1. ABDR engineers deploy with individual equipment, weapons, and other necessary
     equipment and material as specified in the host IDP.
     3.4.2. Each ABDR engineer will deploy with an engineer kit.
        3.4.2.1. Engineer kits will match, as a minimum, requirements approved by the AF Chief
        ABDR Engineer. Submit recommended changes to the AF Chief ABDR Engineer for
        approval. Engineer kit contents are listed in TO 1-1H-39.
        3.4.2.2. Engineer kits will be marked per AFI 21-101, AFMC Sup 1.
AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012                                                                      9


                                             Chapter 4

                              ABDR ENGINEER TRAINING

4.1. General: ABDR engineers will train to meet mission objectives tasked for both war and
contingency environments.         Focus will be on deployment, employment, and
wartime/contingency operations, and integration with supported command.
4.2. Mandatory Training Requirements:
   4.2.1. Technical training requirements include Introduction to ABDR Engineering and the
   following courses:
      4.2.1.1. General Technician, Initial
      4.2.1.2. General Assessor, Initial
      4.2.1.3. Weapon System Specific Assessor, Initial
      4.2.1.4. EDMX hardstand exercise – recurring once every 18 months. Participating as a
      member of the exercise evaluation team will meet this requirement.
   4.2.2. ABDR engineers must also obtain and maintain all required deployment training as
   directed by their UDM. Civilians will also receive training for E-E employees listed in AFI
   36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force
4.3. ABDR Engineer Training Program:
   4.3.1. Engineers who fail the Introduction to ABDR Engineering course will be informed of
   their deficiencies. They will retake the exam (midterm or final) that was unsatisfactory. If
   they fail the retest, they will be required to attend the course again. If they are unable to
   satisfactorily complete the course a second time, they will be removed from the ABDR
   engineering program.
   4.3.2. Engineers attending the Introduction to Engineering course as recurring training must
   successfully complete the course as a condition of continuing participation in the ABDR
   Engineering Program. Those who fail the course will follow the retest procedures of
   paragraph 4.3.1
   4.3.3. The center Chief ABDR Engineer may disqualify or bar the deployment of any
   engineer, active duty, IMA, or civilian lacking proficiency.
   4.3.4. Engineers are encouraged to complete a second weapon system assessor course. The
   completion of the second course will ensure that ABDR engineers are better prepared for
   what they will face when they deploy. Engineers may be asked to evaluate damage on
   airframes other than those on which they have been trained.
   4.3.5. Instructors for the Introduction to ABDR Engineering Course:
      4.3.5.1. All instructors of the ABDR engineering course shall complete a Principles of
      Instruction (POI) course. The Basic Instructor Training Course will satisfy the POI
      course requirement.
 10                                                             AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012


       4.3.5.2. All instructors of the ABDR engineer shall team teach at least one Introduction
       to ABDR Engineer course with a fully qualified instructor before they are fully qualified
       to teach the course alone.
4.4. ABDR Engineer Special Experience Identifiers (SEIs). Upon initial completion of the
training requirements outlined in para 4.2.1, engineers shall be assigned an SEI of Z7 per AFI
36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel. The Z7 SEI will remain on the officer’s record for the
remainder of their career to reflect ABDR experience.
AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012                                                                        11


                                           Chapter 5

                               ABDR ENGINEER WAIVERS

5.1. General:
   5.1.1. HQ AFMC/ENR is the authority to issue waivers for engineers who do not meet the
   following nominal criteria to be eligible for assignment to an ABDR engineer UTC:
       5.1.1.1. Possesses a degree in aeronautical, astronautical, or mechanical engineering.
       5.1.1.2. Possesses an AFSC of 62EXA (aeronautical engineer), 62EXB (astronautical
       engineer), 62EXH (mechanical engineer), or 62EXG (project engineer with an
       aeronautical, astronautical, or mechanical, engineering degree).
   5.1.2. Once an engineer has obtained a waiver, it will be effective for the remainder of
   his/her career.
5.2. Eligibility Conditions:
   5.2.1. An engineer who does not meet the criteria listed in para 5.1 may be eligible to receive
   a waiver under the following conditions:
       5.2.1.1. All reasonable efforts have been made by the center to locate and train military
       aeronautical, astronautical, mechanical, or project engineers with 62EXA, 62EXB,
       62EXH, or 62EXG AFSCs.
       5.2.1.2. The individual for whom the waiver is requested has documented education in
       mechanics of materials (engineering mechanics) and has a general familiarity with
       aircraft structures and systems.
5.3. Waiver Process:
   5.3.1. Center Chief ABDR Engineer identifies the candidate and ensures eligibility
   according to paragraph para 5.2 of this document. The center Chief ABDR Engineer is
   responsible for maintaining documentation of the waiver.
   5.3.2. Center Chief ABDR Engineer will obtain coordination for waiver from the AF Chief
   ABDR Engineer and the Center EN.
   5.3.3. Center Chief ABDR Engineer submits waiver request to AFMC/ENR for approval.
   Requests for waivers must be in writing. Verbal requests will not be accepted. AFMC/ENR
   waiver approval will also be in writing.
   5.3.4. Candidate completes all ABDR engineer training as identified in paragraph 4.2.1 of
   this document. Center Chief ABDR Engineers may authorize candidate to begin training
   before the waiver process is completed.




                                            RUSSELL B. HOWARD, SES
                                            Director, Engineering and Technical Management
 12                                                             AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-401, Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 Dec 06
AFI 10-402V1, Mobilization Planning & Personnel Readiness, 9 Aug 07
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 Jan 08
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 10
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 Jun 09
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 Jun 10
AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations, 23 Feb 09
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work, 21 Jul 94
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 Jun 09
AFI 90-201_AFMCSUP_1, Inspector General Activities, 16 Jul 10
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFMCI 10-202, Combat Logistics Support, 30 Aug 11
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 Oct 06
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary Force (AEF), 30 Apr 09
AFPD 10-7, Information Operations, 6 Sep 06
AFPD 51-4, Compliance with the Law of Armed Conflict, 4 Aug 11
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABDR—Aircraft Battle Damage Repair
ACR—Authorization Change Request
AEF—Air & Space Expeditionary Force
AEFI—Air & Space Expeditionary Force Indicator
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ASIP—Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012                                                                       13


DOC—Designed Operational Capability
EDMX—Expeditionary Depot Maintenance
IDO—Installation Deployment Officer
IDRC—Installations Deployment Readiness Cell
IDO—Installation Deployment Officer
IDP—Installation Deployment Plan
JCAT—Joint Combat Assessment Team
JLF—Joint Live Fire
PGM—Program Group Manager
SEI—Special Experience Identifier
SPD—System Program Director
SPO—System Program Office
TO—Technical Order
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
UIC—Unit Identification Code
UMD—Unit Manning Document
UTC—Unit Type Code
WMP—War Mobilization Plan

Terms
Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF)—An organization of aerospace capabilities that
provides tailored forces to meet theater commander needs.
Aircraft Battle Damage Repair (ABDR)—The capability to quickly assess and restore a
damaged aircraft to a useful level of combat capability within a tactically reasonable time period
with the resources reasonably available in theater. These repairs may be temporary or
permanent; they may restore full capability or partial capability compared to the undamaged
state. Additionally, to accomplish necessary maintenance actions to allow extensively damaged
aircraft to make a one-time flight to its home station, rear base, or major repair facility.
ABDR Forces—The AFMC active duty and AFMC gained reserve forces of specially trained
military personnel who provide peacetime or wartime technical assessment and repair of
damaged aircraft and provide supply and packaging support operations. Consists of personnel
from Expeditionary Depot Maintenance (EDMX) flights.
Designed Operational Capability (DOC)—---A summary of a unit’s mission and resources for
which it has been organized, designed, and equipped.
Emergency—Essential Position—An E-E position is a civilian position located overseas or one
that would be transferred overseas during a crisis situation, or which requires the incumbent to
perform temporary duty assignments overseas during a crisis in support of a military operation.
 14                                                              AFMCI10-210 18 JULY 2012


All employees who occupy an E-E position must sign a DD Form 2365, DoD Civilian Employee
Overseas E-E Position Agreement.
Exercise—A military maneuver or simulated wartime operation involving planning, preparation,
and execution. It is carried out for the purpose of training and evaluation. It may be a combined,
joint, or single service exercise, depending on participating organizations.
Functional Area Manager (FAM)—The office of primary responsibility for a particular Air
Force unit, function, or specialty.
Manpower and Equipment Force Packages (MEFPAK)—-A data base that stores mission
capability statement identified by UTC.
Readiness—The ability of forces, units, weapons, or equipment to deliver the output for which
they were designated. This includes the ability to deploy without unacceptable delays. The
totality of proficiency and sufficiency in forces, units, air bases, weapons systems, and
equipment. Prepared or available for service or action.
Unit Identification Code (UIC)—--A six-character, alpha-numeric code that uniquely identifies
each Active, Reserve, and National Guard unit of the Armed Forces (CJCSM 3150.02, Global
Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS)).
Special Experience Identifier (SEI)—--A code that identifies the training/experience required.
Unit Type Code (UTC)—The five character alphanumeric code that uniquely identifies each
force package.
War and Mobilization Plan (WMP)—Provides the Air Staff and Air Force commanders with
the current policies and planning factors for conducting and supporting wartime operations. It
establishes requirements for developing mobilization and planning programs to support sustained
contingency operations of the programmed forces.
Weapon Familiarization Training—Training in addition to weapons qualification training
provided by Combat Arms Training and Maintenance and is conducted by personnel within the
unit. As a minimum, this familiarization will consist of weapon safety, loading and clearing
procedures, clearing barrel procedures, disassembly and assembly, function check, care and
cleaning, and visual inspection. The objective is to ensure all weapons qualified personnel can
handle weapons responsibly at home station and in a deployed environment.
