BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     AFMC INSTRUCTION 62-202
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                       21 JULY 2005
                                                                              Certified Current, 28 October 2011
                                                                                 Developmental Engineering

                                                                AFMC CORE CRITERIA FOR CRITICAL
                                                                        ENGINEERING POSITIONS



                    COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:         This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
                http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/ENR (Mr. Bob Wallace)                                             Certified by: HQ AFMC/ENR
                                                                                    (Mr. Dominic J. Tuccillo)
                                                                                                   Pages: 15
                                                                                              Distribution: F

This instruction establishes minimum core criteria for use in selecting personnel for critical engineering
positions and for evaluating incumbents in these positions. This is the initial publication of this instruc-
tion.


1. Purpose. AFMC is committed to ensuring the personnel assigned to product or logistics critical engi-
neering positions have the knowledge, experience, and professionalism to serve in their capacities and
perform their duties in the highest interest of the Air Force. To help accomplish this purpose, these
instructions establish the core criteria to be used by the selecting authority in the selection process of civil-
ian service assignments or the immediate reviewer/supervisor for military and contract technical staff in
the selection process. This instruction does not apply to civilian Senior Executive Service (SES), Senior
Level (SL), and Scientific and Professional (ST) positions, general officer positions, or equivalent con-
tractor positions and does not supplant any existing regulation or policy.

2. Applicability.
    2.1. Position Codes. This instruction is mandatory for positions with the following duty title codes
    on the Unit Manpower Document (UMD):
    806 – Lead Engineer--Engineer responsible for a single end item, or family of end items; has Opera-
    tional Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E) responsibility; responsible for all end item/com-
    modity technical activities, including engineering and configuration changes.
    805 – Chief Engineer--Senior engineer/technical authority for a weapon system or equivalent prod-
    uct; has OSS&E responsibility.
    807 – Director of Engineering (DOE)--Senior engineer/technical authority responsible for multiple
    chief or lead engineering positions; ensures programs under their purview are addressing OSS&E;
    ensures Chief and Lead Engineers assigned to systems/end items within their organization are execut-
2                                                                         AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005


    ing their responsibilities appropriately; fulfills Chief Engineer responsibilities for systems/end items
    without an assigned Chief Engineer.
    356 – Technical Director--Senior engineer; technical specialty position for engineering; provides
    expertise on technical aspects supporting directorate or wing operation & processes; has various lev-
    els of OSS&E responsibility.
    These duty titles are intended to convey engineering leadership responsibility within the scope of the
    assignment, regardless of whether the individual assigned is military, civilian, or a contractor.
    2.2. Position Types. This instruction applies to civilian, military, and contractor (e.g., Federally
    Funded Research and Development Center contractor, Advisory and Assistance Services (A&AS)
    contractor, or any A&AS-like contractor) positions with the UMD codes listed in paragraph 2.1.
    2.3. Grade Levels and Ranks. This instruction applies to civilian positions at GS-15 and equivalent
    and below, military positions at the rank of colonel and below, and equivalent contractor positions.

3. Responsibilities and Authorities.
    3.1. AFMC Center-level Directors, Engineering (EN) have the responsibility and authority to imple-
    ment this instruction at their Centers.
       3.1.1. Vacant Positions. Center ENs will ensure persons serving on positions described in para-
       graph 2. meet the core criteria of Attachment 1, in accordance with paragraph 4.1.
       3.1.2. Encumbered Positions. Upon issuance of this instruction, Center ENs will review the peo-
       ple encumbering the positions described in paragraph 2. to determine if they meet the core criteria
       of Attachment 1. For any discrepancies found, Center ENs will work with the individuals ('com-
       panies' in the case of contractors, through the contracting officer) to bring them in compliance
       with Attachment 1 criteria, in accordance with paragraph 4.2.
       3.1.3. Course lists. Center ENs will maintain lists of courses that provide knowledge level compe-
       tency for the criteria listed in Attachment 1. In order to provide knowledge level competency, a
       course must adequately cover the process or processes, the tools available, and the possible met-
       rics for the competency.
       3.1.4. Final authority. Center ENs are the final authority in determining whether an individual or
       candidate meets the criteria of Attachment 1 or in determining what additional actions are needed
       to meet the criteria of Attachment 1.
    3.2. Selecting authorities in the selection process of civilian assignments or the immediate review-
    ers/supervisors for military and contract technical staff are responsible for following the require-
    ments of this instruction, with Center EN guidance, when selecting personnel for positions as defined
    in paragraph 2.

4. Procedures.
    4.1. Vacant Positions.
       4.1.1. General. Upon receiving, through an appropriate source, a list of candidates for a position
       covered by this instruction (see paragraph 2.), the selecting authority in the selection process of
       civilian service assignments or the immediate reviewer/supervisor for military and contract tech-
       nical staff will initiate an internal review of the candidates in accordance with the criteria of this
AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005                                                                                  3


     instruction. The approved candidate list may include civilian promotion, reassignment, and/or
     change to lower grade candidates or military or contractor reassignment candidates. For civilians,
     the recruitment sources are not limited to internal candidates. As appropriate to the situation, the
     candidate list shall be provided through normal personnel procedures or by local management pro-
     cedures when only management reassignments are being considered. To pare the list of candidates
     for further screening, management will subsequently review the candidate listing IAW procedures
     set forth in this instruction. Further evaluations of the resulting pared list will be in accordance
     with established personnel, contracting, and local procedures. In the case of contracted technical
     support, Center ENs will ensure there are processes that assure contractor fills for these positions
     meet the core criteria.
     4.1.2. Criteria. In selecting government personnel, the selecting authority in the selection process
     of civilian service assignments or the immediate reviewer/supervisor for military and contract
     technical staff will evaluate each candidate against the criteria in Attachment 1. Candidates meet-
     ing all of the criteria in Attachment 1 will be considered as passing the initial screen and
     approved for further consideration. If there are insufficient candidates meeting all of the criteria in
     Attachment 1 for adequate competition, as determined by local procedures, the selecting author-
     ity or official will select from the same approved candidate list those coming closest to meeting
     the Attachment 1 criteria for further evaluation. All candidates selected must be capable of meet-
     ing all Attachment 1 criteria within 18 months of selection for the position. If there are no candi-
     dates capable of meeting Attachment 1 criteria within 18 months of selection for the position, the
     selecting authority in the selection process of civilian service assignments or the immediate
     reviewer/supervisor for military and contract technical staff will seek to extend the area of consid-
     eration to obtain a larger candidate pool.
        4.1.2.1. Personnel selected for technical leadership positions, as defined in paragraph 2., will
        meet the criteria in Attachment 1 within 18 months of selection for the position, or manage-
        ment will reassign them to a position not covered by this instruction.
        4.1.2.2. Additional Criteria. Center ENs may add other job-related criteria to the Attachment
        1 criteria.
        4.1.2.3. Program Phase. Some of the criteria in Attachment 1 vary depending on whether the
        program is primarily in development or modification or in sustainment phases. Programs in
        the development or modification phase either have not transitioned to sustainment or have
        transitioned to sustainment but have major modification efforts ongoing. Programs in the sus-
        tainment phase have transitioned to sustainment and have no major modification efforts ongo-
        ing.
        4.1.2.4. KSA Levels. The Knowledge, Skill, and Ability (KSA) criteria are expressed in terms
        of these KSA levels:
        Knowledge = Academic/OJT understanding of the subject matter with ability to process,
        translate, and interpret this knowledge.
        Skill =        Skill in application of knowledge, ideas, concepts, principles, theories, and tech-
        niques in varied situations.
        Ability =     Ability to apply concepts, synthesize, and make decisions based on the overall
        "system" characteristics--i.e., systems engineering focus of a decision.
4                                                                         AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005


               4.1.2.4.1. Individual Competencies. Attachment 2 provides guidance and clarification for
               evaluating KSA criteria. It lists individual commonly recognized competencies and shows
               how these competencies normally apply to each of the KSA criteria.
               4.1.2.4.2. Relation to Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) Certifica-
               tion. Knowledge-level competency for individual KSAs can be inferred from certification
               levels in various APDP stalls as indicated in Attachment 3. This chart relates certification
               levels in various APDP stalls to assumed knowledge-level competency for individual
               KSAs.
    4.2. Encumbered Positions. Government personnel encumbering positions covered by this instruc-
    tion (see paragraph 2.) will meet the criteria in Attachment 1 within 18 months of issuance of this
    instruction, or management will reassign them to a position not covered by this instruction. In the case
    of contracted technical support, Center ENs will work through the contracting officer to reach agree-
    ments with the companies involved that assure contractor personnel encumbering positions covered
    by this instruction (see paragraph 2.) meet the criteria in Attachment 1.

5. Waivers. HQ AFMC/EN may grant waivers to this instruction. Center ENs shall submit waiver
requests with justifications in writing to HQAFMC/EN.



                                                STEVEN F. BUTLER, SES
                                                Director, Engineering and Technical Management
                                                Attachment 1




                                                                                 AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
                                   CRITICAL ENGINEERING POSITION CORE CRITERIA
Figure A1.1. Critical Engineering Position Core Criteria.




                                                                                 5
Figure A1.2. Critical Engineering Position Core Criteria (Continuation).




                                                                           6
                                                                           AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
Figure A1.3. Critical Engineering Position Core Criteria (Continuation).




                                                                           AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
                                                                           7
Figure A1.4. Critical Engineering Position Core Criteria (Continuation).




                                                                           8
                                                                           AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
Figure A1.5. Critical Engineering Position Core Criteria (Continuation).




                                                                           AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
                                                                           9
Figure A1.6. Critical Engineering Position Core Criteria (Continuation).




                                                                           10
                                                                           AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
                                               Attachment 2




                                                                                                          AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
  CRITICAL ENGINEERING POSITION CORE CRITERIA KNOWLEDGE, SKILL, AND ABILITY (KSA) COMPETENCIES
Figure A2.1. Key Engineering Position Minimum Criteria Knowledge, Skill and Ability (KSA) Competencies.




                                                                                                          11
Figure A2.2. Key Engineering Position Minimum Criteria Knowledge, Skill and Ability (KSA) Competencies (Continuation).




                                                                                                                         12
                                                                                                                         AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
Figure A2.3. Key Engineering Position Minimum Criteria Knowledge, Skill and Ability (KSA) Competencies (Continuation).




                                                                                                                         AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
                                                                                                                         13
Figure A2.4. Key Engineering Position Minimum Criteria Knowledge, Skill and Ability (KSA) Competencies (Continuation).




                                                                                                                         14
                                                                                                                         AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
                                            Attachment 3




                                                                               AFMCI62-202 21 JULY 2005
                            KNOWLEDGE LEVEL COMPETENCY VS APDP CERTIFICATION
Figure A3.1. Knowledge Level Competency vs APDP Certification.




                                                                               15
