BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AFMC INSTRUCTION 21-112
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                    2 MAY 2005

                                                                                             Maintenance

                                                         REPAIR OF AIRCRAFT ENGINE CRITICAL
                                                                                      PARTS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/DRR (Mr. Robert Casada),                                      Certified by: HQ AFMC/DRR
       OC-ALC/LR (Mr. Kartik C. Saha)                                        (Colonel Jose R. Rodriquez)
Supersedes AFMCI 21-112, 13 Aug 02                                                             Pages: 14
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This Instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. It gives policy
and instruction for the repair of aircraft engine critical parts. These policies/instructions shall form the
framework for a secure and reliable operation of aircraft engines, develop an AFMC critical parts repair
program, develop repair techniques and establish repair sources. It applies to Oklahoma City Air Logis-
tics Center Propulsion Directorate (OC-ALC/LP) and Aeronautical Systems Center Propulsion Director-
ate (ASC/LP)

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Updates the policies and procedures and changes in organizations and cited regulations.
2                                                                            AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005


                                                 Chapter 1

                       POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Policies for Repair of Aircraft Engine Critical Parts are as Follows: Solicitations for the repair
of critical parts are based on the following assumptions:
- A need exists for the repair of the part.
- The repair will allow the part to meet its full service life requirement and not less than one depot inspec-
tion interval.
- An Air Force approved repair process either exists or can be developed.
- A qualified repair source exists.
- Only bids or proposals from qualified repair sources are considered when pursuing a repair contract.
However, the Air Force shall not refuse a prospective source the opportunity for evaluation as explained
in paragraph 1.1.1. and 1.1.2. If OC-ALC/BC agrees with the CEA that sufficient approved sources
already exist to provide the Air Force with full competition, the evaluation may be conducted at the pro-
spective source’s expense.
    1.1.1. Public Law (PL) 98-525 requires the government to document justification for qualification
    requirements and make these requirements, as well as the costs of testing and evaluation, available to
    any potential source. Guidance on this policy is contained in FAR 9.2 and its supplements.
    1.1.2. Personnel involved with selecting and approving repair sources for critical parts shall be famil-
    iar with PL 98-525, FAR subpart 9.2 and its supplements.
    1.1.3. The Oklahoma City Air Logistic Center 448thCombat Sustainment Wing (448 CSW) will
    implement repair processes to repair unserviceable critical parts whenever economies can be realized
    from the repair or when relief is needed from a supply support deficiency.
    1.1.4. When appropriate, the OC-ALC/448 CSW will contact other DoD agencies and commercial
    users of items common to each for their experience on repair processes or repair sources.

1.2. Implementation Policies:
    1.2.1. Responsible CEA shall develop/maintain a current list of engine critical parts for which repairs
    have been approved and a corresponding list of sources authorized to accomplish those repairs. The
    list of sources shall be available to OC-ALC/BC.
    1.2.2. Repair sources may be removed from the qualified repair source list or be required to requalify
    when:
        1.2.2.1. Any of the conditions (currently 10) exist that merit removal or omission as stated in FAR
        9.207(a).
        1.2.2.2. The repair source no longer meets all specified requirement of the approved repair source
        qualification requirement, including:
        1.2.2.3. The source has not delivered the item or similar item within 36 months.
        1.2.2.4. There is documented evidence of poor delivery or poor quality performance on the part
        under review for repair authorization.
AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005                                                                                 3


       1.2.2.5. Significant changes in the item or repair process have taken place.
       1.2.2.6. There has been a change of repair location or facility.
       1.2.2.7. There has been a loss of contractual arrangement with the owner of any required propri-
       etary processes.
       1.2.2.8. There has been a change of ownership.
   1.2.3. Although the CEA should contact BC directly to request a currently approved source to
   re-qualify, OC-ALC/BC, through OC-ALC/PKCC, shall be notified when a previously approved
   repair source has been removed from the qualified repair source list. OC-ALC/BC will advise the
   repair source of action taken and include substantiating rationale as provided by the CEA.
   1.2.4. Responsible CEA shall follow the recommendations of the Propulsion Center of Excellence
   (PCoE) Best Practices REPAIR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PCOE BP 98-3, and establish realis-
   tic standards or requirements for testing and acceptance for both new repair processes and new repair
   sources. Priority for the development of qualification documents shall be based on anticipated future
   requirements.
       1.2.4.1. Pursuant to FAR 9.2 as supplemented, the CEA shall prepare a Justification for the Qual-
       ification Requirement. The justification and the qualification requirement requires the review and
       coordination of the procuring activity's Small Business Office, the Small Business Administration
       Procurement Center Representative, if available, and Competition Advocate. The COCO is
       responsible for approving the required justification and qualification requirement. The justifica-
       tion for qualification requirements shall include:
          1.2.4.1.1. Description of Supplies or Services: Specify repair of the part.
          1.2.4.1.2. Criticality of the product, and whether or not its failure could compromise personal
          safety, equipment safety, or mission success.
          1.2.4.1.3. Complexity of the repair including special materials, repair processes, and quality
          controls.
          1.2.4.1.4. Rationale as to why the qualification requirement must be demonstrated before con-
          tract award. Include the hazardous consequence of not performing tests as preaward qualifica-
          tion tests and specify why tests cannot be conducted post award.
          1.2.4.1.5. Cost of qualification testing.
          1.2.4.1.6. The Qualification Requirement, specifying all requirements that a potential offeror
          (or its product) must satisfy in order to become qualified.
       1.2.4.2. Pursuant to DFARS 209.202, the inclusion of the qualification requirement in an acquisi-
       tion or group of acquisitions requires approval by the chief of the contracting office.

1.3. Responsibilities Defined for the Repair of Aircraft Engine Critical Parts are as Follows:
   1.3.1. OC-ALC/LR:
       1.3.1.1. Develops policies and procedures dealing with engine critical parts repair.
       1.3.1.2. Reviews, interprets and establishes policies/procedures for specific OC-ALC actions that
       are not governed by this regulation.
4                                                                        AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005


    1.3.2. OC-ALC/BC:
       1.3.2.1. Serves as principle point of contact for source qualification as described in AFMCFARS
       5309.2.
    1.3.3. Cognizant Engineering Authority:
       1.3.3.1. Determines the need for new repair procedures and initiates appropriate actions.
       1.3.3.2. Prepares or acquires the necessary documentation to perform standard testing and inspec-
       tion/validation of potential repair processes and repair sources.
       1.3.3.3. Reviews repair source approval packages received from OC-ALC/BC and makes final
       approval/disapproval decision.
       1.3.3.4. Documents all actions taken under this program and ensures that necessary decisions for
       each step contain the proper level of approval.
       1.3.3.5. Maintains a list of engine critical parts, approved repair processes, and the associated
       approved repair source(s).
       1.3.3.6. Establishes local procedures to screen items for possible Expendability Recoverability
       Reparability Category (ERRC) Code changes according to AFMAN 23-110.
AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005                                                                                      5


                                                 Chapter 2

                            DEVELOPMENT OF REPAIR PROCESSES

2.1. Development of Repair Processes. A process to repair a critical part will be developed as a result of
a shortage of new parts, or when the cost of repairing a used part is significantly lower than the cost of
buying a new part. The procedure used to repair a part can originate from several places (e.g. the source
of the repair, CEA, the engine manufacturer, etc.). Regardless where the process originates, the CEA
Authority must control and approve these repair procedures.
   2.1.1. Repair processes are usually developed by the engine manufacturer during the initial engine
   development or under the Component Improvement Program (CIP). Otherwise, when it is determined
   that a new repair process is needed, the CEA Authority shall:
       2.1.1.1. Contact current engine source of repair.
       2.1.1.2. Contact selected engine manufacturers.
       2.1.1.3. Contact selected industrial facilities.
       2.1.1.4. Contact OC-ALC/BC, who will in turn synopsize the requirement to develop the new
       repair process.
   2.1.2. When a new repair process is developed following, an industry or the organic industrial facility
   may be asked to review, comment, and make recommendations on it. The review will ensure:
       2.1.2.1. The repair will be based upon sound engineering practice and the PCoE Best Practices
       REPAIR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, PCOE BP 98-3.
       2.1.2.2. The repair will allow the part to fulfill its design service life and the repair will not need
       to be re-accomplished in less than one depot inspection interval.
       2.1.2.3. Qualification will be demonstrated on a component that exhibited the distress and was
       repaired; hazardous waste considerations; and any special quality control procedures required.
   2.1.3. If technical differences arise, the final decision is of the CEA.
   2.1.4. When a repair process is authorized for repeated application, controls will be established to
   assure the repetitious repair does not degrade the integrity of the part or the end item.
   2.1.5. Appropriate Technical Orders and work specifications will be updated to include the new pro-
   cess.

2.2. Repair Procedures. All proposed repair procedures are processed as follows. Additional steps may
be desirable based on the nature of the repair. Initial review will be performed to determine that:
   2.2.1. An economic or logistical need exists.
   2.2.2. The process is described in sufficient detail with complete data if owned by the government or
   via specification or process number if proprietary to a prospective contractor, to ensure complete and
   proper accomplishment by the repair source.
   2.2.3. Critical procedural steps, dimensions, and processes are adequately described and emphasized.
   2.2.4. Process quality control checks are specified as needed.
6                                                                           AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005


    2.2.5. The government possesses unlimited rights to any technical data it supplies to a current/poten-
    tial repair source.
    2.2.6. The necessary source qualification requirements and attendant costs are documented.
    2.2.7. The proposed process can be adequately tested and substantiated prior to approval or release.
    2.2.8. If required, a method exists to identify and track items repaired by the process.
    2.2.9. Hazardous chemical usage is minimized and/or eliminated.
AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005                                                                                     7


                                                Chapter 3

                                   REPAIR SOURCES APPROVAL

3.1. General. When the Air Force seeks contractors to provide repaired critical engine items, only con-
tractors on the qualified repair source list will be solicited. The following paragraphs provide the policies
and procedures for a vendor to become qualified through the Repair Source Approval (RSA) process.

3.2. Responsibility. Cognizant Engineering Authority (CEA) of the engine is the final authority for
repair source approval and responsible for administering the approval process as described in Attach-
ment 3. To accomplish the RSA, CEA may use, as needed, contract technical assistance (CTA) from an
outside organization, including OEM. The CTAs act only in an advisory role and CEA remains engaged
at all times and makes all the decisions. CEA is responsible for establishing the Qualification Require-
ment (QR) data package and the estimated time and cost (PL 98-525, FAR 9.2). CEA establishes family
grouping data and maintains a list of qualified vendors.
   3.2.1. OC-ALC/BC acts as single face to the prospective repair vendors and is responsible for the fol-
   lowing:
       3.2.1.1. Making information available to the prospective repair vendors.
       3.2.1.2. Review of Source Approval Request (SAR) application package for completeness as per
       Attachment 2.
       3.2.1.3. Vendor orientation.
       3.2.1.4. Arranging initial meeting between the prospective vendor and the CEA.
       3.2.1.5. Issuing the final approval or disapproval notice.
   3.2.2. The prospective vendor is responsible for following:
       3.2.2.1. Gathering all information including, but not limited to, all applicable TOs and TCTOs,
       application and qualification requirements.
       3.2.2.2. Submitting a complete SAR application to OC-ALC/BC as per Attachment 2.
       3.2.2.3. Providing a schedule.
       3.2.2.4. Following through with the qualification process and complying with all requirements.
       3.2.2.5. Providing repair parts for process demonstrations.
       3.2.2.6. Cost of Contract technical assistance required by CEA.
       3.2.2.7. Contractual arrangements with the owners of any proprietary processes.
       3.2.2.8. Providing data on similar items with justification for Category II (similar items) certifica-
       tion described later in this policy.

3.3. Need for Additional Repair Sources. Government need for establishing additional repair sources
for critical engine parts is primarily determined by the 36-month projection of repair requirements and
availability of QR data. A list of engine critical parts that have QR data and 36-month projected repair
requirements is available through OC-ALC/BC.
8                                                                            AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005


3.4. Solicited and unsolicited SAR. OC-ALC/BC will solicit SAR applications from prospective ven-
dors when a government need arises and process the applications following the procedures in Attach-
ment 3. OC-ALC/BC will also accept unsolicited SAR and will prioritize and process them based on
government need, as described in paragraph 3.3., and availability of CEA resources.

3.5. Categories. Engine critical parts repair source qualification is divided into two categories as fol-
lows:
    3.5.1. Prospective source demonstrates repair of actual item (category I). This includes repair, testing,
    and quality assurance of the actual part as described in the source repair certification data package. If
    the vendor repairs the same part for the OEM or any DOD agency (Navy and Army) and is OEM cer-
    tified, the CEA may waive the actual repair demonstration and testing requirement. Repair in the same
    family as the source demonstration repair will only require review of the repair process sheets and
    routing sheets by the CEA.
    3.5.2. Prospective source already repairs similar item(s) (category II). The item is similar to an item
    or items that a prospective vendor is currently repairing (or previously repaired within the last 12
    months) for the OEM, Air force, Navy, or Army.

3.6. Qualification Requirement (QR) Data Package. The CEA has the responsibility for the qualifica-
tion data package that shall contain, as a minimum, the following:
    3.6.1. A COCO approved repair source qualification requirement. It will include test, measurement,
    and inspection criteria and also contain the qualification and quality control acceptance requirements.
    3.6.2. A statement of work, which includes conditions to be inspected, serviceable limits, repairable
    limits, and corrective action required for each condition.
    3.6.3. The QR data package shall be available to the vendor prior to submitting a SAR application.

3.7. Approval Procedure. Approval procedure is described in Attachment 3.

3.8. Dispute Resolution. During qualification process, if there is an unresolved dispute between the pro-
spective vendor and the qualification project engineer, the CEA has the final authority in resolving the
dispute. If the vendor does not accept the resolution, the CEA may terminate the process.

3.9. Re-Qualification. When the CEA removes the approval from a vendor for reasons described in
paragraph 1.2.2., the vendor must re-qualify to remain on the qualified repair source list.

3.10. Documentation. CEA shall maintain a current list of approved repair sources, which will contain
the following minimum information:
    3.10.1. Identification and description of the part.
    3.10.2. Description of the repair and identification of the repair process document.
    3.10.3. Name and address of currently qualified repair sources.
    3.10.4. Date of qualification of the repair source.
AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005                                                                                 9


  3.10.5. Engineering records will provide records of all source approval activity. These records will be
  maintained per AFMAN 37-139, table 21-12.



                                             PETER M. TRUMP, Colonel, USAF
                                             Deputy Director, Directorateof Requirements
10                                                                          AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Chief of Contracting Office (COCO)—Means the first contracting official in the contracting chain
subordinate to the Senior Center Contracting Official (SCCO) or an individual within AFMC serving in
the position of Chief of the Contracting Division in a System Program Office or Program/Product
Directorate in support of a System Program Director, System Support Manager, Development Support
Manager, or Commodity Manager. Unless specifically excepted, this term may include, at the option of
the designated official, the deputy chief of the same office.
Cognizant Engineering Authority (CEA)—This authority resides with the engineering branch chief of
the respective propulsion system.
Engine Critical Part—A component, because of its use or application, whose failure could result in a
catastrophic event, causing extensive weapon system damage and/or loss, extensive maintenance actions,
possible injury to personnel, and mission impact. Additional definitions of component criticality are
provided in MIL-STD-1783 "Engine Structural Integrity Program."
Qualified Repair Source—A government agency or contractor which has proven its capability to repair
a particular item by satisfactorily completing established qualification requirements and being reflected in
a qualified source list from the Cognizant Engineering Authority.
Qualified Repair Source List—A list of government agencies or contractors qualified to repair a
particular item.
Repair Source Qualification Requirement—A government requirement to substantiate specific repair
procedures, process control, specialized testing (including laboratory and engine testing) and other quality
assurance demonstrations that must be completed before approval of a repair source.
AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005                                                                                 11


                                             Attachment 2

               REPAIR SOURCE APPROVAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
The following paragraphs prescribe what must be submitted when requesting repair source approval for
engine critical parts of both Category I and Category II. It is IMPORTANT to provide ALL of the infor-
mation at the time the application is submitted. Submission of the requested information does not guaran-
tee approval. Additional information, documentation or samples may be required to allow for further
evaluation of the application. A site visit to the vendor’s facility may be conducted to further evaluate.

A2.1. Category 1: Same Item.
   A2.1.1. Brochures/synopsis of company's capabilities, capacities, and repair history of same or simi-
   lar items for the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM), Air Force, Army, and Navy.
   A2.1.2. Complete and current Depot Maintenance Technical manual(s) required to repair the item for
   which your company is currently approved including test procedures.
   A2.1.3. Copies of purchase orders and shipping documents to OEM, Navy, Air Force or Army for
   actual item repaired.
   A2.1.4. Identification of major sub-vendors, performing selected repair and/or critical processes,
   together with documentation demonstrating approval and identification of source(s) (e.g., approved
   suppliers or federal supply system) to be used for spare/repair parts.
   A2.1.5. Description of Quality Program (e.g., ISO 9000 or OEM quality rating) and company's Qual-
   ity Assurance Manual. In addition, a copy of latest survey results performed by government agency
   and/or prime contractor. Survey results include site or pre-award surveys.
   A2.1.6. Summarization of quality deficiencies experienced in the past three years during repair.

A2.2. Category 2: Similar Item - Item Similar To One Previously Repaired For OEM, Navy, Air
Force Or Army.
   A2.2.1. Brochures/synopsis of company's capabilities (if not previously provided). Identify if you are
   a non-repair source or the actual repair source.
   A2.2.2. Complete and current Depot Maintenance Technical manual(s) required to repair the item for
   which your company is currently approved, including test procedures.
   A2.2.3. Copies of purchase orders and shipping documents to OEM, Air Force or Navy for similar
   item repaired.
   A2.2.4. For the similar item repaired, provide identification of major sub-vendors, performing
   selected repair and/or critical processes, together with documentation demonstrating approval and
   identification of source(s) (e.g., approved suppliers or federal supply system) to be used for spare/
   repair parts.
   A2.2.5. Identification of differences between similar item and the item you are seeking approval to
   repair.
   A2.2.6. Description of Quality Program (e.g., ISO 9000 or OEM quality rating) and company's Qual-
   ity Assurance Manual. In addition, a copy of latest survey results performed by government agency
   and/or prime contractor. Survey results include site or pre-award surveys.
12                                                                            AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005


     A2.2.7. Summarization of quality deficiencies experienced in the past three years during the repair of
     the similar item.
     A2.2.8. Copy of inspection method sheets used in repair and final inspection for the similar item.
     Sheets must be authenticated by quality stamp; no blanks accepted.
     A2.2.9. Copy of complete repair specification for the item you are seeking approval.
     A2.2.10. Specify how data voids will be filled if data is missing.
     A2.2.11. Specify if test/repair procedures for the item you are seeking approval to repair require
     development or modification and the relationship between the similar item's test procedures and those
     required by the item for which you are seeking approval.
     A2.2.12. Identify test equipment to be used to test both the similar and the item you are seeking
     approval to repair. In addition specify availability of in house test equipment to be used in lieu of test
     equipment listed in the approved technical manuals, Acceptance Test Procedures/Acceptance Test
     Requirement.
     A2.2.13. Specify availability of in-house test equipment for the item you are seeking approval to
     repair, whether it has to be purchased, built, or government furnished.
     A2.2.14. For the item for which you are seeking approval, provide identification of major sub-ven-
     dors, performing selected repair and/or critical processes, together with documentation demonstrating
     approval and identification of source(s) (e.g., approved suppliers or federal supply system to be used
     for spare/repair parts.
     A2.2.15. Technical briefing is recommended to further demonstrate procedures your company will
     employ to validate repair.
AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005                                                                                13


                                               Attachment 3

                               REPAIR SOURCE APPROVAL PROCESS

A3.1. This process provides for interaction between the applicant and OC-ALC/BC from initial inquiry
to approval or disapproval notification. It ensures that programs, systems, and intended methods of com-
pliance are thoroughly reviewed, evaluated, and tested. The approval process consists of five phases:
   A3.1.1. Pre-application Phase.
   A3.1.2. Application Phase.
   A3.1.3. Document Compliance Phase.
   A3.1.4. Demonstration and Inspection Phase.
   A3.1.5. Approval Phase.

A3.2. Pre-application Phase.
   A3.2.1. An applicant should conduct a thorough review of the appropriate regulations, technical doc-
   uments including qualification requirement data package to understand requirements for personnel,
   facility, equipment, experience, and expertise to perform the repairs.
   A3.2.2. The vendor submits a letter of intent to OC-ALC/BC with the following information:
       A3.2.2.1. Company background.
       A3.2.2.2. Expertise.
       A3.2.2.3. Capability.
       A3.2.2.4. Capacity.
       A3.2.2.5. Experience in DoD engine repair work.
       A3.2.2.6. Intended part(s) to repair.
   A3.2.3. OC-ALC/BC and the CEA review the letter of intent and the attached documents and if
   required, have a face-to-face discussion with the vendor. At that point CEA decides whether or not the
   vendor qualifies to apply for the repair source approval. OC-ALC/BC conveys that decision to the
   vendor in writing.
   A3.2.4. The CEA may waive the pre-application phase for vendors with good track records of per-
   forming repair work on Air Force critical engine parts.

A3.3. Application Phase: After getting qualified to apply in the pre-application phase, the vendor sub-
mits to OC-ALC/BC a formal application with inclusions described in Attachment 2.

A3.4. Document Compliance Phase. In this phase, OC-ALC/BC reviews the application for content
and completeness. The vendor receives a written notification for missing/incomplete information and has
30 days to comply. If the vendor fails to complete the application on time, OC-ALC/BC closes it with
appropriate annotation. When the application is complete, OC-ALC/BC arranges a formal meeting with
the vendor and the CEA and then transfers the application package to the CEA for the demonstration and
inspection phase.
14                                                                              AFMCI21-112 2 MAY 2005


A3.5. Demonstration and Inspection Phase. The CEA assigns an engineer, or a Source Qualification
Team (SQT) if necessary, to determine a prospective source’s repair capability. Pertinent activities may
include, at the engineer’s discretion:
     A3.5.1. Inspect and evaluate applicant’s facility, equipment, and personnel to determine applicant’s
     capability and capacity to perform the repair workload.
     A3.5.2. Review process flows and process sheets to insure all repair processes are included in right
     sequence.
     A3.5.3. Observe all aspects of the applicant’s required demonstrations and determine compliance or
     noncompliance in each case.
     A3.5.4. Determine conformance with test criteria. The team visually inspects the repaired product and
     reviews all test (including laboratory test) results to insure that the specified criteria of the final prod-
     uct are met.
     A3.5.5. Ensure process control. The team reviews process parameters recorded during the process
     demonstration and insures that they are within acceptable limits specified in the qualification require-
     ment data package. The team also evaluates the vendor’s process quality control procedures.
     A3.5.6. Review quality program. Vendor should have an acceptable quality program, such as ISO
     9002, in place.
     A3.5.7. Ensure the vendor’s ability to comply with all applicable sections of Air Force and Federal
     Regulations.
     A3.5.8. Document deficiencies. If, at any time, certain items or the applicant’s conduct of activities
     prove to be deficient, appropriate corrective action must be taken. If necessary, the engineer will
     advise the applicant of the impracticality of continuing the source approval process due to the extent
     of the deficiencies. If a particular demonstration of compliance is unsatisfactory, the approval team
     must discuss with the applicant how to correct the problem. Repeating the process step(s) should be
     scheduled as necessary. The engineer may want to follow up with a letter indicating the nature of the
     failure and its corrective action. Deficiencies will have to be corrected before the process can con-
     tinue.
     A3.5.9. Recommend approval or disapproval of the source approval request.

A3.6. Approval Phase. The CEA reviews the report and the recommendation from the SQT and either
approves or disapproves the application. This decision is passed on to OC-ALC/BC, who, in turn, notifies
the vendor in writing. A copy of the vendor notification will be forwarded to by OC-ALC/BC, to the cog-
nizant contracting office.
