BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  AFMC INSTRUCTION 21-120
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                     2 MAY 1996

                                                                                              Maintenance

                                                                     ORGANIC DEPOT FIELD TEAMS




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/LGPW (Mr. Harold T. Crews) Certified by: HQ AFMC/LGP (Mr. Ronald D. Baty)
Supersedes AFMCR 66-56, 11 October 1989                                       Pages: 4
                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction establishes management responsibilities and procedures for organic depot field team
(DFT) operations. It implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance, and AFI
21-102, Depot Maintenance Management. This instruction applies to AFMC field activities where main-
tenance workloads are done by organic DFTs. It doesn’t apply to US Air Force Reserve units or members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction has been reformatted as an AFMC instruction and paragraphs have been renumbered dig-
itally. It provides implementing guidance for higher level policy. The basic guidance for DFT activities is
similar to the existing regulation; however, the depots will develop operating instructions for detail imple-
mentations.


1. General Information. A DFT is an individual or group designated to perform maintenance and/or
inspection of systems or equipment at a place other than the depot facility. DFTs can be all civilian, all
military, or combined, dependent on skills required. Maintenance to be performed may include but is not
limited to:
   1.1. Assistance for field-level work that is beyond field capability according to T.O. 00-25-107 or
   T.O. 00-25-108.
   1.2. Workloads identified by the single manager or higher authority.
   1.3. DFTs won’t normally be used to provide organizational and intermediate (O&I) level mainte-
   nance, other than that required by T.O. 00-25-107/108, or to support other programs that are of
   long-term duration.

2. Approval for DFTs. Approval source for DFTs is dependent on workload size and duration. Work-
loads that are less than ten man-years or have durations 179 days or less are approved at the air logistic
2                                                                            AFMCI21-120 2 MAY 1996


center (ALC). Workloads greater than ten man-years or have durations more than 179 days are approved
by the Senior Business Planners for Depot Maintenance. The ALC/FM_ (Senior Business Planner, SPB)
will represent the center for DFT reviews and approvals. Telephone approval of DFTs for urgent require-
ments may be obtained by telephone from the ALC SBP and HQ AFMC/LGP. The requirement must be a
bona fide emergency and there is insufficient lead-time for processing through a SBP review.

3. Documentation Requirements. All organic DFTs will include mission, design, series (MDS)/type,
model series (TMS), type of work, number of people (military and civilian), type of skills, location, esti-
mated start and completion dates, limiting factors, and justification for organic accomplishment. Docu-
mentations/ records for field team repairs are maintained by the supporting product depot directorate
according to depot level repair records.

4. Material Priorities. The single manager will observe program priorities when satisfying requests for
support material.

5. Responsibilities. Primary management functions required to support a DFT are: reviewing/approving
DFT requests; identifying materials, tools and skills requirements; and planning and scheduling the DFT
activities. Passports, special passes and/or personal identifications, vaccinations and health status require-
ments and other related TDY requirements to meet the laws and regulations of the host country are
responsibilities of the supporting directorate. Normally, the product directorate that provides personnel
with the appropriate skills for the DFT is the primary depot supporting organization. When tasked by the
proper authority, other AFMC activities will provide any needed assistance that is within their capability.
    5.1. Agreements. The primary product directorate for each weapon system will establish a DFT work-
    load agreement with the major commands to define the responsibilities of the DFT and the host unit.
    Generally, the supporting DFT will identify the requirements (skills, tools, materials, kits, support
    equipment, etc.), in conjunction with the requesting customer, to fulfill the request and the host unit
    for the DFT will provide an adequately equipped workplace, tools, materials, kits, and administrative
    support. If unusual circumstances are present, agreement terms are negotiated for a specific DFT
    request. AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization, is used to obtain needed items if normal circum-
    stances do not prevail.

6. Procedures:
    6.1. DFT Request. Product directorate receives request for DFT assistance (from single manager or
    appropriate authority).
NOTE: Single Manager (System Program , Material Group Manager, or Product Group Manager).
    6.2. DFT Request Processing. Send DFT request to product directorate’s preplanning/screening
    review team (planners, schedulers, engineers, financial personnel and other personnel as deemed nec-
    essary).
    6.3. Preplanning Actions. Review team determines requirements (i.e., skills, materials, support equip-
    ment, etc.) including contacting requesting source for clarifications.
    6.4. DFT Request Approval. Review team results are provided to designated approving office sym-
    bol.
    6.5. Post DFT Request Approval. After approval of request for DFT, a planning team is assembled.
AFMCI21-120 2 MAY 1996                                                                                    3


   6.6. Planning Action. Planning chief is appointed; DFT chief identified (civilian or CLSS).
   6.7. Team Action. Planning team, plus supporting organizations as needed, develops all aspects of the
   plan including but not limited to the following:
      6.7.1. Repair Plan. A methodical procedure to make the repair or correction requested.
      6.7.2. Material Requirement List. A list of material identified to make the repair.
      6.7.3. Technical Data. Information (specifications, tolerances etc.) required for a given repair.
      6.7.4. Manning for DFT. Specified skills and number of personnel needed for the DFT.
      6.7.5. Tooling. A list of common and specialized tools required for the DFT.
      6.7.6. PAC Requirements. Production Acceptance Certification program requirements and quali-
      fications needed for the DFT members.
      6.7.7. Quality. Assure procedures used provide a service or product that will satisfy the customer.
      6.7.8. Work Control Documents. Establish as needed.
      6.7.9. Personnel Notification. Notify selected individuals for DFT.
      6.7.10. Internal Points of Contact. Identify supporting directorate points of contact for DFT.
      6.7.11. TDY Requirements. Address TDY requirements (host organization for DFT, pay,
      over-time, sick leave procedures, chain of command, transportation, tool control, shipping,
      interim reporting, return procedures, and related issues).
      6.7.12. Customer Relations. Provide required information to the host unit to support the DFT.
      6.7.13. Environmental Issues. Review tasks and site for environmental compliance.

7. Form Prescribed. AFMC Form 195, Depot Field Team TDY Work Project Summary and Release.
   7.1. Form User. AFMC Form 195 will be completed by the DFT chief upon completion of TDY. The
   Director of Maintenance will complete the verification block and sign the form prior to DFT person-
   nel departing TDY station. Form will be forwarded to applicable liaison office immediately upon
   return from TDY.



                                                    THOMAS W. BATTERMAN
                                                    Deputy Director/Logistics
4                                                                      AFMCI21-120 2 MAY 1996


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMC Supplement to Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Part 90, AFMC Maintenance, Overhaul,
and Modification Contracting 90.5, Contract Field Team (CFT) Program.
AFI 21-102, Depot Maintenance Management.
AFI 21-104, Selective Management of Selected Gas Turbine Engines.
AFMCI 21-107, Tool Control and Accountability Program.
AFMCI 21-108, Production Acceptance Certification (PAC) and Organic Depot Maintenance Quality.
AFMCI 21-117, Corrosion Control and Prevention Program and Marking of Aerospace Vehicles/Equip-
ment.
AFI 23-202, Buying Petroleum Products, and Other Supplies and Services Off-Station.
AFI 24-101, Vehicle Operations, Management, and Use of Motor Vehicles.
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
AFMAN 24-309, Vehicle Operations.
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management and Operations.
AFMCR 66-48, Depot Maintenance Posture Planning.
AFM 67-1, USAF Supply Manual, Volume 1, Part 1, Chapter 1, Section D, Field Visits.
AFI 91-204, Investigating and Reporting US Air Force Mishaps.
AFMCR 400-45, Use of the Combat Logistics Support Squadrons (CLSS).
TO 00-25-107, Maintenance Assistance.
TO 00-25-108, Maintenance of Communications - Electronics - Meteorological and Cryptologic Equip-
ment.
