BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                       INSTRUCTION 36-2813

                                                                                 27 JULY 2011

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                 HQ AFMC HISTORY AWARDS PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/HO                                                    Certified by: HQ AFMC/HO
                                                                              (Dr. William Suit)
Supersedes:   AFMCI36-2813,                                                             Pages: 3
              11 July 2003


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28 Awards and Decorations Programs. It gives
procedures for selecting AFMC historians, museum personnel, and programs for awards and
identifying command nominees for Air Force history and museum awards and competition. It
applies to Headquarters AFMC, AFMC subordinate units staffed with full-time historians, and
AFMC field museums. It does not apply to Air National Guard and US Air Force Reserve Units
and Members. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) at Air Force (AF) Portal:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication supersedes AFMCI 36-2813, 11 July 2003. It clarifies who will retain
possession of the award plaques and the period for which the award recipient(s) is being
recognized (paragraph 1). It eliminates the wing-level categories from the AFMC Excellence in
History Programs Award category (paragraph 1.1). It changes “the Air Force History Career
Contributions Award” to “the Grant M. Hales Career Contribution Award” paragraph 1.3). It
changes “individuals or units” to “individuals, history offices or museums” (paragraph 1.4).
 2                                                              AFMCI36-2813 27 JULY 2011


1. The AFMC History Awards Program is designed to recognize excellence in history
programs, historical publications, and heritage projects. Also, program service awards may
be given to recognize outstanding performance or achievement. When presented, The AFMC
Excellence in History Programs Award will be the possession of the selected Office of History.
The AFMC Excellence in Historical Publication Award will belong to the authors. The AFMC
History Program Service Award will be the possession of either the office or individual(s)
selected for the award. The AFMC Excellence in Heritage Projects Award will be the possession
of the History Office, Museum or individual(s) selected for the award. The AFMC Excellence in
Historical Publications Award and the AFMC Excellence in Heritage Projects Award are based
on work performed the previous calendar year.
     1.1. The AFMC Excellence in History Programs Award recognizes up to two programs
     annually for history programs that have provided superior historical services to their units.
     AFMC may submit one nomination for the Air Force Excellence in History Programs Award
     in the Center, Laboratory and Numbered Air Force category conducted by the Office of the
     Air Force Historian (HQ USAF/HO) for Air Force-wide competition.
        1.1.1. All history offices with current periodic history submissions are eligible for
        consideration. Send nomination packages signed by the unit commander, vice
        commander or chief of staff to HQ AFMC/HO no later than 15 January. Follow criteria
        in AFI 36-2863 and use AF Form 1206 (no more than two pages).
     1.2. The AFMC Excellence in Historical Publications Award may recognize more than one
     outstanding publication. In addition, the winners may represent the command in similar
     competition conducted by HQ USAF/HO for Air Force-wide recognition. All publications
     produced during the past calendar year by AFMC history offices are eligible for
     consideration except commercially edited and published products. Units must submit three
     copies of each publication and an AF Form 1206, limited to two pages, with a transmittal
     memorandum signed by the unit commander, vice commander or chief of staff, to HQ
     AFMC/HO no later than 15 January. The AF Form 1206 should explain the usefulness of the
     publication to the organization and its value to the Air Force. If no publication meets the
     standard and procedural requirements, no award will be presented that year.
     1.3. The AFMC History Program Service Award recognizes an individual or an office for
     sustained outstanding performance, extraordinary achievement, or exceptional contributions
     to the AFMC History Program. Anyone, at anytime, may recommend a deserving individual
     or office by submitting directly to HQ AFMC/HO an AF Form 1206, no longer than two
     pages, with a transmittal memorandum signed by the unit commander, vice commander or
     chief of staff, explaining the accomplishments. Recipients of this award who are retiring or
     are leaving the USAF History and Museum Program, and whose career represented a
     prolonged and sustained record of outstanding performance and impressive achievement in
     advancing the mission and objectives of the Air Force History and Museum Program, may be
     forwarded to HQ USAF/HO for consideration for the Grant M. Hales Career Contribution
     Award.
     1.4. The AFMC Excellence in Heritage Projects Award recognizes individuals, history
     offices or museums fostering a greater appreciation of the Air Force or its subordinate units
     as an institution or of aerospace power as an instrument of U.S. defense policy through
     pamphlets, displays, exhibits, videos, commemorative events or similar projects.
AFMCI36-2813 27 JULY 2011                                                                  3


       1.4.1. Any unit may submit an AF Form 1206, with a transmittal memorandum signed
       by the unit commander, vice commander or chief of staff, to HQ AFMC/HO no later than
       15 January. The AF Form 1206, no longer than two pages, must provide justification for
       the nomination. Include three copies of supporting materials (e.g. pamphlets, DVDs,
       photographs).
       1.4.2. Winners of this award will represent the command in similar competition by HQ
       USAF/HO for Air Force-wide recognition.
2. Presentation of Awards. HQ AFMC/HO will send the award plaques to the respective unit
commanders with a request to arrange a suitable presentation ceremony for award recipients.




                                          JOHN D. WEBER
                                          Command Historian
