BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND 21-141
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                      18 JULY 2008

                                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                           CONTRACT FIELD TEAM (CFT) PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFMC/A4BW                                       Certified by: HQ AFMC/A4D (Ms. Ellen Griffith)
Supersedes AFMCI21-141, 5 August 2005                                                      Pages: 18

This instruction prescribes policy and establishes procedures applicable to activities engaged in Contract
Field Team (CFT) management, procurement and contract administration. CFTs perform organizational,
intermediate, and depot level maintenance and modification of aircraft (including simulators), aerospace
equipment, communications, electronics and meteorological, automatic data processing and cryptologic
equipment, and missile weapon systems, support equipment and vehicles, and miscellaneous logistics
support functions in support of these items. This regulation is applicable to all Department of Defense
(DoD) services. Each service will use the appropriate guidance, and implement appropriate portions of
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, while the Air
Force will implement appropriate portions of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aerospace Equipment
Maintenance Management, AFI 21-102, Depot Maintenance Management, and the Federal Acquisition
Regulation (FAR), current edition. DoDD 4151.18, AFI 21-101, AFI 21-102, and FAR will take prece-
dence if a conflict exists. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publica-
tion are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 38-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision supersedes AFMCI 21-141, Contract Field Team (CFT) Program, Aug 05. This instruction
has been updated to reflect the criteria under which CFTs can be used to supplement Depot Maintenance
activities. In addition, references to Depot On-Site Contractor Augmentee Teams (DO-CATS) are being
moved to an AFMC instruction for Depot Maintenance Workload Management (expected to be published
in CY07).
2                                                                          AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


                                                Chapter 1

                                            INTRODUCTION

1.1. Selection:
    1.1.1. The CFT program augments DoD organic maintenance, repair and modification capabilities at
    the organizational, field, and depot level and responds to surge requirements throughout the world. A
    CFT is a group of contractor maintenance personnel who are provided with government furnished
    tools or equipment, workspace, and supplies to accomplish modification/maintenance/repair effort
    on-site at operational government locations worldwide.
    1.1.2. CFT work shall be limited to supportable programs for operational support of operational air-
    craft, missiles, ground support equipment and vehicles, and miscellaneous logistics support functions
    in support of these items. The measures of supportability are; availability of technical data, tooling,
    and required spares and parts. Elements such as technical complexity, hardware availability and qual-
    ity assurance support are factors, which enter into the decision to use CFTs. Training will be limited to
    On-the-Job-Training (OJT) for tasked resources.
    1.1.3. The choice of CFT for a specific maintenance/modification requirement is the responsibility of
    the using organization in accordance with service contract approval process of that particular organi-
    zation. The proposed work must fall within the scope of the basic CFT contract. The CFT Program
    Office must review all work requests prior to task order award to ensure compliance with CFT pro-
    gram criteria. In order to ensure program supportability, specific restrictions are placed upon the use
    of CFT. These restrictions are:
       1.1.3.1. Complexity of work will be limited to what can be supported by normal base facilities,
       tools, test equipment and supply capability. Size of the proposed CFT effort will be considered to
       prevent exceeding the host base support capability. If an exception to the above will be required,
       advance planning will be needed to determine what modifications are necessary.
       1.1.3.2. CFT tasks that require the extensive use of base/government facility shops (that is, sheet
       metal, machine, electrical) will require the concurrence of the host base documented in the Work-
       load Agreement (WLA).
    1.1.4. The responsibilities assigned to each functional activity by this instruction, AFI 21-101, Aero-
    space Equipment Maintenance Management, and AFI 21-102, Depot Maintenance Management and
    DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, and applicable Service instructions/regulations
    may not be delegated. Although specific functions may be reassigned, the basic responsibility remains
    with the original assignee.
    1.1.5. The host base/government facility provides the support required for the tactical operation and
    maintenance of assigned aircraft and equipment. Input of aircraft and equipment for work will be thor-
    oughly coordinated with the host. The host base shall provide base support to the contractor. Base sup-
    port includes but is not limited to workspace, material, equipment, vehicles, services (including
    network and communications systems for official business) or other support functions that can be
    made available at or through any installation. This also includes respirator fittings and other occupa-
    tional support and training on DoD equipment as required.
AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008                                                                                   3


                                                Chapter 2

                            PREPARATION FOR CFT MAINTENANCE

2.1. Responsibilities.
   2.1.1. The owning Maintenance Unit Commander is the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for
   a particular weapon system or equipment and is responsible for overall management of the mainte-
   nance program for their system, including all planning and preparation for CFT support.
   2.1.2. Planning and preparation of CFT work should receive the same consideration as planning for
   any other maintenance/modification program.
   2.1.3. The owning Maintenance Unit Commander is responsible for assigning a qualified Project
   Officer (PO), Quality Assurance Representative (QAR) and Government Flight Representative/
   Ground Government Flight Representatives (GFR/GGFRs). All assignees should be capable of pro-
   viding surveillance of all tasks the contractor will be performing.
   2.1.4. The owning Maintenance Unit Commander, in conjunction with the PO, is responsible for the
   program-planning phase (the development of customer requirements). In addition, the owning Main-
   tenance Wing Commander and the PO will maintain oversight of the maintenance program and take
   the necessary actions to assure timely initiation and supportability of the program.
   2.1.5. The PO is responsible for support of the contractual phase of the maintenance workload. The
   PO will maintain surveillance and control of the maintenance actions necessary to assure adequate and
   timely completion of the work.
   2.1.6. When the using Command does not accept the Quality Assurance (QA) functions, the owning
   Maintenance Wing Commander will make the necessary arrangements for QA.
   2.1.7. The Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) – Dayton Administrative Contracting
   Officer (ACO) is responsible for those contract administration functions delegated by the OC-ALC
   CFT contracting office. The PO has no contracting authority, or contract administration responsibility.
   These responsibilities are vested in the OC-ALC CFT Program Office for awarding contracts and
   placing orders against them, and in DCMA Dayton OH for contract administration. The ALC Compe-
   tition Advocate will be a participant in all activities leading to award of a contract contemplating other
   than full and open competition. These activities also participate in planning for CFT effort.

2.2. Planning Phase. The unique nature of a program planned for CFT accomplishment requires a more
detailed planning effort than for fixed facility work. It requires coordination by the Maintenance Wing
Commander, PO, the OC-ALC CFT Program Office, using Commands and host bases/facilities, contrac-
tors, and DCMA. The Maintenance Wing Commander and PO will jointly:
   2.2.1. Adhere to the programming events outlined in service specific QA instructions/regulations.
   2.2.2. The owning Maintenance Wing Commander has the primary responsibility to initiate workload
   planning conferences, or repair team meetings, and negotiations with using Commands for any pro-
   posed CFT work. This conference/meeting should include the using Command(s), and other involved
   organizations (host base/camp/station), and if necessary, the CFT Program Office and/or DCMA.
    — Specific attention should be given to:
4                                                                          AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


    — Performance Work Statement (PWS)
    — Quantity to be processed
    — Man-hour requirements (unit-total)
    — Flow time (in/out)
    — Priorities
    — Pre-production prototype (if required)
    — Support required of host base/government facility
    — Length of time team will be on host facility (date of arrival/departure)
    — Anticipated team composition
    — Availability of technical data
    — Theater clearance requirements
    — Safety requirements (contractual and using Command)
    — Conducting an "in-house" pre-award survey
    — Assuring the provisions of this policy are followed
    — Assure all aspects of the planned program have been finalized into a workload agreement
    — Availability of government special tools and equipment
    — Time schedule (activity flow chart)
    — Inspection and acceptance procedures
    — Provide guidance to the base PO and on-site QAR
   — If a Functional Check Flight (FCF) is required, make necessary arrangements with the cognizant
Contract Administration Office (CAO)
     — If the contractor is required to work on, or provide crewmembers for government aircraft, then the
provisions of DCMAI 8210.1, Contractors Flight and Ground Operations (AFI 10-220/AR 95-20/
NAVAIRINST 3710.1) apply. A GFR must be designated by the host activity/base Commander that has
tactical control of the aircraft at the site. This GFR is then delegated authority by the CAO. The delegation
must occur before work commences at the CFT site. The GFR will determine the applicability of DCMAI
8210.1 and notify the contractor of any special requirements.
    — If the contractor is required to work on government aircraft in a ground operations (no Contractor
Flight Operations) only capacity, then the provisions of DCMAI 8210.1 apply. The host activity/base
Commander that has tactical control of the aircraft at the site must designate a GGFR. This GGFR is then
delegated authority by the CAO. The delegation must occur before work commences at the CFT site. The
GGFR will determine the applicability of DCMAI 8210.1 and notify the contractor of any special require-
ments.

2.3. Preparation Phase. The choice of CFT for a specific maintenance/modification requirement is the
responsibility of the using organization in accordance with the service contract approval process of that
particular organization.
AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008                                                                             5


  2.3.1. The Maintenance Commander, acting through his/her appointed PO, shall provide the follow-
  ing to the CFT Program Office (or as otherwise detailed in the Tri-Service CFT Expectation Manage-
  ment Agreement (EMA)):
     2.3.1.1. Purchase Request (PR) or Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR)
         2.3.1.1.1. Include Defense Priorities and Allocation System (DPAS) priorities applicable to
         order
     2.3.1.2. Order PWS
         2.3.1.2.1. Must include Appendix B, Supply Information
         2.3.1.2.2. Must include Appendix C, Safety
         2.3.1.2.3. In addition to normal PWS content, a PWS for an individual CFT task orders shall
         include:
            2.3.1.2.3.1. Sites where work is to be performed
            2.3.1.2.3.2. Work schedule (number of shifts and workweek)
            2.3.1.2.3.3. Schedule Metric (includes required delivery schedule)
            2.3.1.2.3.4. Performance Metric
            2.3.1.2.3.5. Percentage breakout of importance (weighting) of cost/price, schedule, and
            performance
     2.3.1.3. Order Performance Metrics and Method of Measurement
     2.3.1.4. Team Complement (Firm or Estimated)
         2.3.1.4.1. Include estimated number of labor hours by skill
     2.3.1.5. Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)
     2.3.1.6. WLA. Mutual understanding and agreements must be achieved to assure successful
     accomplishment of work. A WLA is properly documented and signed by representatives from
     each government activity involved. A WLA is required as a result of a workload conference (AFI
     21-102, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management). The agreement for CFT work, signed
     by the affected organizations, will describe as a minimum:
         2.3.1.6.1. Designated PO
         2.3.1.6.2. Designated QAR
         2.3.1.6.3. Designated GGFR and GFR
         2.3.1.6.4. Support will be furnished by the Command/base/government facility, such as, facil-
         ities, tools, support equipment, supplies, and personnel, including the support duties to be
         assumed by the PO and other personnel. All equipment and special tools must be verified to
         exist at the facility location, or the facility must be capable of accepting the equipment and
         those special tools
         2.3.1.6.5. Base safety and security responsibilities over and above those safety measures
         inherent in the work to be performed
6                                                                       AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


           2.3.1.6.6. Certain details of the work may require base participation to complete, for example,
           fueling/defueling, aircraft, ground handling, preparation for contractor team, disassembling,
           assembling, flight testing, etc
       2.3.1.7. Ozone Depletion Statement
       2.3.1.8. Customer certification that all required reviews/approvals have been obtained
           2.3.1.8.1. Upon request of the Procuring Contract Office (PCO), information to be utilized in
           contract type determination
       2.3.1.9. Other items as required by order:
           2.3.1.9.1. DD Form 254, Department of Defense Contract Security Form (if required)
           2.3.1.9.2. If Contractor Furnished Material (CFM) exceeds 30% of value of associated labor
           line, provide description of material, rationale for not using normal supply means, get-well
           date for normal supply, and signature of accountable POC
           2.3.1.9.3. If fixed price and includes over and above, or CFM, provide fill-ins for FAR Clause
           52.246-20, Warranty of Services
           2.3.1.9.4. If Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF) or Fixed Price Incentive (FPI), provide recom-
           mended share ratio

2.4. Completion Phase. Prepare the finalized PR in sufficient detail wherein the task outlined is measur-
able. The PR package should contain positive evidence that final arrangements are completed as to the
personnel responsible for the quality assurance and for the CFT PO assigned functions.
AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008                                                                                  7


                                                 Chapter 3

                            PROCUREMENT OF CFT MAINTENANCE

3.1. Responsibilities. The OC-ALC CFT Program Office is responsible for negotiating and awarding the
basic CFT contracts as well as managing CFT funding actions. The OC-ALC CFT Program Office will
reconcile CFT funding actions against the contract Business Intelligence Service (CBIS) system quarterly
to ensure CFT contract actions do not exceed approved contract ceilings. The OC-ALC CFT Program
Office will also place CFT orders for other government department/agency requirements as needed. The
following procedures will be followed in placing the basic contracts and orders against the contracts:
   3.1.1. Basic Contracts. These contracts, in effect, establish an industrial base, which provides a con-
   tractor field maintenance capability. For the purpose of this instruction, this industrial base is recog-
   nized as contractor personnel resources of direct labor, which may supplement United States
   Government resources. It represents an additional number of man-years capacity obtained from one or
   more contractors who are awarded contracts as the result of competitive procedures. Formal source
   selection procedures are preferred. The contract should include the following:
       3.1.1.1. At a minimum, the basic contracts should provide for the issuance for both Firm Fixed
       Priced (FFP) and Time and Material (T&M) orders. FFP is the preferred contract type. All con-
       tract type selections shall have an associated Determination and Findings (D&F) signed by the
       Contracting Officer (CO) and approved In Accordance With (IAW) internal CFT Program Office
       standard operating procedures.
       3.1.1.2. Over and above work request procedures will be included in the basic contract. Each
       order will include over and above provisions when appropriate.
       3.1.1.3. Provide for necessary employee protection overseas.
       3.1.1.4. Provide lists of various skill classifications required, in the contracts.
       3.1.1.5. Emphasize the “non-personal services” nature of a work requirement:
           3.1.1.5.1. The contractor shall be responsible for selecting personnel who are well qualified to
           perform the required services, for supervising personnel, and for keeping them informed of all
           improvements, changes, and methods of operation.
           3.1.1.5.2. The Contracting Officer may direct the contractor to remove, and the contractor
           shall remove, any employee assigned under this contract for reasons of safety, security, or mis-
           conduct.
           3.1.1.5.3. Where the reason for a removal request is due solely to misconduct on the part of
           the employee, replacement will be at the contractor's expense and not chargeable to the gov-
           ernment.
       3.1.1.6. Skills, which are billed as direct labor, other than those included in the team complement,
       should be specifically listed in the contract and priced separately.
       3.1.1.7. A ceiling price, which the contractor would exceed at their own risk, will be placed on all
       T&M orders.
       3.1.1.8. Standardize contractor's management reports as to the format and distribution.
8                                                                            AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


       3.1.1.9. Pre-award negotiations are conducted by the PCO. Terms and conditions should be estab-
       lished prior to issuance of an order. These should include (as a minimum) work specifications,
       repair schedule, team complement, required facilities, Government Furnished Property (GFP),
       starting date and completion date, and a dollar ceiling on T&M orders.
       3.1.1.10. References from The Engineering Society of Advancing Mobility Land, Sea, Air and
       Space International (SAE) AS9100, Rev B Quality Systems – Aerospace – Model for Quality
       Assurance in Design, Development, Production, Installation, and Servicing requirements should
       be included in the contract.
       3.1.1.11. To assure the quantity and quality of tool kits furnished by the contractor, the contractor
       is required to include in their management manual, the minimum contents of each tool kit to be
       furnished for each skill level. The contractor will also provide total tool kit contents.
       3.1.1.12. Definition of a hazardous area must be established for premium pay purposes.
       3.1.1.13. Incorporate a standard safety clause into the basic contracts. Users shall tailor additional
       or revised safety requirements for specific orders. Particular attention should be given to work on
       fueled aircrafts in hangars. The Appendix C attached to specific orders will specify the safety
       requirements, such as defueling an aircraft. If the host base/facility is to fuel/defuel the aircraft, the
       requirement will be included in an agreement with the base/facility.
    3.1.2. A determination of contractor responsibility for specific orders against established contracts is
    not required; consequently, the conduct of a pre-award survey for order placement is not required. The
    elements, which are normally considered in reaching a determination of responsibility, are included as
    part of OC-ALC CFT contracting office recommendation for the selection of a contractor.
    3.1.3. Order Placement. The CFT Program Office negotiates and places orders and modifications.
    These orders must be within the scope of the basic contract and support the industrial base concept, as
    well as comply with the intent of these contracts. The CFT Program Office will endeavor to adhere to
    processing times described in the current Tri-Service EMA. Proper timing of all actions, therefore,
    becomes essential for a successful program and for the prevention of costly, unproductive contractor
    standby time. To better assure successful CFT efforts, each contracting function follows these proce-
    dures in placing orders:
       3.1.3.1. Pre-Planning. Assist the Maintenance Wing Commander in early planning for a CFT
       effort (ref 2.2.2.).
       3.1.3.2. Purchase Request. Verify the adequacy of PR documentation concerning the pre-planning
       described in paragraph 3.1.3.1. Special emphasis should be placed on reviewing the arrange-
       ments and agreements to provide contract administration assistance and host facility support.
       Return PR packages, which do not contain the necessary elements for a procurement action, to the
       initiator for correction. When the PR package is determined to be adequate, the CFT Program
       Office internal operating procedures concerning order placement must be followed to reflect the
       intent of the basic CFT contract, as well as to ensure conformance to FAR policy.
       3.1.3.3. Contractor Selection. The government shall, at its sole discretion, select a contractor for
       each order after an assessment of the selection criteria established in the Request for Proposal
       (RFP) for each projected CFT task order.
       3.1.3.4. The OC-ALC CFT Program Office will designate the source for each order using the cri-
       teria in the following paragraphs:
AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008                                                                              9


        3.1.3.4.1. Unless otherwise publicized in the specific task order RFP, contractor selection is
        based upon overall assessment of the following criteria, the weighting of each to be described
        in the RFP for the individual task order:
        3.1.3.4.2. Price. Comparison between proposed prices.
        3.1.3.4.3. Contractor Performance: Overall CFT performance average score by contractor
        derived from monthly reporting of contractor performance-to-performance criteria in individ-
        ual task orders. The CFT Program Office will accomplish monthly reporting via the DCMA
        Form 104 reporting process with scores maintained in the CFT Control Panel, and validated/
        approved.
        3.1.3.4.4. Contractor Schedule: Overall CFT schedule average score by contractor derived
        from monthly reporting of contractor performance-to-schedule criteria in individual task
        orders. Monthly reporting will be accomplished via the DCMA Form 104 reporting process
        with scores maintained in the CFT Control Panel, and validated/approved by the CFT Program
        Office.
     3.1.3.5. Best Value: The CFT Program Office is authorized to establish a best value analysis in
     particular situations wherein evaluation of additional factors is necessary provided the additional
     factors can be overcome in competition and all factors are identified with weightings delineated in
     the RFP for the particular task order.
     3.1.3.6. Logical Follow-On. It is recognized that there are times when the competitive CFT con-
     tracts are not suitable. In these instances, the contracting activity at the prime ALC may award a
     contract in accordance with FAR, Part 15, Contracting by Negotiation, and justified IAW FAR
     Part 6, Competition Requirements. DCMA Dayton administers competitive and noncompetitive
     CFT contracts.
10                                                                        AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


                                                 Chapter 4

                                CFT CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION

4.1. Contract Administration. Contract administration responsibility is assigned to DCMA as specified
in a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between HQ DCMA and USAF IAW FAR, Part 42, Contract
Administration and Audit Services. This responsibility is executed through an Administrative Contracting
Officer (ACO). This office is designated on the basic contract and all orders as the contract management
office, and embraces several contract related specialties such as quality assurance and production. The
management office functions are to assure that the contractor accomplishes work according to the terms
and conditions of the contract and the subsequent orders.

4.2. Contract Administration Functions. The primary functions are production and performance sur-
veillance. The purpose of this effort is to determine the progress made by a contractor in meeting their
schedule and identifying factors, which may delay delivery or performance. It includes the review and
analysis by the government of a contractor's performance, plans, schedule and controls. In a CFT effort, a
contractor's progress is frequently related directly to the responsiveness of government support, which is
contractually required. Consequently, similar vigilance must be exercised over the government's role in
the CFT effort. This role involves, for example, timely input of assets, Technical Order (TO) support,
hardware and kit support, shop availability, and timely inspection/acceptance. When there is a possibility
of a slippage of production schedules due to the failure of the government to perform the required func-
tion, the ACO and PCO must be notified immediately.

4.3. Production Surveillance. Recognizing that the CFT work is normally done at operational bases, a
balance exists between the operational mission of the base and base support to the contractor. The produc-
tion surveillance category is based on the criticality designator assigned by the contracting officer and
other factors based on the guidance in FAR, Part 42.1104, Contract Administration and Audit Services –
Production Surveillance and Reporting and Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS), current edition. In addi-
tion, the nature of CFT work requires coordination of actions with the contractor and constant surveil-
lance by the base-furnished PO who may be delegated, according to previous agreement with the using
Command. On each order, the ACO/PCO establishes suitable reporting system with each PO and contrac-
tor to provide to the ACO/PCO timely information concerning projected and actual delinquencies (gov-
ernment or contractor), and anticipated schedule slippages.

4.4. The Owning Maintenance Unit Commander will:
     4.4.1. Be the OPR for their particular weapon system or equipment. As such, it is the responsibility of
     the owning Wing Commander to maintain surveillance and control of maintenance programs and
     when necessary, initiate action to ensure timely and adequate accomplishment.
     4.4.2. Appoint a PO, an on-site QAR and GFR/GGFR as required, to perform surveillance of the con-
     tractor.
     4.4.3. Participate with the contract administration activity in the Post-Award Orientation Conference
     (PAOC), as required.
AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008                                                                             11


   4.4.4. Through the period of performance, report monthly contractor performance to schedule and
   performance objectives via the CFT Form 104, Reporting Process, anticipate difficulties, and resolve
   problems that occur.

4.5. CFT Management. Because of the centralized administrative control of the CFT program at
DCMA, all CFT management and contractor performance reports, which are required under the terms of
the contracts, are sent to DCMA via the CFT Form 104, Reporting Process, for management indicators
and for use by the CFT Program Office in the contractor selection process. Therefore, information con-
cerning production problems, actual vs. negotiated hours, and other experience data is obtained from the
ACO. DCMA will forward the performance information obtained in these reports to the CFT program
office.
12                                                                         AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


                                                 Chapter 5

                         SPECIAL CFT ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURES

5.1. Special Administration Procedures. When the modification installation does not conform to con-
tract requirements, the following procedures apply in determining the action to be taken:
     5.1.1. The contractor classifies each departure from contract requirements as either a Class I or Class
     II departure. For the purpose of this regulation, the departures are defined as follows:
        5.1.1.1. Class I-Departure (Deviation). Any non-conformance that could by itself or by its relation
        to other components result in failure or malfunction, involves safety of personnel using or main-
        taining the item, adversely affects performance, durability, interchangeability, reliability, materi-
        ally affect weight, or otherwise result in failure of the end product to properly perform its intended
        function (included are any departures affecting price).
        5.1.1.2. Class II-Departure (Variation). Any departure from established standards or workman-
        ship, or other similar standards, in a manner or to a degree which has no significant bearing on the
        effective use or operation of the item or related components and which does not involve any fac-
        tors listed under Class I – Departure.
     5.1.2. The ACO, or when authorized, the designated PO reviews the contractor's classification. If
     there is any disagreement with the contractor as to the proper classification, it must be treated as a
     Class I-Departure.
     5.1.3. Class I & II Departures, unless corrected, cannot be accepted without approval of the System
     Program Depot Manager (SPDM) and PCO. Accordingly, requests for authorization to accept Class I
     & II Departures are prepared and submitted to the Wing Commander through the ACO for authoriza-
     tion.
AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008                                                                                 13


                                               Chapter 6

                                CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY

6.1. Contractor Responsibility.
   6.1.1. Contractor’s Workbook. A procedural element in the CFT contractor's system is the contrac-
   tor's workbook. This is required for all but the most unsophisticated programs where the applicable
   Air Force Technical Order(s) (AFTO) Forms 349, Maintenance Data Collection Record (work card)
   or the Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO) itself might suffice as the maintenance plan. The
   workbook is essential to assure uniform quality maintenance in accordance with the contract work
   specifications.
       6.1.1.1. The workbook, which is prepared and maintained by the contractor, must provide specific
       and uniform step-by-step directions for accomplishing work accurately, economically, and safely.
       6.1.1.2. Workbooks must specify component removals, inspections and reinstallations that affect
       quality and must include warning and caution notes where failure to follow prescribed procedures
       could result in injury to personnel or damage to government property. Removal and reinstallation
       of items (including lines, fittings, components, etc.), when required to gain access to another com-
       ponent, will be listed as separate entries in the workbook.
       6.1.1.3. Include quantitative criteria (dimensions and tolerances) in the workbook, either by actual
       values or by references to the drawing or TO. The workbook also includes criteria essential for
       determining the acceptability of work performed.
       6.1.1.4. The contractor maintains and retains workbooks and other pertinent records in accor-
       dance with the contract requirement. In addition, sufficient documentation must be maintained by
       the contractor for a period of not less than 12 months from date of activity, incident, or action to
       assist in any accident investigation that may be conducted in accordance with AFI 10-501, Pro-
       gram Action Directives (PAD) and Programming Plans (PPLAN), or other service equivalent pro-
       gramming directive.
   6.1.2. Skills Certification. The requiring activity has the responsibility to establish training and cer-
   tification requirements for CFT technicians. Each task order will specify qualification and certifica-
   tion requirements based on the work to be performed and the nature of the CFT. Specific certification
   must be readily available and a formally established program must exist to record and identify
   required task certification. For AF managed CFT efforts, the contractor shall comply with applicable
   requirements of AFMCI 21-108, Maintenance Training and Production Acceptance Certification
   (PAC) Program, Chapters 3 and 4 provide documentation of an equivalent system, which is verifiable
   by the contracting officer.
14                                                                        AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


                                                Chapter 7

                                        PROPERTY CONTROL

7.1. Property Control. Property control on CFT should emphasize simplicity through the following pro-
cedures:
     7.1.1. Government Furnished Materiel (GFM ). Include an Appendix B, Supply Instructions in
     CFT delivery orders when appropriate. When not appropriate, a statement must be placed in the PR
     remarks block and accompany the PR to explain why an Appendix B is not required. The base or facil-
     ity where the work is being performed is responsible for providing equipment and material support to
     the contractor and for maintaining the official property records for all GFM provided under the con-
     tract.
        7.1.1.1. Brand Compliance. The PO may designate brand specific compliance in Appendix B,
        Supply Instructions. This direction should be used to align GFP with currently utilized equipment
        or tooling at the owning ALC.
     7.1.2. CFM. When appropriate, and for T&M efforts, the contractor will acquire needed items as
     CFM.
     7.1.3. Turn-In. The PO assures all GFP is turned in to the base supply activity when work is com-
     pleted. When GFP is required at another worksite, approval of the owning activity is obtained prior to
     moving this property to another site.
     7.1.4. Tool Control. Due to the potential of lost tools and the extremely critical nature of aerospace
     vehicle maintenance and repair, contractors are required to comply with identical tool control stan-
     dards as AFMCI 21-107, Tool Control and Accountability Program. The contractor shall comply with
     applicable requirements of AFMCI 21-108, Maintenance Training and Production Acceptance Certi-
     fication (PAC) Program, chapters 3 and 4 or provide documentation of an equivalent system that is
     verifiable by the contracting officer.
     7.1.5. Reporting for Task Orders including Government Property
        7.1.5.1. CFT Task Orders with a one-year period of performance shall require contractor reporting
        to the PO, a listing of Government Property on hand at the beginning and end of task orders.
        7.1.5.2. CFT Task Orders, with a multi-year period of performance, shall require contractor
        reporting (material listing) of Government Property on hand to the PO at the beginning and end of
        task orders, as well as reporting on hand Government Property annually.



                                                TIMOTHY L. DUES, Deputy Director
                                                Directorate of Logistics
AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008                                                               15


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DCMAI 8210.1/AFI 10-220/AR 95-20/NAVAIRINST 3710.1E, Contractor’s Flight and Ground Opera-
tions
DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Material
AFI 10-501, Program Action Directives (PAD) and Programming Plans (PPLAN)
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-102, Depot Maintenance Management
AFMCI 21-107, Tool Control and Accountability Program
AFMCI 21-108, Maintenance Training and Production Acceptance Certification (PAC)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACO—Administrative Contracting Officer
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
CAO—Contract Administration Office
CFM—Contractor Furnished Materiel
CFT—Contract Field Team
CO—Contracting Officer
CPIF—Cost Plus Incentive Fee
D&F—Determination and Findings
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
DFARS—Defense FAR Supplement
DO-CATS—Depot On-Site Contractor Augmentee
DoD—Department of Defense
DPAS—Defense Priorities and Allocation System
EMA—Expectation Management Agreement
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FCF—Functional Check Flight
FFP—Firm-Fixed Price
16                                                              AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


FPI—Fixed Price Incentive
GFM—Government Furnished Materiel
GFP—Government Furnished Property
GFR—Government Flight Representative
GGFR—Ground Government Flight Representative
IAW—In Accordance With
MIPR—Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OJT—On-The-Job-Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAC—Production Acceptance Certification
PAD—Program Action Directives
PAOC—Post-Award Orientation Conference
PCO—Procuring Contracting Office
PO—Project Officer
PPLAN—Programming Plans
PR—Purchase Request
PWS—Performance Work Statement
QA—Quality Assurance
QAR—Quality Assurance Representative
QASP—Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan
RFP—Request for Proposal
SPDM—System Program Depot Manager
T&M—Time and Material
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
TO—Technical Order
WLA—Workload Agreement

Terms
Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO)—A contracting officer assigned the responsibility for
administration of a U.S. Government contract.
Contract Administration Office (CAO)—The Government office, which performs assigned pre-award
and post-award functions as they pertain to contract administration.
AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008                                                                                17


Contracting Activity—Then Oklahoma City ALC (OC-ALC/PK) CFT Program Office is responsible for
negotiating and awarding the basic competitive CFT contracts.
Contract Field Team (CFT)—Contractor maintenance personnel who may be provided with
Government-furnished equipment, supplies and special tools to accomplish depot level maintenance/
modification at operational Government location(s) identified in the contract. The work involves
depot-level maintenance tasks and may include concurrent organizational and intermediate level tasks.
The contractor provides supervision, personnel and hand tools for required work.
Contractor Furnished Material (CFM)—Property procured or otherwise provided by the contractor for
the performance of the Time and Material (T&M) effort of a contract.
CFT Technician—May be any approved skill, which is listed in the team compliment and required by a
using activity to perform a specific task in relation to performance of a CFT order.
Direct Labor—Labor which (1) increases the value or utility of a product by altering the composition,
condition, conformation, or construction of the product, or provides a service directly to the customer
rather than in support of other direct labor of the Directorate of Maintenance; (2) can be accurately,
consistently, and economically identified to a product, group of products, or customer; (3) is supported by
official work requests and authorized by prescribed workload agreement documents indicating the
specific nature of work to be done.
Government Flight Representative (GFR)—Individuals designated by the host base (or host activity)
Commander to provide surveillance over risk to Government Aircraft in accordance with DCMAI 8201.1,
Contractors Flight and Ground Operations. (AFI 10-220/AR 95-20/NAVAIRINST 3710.1). The
Commander, which maintains tactical control over the aircraft, appoints this individual. The CAO also
provides a GFR who is the liaison that assists site GFRs.
Ground Government Flight Representative (GGFR)—Individuals designated by the host base (or host
activity) Commander to provide surveillance over risk to Government Aircraft in accordance with
DCMAI 8201.1, Contractors Flight and Ground Operations, (AFI 10-220/AR 95-20/NAVAIRINST
3710.1), where Contractor Flight Operations (crewmember duties, engine/APU runs) are not being
conducted. The Commander that maintains tactical control over the aircraft appoints this individual. The
CAO also provides a GGFR who is the liaison, which assists site GGFRs.
Host Base—The base, post, station, or other location where work is performed by the CFT.
Logical Follow On—When the requiring activity provides supporting information to the OC-ALC CFT
contracting office, that it is in the best interest of the Government not to perform a competitive source
selection. In addition, a Determination and Finding (D&F), shall be documented and approved at the
appropriate level.
Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center (OC-ALC)—CFT contracting office. The office at Tinker Air
Force Base with the primary responsibility for issuance of CFT orders.
Procuring Contracting Office (PCO)—A contracting officer assigned the responsibility for issuance of
a U.S. Government contract. This designation is used to differentiate from an ACO, or supporting ACO
when one is appointed.
Project Officer (PO)—Individual designated by the host base (or host activity) Commander to provide
the contractor team the required logistical and base support. Person charged with the overall surveillance
of the CFT operation at their work site. When approved/agreed to by the host activity/base Commander,
18                                                                      AFMCI21-141 18 JULY 2008


the project officer may be delegated contract administration functions or tasks by the CAO. Any contract
administration function or tasks must be delegated in writing and must clearly define the functions and/or
tasks to be performed.
Quality Assurance Representative (QAR)—The Government’s host base representative normally
designated by host base (or host activity) Commander who performs surveillance over the contractor’s
quality assurance program. This individual will ensure all quality assurance functions are accomplished
and documented in accordance with the host base policy and CAO guidance. The on-site QAR will
perform in-process inspections, final inspection, process proofing and acceptance of all contractually
specified items.
Using Commands—DoD departments, major Air Force Commands, including the Air National Guard,
Air Force Reserves, Security Assistance Recipients and other federal agencies.
