BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              AFMC INSTRUCTION 65-605
AIR FORCE MATERIAL COMMAND                                                                   25 JULY 2003

                                                                                   Financial Management

                                                                       PROGRAM MANAGEMENTS
                                                                ADMINISTRATION (PMA) GUIDANCE



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: AFMC/FMBM (Mr. Edward B. Arnold)                                       Certified by: HQ AFMC/FMB
                                                                               (Ms. Sharon King-Roberts)
Supersedes AFMCI65-605, 25 Jul 97                                                                 Pages: 8
                                                                                           Distribution: F

The instruction implements AFPD 65-6, Budget. The purpose of this instruction is to establish consistent
application of funding PMA costs for acquisition programs. This instruction does not apply to the Air
National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units and members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
The instruction has revised, updated and combined provisions of superceded AFMCI 65-605, 25 July
1997 and incorporated new definitions of PMA, direct mission support (DMS), and indirect mission sup-
port (IMS) from AFI 65-601, Vol. I. It further defines component parts of technical order costs.


1. General Information. PMA is the cost of mission essential program office operations in direct sup-
port of a program. Prior to FY96, PMA was only funded with RDT&E and O&M funds. Beginning with
FY 96, the Air Force implemented a change to include procurement funds for PMA costs so as to directly
associate all weapon system costs to the appropriation of the specific weapon system or modification
(R&D, procurement and O&M). By achieving this purpose, PMA funding is consistent with Congres-
sional intent to reflect the full cost of each weapon system providing greater cost visibility. Additionally,
program managers gain increased control and flexibility to execute and deliver their programs.
   1.1. The following directives and guidance provides for support of PMA funding:
       1.1.1. DoD Financial Management Regulation DoD 7000.14-R states that Investment/R&D pro-
       grams pay for program related expenses. The following are excerpts:
           1.1.1.1. “R&D programs and the cost coverage of RDT&E appropriations will be deter-
           mined... based on the principle that all RDT&E related effort should be funded in the RDT&E
           appropriations so that it can be assessed from a priority standpoint with other similar pro-
           grams. When...there is doubt as to the proper assignment of costs between appropriations, the
2                                                                        AFMCI65-605 25 JULY 2003


           issue should be resolved in favor of using RDT&E funding.” (Para. 10210 B.)
           1.1.1.2. “The type of costs to be financed by RDT&E and related appropriations are: ...The
           operation of R&D installations/activities engaged in the conduct of R&D programs, including
           direct and indirect efforts, expense and investment costs.” (Para. 10210 C) Program offices
           managing an R&D program are considered an R&D activity in terms of R&D program,
           project, or activity (PPA).
       1.1.2. Congress has maintained a position that requires the Secretary of Defense to ensure that
       O&M funds are not used for activities that should be more appropriately funded from the procure-
       ment or research and development appropriations (FY95 Defense Authorization Conference
       Report).
       1.1.3. An appropriation law principle states that an “appropriation to carry out enabling or autho-
       rizing laws must be expensed in strict accord with the original authorization as to the amount of
       funds to be expensed and the nature of work authorized." (Principles of Federal Appropriations
       Law, Chapter 2, paragraph C.2.(a))
       1.1.4. AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Paragraphs 8.50.1 through 8.50.6, 17 Nov 02, and AFM 65-604,
       Oct 2001 provide policy and implementation guidance regarding the PMA costs.
       1.1.5. DFAS-DE/ANAC Memo, 1 Apr 96, provides accounting instructions to implement the
       recording and reporting of PMA costs, including direct citing the procurement appropriations, in
       the Base-Level Accounting and Finance System (GAFS/BQ). DFAS guidance was sent to AFMC
       Center FMs and DAOs effective 1 Apr 96.
       1.1.6. HQ AFMC/FMP Memo, 14 Jun 99, “AFMC Long Line Account Structure and Revised
       ‘Zero Fill’ Guidance” provides the “type A” structure accounting format to be used for PMA.
       1.1.7. AFMCI 65-601, Intracommand Support, establishes consistent application of AFMC reim-
       bursement policy for intracommand relationships within AFMC. It defines above standard support
       as a level of support service reimbursable by the program offices for a peculiar/unique type of ser-
       vice required by an activity to achieve its specific mission objectives.

2. Budget Implementation Rules:
    2.1. PMA costs will be charged to the appropriation funding the task, or portion thereof, being sup-
    ported. In other words, PMA charges will be funded based on the nature of work it is supporting. (See
    Figure 1.)
       2.1.1. PMA costs will be budgeted in RDT&E consistent with long standing guidelines.
       2.1.2. Procurement funds will pay PMA costs directly supporting production program activities.
       PMA costs in direct support of procurement tasks will transition to the procurement accounts
       beginning with the first year a procurement quantity is included in the budget request. Procure-
       ment appropriations will be used to fund PMA cost in the following categories:
           2.1.2.1. For appropriation 3010, all programs in Budget Programs 10, 11, and 13.
           2.1.2.2. For appropriation 3011, all acquisition categories (ACAT) I and II programs
           2.1.2.3. For appropriation 3020, all programs in Budget Programs 20, 21, and 23.
           2.1.2.4. For appropriation 3080, all acquisition categories (ACAT) I and II programs.
AFMCI65-605 25 JULY 2003                                                                                3


      2.1.3. Activities that support program sustainment are chargeable to O&M.
      2.1.4. In those circumstances where distinction between Procurement and O&M/RDT&E PMA is
      not readily discernible, or where PMA costs cannot be tied to an individual program(s) or modifi-
      cation(s), the issue should be decided in favor of O&M or RDT&E as appropriate.
   2.2. PMA funding will not be split between appropriations for a single effort.
   2.3. PMA funds will be budgeted and executed only in the first year of availability. Unobligated bal-
   ances will not be used in the second or third year of availability to finance PMA requirements. If cir-
   cumstances arise which may warrant an exception, prior written approval must be obtained from SAF/
   FMBI. Requests should be forwarded directly to SAF/FMBI with a copy sent to HQ AFMC/FMP.
   2.4. When termination of a program is directed by Congress, the Air Force or OSD, the most recent
   funds appropriated for the program shall be used first to fund day-to-day operating requirement neces-
   sary to execute the termination.
   2.5. All modification programs must implement PMA with procurement funds. See 2.5.2. for excep-
   tion.
      2.5.1. A separate line should not be made in P-series documentation for modification or any other
      PMA support.
      2.5.2. For budgeting and cost tracking, Mod PMA costs are to be accounted for in the modifica-
      tion the PMA supports (See Table 1.). Where Mod PMA costs cannot be allocated/budgeted to
      specific individual modifications, costs are funded with O&M, unless weapon system is undergo-
      ing concurrent modification and production. If concurrent modification and production effort is
      ongoing, production funds may pay costs not identifiable to specific mods. Air Staff (SAF/FMBI)
      has directed that if insufficient current year funds exist in a particular mod line to support PMA,
      current year funds should be realigned from other mod lines within the same weapon system to
      source the PMA requirements based on priority of need.

Table 1. Funding PMA for Weapon System Modifications.
Type of Weapon System Modification      Budget Action Required
Single Mod For Single Weapon System     Fund PMA In Mod Line
Single Mod For Multiple Weapon Systems  Fund PMA In Each Mod Line
Multiple Mods To Single Weapon System   Fund PMA In Each Mod According To Weapon
                                        System Support
All Other Mod PMA Costs That Can Not Be Fund With O&M Type Funds. Exception: Use
Directly Associated With Individual Mod production funds only if concurrent modification
Effort                                  and production effort is ongoing
   2.6. PMA costs are distinguishable from weapon system specific costs (direct mission use) by the use
   of the Responsibility Center/Cost Code (RC/CC) and element of expense investment code (EEIC) in
   the accounting classification. The accounting classification for PMA costs should be written as shown
   in Table 3. for fund type “A” accounting structure. This structure conforms to the HQ AFMC/ FMP
   Memo, "AFMC Long Line Account Structure and Revised 'Zero Fill' Guidance," 14 Jun 99. As an
   option, a weapon system modification number (correlating to a RC/CC field for the first 4 digits) can
   be inserted in the RC/CC field of the accounting classification for tracking PMA costs as appropriate.
4                                                                       AFMCI65-605 25 JULY 2003


    Review the “Zero Fill” guidance at
    https://www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/HQ-AFMC/FM/fma/fmab/fmabf/fmabf.htm.

3. Accounting Implementation Rules:
    3.1. DFAS-DE has provided accounting instructions and procedures to implement the recording and
    reporting of PMA costs and to direct cite procurement funds for production related PMA costs in the
    base level General Accounting & Finance System (GAFS/BQ). The intent of these procedures is to
    keep the same accounting classification structure (Fund Type A structure) as is being used in RDT&E
    Management and Support (M&S). The elements of expense/investment codes (EEIC) and responsibil-
    ity center/cost center (RC/CC) will be used in the fund cite/accounting classification. The RC/CC for
    fund type A will replace the materiel program code (MPC) field for fund type C. The following are
    DFAS-DE procedures effective beginning in FY97.
       3.1.1. Record PMA costs only in GAFS/BQ, not in the Central Procurement Accounting System.
       3.1.2. The AFMC "Zero Fill" Guidance provides the "Type A" structures and examples for central
       procurement and RDT&E PMA accounting classifications.
       3.1.3. Record EEIC not MPC in fund type “A” records. GAFS/BQ will accept only budget pro-
       gram activity code (BPAC), program element (PE), EEIC, and RC/CC in fund type “A” records.
       3.1.4. Do not use a “3” in the fourth position of the EEIC due to critical DFAS-DE Departmental
       MAFR requirements for progress payments.
    3.2. Data Base Transfer (DBT) Reporting. DBT MAJCOM report generator programs will extract and
    report all data elements (except RC/CC) in the GAFS/BQ. This is comparable to RDT&E manage-
    ment and support costs.
    3.3. Master Appropriation Reference Table (MART). The MART performs a presence edit validation
    on MPC/EEIC. Although MART allows a 3 or 5 position field, it is recommended that 5 positions
    always be provided for standardizing the use of accounting classification for both GAFS/BQ and
    CPAS. An EEIC data value is required for fund codes 11, 15, 17, and H8 to acknowledge PMA costs.
    3.4. Year-End processing in the GAFS/BQ. DFAS-DE/ANAC updates applicable MART files to
    carry-over PMA records “as is” to retain complete identity and integrity.
    3.5. Integrated Automated Travel System (IATS) Interface into GAFS/BQ. GAFS/BQ generated
    Fund Summary Records (FSRs) and PSRs will update the proper accounts for “For-Self processing.”
    3.6. Standard Base Supply System (SBSS) Interface with GAFS. SBSS cost center expense/ obliga-
    tion/ report records recognize all standard data elements, to include PEC, RC/CC, and EEIC, required
    to successfully interface with GAFS.
AFMCI65-605 25 JULY 2003                                                                                     5


Table 2. PMA Allowable Support Costs.
             Type of Service                                      Examples
1. Contract Services for Program Office Program office computer support, configuration
Operations                                management costs, cost estimating/analysis, and
                                          consulting services (including TEMs, CITA and FFRDC
                                          or A&AS type contracts).
2. Travel in Support of Program Office Program office travel supporting Program Management
Efforts                                   Reviews, Negotiation Reviews, and Defense Acquisition
                                          Board (DAB). PMA procurement and RDT&E
                                          appropriation TDY funding will not be provided to
                                          higher HQ management staff for administrative reviews.
3. System Program Office (SPO) supplies Off-base program office space rental. Unique (above
and equipment purchases, rentals, leases, standard) equipment maintenance leases to include
and maintenance.                          copiers, fax machines, on-demand repair contracts, and
                                          special graphics support.
4. Unique Communication Expenses          Program office video teleconference networks, direct
                                          long distance line with prime contractors.
5. Program Office Specific Training       Specialized short-term technical training for program
                                          office assigned personnel that directly relate to
                                          performance of functions in support of the direct mission
                                          program (e.g., Selected Acquisition Report (SAR)
                                          preparation training). This does not include funding
                                          college degrees on either full time or part time basis.
                                          Degrees are funded by host base or career program
                                          training funds.
6. Printing and Reproductions             Program office printing for DABs and Requests for
                                          Proposal (RFP).
NOTE: PMA funds will not be used to totally furnish an administrative office building with standard
office furniture on an Air Force installation. The cost of furniture for a general purpose administrative
office building on an installation is a BOS cost of the installation. It is not the responsibility of the first
occupant(s), regardless of who that occupant(s) is, to furnish a general purpose administrative office
building with standard office furniture. The fact there was an oversight and someone at the base forgot to
budget for the furniture does not then place the burden of furnishing the building with office furniture on
the first occupant(s), regardless of the first occupants' source of funds. When the PMA concept was imple-
mented in 1996, it was never intended that a SPO would use procurement dollars to furnish a general pur-
pose office building on an installation.
6                                                                       AFMCI65-605 25 JULY 2003


Figure 1. PMA Conceptual Funding.




Table 3. Investment Appropriations-Administrative Use.
     APPN       FC&PY     OAC ASN      BPAC      (RC/CC)       EEIC            PEC          ADSN
    57x3010       11x        xxxx      xxxxxx     xxxxxx     xxx00     or   000000     or   xxxxxx
                                                               xxxxx          xxxxxx
    57x3011       H8x        xxxx      xxxxxx     xxxxxx     xxx00     or   000000     or   xxxxxx
                                                               xxxxx          xxxxxx
    57x3020       15x        xxxx      xxxxxx     xxxxxx     xxx00     or   000000     or   xxxxxx
                                                               xxxxx          xxxxxx
    57x3080       17x        xxxx      xxxxxx     xxxxxx     xxx00     or   000000     or   xxxxxx
                                                               xxxxx          xxxxxx
    57x3600       29x        xxxx      xxxxxx     xxxxxx     xxx00 or         xxxxxx        xxxxxx
                                                               xxxxx
    Examples
    5733010       113        4798      11119Y     231100       40900          000000        503300
    5733600       293        4722     6606UB      231100       40900          64707F        527900

NOTE: Accounting structure for the investment funds above is only used for program management
administration, supporting the government management of a program. This accounting structure is similar
to Fund Type A used for RDT&E Management and Support Funds.



                                                   FRANK R. FAYKES, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                   Director, Financial Management & Comptroller
AFMCI65-605 25 JULY 2003                                                                                   7


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Direct Mission Support (DMS) Costs—Those costs, other than payroll costs for government personnel,
that provide for an end item or operational capability for a weapon system or common item. These include
costs such as technical orders, sustaining engineering, contractor logistics support, and equipment
installation. Advisory and Assistance Services (A&AS) and Federally Funded Research and
Development Center ( FFRDC) contractor support are also DMS costs if they provide for an end item
operational capability for a weapon system or common item. They also include the following tech order
costs: editing (includes alignment, integretion, composition of data), contractor quality assurance,
printing, and mailing.
PMA Allowable Costs—Those costs, other than payroll costs for government personnel, that support the
operation of a program office in its management and oversight role. These include costs such as travel,
printing, supplies, equipment, program office unique computer and communication costs, and
pre-litigation (before contractor files appeal with ASBCA or initiates action in court) costs such as
evaluation of claims. A&AS and FFRDC contractor support to a program office are also PMA if they
support the functions of government personnel in managing a weapon system or common item.
Programming for these requirements can be accomplished in several ways. Typically, for specific weapon
system programs, PMA is funded out of the weapon system PEC in either the RDT&E or production
appropriation, and is advocated by the using MAJCOM. Specific weapon system PMA in O&M is
programmed and budgeted by AFMC in their respective PEs. For common systems, PMA is funded in
RDT&E and Procurement where appropriate or the O&M appropriation out of one of the two Product
Support Mission Area (PSMA) infrastructure PECs -- PE72806 for product centers and PE 78070 for the
logistic centers -- and is advocated by AFMC. See Table 2. for matrix of allowable costs.
PMA Nonallowable Costs—PMA costs do not include civilian pay or overtime pay, standard base or
installation operating support, or costs associated with Headquarters level support. Also excluded from
PMA are the costs of tech orders including editing (includes alignment, integration, composition of data),
contract quality assurance, printing and mailing; weapon system contract engineering (R&D, production
or maintenance) and contractor logistics support and contract litigation costs. Once litigation begins (e.g.,
a contractor files an appeal with the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals or initiates an action in
court), litigation support costs, such as expert evaluation, are funded with O&M. These PMA cost
exclusions are funded consistent with existing policy guidance contained in AFI 65-601, Volume 1 and
Air Staff direction. Excluded costs fall under the cost categories of base operating support (BOS),
Acquisition/Logistics Infrastructure or Direct Mission Support.
Indirect Mission Support (IMS)—Those costs, other than payroll costs for government personnel, that
provide the Product Support Mission Area infrastructure at a center. These tasks allow the center to
perform its primary product support mission (e.g., general support, mission area management, and
product line management). IMS costs include travel, printing, supplies, equipment, staff office unique
computer and communication costs, and other functional home office support costs. A&AS and FFRDC
contractor support to a staff office is also IMS if it supports the functions of the government personnel in
managing these cross-cutting activities. In all cases, IMS is advocated by AFMC.
BOS Costs—These are base O&M type costs to provide common infrastructure support required by all
8                                                                     AFMCI65-605 25 JULY 2003


installation offices regardless of mission.
Above Standard Support—A level of support or service that exceeds the standard support services
(common use infrastructure) established by the supplier. Includes program requirements for peculiar or
unique types of services. These services directly support and benefit programs and achieve mission
objectives in a more efficient and cost effective manner. The program office is responsible for PMA
funding.
Standard Support—Level of support to include common BOS and IMS is O&M funded by the host/
supplier.
