BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 AFMC INSTRUCTION 65-602
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                           21 FEBRUARY 2006

                                                                                  Financial Management

                                                       UNIFORM REIMBURSEMENT AND PRICING
                                                                            PROCEDURES



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFMC/FMPM                                                           Certified by: HQ AFMC/FMP
       (Mr. Edward B. Arnold)                                                  (Ms. Sharon King-Roberts)
Supersedes AFMCI 65-602, 25 Aug 98                                                              Pages: 39
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 65-6, Budget. It provides guidance defining responsibilities and pro-
cedures for budgeting, funding and reporting RDT&E support costs. Logistic support cost guidance is
provided in AFMCI 21-113, Contract Maintenance Program for Depot Maintenance Business Area
(DMBA), and AFMCI 21-111, Depot Maintenance Business Area (DMBA) Financial Operating Proce-
dures. This instruction gives guidance on use of uniform direct funding, reimbursement and pricing guid-
ance among test centers and laboratories. It describes funding relationships between AFMC program and
project managers and Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD)-designated (Test and Evaluation (T&E))
activity. Chapter 2 implements DoDD 3200.11, Major Range and Test Facility Base - Summary of Capa-
bilities, and DoD 7000.14R, Vol 11A, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (Reim-
bursable Operations, Policy and Procedures). It applies to Air Armament Center (AAC) 46th Test Wing,
Arnold Engineering Development Center (AEDC), Air Force Flight Test Center (AFFTC), tenants and
detachments of these T&E activities that require T&E support and managers of AFMC programs and
projects that require T&E support. Chapter 3 implements programming and budgeting portions of AFI
65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures. It applies to the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL)
technology directorates and research sites. This instruction does not apply to funding for base support ser-
vices that are provided under AFMC intracommand, Air Force interservice, or interdepartmental support
agreements. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard or to US Air Force Reserve units
and members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision aligns the instruction with AFPD 65-6. The instruction has been revised and updated to
reflect recent changes to DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chapter 12, Department of Defense Financial Man-
agement Regulation, Reimbursable Operations, Policies and Procedures, Major Range and Test Facilities,
and the impact of recently revised AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures. Changes include
deletion of Ancillary Variable Indirect Cost (AVIC) from this instruction and implementation of new
charging policy for DoD customers at AFMC Test Centers effective 1 Oct 05. Paragraph 2.2. was revised
2                                                                                       AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


to reflect Section 232 of the FY 2003 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) reference charging
institutional and overhead costs of a facility or resource to the major test and evaluation investment
accounts. Examples of directs costs and indirect costs were updated IAW FY2003 NDAA and DoD
implementing guidance. The AVIC concept, which permitted “direct charging” for certain indirect cost to
DoD customers, is not supported by the Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards (SFFAS).
The use of AVIC is not authorized after 30 Sep 03. DoD customers will not be charged more than direct
costs, which have been redefined for users of Test Centers. However, non-DoD government and commer-
cial customers may still be charged appropriate indirect costs. Within this instruction, where originally the
word “Commander” was used when referring to the Commander of a field unit, the words “Commander/
Civilian Director” has been substituted.

Chapter 1— REIMBURSEMENT CONCEPTS AND TERMINOLOGY                                                                                          4
      1.1.    Terms Explained. .......................................................................................................     4
Table 1.1.    OSD-Designated Major Range and Test Facility Base. ...........................................                               5
Table 1.2.    AFMC T&E Activities. .............................................................................................           8

Chapter 2— BUDGETING AND FUNDING FOR T&E AT MAJOR RANGE AND TEST
          FACILITY BASES (MRTFB)                                                                                                          12
      2.1.    Funding Guidance for T&E. ......................................................................................            12
      2.2.    Reimbursement Guidance for Direct Costs. ..............................................................                     14
      2.3.    Indirect Costs Not Reimbursable by DoD Users. ......................................................                        15
      2.4.    Capital Test Investments. ...........................................................................................       16
      2.5.    Division of Responsibility. ........................................................................................        17
      2.6.    Document Procedures. ...............................................................................................        18

Chapter 3— BUDGETING AND FUNDING FOR LABORATORY SUPPORT                                                                                   21
      3.1.    Application of Instruction. .........................................................................................       21
      3.2.    Laboratory Costs. .......................................................................................................   21
      3.3.    Funding Guidance. .....................................................................................................     21
      3.4.    Areas of Responsibility. .............................................................................................      24
      3.5.    Funding Procedures. ..................................................................................................      25
      3.6.    Program Management Interface. ................................................................................              28
      3.7.    Prescribed IMT. AFMC IMT 277. .............................................................................                 28

Attachment 1— LABORATORY REIMBURSEMENT GUIDE MATRIX                                                                                       29

Attachment 2— AFRL OFFICE ADDRESS LIST FOR FUNDING DOCUMENTS                                                                              32

Attachment 3— PUBLIC LAW 103-160, SECTION 846                                                                                             33
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                3


Attachment 4— TEST CENTER REIMBURSEMENT GUIDANCE MATRIX.   34

Attachment 5— REIMBURSABLE CODE TABLE BY CUSTOMER          36

Attachment 6— INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AFMC IMT 277     38
4                                                                    AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


                                                  Chapter 1

                     REIMBURSEMENT CONCEPTS AND TERMINOLOGY

1.1. Terms Explained.
    1.1.1. Basket Program Elements. Program elements consisting of partially or totally independent
    projects.
    1.1.2. Final Cost Objective.
       1.1.2.1. For R&D Activities. The estimated cost of a reimbursable order at a technical directorate,
       based on acceptance of a funded order to support a customer program, project, task, or work unit.
       1.1.2.2. For T&E Activities.
           1.1.2.2.1. A job order set up at a T&E activity to account for support of a customer or in-house
           program, project, task, or work unit.
           1.1.2.2.2. A specific test facility, such as a sled track, instrumentation site, test and support air-
           craft, climatic hangar, or wind tunnel, for which the direct cost will be prorated to job orders
           (T&E programs, basket program elements, projects, tasks, or work units) in a product service/
           standard rate.
    1.1.3. Fixed Price. A price agreed on by the ordering and federal government performing activities,
    based on historical cost or other acceptable data. The Job Order Cost Accounting System (JOCAS II)
    or other HQ AFMC/FM-approved cost accounting system must be used to track actual costs.
    1.1.4. Institutional Funding: AFRL or T&E operating costs funded with direct budget authority
    (DBA) (i.e., laboratory 06XX Management and Support (M&S) Program ) which are not directly
    identifiable to a customer program (i.e., indirect costs).
    1.1.5. OSD-Designated MRTFB. The T&E activities are in Figure 1.1.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                           5


Table 1.1. OSD-Designated Major Range and Test Facility Base.


Army Activities
White Sands Missile Range (WSMR)
Electronic Proving Ground (EPG)
High Energy Laser Systems Test Facility (HELSTF)
Yuma Proving Ground (YPG)
Dugway Proving Ground (DPG)
Aberdeen Test Center (ATC)


Navy Activities
Naval Air Warfare Center - Weapons Division, Point Mugu
Naval Air Warfare Center - Weapons Division, China Lake
Naval Air Warfare Center - Aircraft Division, Patuxent River
Atlantic Undersea Test and Evaluation Center (AUTEC)
Pacific Missile Range Facility (PMRF)


Air Force Activities
45th Space Wing
30th Space Wing
Air Armament Center, 46th Test Wing (Eglin Air Force Base),
including 46th Test Group (New Mexico)
Nevada Test and Training Range (NTTR)
Utah Test and Training Range (UTTR)
Arnold Engineering Development Center (AEDC)
Air Force Flight Test Center (AFFTC)


Defense-Wide Activities
Joint Interoperability Test Command (JITC)

   1.1.6. Product/Service/Standard Rates. Computed cost rates that are established for products and ser-
   vices and used to determine charges to a job order. Product service/standard rates, by definition, are
   costs prorated across the final cost objectives to which they are applied. They are average costs that
   can be used in estimating and charging. Use of these rates is encouraged. For these rates to be used,
   follow specific guidance in DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 4, Department of Defense Financial Management
   Regulation (Accounting Policy and Procedures), Chapter 20 and AFMC direction as follows:
6                                                                 AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


       1.1.6.1. Either historical data or engineering studies, from which rates can be developed, must be
       available and included for estimating future inflation.
       1.1.6.2. The activity must review and validate all product service rates at least quarterly, and
       update if rates vary from actual costs by plus or minus 5 percent. At the end of the fiscal year, if
       these material variances (plus or minus 5 percent) between the product service rate and actual
       costs still exists, variances will be distributed to each customer via adjusted billings to either
       recoup the shortfall or refund the excess to customers.
       1.1.6.3. The rates must be applicable to the product or service. Product and service costs that dras-
       tically change or volume that cannot be easily identified will not be considered for rate computa-
       tion.
       1.1.6.4. The JOCAS II or other HQ AFMC/FM approved cost accounting system must be used to
       support the creation or validation of the product service rates, unless Air Force-wide rates are
       used.
       1.1.6.5. Procedures on how the rates are computed, validated, and updated, including application
       of future inflation, must be published. Procedures should include the use of production and facility
       capacity in rate development and include engineering studies as a means to develop and validate
       rates when studies are more cost effective or more reliable than historical data. The procedures
       must allow for an audit trail and must be applied uniformly and consistently. A rate that cannot be
       validated within plus or minus 5 percent should not be used. Update if rates vary from actual costs
       by plus or minus 5 percent after each quarterly review. The locally documented procedures should
       also include the methodology for charging and refunding customer variances between product ser-
       vice/standard rates and actual costs at fiscal year end. If a rate cannot be validated in subsequent
       years, that rate will be discontinued and actual cost will be used.
    1.1.7. RDT&E Management & Support (M&S) Program. M&S programs provide for the operation
    and maintenance (O&M) of R&D facilities (including AFRL/test centers) and RDT&E work at Air
    Force facilities. These programs are funded by an 06XX project within a 6.1 or 6.2 Research category.
    General policies and procedures that apply to these programs are in AFI 65-601, Vol 1, Chapters 4 and
    10. M&S programs are sometimes called RDT&E O&M-type projects. In AFRL, an R&D category
    6.2 PE may have both mission projects and an M&S project; for example, mission project 4506 and
    M&S project 06RA are in PE 62702F (AFI 65-601, Vol 1, para 13.1).
    1.1.8. RDT&E Mission Program. Consists of all RDT&E work done under contract with private
    industry, educational institutions, Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDC),
    other government agencies, or accomplished in-house. (Excludes the technical directorates 06XX
    project funding.) RDT&E mission programs are investment type programs that improve the Air Force
    overall mission capability rather than the daily O&M of installations and facilities (AFI 65-601, Vol 1,
    para 13.1).
    1.1.9. Reimbursable Order. Reimbursable orders must be supported by valid obligation of customer
    funds or advance deposit of cash from nongovernmental customers. A timely acceptance of the essen-
    tial terms must occur for a binding agreement. The customer who posts the obligation is responsible
    for insuring an agreement was reached before the funds expired. Four forms commonly used for reim-
    bursable orders include the following:
       1.1.9.1. AF IMT 185, Project Order. Project orders may be used for contractual services, travel,
       equipment or other miscellaneous requirements when these costs are incidental to the overall
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                           7


     project order effort (DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chapter 2, Project Orders). Authority for project
     orders is in Title 41 United States Code (USC) 23.
     1.1.9.2. AF IMT 406, Miscellaneous Obligation Reimbursement Document. A MORD is a
     temporary obligating document or, in rare cases, a document in lieu of an actual obligating docu-
     ment. It is used to temporarily record known obligations when the required documents to support
     the obligation transactions are not immediately available. The funding activity has the responsibil-
     ity to provide sufficient information in the description to enable financial management to deter-
     mine the validity of the obligation and that the amount is reasonable. Estimated amounts may be
     recorded on the MORD provided the estimate is changed to the actual amount at the end of the
     month or when the actual amount becomes known (General Accounting Office (GAO) Policy and
     Procedures Manual, Title 7, paragraph 16.1). The standards for the proper recording of obligations
     are found in 31 USC 1501. The primary purpose of this law is to ensure that only those transac-
     tions that meet specified standards for legitimate obligations are recorded.
     1.1.9.3. DD Form 448, Military InterDepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR). Reimbursable
     MIPRs are normally for in-house support services; for instance, an agreement between a host and
     tenant organization. All MIPRs must quote the statutory authority that applies to the purchase on
     the face of the MIPR. Either the acquisition is authorized by a specific authority that stands alone
     or it falls under the authority of the Economy Act. Guidance is provided in Federal Acquisition
     Regulation (FAR) 17.5; DFARS 217.500-504; and DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Ch 3. Economy Act
     Authority is in 31 USC 1535. When reimbursable MIPRs commit funds in support of orders to be
     placed with an agency outside the DoD, and a specific statute other than 31 U.S.C. 1535 (The
     Economy Act) is cited as the basis for the order, extra precautions are required. Evidence of a pre-
     existing written service agreement, i.e., a memorandum of agreement (MOA), memorandum of
     understanding (MOU), or Universal Order Format, citing the authority for acceptance of the order
     should accompany the MIPR. See DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Ch 1, General Reimbursement Pro-
     cedures and Supporting Documentation, March 1, 1997, ,paragraph 010204. Documentation Stan-
     dards. A signed determination of superior capability must be made by the responsible Services
     Designated Official (AFFARS 5337.503-90) if the order is to be performed principally through the
     award of contract or delivery order to a third party,
     1.1.9.4. AFMC IMT 277, Reimbursable Order. This form is used as a project order (in lieu of
     the AF IMT 185) if the program manager is assigned within the supporting research site/technol-
     ogy directorate.
     1.1.9.5. Cooperative Research and Development Agreements (CRADA). Directives include DoD
     Directive 5535.3; AFPD 61-3; and AFI 61-301. Authority is supported under 15 USC 3701 and 15
     USC 3710a.
  1.1.10. Test Center/AFRL Technical Directorates Deferrals. Deferrals represent unfunded amounts
  due the test centers and AFRL technical directorates (TD) for work accomplished based on reimburs-
  able orders. Test centers and AFRL TDs should have established procedures to:
     1.1.10.1. Obtain the activity commander/civilian director’s written approval to start or continue
     work prior to receiving funding documents.
     1.1.10.2. Track the deferrals or stop work when the test center or TD does not receive funding
     documents.
8                                                                 AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


       1.1.10.3. Inform customers in advance that work will exceed the amount previously funded by
       them.
       1.1.10.4. Collect funding from customers for all unfunded work. Customers are billed upon
       receipt of funding for unfunded work accomplished based on reimbursable orders.
       1.1.10.5. Accomplish a review of deferred unfunded projects three times yearly, at the same time
       as the tri-annual certification review of commitments, obligations, unliquidated obligations and
       expenditures occurs.
    1.1.11. Termination Costs. Costs incurred by a Technical Directorate or T&E activity that are charge-
    able to the customer/user program if the requirement is terminated. These are costs incurred after
    acceptance of the project order or reimbursable order, including preparation for test /effort. Costs of
    customer/user caused cancellations, aborts or rescheduling will be included in the termination costs.
    1.1.12. T&E. AFI 99-101, Developmental Test and Evaluation, defines T&E.

Table 1.2. AFMC T&E Activities.
AAC
Eglin AFB FL 32542 –5000
(Send funding documents to AAC/FMB)
AEDC
Arnold AFB TN 37389 –500 0
(Send funding documents to AEDC/FMB)
AFFTC
Edwards AFB CA 93523 –5000
(Send funding documents to AFFTC/FMAP)
388th Fighter Wing
Hill AFB UT 84056-5000
(Send funding documents to AFFTC/FMB)
46th Test Group
Holloman AFB NM 88330-5000
(Send funding documents to 46 TG/XPF).

    1.1.13. Total Operating Program. Consists of the institutionally funded portion (DBA) of the activity
    and the amount reimbursed (reimbursable budget authority (RBA)) from the user funds.
    1.1.14. Types of Cost.
       1.1.14.1. Direct Costs. Expenses that can reasonably, economically, and consistently be identified
       immediately and directly to a customer (user) program, project or a final cost objective and that
       are documented on a job order. "Immediately" and "directly" mean at the time the expense is
       incurred; for example, when direct labor expense is incurred or when TDY orders are processed.
       Direct costs may derive from contractor support or work done in-house. R&D costs initially
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                          9


     incurred in the Technical Directorates’ operating programs will be reimbursed by the customer
     programs. T&E direct costs are limited to those costs funded from a T&E (test center) activity's
     operating program. For MRTFBs, see paragraph 2.2. for determining direct costs at test centers.
     Direct costs that support a customer program, project, task, or work unit include, but are not lim-
     ited to, the following (which are consistent with AFI 65-601, Vol 1, chap 7, section I): Exception:
     MRTFB installations should use paragraph 2.2. for determining direct costs at test centers.
        1.1.14.1.1. Military labor costed at standard rates and accelerated for leave, holiday and other
        personnel cost factors. (NOTE: Military labor is not reimbursable from DoD customers/users
        and a specific category of FMS customers for materials, services and training, based on Sec 21
        of the Arms Export Control Act and DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 15, Department of Defense Finan-
        cial Management Regulation (Security Assistance Policy and Procedures), para 070104.)
        1.1.14.1.2. Civilian Labor. The hourly rate for regular hours, including an acceleration factor
        (i.e. Civilian Benefit Acceleration Rate (CBAR)) for related personnel benefits such as Fed-
        eral Insurance Contribution Act (FICA), thrift savings plans, retirement, life insurance, health
        benefits, earned leave, and holidays. Overtime, holiday pay, and night differential are figured
        at the normally authorized rates, without an acceleration factor. Civilian Personnel Fringe
        Benefit Rates (http://www.dod.mil/comptroller/rates/fy2006/2006_d.pdf) are also used in
        conjunction with a leave and holiday factor of 18% to develop the CBAR.
        1.1.14.1.3. Material (including bench stock, less any credit allowed for exchangeable items
        returned).
        1.1.14.1.4. Equipment, and its maintenance and repair due to usage. Operating costs of equip-
        ment dedicated full-time to a customer program, project, task, or work unit. Costs are deter-
        mined either through the use of product service/standard rates for prorating to all users or
        through actual accounting procedures. Non-dedicated equipment used in direct support of a
        customer program will be charged based on an hourly standard rate.
        1.1.14.1.5. Miscellaneous contractual services, including T&E activity O&M contractual ser-
        vices.
        1.1.14.1.6. Printing, photos, and reproduction.
        1.1.14.1.7. Proficiency training for a specific customer/user program, project, task, or work
        unit requirement.
        1.1.14.1.8. Travel and per diem to support specific user programs, project, task, or work unit.
        1.1.14.1.9. Transportation cost of supplies and equipment or other materiel identified as direct
        costs.
        1.1.14.1.10. Technical support equipment and instrumentation required for a particular user or
        program, and its installation, maintenance, and removal (if required).
        1.1.14.1.11. Civil engineering work requirements for a customer. Includes test facility config-
        uration changes and reconfiguration to return the facility to its original condition.
        1.1.14.1.12. Facility O&M when the facility is dedicated to a specific user.
        1.1.14.1.13. Real property leases dedicated to a customer program.
10                                                              AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


        1.1.14.1.14. Automated data processing equipment (ADPE) support, including prorated rental
        and maintenance charges, billed to laboratory or test center customers through product service/
        standard rates.
        1.1.14.1.15. Any charges to a laboratory facility or T&E activity for support provided by
        another organization and directly identifiable to a customer program.
        1.1.14.1.16. Premission and postmission checkout and calibration when identified for a spe-
        cific customer.
        1.1.14.1.17. Project Management Planning for the customer program after the customer
        project order is received.
        1.1.14.1.18. Utility costs for a customer program if determined by metering, engineering esti-
        mates, or use of a standard rate or price for a specific user project or task or other final cost
        objective. Fixed costs that reduce unit costs can be prorated across all users. (NOTE: Applica-
        ble only if the Technical Directorate or T&E activity must pay for utility costs from RDT&E
        funds.)
        1.1.14.1.19. Contract administration services as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation
        (FAR) 42-302. These are reimbursable only by non-DoD customers. (NASA will be charged at
        the hourly rate established by DoD according to the DoD/NASA Agreement on Contract
        Administration and Related Services.)
     1.1.14.2. Indirect Costs. Items of cost which are 100 percent attributable to support a mission, but
     not directly supporting a specific internal project, including task, work unit, or customer effort
     (e.g., personnel costs above the first line of supervision). They do not produce the primary product
     or service and are within a direct reporting cost center, that cannot be identified specifically to a
     single final cost objective. They include institutionally funded operating costs for AFRL and test
     center operations not reimbursed under the direct cost funding guidance. For MRTFBs, see para-
     graph 2.3. for specific indirect costs at test centers. For AFRL, these costs are programmed and
     budgeted in the mission BPACs. Indirect costs normally include but are not limited to the follow-
     ing. Exception: MRTFB installations should use paragraph 2.3. for determining indirect costs at
     test centers.
        1.1.14.2.1. Labor costs of supervisors, administrative personnel, and support personnel not
        directly identifiable to a specific customer program; time spent in general proficiency training
        schools; maintenance; and testing equipment and facilities to keep them in a ready-to-use sta-
        tus.
        1.1.14.2.2. Material such as administrative supplies and supplies for maintaining laboratory
        equipment.
        1.1.14.2.3. Maintenance by contract of general use equipment.
        1.1.14.2.4. Equipment purchased to maintain a level of effort at a technical directorate or test
        center. Maintenance costs of test support aircraft and ground support equipment to include a
        pro rata share of depot maintenance and depot level reparables (DLR).
        1.1.14.2.5. Miscellaneous contractual services not directly identifiable to a customer program.
        1.1.14.2.6. Training of Government employees in order to gain a level of skill not required for
        a specific customer.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                           11


         1.1.14.2.7. TDY travel for supervisory, staff, or administrative duties.
         1.1.14.2.8. Transporting supplies and equipment that are not charged as direct cost.
         1.1.14.2.9. Utilities (if funded by AFRL or test center RDT&E) that cannot be directly identi-
         fied to a customer or final cost objective.
         1.1.14.2.10. Rental and maintenance charges for ADPE that is not identifiable to a customer
         program.
         1.1.14.2.11. Maintaining the operational capability of significant test equipment and facilities
         such as centrifuges and noise measurement chambers.
         1.1.14.2.12. Operating or using administrative motor vehicles to maintain a basic level of
         capability.
         1.1.14.2.13. Planning costs, involving management and technical consultation functions, for a
         laboratory's or test center's basic mission.
         1.1.14.2.14. Communications equipment, and its installation and maintenance, for the normal
         operation of a technical directorate or test center.
         1.1.14.2.15. Warm-up, setup, and shutdown time when multiple users are involved or when
         not directly identifiable to a customer or final cost objective.
         1.1.14.2.16. Other elements of cost, not identified above, that cannot be immediately and
         directly identified to a customer or final cost objective.
     1.1.14.3. General and Administrative (G&A) Overhead Costs. Costs that are less than 100 percent
     attributable to a specific mission and are therefore allocated to all functions/outputs. They support
     or assist the overall facility as a whole such as housekeeping, operation and maintenance, contract
     maintenance, miscellaneous contractual services and general support. For AFRL, cost includes
     headquarters operating support (civilian pay, TDY, supplies, training and facility maintenance).
  1.1.15. Disposition of Excess Earnings. Reimbursable collections received in excess of reimbursable
  obligations are normally returned to the customer (see para 1.1.6.2.). These returns are called refunds.
  However, if there are any excess funds received and not returned to the customer, excess collections
  should be deposited to a Treasury miscellaneous receipt account (DFAS-DE 7010.1-R, General
  Accounting and Finance Systems at Base Level). Refunds should be credited to the same appropria-
  tion or fund account to which the previously related expenditure was recorded (AFI 65-601, para
  5.11). Excess earning must not be used to finance unfunded institutional (DBA) requirements.
12                                                                    AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


                                                   Chapter 2

BUDGETING AND FUNDING FOR T&E AT MAJOR RANGE AND TEST FACILITY BASES
                              (MRTFB)

2.1. Funding Guidance for T&E.
     2.1.1. T&E activities will be financed on a total operating program basis. Direct costs of T&E support
     provided to users will be funded by the program or project requiring the support and will become a
     reimbursement to the performing T&E activity. Other operating costs, including indirect costs at T&E
     activities, will be institutionally funded or customer-funded depending who the requiring activity is
     (para 2.1.3.). RBA for T&E is available for use only to the extent that reimbursable orders are
     received, according to DFAS-DE 7200.1-R, Administrative Control of Appropriations. Normally,
     reimbursements realized may not include filled orders (earned) in excess of or in the absence of valid
     orders received, except as explained in AFMCI 65-603, Official Representation Funds-Guidance and
     Procedures. In an emergency for federal government customers only, the performing activity com-
     mander/civilian director (or the comptroller or comparable official, as delegated) may approve start-
     ing work in the absence of an order, or continuing work in excess of customer funds, by establishing
     an AF IMT 406, Miscellaneous Obligation Document ( MORD), using the DFAS-DE procedures out-
     lined in sub-paragraphs 2.1.2.1. through 2.1.2.6. Justification for extending a MORD must be docu-
     mented in writing and approved by the commander/civilian director or comptroller. Costs exceeding
     reimbursable orders will be recorded in RBA funds but will not be billed pending an increase in the
     order. If the order has not been increased sufficiently to cover documented costs, the excess reimburs-
     able amount will be charged to the T&E activity's DBA according to AFMCI 65-603.
     2.1.2. The reimbursable order must be a valid obligation of the customer. T&E activities do not have
     to determine that the customer actually recorded an obligation, but there must be a reasonable assur-
     ance that a valid customer obligation exists to pay the bill when the order is filled. When it is physi-
     cally impossible for the customer to provide the completed (signed) order to the performing T&E
     activity to support a test on the first day of the fiscal year, if required (para 2.6.2.1.), or on the start
     date for the services if during the fiscal year, the T&E activity may use a MORD, to record the reim-
     bursable order information as received by telephone, electrically transmitted message, and so on. In
     order to support the entry on MORD until the T&E activity receives the formal reimbursable order,
     both the T&E activity and the customer must document the action taken, the date, the amount
     involved, the reimbursable order number, and the name of the authorizing official. DFAS has issued
     guidelines for using MORDs to record obligations and reimbursements by all activities serviced by
     DFAS-DE consolidated operations. The DFAS procedures include the following:
        2.1.2.1. MORDs received must be supported by official documentary evidence, such as project
        orders, MIPRs, or contract documents. Those with insufficient data will be returned without
        action.
        2.1.2.2. MORD numbers will be recorded and tracked on official obligation and reimbursement
        documents.
        2.1.2.3. All FMs will establish internal procedures to monitor use of MORDs for recording of
        obligations and reimbursements and to correct transactions not properly prepared.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                             13


     2.1.2.4. Each MORD will be tracked until official documents are received or the MORD is can-
     celed.
     2.1.2.5. Except for recurring monthly expenses, all comptrollers will be notified in writing if offi-
     cial obligating documents are not received within 60 days of recording the MORD.
     2.1.2.6. MORDs will be canceled within 90 days unless the delay in getting the documents is jus-
     tified in writing and the expected date of receipt is provided.
  2.1.3. The comptroller of the T&E performing activity will determine the method of reimbursement:
  fixed price or cost incurred ( DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chapter 2, Project Orders, discusses this sub-
  ject).
     2.1.3.1. Non-DoD federal agencies are normally billed direct costs, including military labor, plus
     indirect costs including management and other costs (overhead), excluding depreciation, military
     retirement and the unfunded portion of civilian retirement. MRTFB commander/civilian directors
     shall charge an appropriate amount of indirect costs. Any indirect costs incurred, but not customer
     billed shall be billed the activity’s institutional funds.
     2.1.3.2. Commercial users will be billed for all direct costs that are associated with the T&E activ-
     ities conducted by the commercial entity (see Attachment 3). In addition, 10 U.S.C. 2681 allows
     the contract to include a provision that requires the commercial entity to reimburse for such indi-
     rect costs related to the use of the installation as the Secretary of Defense considers to be appropri-
     ate. The charges to commercial customers are to be at least as large as the marginal (additive) cost
     of providing the service. The commander/civilian directors of the Air Force major range and test
     facility bases have been delegated the authority from Secretary of the Air Force to enter into a
     commercial contract under 10 U.S.C. 2681 with a domestic concern and determine the amount of
     indirect costs to charge and include in such a contract provision. Neither military retirement,
     unfunded civilian retirement, asset capitalization, nor depreciation shall be charged to the com-
     mercial customer. However, there are three exceptions to using the authority under 10 U.S.C.
     2681: (1) Commercial space launch activity at the 30th and 45th Space Wings will be priced under
     provisions of the Commercial Launch Act of 1984 (amended in 1988 and 1991); (2) when the use
     of a T&E Activity has been included in a contractual agreement with a commercial user as govern-
     ment-furnished services, the commercial user will be charged based on the category of the con-
     tractual federal agency executing the contract (DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, paragraph 120203B.5.);
     and (3) foreign governments will be billed full cost, unless a government agreement is in force
     (treaty, foreign military sales (FMS) agreement, or other negotiated agreement) that provides oth-
     erwise (also see para 1.1.16.1.1). Under exception 2, the commercial customer must provide the
     performing agency with the DoD contract number and full text of the requirement paragraph to
     justify the sponsored customer receiving a preferential DoD based rate. See FAR 45.302-4. Reim-
     bursable orders will indicate if the test effort is in support of FMS (para 2.6.2.2.). Commercial
     users will meet the requirements of AFI 99-102. In some cases, AFI 61-301, The Domestic Tech-
     nology Transfer Process and the Offices of Research and Technology Application, may apply.
     Nonfederal agencies, excluding commercial users, will be billed for full costs. DoD 7000.14-R,
     Vol 11A, Chapter 4 gives guidance on pricing of services provided to nonfederal customers. FMS
     customers are covered in DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 15, Chapter 7.
  2.1.4. Organizational channels for requirements and reimbursements between organizations (respon-
  sible test organizations (RTO), participating test organizations (PTO), and other test support organiza-
14                                                                   AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


     tions) and customers will be determined during program planning and included in the program
     management plan (PMP). This will include customer responsibility for funding. Each test organiza-
     tion will be responsible for planning, programming, and funding all test support, including support
     required of other organizations. All organizational relationships will be shown in the test management
     plan, PMP, or equivalent document. AFI 99-103 describes RTO and PTO responsibilities.
     2.1.5. As a rule, users will be billed for costs related to aborts and cancellations. The liability usually
     will not exceed the direct costs incurred, except for those facilities scheduled in advance for a specific
     period. In this case, liability may also include lost reimbursements, unless the T&E activity is able to
     schedule a substitute workload.
     2.1.6. Reimbursable orders issued by DoD customers on a fixed price basis will cover only current
     fiscal year requirements and will provide funding for all effort required during the fiscal year. For
     actual cost agreements, full funding from all customers is required for the fiscal year effort except dur-
     ing periods of continuing resolution authority when incrementally funded orders are permitted. Reim-
     bursable work will not be started until an order is received or known to exist (para 2.1.2.). Emergency
     or quick response T&E support may be provided in the absence of an order; when approved by the
     T&E activity commander/civilian director or comptroller (para 2.1.1., also see AFMCI 65-603 for a
     discussion of appropriation reimbursements). When emergency or quick response support is
     approved, an AF IMT 406 will be prepared based on the information that prompted the approval. AF
     IMT 406 will include the amount of effort approved and will be used to support the recording of an
     unfilled customer order in the accounting records pending receipt of the actual order. Orders received
     from state and local governments, foreign governments, corporations, or individuals are recognized
     only when cash has been received and deposited in the US Treasury, unless this requirement is specif-
     ically waived by HQ AFMC/FMF.
     2.1.7. Prestatement of capability (pre-SOC) direct costs may be reimbursed. Costs for management
     and technical consulting, however will be funded institutionally. Test centers should carefully evaluate
     support provided to differentiate reimbursable pre-SOC from nonreimbursable consulting costs. Users
     must be informed in advance when pre-SOC costs will require reimbursement. Test center com-
     mander/civilian directors are encouraged to make judicious use of the $5,000 waiver authority. Rough
     estimates needed by users for planning purposes should be limited. Rough estimates should be funded
     institutionally by the test organization.
     2.1.8. Each program manager is responsible for programming and funding those capital investments
     in test capability that are unique to that manager's program. Issues in this area will be resolved accord-
     ing to para 2.4.

2.2. Reimbursement Guidance for Direct Costs. Direct costs are subject to reimbursement according
to the T&E direct cost funding guidance. As a result of Section 232, Objective for Institutional Funding of
Test and Evaluation Facilities, of the FY03 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) (P.L. 107-314),
the institutional and overhead costs of a military department or Defense Agency within the Major Range
and Test Facility (MRTFB) will be fully funded starting in FY06. Therefore, the charge to a DoD organi-
zation using MRTFB equates only to the direct costs. HQ USAF/TE Memo, 23 Sep 05, provided guidance
for the Air Force implementation of the new MRTFB charging policy required by the FY03 NDAA. This
guidance defines what types of costs that are included in direct costs, which are reimbursable by DoD
organizations. They are listed below. This guidance also defined indirect costs which are listed in para-
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                                15


graph 2.3. and are non-reimbursable by DoD organizations. According to this guidance, DoD customers
will not be charged more than the following direct costs:
   2.2.1. Costs which are directly attributable to the use of the facility or resource for testing under a par-
   ticular program over and above institutional and overhead costs with respect to the facility or
   resource.
   2.2.2. Costs supporting a single customer are direct costs.
   2.2.3. Costs supporting multiple customers that are direct costs include:
       2.2.3.1. Civilian labor that is project specific.
       2.2.3.2. Contractor labor for total cost of fixed price/fixed schedule contracts for specific custom-
       ers and project specific miscellaneous contracts.
       2.2.3.3. Project specific TDY.
       2.2.3.4. Project specific training.
       2.2.3.5. Consumables such as aviation fuel, supplies, film and materials.
       2.2.3.6. Customer specific equipment including maintenance.
       2.2.3.7. Utilities that can be attributed to a customer.
       2.2.3.8. Other range support – secondary effort such as MRTFB to MRTFB transfers.
       2.2.3.9. Above standard institutional support.
       2.2.3.10. Damage caused by a test article or customer.
   2.2.4. Investment costs and the O&M support for a capability or capacity unique to a customer’s test
   are direct costs.
   2.2.5. The costs to revitalize an existing capability for a particular customer are direct costs.
   2.2.6. The cost to remove and return a capability to storage status when the usage can be attributed to
   a specific customer is a direct cost.
   2.2.7. Contract support costs (including contract G&A, award and incentive fees) attributable to a
   customer that are incurred in preparing for, conducting and recovering from a specific program are
   direct costs.
   2.2.8. Since the FY03 NDAA does not affect the charging policy for commercial and non-DoD cus-
   tomers of the MRTFB, these customers will continue to be charged up to the full cost, as determined
   appropriate by the DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR) and the MRTFB commander/civil-
   ian director. Agreements with non-DoD customers to charge at DoD rates should be reviewed to deter-
   mine the intent of the agreements (i.e. DoD sponsored test). The purpose of this review is to assure
   that equitable costs are passed on to the sponsored customer based on the original negotiated terms. If
   written agreements contain wording that infers the parties will be charged the same rates as received
   by DoD customers, further evaluation of the terms of the agreement by the MRTFB legal staff is
   required.

2.3. Indirect Costs Not Reimbursable by DoD Users. Indirect costs are not reimbursable by DoD cus-
tomers per the FY03 NDAA, starting in FY06. These costs include institutional and overhead costs and
16                                                                  AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


must be funded through DBA. This list contains the most recent indirect costs cited in HQ USAF/TE
memo, 23 Sep 05. For additional information, see DOD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chapter 12, paragraph
120203B.1.a(2).
     2.3.1. Indirect cost supporting multiple customers includes:
        2.3.1.1. Civilian labor non-project specific.
        2.3.1.2. Civilian PCS.
        2.3.1.3. Contractor labor that is non-project specific and miscellaneous contract services that are
        non-project specific.
        2.3.1.4. Non-project specific TDY.
        2.3.1.5. GSA vehicle and fuel.
        2.3.1.6. Standard Base Operating Support (BOS) utilities, custodial and grounds maintenance.
        2.3.1.7. Equipment, facility, plant maintenance, restoration, modernization and sustainment.
        2.3.1.8. Operations and maintenance of utilities infrastructure not attributable to a specific cus-
        tomer.
        2.3.1.9. Non-projects specific supplies.
        2.3.1.10. Test and test support aircraft costs (except fuel), includes Depot Level Reparables
        (DLRs) and Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDMs).
        2.3.1.11. Non-project specific training.
     2.3.2. The cost of maintaining, operating, upgrading or modernizing an MRTFB facility or resource
     are institutional and overhead costs that are planned and programmed to sustain sufficient capability
     and capacity to support known requirements. Un-programmed requirements, which drive additional
     maintaining, operating, upgrading or modernizing costs and which cannot be resolved between the
     MRTFB activity, customer and MAJCOM, will be referred through channels to the Air Force Corpo-
     rate Structure for resolution.
     2.3.3. O&M support for a capability or capacity that will become part of the MRTFB’s infrastructure
     and support multiple customers are institutional and overhead and should be programmed in the MAJ-
     COM’s POM submission.
     2.3.4. MRTFBs are required to track indirect customer costs through FY08. Periodic meetings will be
     held during and after the implementation of the new charging rules. It will be determined in the meet-
     ing when tracking indirect costs are no longer required.
     2.3.5. Contract support costs (including contract G&A and incentive fees) not attributable to a spe-
     cific customer that are incurred in preparing for, conducting, and recovering from several programs
     are indirect costs.

2.4. Capital Test Investments.
     2.4.1. Capital test investments include but are not limited to the following:
        2.4.1.1. Instrumentation (both internal to weapon systems and ground support).
        2.4.1.2. Aerospace vehicles and test beds and their support facilities.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                              17


       2.4.1.3. Nonexpendable space, airborne, mobile, and static targets.
       2.4.1.4. ADPE used primarily to support test or test data processing or used in command and con-
       trol of instrumentation and other test resources.
       2.4.1.5. Communications-electronics that support tests.
       2.4.1.6. Electronic warfare simulators and computer simulations and models.
       2.4.1.7. Ranges (such as gunnery and munitions).
       2.4.1.8. Laboratory equipment for test support.
       2.4.1.9. Shop equipment for test support.
       2.4.1.10. Facilities supporting a technical test mission, including integration facilities and shops.
   2.4.2. All AFMC totally or partially sponsored capital test investments will, to the maximum extent
   practicable, be sited at AFMC facilities rather than contractor or other DoD locations. All exemptions
   will be approved through AFMC corporate review. All proposed capital test investments, regardless
   of siting or funding status, must be identified in the annual AFMC Test Investment Planning Program-
   ming Process.
   2.4.3. Program managers will program and budget for those capital test investments determined to be
   unique to their programs' requirements. T&E activities will program and budget for general test
   investments (those necessary to support a wide range of programs). Program managers, T&E activity
   planners, and test centers of expertise will work together to identify valid requirements and reach
   agreement on programming responsibilities with sufficient lead time so responsibilities can be
   included in field POM submittals. When they cannot reach agreement, those issues will be elevated
   through the AFMC corporate review process, with sufficient lead time to allow for corporate resolu-
   tion and to allow resolved issues to be included in field POM submittals. Corporate test investment
   decisions will be included in the program baseline.

2.5. Division of Responsibility.
   2.5.1. HQ AFMC will:
       2.5.1.1. Establish guidance for defining direct and indirect costs and resolve questions on defini-
       tions of direct and indirect costs.
       2.5.1.2. Give guidance on interservice policies and procedures that affect T&E support.
       2.5.1.3. Issue instructions for programming and budgeting for T&E.
       2.5.1.4. Set up procedures to ensure effective control, management, and reporting of T&E funds
       by T&E activities and by program and project managers who require T&E support.
       2.5.1.5. Issue budget authorizations and operating budget authority to T&E activities and adjust
       them as necessary. RBA will be loaded based on T&E activities' projected requirements. RBA will
       be available for funded orders and MORDs (para 2.1.2.).
       2.5.1.6. Periodically adjust approved operating programs of T&E activities, consistent with cur-
       rent or budget year funding actions affecting the requirements of programs and projects scheduled
       for support.
18                                                                  AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


        2.5.1.7. Maintain accounting policies and procedures for recording T&E support costs and reim-
        bursements due from users of T&E activities.
        2.5.1.8. Monitor a JOCAS II operated for MRTFB activities that provides internal reporting for
        managing and a system for determining the cost of products and services.
     2.5.2. Program and project managers who require T&E support will:
        2.5.2.1. Identify requirements to the T&E activities that support their programs and projects.
        Include source of requirement (DoD, other federal agency, or nonfederal and commercial organi-
        zation).
        2.5.2.2. Program and budget for funding of estimated direct costs of T&E.
        2.5.2.3. Issue reimbursable orders to the T&E performing activity, consistent with current pro-
        gram direction, fund availability, and test support requirements. Reimbursement orders will cover
        only current fiscal year requirements and will provide funding for all effort required during the fis-
        cal year. Table 1.2. shows the AFMC T&E activity addresses for receipt of reimbursable orders.
        2.5.2.4. Promptly inform T&E activities of all changes to planned T&E support requirements.
        Provide an amended program introduction document (PID) when significant changes occur or
        when enough minor changes accumulate to be a significant departure in scope or phasing from the
        current SOC.
        2.5.2.5. Promptly prepare amendments for actual cost reimbursable orders to cover changes in
        costs or to close out completed orders.
     2.5.3. AFMC T&E activities designated as RTO for programs and projects providing test support to
     program and project managers as follows (this includes arranging for and funding secondary support
     from PTOs) will:
        2.5.3.1. Give estimates of costs of T&E support promptly to program and project managers in
        response to identified requirements, including new and amended PIDs.
        2.5.3.2. Negotiate written agreements with program and project managers on service to be per-
        formed and estimated funding required by fiscal year for T&E support.
        2.5.3.3. Budget for institutionally funded costs (DBA) and anticipated reimbursements (RBA).
        2.5.3.4. Provide required T&E support on receipt of reimbursable orders. Support may continue
        at the beginning of a fiscal year for ongoing efforts when receipt of a funded reimbursable order is
        delayed due only to administrative lag time (para 2.1.2.). However, the provisions of paragraph
        2.1.2. must be met.
        2.5.3.5. Provide prompt information to program and project managers on schedule, cost, or capa-
        bility changes.
        2.5.3.6. Bill users at least monthly for actual costs incurred by the T&E activity identified in the
        JOCAS II or other HQ AFMC/FM approved cost accounting system. Bill fixed price orders within
        30 days following acceptance of the order. If the customer wants additional detailed information
        on a routine basis, the need for the information will be made known and agreed to during the nego-
        tiating stages and any related costs may be charged as a direct reimbursable cost.

2.6. Document Procedures.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                             19


  2.6.1. Preparing Required Documents. Initiate required documents any time during the year. Use, a
  PID, program requirements document (PRD), or SOC; memorandum of agreement (MOA) or memo-
  randum of understanding (MOU); or DD Form 1144, Support Agreement, whichever is proper.
     2.6.1.1. The PID or PRD introduces a program, mission, or test to the T&E activity. The PID or
     PRD must include enough information to permit the T&E activity to evaluate its ability to provide
     the required support and provide estimates of reimbursable cost and schedule of performance.
     Although the initial PID or PRD must be made early enough to permit an alignment of funds
     between the customer program or project managers and the T&E activities, this will not preclude
     further refinement and definition of the test requirements before a reimbursable order is issued and
     work begins.
     2.6.1.2. In response to the PID or PRD, the T&E activity will prepare a SOC that describes the
     T&E activity's ability to provide the T&E support. The amount of detail required may vary but, as
     a minimum, the SOC must inform the program or project manager of the T&E activity's ability to
     provide the required support, tentative schedule of accomplishment, estimate of the cost by fiscal
     year, and statement whether the effort will be completed on a fixed price or actual cost basis. (See
     paragraph 2.1.2. for user charges.).
  2.6.2. Issuing Reimbursable Orders.
     2.6.2.1. Program and project offices of the ordering activities (implementing field activities) will
     issue reimbursable orders to the T&E activities, through their AFOs, for certification of fund
     availability, at least 30 days before planned tests start, except for those tests scheduled to start in
     October, in which case project orders are due 1 October. Amounts issued on reimbursable orders
     will be consistent with the previously negotiated cost for that fiscal year.
     2.6.2.2. Separate reimbursable orders will be used for T&E support on individual FMS cases and
     will include the FMS case/line identifier. When AF IMT 185 is used, the FMS country code, mas-
     ter case, and line number will be shown in item 8 and the complete accounting classification for
     the FMS case will be shown in item 9. Although charges on a full-cost basis are normal, there are
     several situations that may apply to pricing and billing for FMS test support in which full cost
     would not be billed. When the work is performed in connection with an MOU under a participa-
     tory agreement or other documented special condition or arrangement, charges will be consistent
     with the provisions of the applicable agreements or documents. The basis for such special condi-
     tions are normally contained in such documents as the letter of offer and acceptance, the program
     management directive, or MOU. When these conditions exist, sufficient information must be pro-
     vided on the reimbursable order by the ordering component (customer) to permit the performing
     T&E activity to understand and identify the cost elements that will not be charged.
  2.6.3. Changing Costs or Canceling Reimbursable Orders. Changes in test costs after a reimbursable
  order is accepted will be negotiated in writing between the user and T&E activity. If the reimbursable
  order is canceled, the program or project manager must reimburse termination costs (paras 1.1.11. and
  2.1.5.).
  2.6.4. Procedures for Other DoD Services. When an Army or Navy activity provides support, AFMC
  program and project offices and T&E activities will comply with Army and Navy procedures for
  defining requirements and requesting estimates of direct T&E cost.
  2.6.5. Administrative Responsibilities of T&E Activities.
20                                                                AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


     2.6.5.1. Record reimbursable budget authorizations in accounting records as they are received.
     Accept only properly documented reimbursable orders. Set up reimbursable records according to
     DFAS-DE 7071.2-M.
     2.6.5.2. When known, and consistent with the use of standard rates, cite RBA directly in commit-
     ment and obligation documents.
     2.6.5.3. When ordering secondary T&E support from another activity, finance the cost of the sup-
     port by issuing a reimbursable order citing the ordering activity's RBA (for FMS, cite the 4E obli-
     gation authority from the original tasking) to the supporting activity. Secondary costs incurred by
     the performing activity will be billed to the ordering T&E activity.
     2.6.5.4. Bill users for reimbursable costs for T&E support. Use SF 1080, Voucher for Transfers
     Between Appropriations and/or Funds, to bill for fixed price agreements or costs recorded in the
     JOCAS II or other HQ AFMC/FM approved cost accounting system. For Air Force users, the
     T&E activity will complete and process billing and collection sections of SF 1080. Information
     provided to support actual cost billings will be limited to data readily available from cost account-
     ing records. When requested on the reimbursable order, a copy of the billing document will be
     mailed to the program or project manager (customer).
     2.6.5.5. Make sure reimbursable costs for T&E support are not incurred until reimbursable orders
     or other authorized funding documents are received or until there is reasonable assurance that a
     valid customer obligation exists. (See paras 2.1.2. and 2.1.6. for exceptions.)
     2.6.5.6. Promptly notify managers of programs and projects that are subject to rescheduling
     because of acceptance of higher priority effort. If work has not started on an accepted reimburs-
     able order and the T&E activity cannot provide the required T&E support as scheduled for any
     valid reason not attributable to the program or project office, the user will be notified and given an
     opportunity to withdraw or amend the reimbursable order.
     2.6.5.7. Initiate action to amend reimbursable orders with the ordering program or project office
     when cost of performance or schedule slippage indicates need to decrease or increase the ceiling
     amount or extend the performance period. Normally, take action before cost of performance has
     exceeded 75 percent of the current ceiling amount (DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chapter2 provides
     guidance on reimbursable orders). Also, review each reimbursable order citing expiring year
     funds no later than 90 days prior to end of the fiscal year, and notify the ordering activity in writing
     if a funding adjustment is required prior to funds expiration.
     2.6.5.8. Help close out completed reimbursable orders.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                                  21


                                                  Chapter 3

                 BUDGETING AND FUNDING FOR LABORATORY SUPPORT

3.1. Application of Instruction. This instruction applies to the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL)
technical directorates (TD) and to customers receiving services from AFRL. Customer activities include
internal AFRL projects. This instruction is consistent with AFI 65-601, Vol 1, chap 7, section I.

3.2. Laboratory Costs. Work that can be identified to an R&D project will be funded by the R&D
project, not by a management and support (M&S) program. In-house work, will be funded by a mission
project rather than by the operating accounts, such as the 06XX projects of the TDs. Two types of
in-house cost are routinely incurred in the AFRL:
   3.2.1. One type of cost results from the basic decision to have the laboratory in existence. This is a
   common support cost, not directly identifiable to any one customer or program. There are two catego-
   ries of this cost type: indirect and/or overhead costs for services funded institutionally; that will not be
   reimbursed from customer programs unless these costs are associated with internal Advanced Tech-
   nology Development Programs, per AFI 65-601, Vol 2, Chap 7.50.3.1. If so associated, then nonmili-
   tary overhead costs, in addition to direct and indirect costs will be charged to these programs.
   3.2.2. The other type of cost is immediately and directly identifiable to a customer program. This is a
   direct cost that will be financed from the customer programs. (See Figure A1.1., column 4.)

3.3. Funding Guidance.
   3.3.1. AFRL operations will be financed on a total operating program basis. Costs incurred in support
   of customer programs will be identified in the AFRL reimbursable account (for example, budget pro-
   gram activity code (BPAC) 691999) and financed from customer program funds. (NOTE: An optional
   exception to the use of BPAC 691999 is that a laboratory's intramural mission programs may be direct
   cited for nonpersonnel costs. In general, indirect and overhead costs will be institutionally funded in
   the 6.2 program element. As an exception, AFRL TDs will charge to its internal Advanced Technol-
   ogy Development Programs nonmilitary overhead costs, in addition to direct and indirect cost. RBA
   is also provided but is available for use only to the extent that reimbursements are realized (DFAS-DE
   7200.1-R). Reimbursements realized may not include filled orders (earned) in excess of or in the
   absence of a valid customer order received, except as in AFMCI 65-603. If earnings exceed the
   amount of funds provided by a customer order, the earned excess amount will not be billed against the
   order; the performing activity will request the customer order amended to increase the availability of
   funds. If the availability cannot be increased in accordance with AFMCI 65-603, para 1.18, the excess
   reimbursable amount will be remain in /charged back to the DBA BPAC immediately (AFMCI
   65-603, para 1.20). A reimbursable order must be a valid obligation on the customer records. TDs do
   not have to determine that the customer has recorded an obligation, but must be sure a valid customer
   obligation exists to pay the bill when the order is filled. Examples of valid reimbursable orders are
   project orders, military interdepartmental purchase requests (MIPR), and other orders for specific
   requirements. If the U.S. government customer cannot get the completed (signed) reimbursable order
   to the performing laboratory on the first day of the fiscal year, or the start date if during the fiscal year,
   the performing laboratory may fill out AF IMT 406 to record the customer order information from
   telephone or electronically transmitted message. The performing TD and customer must document the
   action taken; date; dollar amount; project order, MIPR or other document identification number; and
22                                                                 AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


     the name of the authorizing official. This information suffices until the performing laboratory gets the
     formal customer order. DFAS has issued guidelines for using MORDs to record obligations and reim-
     bursements by all activities by DFAS-DE consolidated operations. The DFAS procedures are found in
     the earlier text, paragraph 2.1.2.1. through 2.1.2.6.
     3.3.2. TDs will bill customer programs for reimbursable costs. Items billed and amounts charged will
     be consistent with attachment 1 DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 11A discusses pricing of services for nonfederal
     government customers. Foreign governments will normally be billed full costs unless an active gov-
     ernment agreement to the contrary is in force (treaty, FMS agreement, or other negotiated agreement).
     Customer orders will indicate if the effort is in support of FMS (DoD 7000.14-R, Vol 15).
     3.3.3. Customer requirements for AFRL support and estimates of amounts for reimbursements must
     be determined during the program formulation phase to permit inclusion of like amounts of DBA in
     the customer programs and RBA in AFRL operating programs for a given fiscal year. The estimate
     should include amounts for all estimated direct costs (including direct labor for personnel in support
     organizations) and the appropriate indirect and overhead rates.
     3.3.4. Customer costs from aborts and cancellations will be negotiated between the performing labo-
     ratory and the customer. The cost will be that which is incurred by the performing AFRL technical
     directorate.
     3.3.5. Project orders from AFMC activities will provide full funding for all effort required during the
     fiscal year, except during periods of continuing resolution authority when incrementally funded
     project orders are permitted. Reimbursable work will not be started until a funded order is received or
     known to exist. Emergency or quick-response support for government customers, however, may be
     provided when approved by the technology director. For non-federal customers, collection of charges
     and fees will be made in advance in all cases. (DoD 7000.14-R Vol 11A, Chapter 4)
     3.3.6. Costs incurred by performing technical directorate for technical consultation during planning
     and before a customer order will not normally be charged/billed to a customer.
     3.3.7. For project orders, AFRL is a separate organization or center.
     3.3.8. Laboratory reimbursement policies and procedures are similar to those in Chapter 2 for T&E
     centers and ranges. AFRL technology directors may, however, waive reimbursements from Air Force
     customers on a case-by-case basis. This waiver authority allows technology directorate directors not
     to charge up to $20,000 for informal support, if they believe reimbursement is inconsistent with pru-
     dent business practices. Generally, informal support is effort a TD may quickly provide a customer
     who has not been able to program and budget for the requirement. Formal support is long-term, and
     has been programmed and budgeted for by the customer.
        3.3.8.1. All nonmilitary support costs (direct, indirect, and overhead) of 6.1 and 6.3 programs will
        be reimbursed.
        3.3.8.2. The 6.2 PEs will be used for institutional funding. At each TD, the 6.2 mission support
        project will be reimbursed for direct costs of support provided by the TD to all mission projects for
        which the TD is OPR. The waiver authority does not apply to mission program support activities
        within a TD. For outside customers, reimbursements will be made according to Attachment 1,
        unless the waiver authority is exercised. In addition, AFRL TDs will reallocate funds and charge
        to its internal Advanced Technology Development Programs nonmilitary overhead costs, in addi-
        tion to direct and indirect costs, related to the programs.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                          23


     3.3.8.3. Between TDs, the supporting (performing) TD may waive collection for direct costs,
     incurred in support of a customer technology directorate program, at the discretion of the support-
     ing technology director consistent with prudent business practices.
     3.3.8.4. For programs assigned to AFMC organizations other than laboratories, para 3.3.8.3.
     applies.
     3.3.8.5. All direct, except military pay, are reimbursable for support to Air Force organizations
     outside AFMC, unless the reimbursement is waived by the technology director.
     3.3.8.6. All direct, indirect and overhead costs, except military pay, are reimbursable for support
     provided to other non-Air Force DoD organizations. However, in cases of mutual benefit and joint
     participation, the technology director may negotiate the technology directorate’s contribution,
     defining each participant's contribution. An MOA, documenting the cost-sharing agreement, will
     explain the joint participation project and how the monetary percentage of benefit was determined
     for each participant. Normally, entire categories of expense will not be assigned to just one of the
     participants for funding. Each participant will share the total cost of the entire project. Similar
     joint participation efforts may be arranged between the Technical Directorate(s) and other Air
     Force organizations.
     3.3.8.7. All costs, including military pay and additive rates, but excluding user charges, are reim-
     bursable for support to non-DoD federal departments and agencies as permitted in DoD
     7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chap 6.
     3.3.8.8. All costs, including military pay, additive rates, and user charges prescribed in DoD
     7000.14-R, Vol 11A, Chap 4, are reimbursable for support to nonfederal organizations (Non USG
     and US commercial organizations).
     3.3.8.9. The guidance of the Air Force is not to compete with private industry for nongovernmen-
     tal work. This guidance applies to work or services provided under the authority of 10 U.S.C.
     2539b. Work, however, may be accepted from industries or individuals if they have a contract with
     a federal government agency that requires the work, or they meet the provisions of Title 10 U.S.C.
     2539b. Work may be performed directly for all federal agencies or federal government contractors
     performing operational test and evaluation activities as set forth in AFI 99-103. Work can also be
     performed under federal cooperative arrangements involving independent research and develop-
     ment program. See FARs 31.205-18, 45.406 and 45.407.
     3.3.8.10. Contractors using government furnished support under a Cooperative Research and
     Development Agreement (CRADA) will reimburse costs in accordance with the negotiated terms
     of the CRADA. A CRADA is defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a(d)(1) as agreement “..Under which the
     Government, through its laboratories, provides personnel, services, facilities, equipment, intellec-
     tual property, or other resources with or without reimbursement .. and where the non-Federal par-
     ties provide funds, personnel, services, facilities, equipment, intellectual property or other
     resources toward the conduct of specified research or development effort..” It is therefore discre-
     tionary whether a CRADA will include payment to a government laboratory for the resources pro-
     vided, given that other benefits realized by the Government may be adequate consideration to
     support the agreement. In those CRADAs where payment provisions are included, DoD Regula-
     tion 7000.14-R provides guidance on establishing appropriate charges for authorized services pro-
     vided by DoD organizations.
24                                                                AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


3.4. Areas of Responsibility.
     3.4.1. HQ AFMC:
        3.4.1.1. Sets guidance for and resolves queries about defining direct, indirect and overhead costs.
        3.4.1.2. Provides guidance on interservice policies and procedures affecting AFRL support of
        other DoD activities.
        3.4.1.3. Issues instructions for programming and budgeting for AFRL operations.
        3.4.1.4. Issues direct budget authority and reimbursable targets to the Technical Directorates
        under guidance from AFRL/FM.
        3.4.1.5. Periodically adjusts total operating program to make it consistent with customer pro-
        grams and projects scheduled for support.
        3.4.1.6. Maintains accounting policies and procedures for recording laboratory and TD support
        costs charged to customer programs and obtaining reimbursement from customer programs.
        3.4.1.7. Monitors JOCAS II, a system that provides internal reporting for managing and determin-
        ing the cost of products and services.
     3.4.2. Program Managers (Customers) Requiring Laboratory and Technology Directorate Support.
        3.4.2.1. For programming and budgeting purposes, identify requirements to the technology direc-
        torates that customarily support their programs. Include source of requirement (DoD, other federal
        government, or non-federal and commercial organization).
        3.4.2.2. Program and budget for estimated direct costs of support provided by the TD.
        3.4.2.3. Issue funded project order (or equivalent) to the performing TD providing the support.
        (Attachment 2 includes AFRL TD addressee office symbols for receipt and management of
        project orders.)
        3.4.2.4. Promptly inform performing TD of all changes to planned support required.
        3.4.2.5. Promptly prepare amendments to project orders (or equivalent) to cover charges in costs
        or close out completed project orders.
     3.4.3. AFRL TDs.
        3.4.3.1. Promptly give program managers estimates of costs of technology directorate support.
        3.4.3.2. Negotiate written agreements with customer program managers on services to be per-
        formed and estimated funding required by fiscal year.
        3.4.3.3. Budget for institutionally funded costs (DBA) and anticipated reimbursements (RBA).
        3.4.3.4. Provide required technology directorate support after funded orders are received. (Emer-
        gency support for ongoing efforts may continue when receipt of a funded project order is delayed
        due only to administrative lag time AFMCI 65-603 p 1.18).
        3.4.3.5. Promptly inform program managers on schedule, cost, or capability changes or when per-
        formance on an order is 75% complete.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                              25


      3.4.3.6. JOCAS II will be used to support all billing documentation. If a customer routinely needs
      additional detailed information, that will be made known and agreed to during the planning and
      negotiating stages; any related costs will be charged as a direct reimbursable cost.

3.5. Funding Procedures.
   3.5.1. Documentation Cycle. The following three steps are analogous to a program manager seeking
   and obtaining a contract with a commercial concern: (1) A request for proposal is prepared, (2) an
   offer is made by the contractor, and (3) an acceptance (agreement) is consummated. Similarly, pro-
   gram managers obtain an agreement for in-house support of their programs. First, they identify their
   requirements. Second, the supporting technology directorate indicates its capability and provides a
   cost estimate. Third, the program managers include in their program objective memorandum (POM)/
   budget estimate submission (BES) documentation the requirement for direct funds to reimburse the
   research site for its support, and the laboratory will include the reimbursable direct support cost in its
   total operating program. These three steps require the following:
      3.5.1.1. The customer program manager will prepare a program introduction document or similar
      requesting agency introductory requirements document such as a statement of work (SOW). The
      format will be specified by the supporting (performing) technology directorate. It introduces a
      program to the supporting technology directorate. It must include enough information so the labo-
      ratory can evaluate its ability to provide the support and prepare a cost estimate. Although the first
      requirements document must be made early enough to permit alignment of funds between the cus-
      tomer program direct funding and the technology directorate support (reimbursable) program at
      time of POM preparation, this will not preclude further refinement of the support requirement
      before a project order is issued at the start of program execution.
      3.5.1.2. The supporting (performing) technology directorate will then prepare a Statement of
      Capability (SOC) or optional AFMC IMT 607, Budget Estimate Agreement (BEA). The SOC/
      BEA informs the program manager about the technology directorate’s ability to support the pro-
      gram. The supporting technology directorate will specify the format. The SOC/BEA will also
      have cost information (how much DBA by fiscal year the program manager should expect to need
      to reimburse the technical directorate). An AFMC IMT 607 may be used for providing a docu-
      mented cost estimate, which will be signed by both the performing and ordering activity autho-
      rized representatives, as noted on the IMT.
      3.5.1.3. The SOC/BEA substantiates the inclusion of RBA in AFRL’s total operating program and
      provides a measure of POM/BES consistency between the technical directorate’s reimbursable
      program and the program manager's direct program.
   3.5.2. Release of Project Orders.
      3.5.2.1. Program managers will issue project orders (or equivalent documents e.g., AFMC IMTs
      277, if the program manager is assigned within the supporting research site/technology director-
      ate) to the supporting research site/technology directorate at least 30 days before the beginning of
      the required support (except for support scheduled to begin in October, in which case the project
      orders are due 1 October). Dollar amounts on project orders will be consistent with the negotiated
      cost determined in para 3.5.1.
      3.5.2.2. Project orders will be classified (as decided by both the program manager and the per-
      forming directorate) to show reimbursement guidance, whether reimbursable billings should be
26                                                                   AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


        direct cost only or full cost, including a distribution of the indirect and overhead costs. The classi-
        fication will relate to the categories described in columns (2)-(10) of Attachment 1. The classifi-
        cation may, for example, be indicated by a sentence on the project order, stating in substance:
        "This customer order should be billed as a non-USG and US Commercial User -- see Attachment
        1, column (10)."
        3.5.2.3. Separate project orders will be required for AFRL support of FMS cases. The AF IMT
        185 will include the FMS case and line number shown in item 8 and the complete accounting clas-
        sification for the FMS case shown in item 9. The project order will include any necessary instruc-
        tions on how reimbursable costs should be calculated.
     3.5.3. Administering Accepted Project Orders.
        3.5.3.1. Changes to support costs after acceptance of a project order will be negotiated in writing
        between the supporting technical directorate and the customer program manager. An amendment
        to the project order will be issued, as required. If the project order is canceled, the customer pro-
        gram manager is responsible for termination costs.
     3.5.4. Procedures Established by Other Services. Laboratory mission program managers will comply
     with procedures established by the Army and Navy in defining requirements and requesting estimates
     for support when such support is obtained from these services.
     3.5.5. Air Force Research Laboratory Administrative Responsibilities.
        3.5.5.1. Provide budget authorizations received to the Financial Services Office for recording in
        the accounting records.
        3.5.5.2. Accept only properly documented project orders or equivalent documents (DoD
        7000.14-R Vol. 11A, Chap. 2 and AFI 65-601 Vol.1 Para. 5.8.1).
        3.5.5.3. When ordering secondary support from another activity, finance the costs of the support
        by issuing a project order to the activity that will provide it. The project order will cite the Techni-
        cal Directorate’s appropriate reimbursable authority (690000). Costs incurred by the activity pro-
        viding the secondary support will be billed to the research site requesting the support.
        3.5.5.4. When the customer activity and the performing activity are not under the same com-
        mander/civilian director, the customer activity will normally use a project order to make funds
        available for reimbursing work accomplished (DoD 7000.14-R Vol. 11A, Chap. 2 and AFI 65-601
        Vol.1 Para. 5.8.1). Generally, for the performing activity to accept the project order, most of the
        work must be done in-house on a reimbursable basis and the amount of the reimbursement must be
        determined through JOCAS II. If the customer activity's funds are to be direct cited, some other
        funding document will be used; for example, AF IMT 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA), or AF
        IMT 830, Procurement Directive.
        3.5.5.5. When the customer activity (for example, program office) is within the technical director-
        ate that is providing the support, AFMC IMT 277, Reimbursable Order/Request for Support from
        Other Agencies, will be used instead of AF IMT 185 to obligate the RDT&E mission program
        funds. AFMC activities will use AFMC IMT 277 to order in-house technical effort from elements
        within the same ordering activity (intra-organizational order). For an intra-organizational order,
        the ordering, execution, acceptance and performing functions may be completed by the same
        office. Specific guidance for using AFMC IMT 277 is contained in Attachment 6. Discontinue
        use of AFMC IMT 277 for technical effort from non-DoD federal agencies that are not govern-
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                          27


     ment owned government operated (GOGO) activities. Transactions between DoD and other gov-
     ernment agencies, except NASA, are governed by the Economy Act. Generally, DD Forms 448,
     Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR), will be used when ordering good and ser-
     vices under the Economy Act (Comptroller General Decision B-246773). For NASA transactions,
     follow the guidance in DFARS Subpart 208.71.
        3.5.5.5.1. Mission program funds will be obligated in the month the support is to begin.
        3.5.5.5.2. The amount obligated will be based on the best estimate of total obligations to be
        incurred.
        3.5.5.5.3. Intraactivity orders will be administered the same way that interactivity project
        orders are administered. When the customer program funds and the performer program funds
        are both same year RDT&E accounts, use sales code 39. When the customer RDT&E funds
        and the performer funds are different fiscal years, use sales code 18.
        3.5.5.5.4. On completion of the effort, as described in paragraph 3.5.5.3., accounts receivable
        records will be adjusted to show the expensed account as filled, the amount unfilled, and
        amount collected.
     3.5.5.6. In billing for reimbursable costs for AFRL support, use SF 1080 to bill for costs recorded
     in the JOCAS II. For Air Force users, the SF 1080, Appropriations and/or Funds (in both billing
     and collection sections) will be completed and the servicing DFAS. Field Site will handle the
     expenditures as a “for self” payment if it services both the technical directorate and the customer.
     The DFAS Field Site will handle expenditures as a "for others" payment if the customer is ser-
     viced by a different DFAS Field Site. Information provided to support billings will be limited to
     information readily available from cost accounting records. When requested on the project order,
     a copy of the billing document will be mailed to the program manager at the same time as release
     of the "for others" transaction.
     3.5.5.7. Use element of expense/investment codes (EEIC) 59913 and 59914 to identify indirect
     costs and EEIC 59923 and 59924 for overhead costs that are reimbursable from customers.
     3.5.5.8. On an optional basis, when a technical directorate is both the customer and the performer,
     technical directorate civilian pay may be treated as a refund between the M&S direct BPACs and
     mission program direct BPACs. This will be done by charging EEIC 599CP in the M&S direct
     BPACs and charging the proper mission program direct BPACs. Costs first incurred in the M&S
     direct BPACs will be transferred on a refund basis from the M&S direct to the M&S reimbursable
     BPAC using the pertinent EEIC originally bearing the costs. All accounting records, to include the
     DoD Budget Guidance Manual Reports - Civilian Manpower and Funding, RCS:
     DD-COMP(AR)1092, must reflect accurate civilian pay data for both direct and reimbursement
     obligations.
     3.5.5.9. Ensure that reimbursement costs for laboratory support are not incurred until project
     orders or other authorized funding documents are received or until there is reasonable assurance
     that a valid customer obligation exists.
     3.5.5.10. Promptly notify program managers of support effort subject to rescheduling because of
     acceptance of a higher priority effort. If work has not started on an accepted project order and the
     technical directorate cannot provide the required support as scheduled for any valid reason not
     attributable to the program manager, the customer will be notified and given an opportunity to
28                                                                AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


        withdraw or amend the project order. Review every reimbursable order with expiring year funds
        and provide program managers a statement in writing no later than 90 days before the end of the
        fiscal year if a funding adjustment is required prior to funds expiration.
        3.5.5.11. Amend project orders with the ordering program manager when cost of performance or
        schedule slippage indicates need to decrease or increase the ceiling amount. Orders are amended
        before cost of performance has exceeded 75 percent of the current ceiling amount (DFAS-DE
        7070.2-R).
        3.5.5.12. Help close out completed project orders.

3.6. Program Management Interface.
     3.6.1. Financial policies prescribed in this instruction are not intended to change program manage-
     ment responsibilities.
     3.6.2. Authorizations for end items of equipment, facility projects, manpower, contract technical ser-
     vices, and other services under DCSs and SSOs outside the comptroller functional area will still be
     processed as required by directives for the functional areas.

3.7. Prescribed IMT. AFMC IMT 277.



                                                DAVID E. PRICE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Director, Financial Management
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                            29


                                            Attachment 1

                      LABORATORY REIMBURSEMENT GUIDE MATRIX

Figure A1.1. Reimbursement Guide for Laboratories.




NOTES:
* Beginning FY 95 all direct civilian labor charges may be reimbursed by 6.2 technical programs as a
result of elimination of 06XX projects from descriptive summaries. (See paragraph 3.3.8.2.)
*** Beginning FY98 overhead (non- military) for non 6.2 programs may be reimbursed.
**** This acceleration rate (JOCAS II Rate X1) and user charge (JOCAS II Rate X6) is passed on to
reimbursable customers that are not funded by the federal government.
***** Includes Non-DoD Customer Acceleration Rates for Military Officer Leave and Holiday (JOCAS
II Rate X2), Military Enlisted Leave and Holiday (JOCAS II Rate X3), Military Officer Other Benefits
(JOCAS II Rate X4), and Enlisted Other Benefits (JOCAS II Rate X5).
REMARKS:
1. Columns 5- 7: Technical director may waive reimbursable costs on a case- by- case basis consistent
with prudent business practices.
30                                                                 AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


2. Column 8: Technical director may negotiate reimbursable costs on mutually benefiting jobs.
3. Columns 2- 10: JOCAS II will be used to support reimbursable billings in all cases.
4. Column 9: Military labor is not accelerated (use JOCAS II standard rates).
5. Column 10: Military labor must be accelerated (use JOCAS II standard rates and acceleration rates for
military benefits such as medical. retirements, PCS, etc.) (DFAS- DE 7010. 1- R, Chapter 30, Standard
Rates for Military Personnel Services),
User Charges and Acceleration Rates:
Description and Application: User charges are defined by the DoD FMR as a percentage of billable cus-
tomer charges to cover depreciation, interest on investments, and general and administrative costs.
Purpose: To ratably pass on a fair share of the Air Force’s various mandatory outlays incurred as a direct
result of performing reimbursable customer work. The rates are applied each month during the billing
cycle in the Job Order Cost Accounting System (JII). The JII Program Management Office delivers rate
information prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.

Figure A1.2. Examples of User Charge and Acceleration Rates.




NOTE: 1
JII Rate X1
Title: Non-Federal Customer, Civilian Unfunded Retirement Acceleration Rate
The Air Force (as all federal entities must) contributes to the general civilian unfunded retirement benefit
program. Likewise, AF customers who are not federal entities do not contribute to this cost pool. This
type of user charge is also known as an additive rate. The burden is applied as a percentage to reimburs-
able civilian salary costs incurred for non-federal customers and is recorded against EEIC 59981.
The cost recoveries in this category are collected into a treasury receipt account.
NOTE: 2
JII Rate X2
Title: Non-DoD Customer, Military Officer Leave and Holiday Acceleration Rate                EEIC: 59982
JII Rate X3
Title: Non-DoD Customer, Military Enlisted Leave and Holiday Acceleration Rate               EEIC; 59983
JII Rate X4
Title: Non-DoD Customer, Military Officer Other Benefits Acceleration Rate                   EEIC: 59984
JII Rate X5
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                              31


Title: Non-DoD Customer Military Enlisted Other Benefits Acceleration Rate                   EEIC: 59985
Direct project costs incurred by military personnel are underwritten by a centrally managed allotment and
are not reimbursable to the laboratory where the work effort was actually expended. Military personnel
costs are, however, aggregated for total project effort visibility. AFMC entities performing reimbursable
services pass on military personnel costs to only non-DoD customers.
In addition to direct military labor costs, non-DoD customers must contribute ratably to fringe and leave
for military officers and enlisted personnel. These types of user charges or additive rates are applied as a
percentage of military labor costs and are levied upon only non-DoD customers.
NOTE: 3
JII Rate X6
Title: Non-Federal Customer, Asset Use Fee                                   EEIC: 59986
This additive rate or user charge, is passed on to reimbursable customers are not funded by the federal
government. The burden is ratably applied as a percentage of total non-labor related project costs.
32                                                      AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


                                       Attachment 2

                   AFRL OFFICE ADDRESS LIST FOR FUNDING DOCUMENTS

Table A2.1. Office Address List.
Name of Technology Directorate and
AFRL/FM Office                       Management    Postal Address
Air Vehicles (VA)                    AFRL/VAF      2130 Eight Street, Bldg 45, Suite 1
                                                   Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-7542
Sensors (SN)                         AFRL/SNF      2241 Avionics Cir, Bldg 620. Suite 18
                                                   Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-7320
Materials & Manufacturing (ML)       AFRL/MLF      2230 Tenth Street, Suite 1
                                                   Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-7817
Propulsion (PR)                      AFRL/PRF      1950 Fifth Street, Bldg 18
                                                   Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-7251
Human Effectiveness (HE)             AFRL/HEF      2610 Seventh St.
                                                   Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-7008
Directed Energy (DE)                 AFRL/DEF      3550 Aberdeen Ave. SE
                                                   Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5776
Space Vehicles (VS)                  AFRL/VSF      3550 Aberdeen Ave. SE
                                                   Kirtland AFB NM 87117-5776
Munitions (MN)                       AFRL/MNF      101 West Eglin Blvd, Suite 232
                                                   Eglin AFB FL 32542-6810
Information (IF)                     AFRL/IFF      26 Electronic Parkway
                                                   Rome NY 13441-4514
Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR/FM   875 North Randolph Street
(AFOSR)                                            Suite 325, Rm 3112
                                                   Arlington VA 22203
Air Force Research Laboratory (FM)   AFRL/FM       1981 Monahan Way, Bldg 12
                                                   Wright-Patterson AFB OH 45433-5209
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                                33


                                               Attachment 3

                                 PUBLIC LAW 103-160, SECTION 846
             (As amended by Pub. L. 105-261, div. A, title VIII, Sec. 820, Oct. 17, 1998)
     U.S. Code 10 Section 2681 “Use of test and evaluation installations by commercial entities”

A3.1. Contract Authority. The Secretary of Defense may enter into contracts with commercial entities
that desire to conduct commercial test and evaluation activities at a Major Range and Test Facility Instal-
lation.

A3.2. Termination or Limitation of Contract Under Certain Circumstances. A contract entered into
under subsection (a) shall contain a provision that the Secretary of Defense may terminate, prohibit, or
suspend immediately any commercial test or evaluation activity to be conducted at the Major Range and
Test Facility Installation under the contract if the Secretary of Defense certifies in writing that the test or
evaluation activity is or would be detrimental - (1) to the public health and safety; (2) to property (either
public or private); or (3) to any national security interest or foreign policy interest of the United States.

A3.3. Contract Price. A contract entered into under subsection (a) shall include a provision that requires
a commercial entity using a Major Range and Test Facility Installation under the contract to reimburse the
Department of Defense for all direct costs to the United States that are associated with the test and evalu-
ation activities conducted by the commercial entity under the contract. In addition, the contract may
include a provision that requires the commercial entity to reimburse the Department of Defense for such
indirect costs related to the use of the installation as the Secretary of Defense considers to be appropriate.
The Secretary may delegate to the commander of the Major Range and Test Facility Installation the
authority to determine the appropriateness of the amount of indirect costs included in such a contract pro-
vision.

A3.4. Retention of Funds Collected From Commercial Users. Amounts collected under subsection
(c) from a commercial entity conducting test and evaluation activities at a Major Range and Test Facility
Installation shall be credited to the appropriation accounts under which the costs associated with the test
and evaluation activities of the commercial entity were incurred.

A3.5. Regulations and Limitations. The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations to carry out
this section.

A3.6. Definitions. In this section: (1) The term ''Major Range and Test Facility Installation'' means a test
and evaluation installation under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense and designated as a Major
Range and Test Facility Installation by the Secretary. (2) The term ''direct costs'' includes the cost of - (A)
labor, material, facilities, utilities, equipment, supplies, and any other resources damaged or consumed
during test or evaluation activities or maintained for a particular commercial entity; and (B) construction
specifically performed for a commercial entity to conduct test and evaluation activities.
34                                                        AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


                                          Attachment 4

                   TEST CENTER REIMBURSEMENT GUIDANCE MATRIX.

NOTES:
  1. DoD per NDAA Columns 4 - 5.
     2. Commercial User Under flex Pricing Columns 6-9.
     3. FMS Columns 10-11.

Figure A4.1. Reimbursement Guide for Test Centers:
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                             35


NOTES:
** Per DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 11A, Chapter 4
***Per DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 11A, Chapter 12 and Title 10 USC Section 2681, Use of Test and Eval-
uation Installations by Commercial Entities, commercial users, charged only direct costs and appropriate
indirect cost to cover the marginal (additive) cost of providing the service. Note: For foreign commercial
testing:
Since Title U.S.C. 2681 is not the authority , other statutory authority must be found for such testing. Any
amounts charged for foreign commercial testing must be deposited in Miscellaneous Receipts, unless the
statutory authority explicitly states otherwise.
Section 232of FY03 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) directed that by FY06 institutional and
overhead costs of facilities or resources of the MRTFB are fully funded through the major T&E invest-
ment accounts and charges to DoD customers of those facilities or resources will be only the direct costs
for use of those facilities or resources.
Remarks:
Columns 2-12: JOCAS II will be used to support reimbursable billings in all cases.
Column3: Military labor is not accelerated (use JOCAS Il standard rates). Reimbursement Code (BC) is
eligible for the same flexible pricing as Commercial Customers as approved by Public Law 103-160, Sec-
tion 846 (Attachment 3). This law authorizes installation commander/civilian director flexibility in pric-
ing for commercial customers.
Columns 4 & 5: These Reimbursement Codes (BM & BS) represent the new pricing policy under the
FY03 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) At the beginning of the fiscal year, each test range
will be required to submit a matrix showing the EEIC’s contained in the cost category which will be reim-
bursed to HQ AFMC for approval and concurrence from AF/TE.
Columns 6-9: These Reimbursement Codes (CF, CI, CR, CS) represent flexible pricing policy for com-
mercial customers as approved by Public Law 103-160, Section 846 (Attachment 3). Asset use fee may
be waived by the installation commander/civilian director under this policy provision.
Columns 6-9 :: Military labor uses JOCAS II standard rates plus additive acceleration rates (for military
benefits such as medical, retirements, PCS, etc.) when applicable.
Column 11: Military labor must be accelerated.
36                                                         AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


                                        Attachment 5

                     REIMBURSABLE CODE TABLE BY CUSTOMER

Table A5.1. Reimbursable Code Table by Customers.
CODE      DESCRIPTION                                   REIMBURSABLE EEICs
NR        In-House, Non-Reimbursable Job Orders         NONE
AA        Joint Participating Customers (Labs Only) With 39X
          Director Approval
AB        Joint Participating Customers (Labs Only) With 60X (Except 601 & 603),
          Director Approval                              61X
AC        Joint Participating Customers (Labs Only) With 59X (Except 599.13, 599.14,
          Director Approval                              599.23, 599.24, 599.XX)
AD        Joint Participating Customers (Labs Only) With 40X, 42X, 43X
          Director Approval
BB        DoD Customers For T&E Activities T&E          All Except 20X (military pay
          Customers For Lab Activities SDIO For T&E     only), 545, 599.XX and
          Customers, DoD Tenants On Major Range And additive costs
          Test Facility Base (MRTFB) Installations, And
          Other AF Customers For Lab Activities
BC        Non-DoD Government Customers                  All Except Additive Costs for
                                                        Asset Use Charge
                                                        (Depreciation) and Unfunded
                                                        Portion of Civilian
                                                        Retirement
BE        FMS Funded Under Military Assistance          All Except 20X (military pay
          Program (MAP) Grant and/or Non-Repayable      only), 599.14, 599.24
          Credits
BF        Non-AF Other DoD Customers, Missile Defense All Except 20X (military pay
          Agency, and AFOSR (PE 6.1 Research)         only), 545, 599.14, 599.24,
                                                      and Additive Costs
SP        Special Category                              All Except 20X (military pay
                                                        only), 545, 599.XX, and
                                                        Additive Costs
CF        Commercial Customer and Non-DoD                All Except 545, 599.XX and
          Government – Customer Would Use Under          Additive Costs (No Overhead
          Utilized Capacity and Bring In Additional Work or Indirect)
          (For MRTFB Customers Only)
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                 37


CODE       DESCRIPTION                                      REIMBURSABLE EEICs
CI         Commercial Customer and Non-DoD             All Except 545, 599.23,
           Government – Customer Would Use Excess      599.14, 599.24 and Additive
           Capacity and Would Not Necessarily Bring In Costs (Includes CIV Indirect)
           Additional Work (For MRTFB Customers Only)
CR         Commercial Customers – Full Reimbursement        All Including Additive Rates
                                                            and Asset Use Charge
CS         Commercial Customers and Non-DoD                 All Except 545, 599.14,
           Government – Customer Uses a Little Bit of       599.24 and Additive Costs
           Excess Capacity But Brings in Additional         (Includes Civ Indirect and
           Customers (For MRTFB Customers Only)             Overhead)
FN         Foreign Military Sales – Funded Under Military   All Except 20X (military pay
           Assistance Program (MAP) Grant and/or            only), 599.14, 599.24,
           Non-Repayable Credits – (For “Friendly           Military Additive Rate and
           Nations”)                                        Asset Use Charge
FR         Foreign Military Sales – Full Reimbursement      All (Including Additives)
                                                            Except Asset Use Charge
BM         MRTFB DoD Customers Who Are Using                EEIC Charges Will Be
           Established MRTFB Capabilities                   Determined By The Test
                                                            Range and a Matrix Will Be
                                                            Approved By MAJCOM
                                                            With AF/TE Concurrence at
                                                            the Beginning of Each Fiscal
                                                            Year or When New EEIC’s
                                                            Are Approved.
BS         MRTFB DoD Customers Having Single, Unique EEIC Charges Will Be
           Testing Requirements the MRTFB Doesn’t    Determined by the Test
           Provide in Its Capabilities Baseline      Range and a Matrix Will Be
                                                     Approved by MAJCOM with
                                                     AF/TE Concurrence at the
                                                     Beginning of Each Fiscal
                                                     Year or When New EEIC’s
                                                     Are Approved.
NOTE: Any additional reimbursement codes required will be requested, justified and coordinated
through HQ AFMC/FMF/FMP and approved by SAF/FMPT. No adjustments or overrides to these reim-
bursement codes or expense code relationships will be authorized. Contact HQ AFMC/FMF for assis-
tance.
38                                                                   AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006


                                                Attachment 6

                        INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AFMC IMT 277

A6.1. General Instructions.
     A6.1.1. The ordering activity will determine if an order serves a bona fide need in the year of the
     appropriation; otherwise, a valid obligation does not exist.
     A6.1.2. The performing activity must begin work within a reasonable period of time after accepting
     an order.
     A6.1.3. The order is comparable to a contact placed with a commercial concern. Do not use orders to
     circumvent provisions of law, accomplish what directives and instruction do not permit, or continue
     an appropriation.
     A6.1.4. DoD and Air Force policy is that when a reimbursable order is accepted, an obligation is
     incurred and remains on the accounting records of the ordering activity until liquidated, terminated, or
     otherwise closed out. This rule also applies to a direct cite order, except that the obligation is incurred
     when the contract is signed.
     A6.1.5. Orders citing 3010, 3020, and 3080 funds must comply with the “full funding” policy accord-
     ing to AFI 65-601, Volume 1.

A6.2. Requirements for In-house Technical Effort.
     A6.2.1. The ordering activity will provide the performing activity advance planning data on require-
     ments for technical effort. These data are included in a program introduction document (PID) or sim-
     ilar document serving the same purpose.
     A6.2.2. The performing activity will provide the ordering activity cost and capability data. These data
     are included in a statement of capability (SOC) or similar document.
     A6.2.3. The ordering activity, after further negotiation if necessary, will issue a reimbursable order to
     the performing activity for final acceptance.

A6.3. Responsibilities and Procedures for Orders Performed In-house.
     A6.3.1. Acceptance Office:
        A6.3.1.1. Accepts, controls and clears all incoming orders.
        A6.3.1.2. Receives and coordinates responses on PIDs, SOCs and orders.
        A6.3.1.3. Finalizes agreement arrangements after discussion with ordering activities.
        A6.3.1.4. Initiates acceptance of orders, provides copies to the ordering activity and distributes
        copies of accepted orders to the DAO and to other offices as locally determined.
        A6.3.1.5. Monitors progress through status inquiries. When reimbursable orders are 75 percent
        complete or when 75 percent of the available funds have been used, reviews the project for fund
        requirements. Take immediate action to obtain additional funds or release excess funds, as appli-
        cable.
        A6.3.1.6. Provides estimate of anticipated reimbursement to the budget office.
AFMCI65-602 21 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                    39


     A6.3.1.7. Designates the office responsible for completing the order.
     A6.3.1.8. Informs the DAO when the order is completed and ensures all actions are completed
     before closing the order.
     A6.3.1.9. Prepares AF IMT 406, Miscellaneous Obligation Reimbursement Document (MORD),
     to record an order received by phone or electronic media and ensure AFMC IMTs 277 are subse-
     quently received and MORDs are closed out.
  A6.3.2. Execution Office (responsible for completing work requested):
     A6.3.2.1. Provides planning estimates to the acceptance office as needed.
     A6.3.2.2. Reviews cost and status reports to provide revised or supplemental funding require-
     ments. Informs acceptance office when reimbursable orders are 75 percent complete or when 75
     percent of the available funds have been used.
     A6.3.2.3. Informs the acceptance office when a reimbursable order is completed.
     A6.3.2.4. Informs the acceptance office regarding new or change requirement, work stoppages,
     schedule variations, or cost changes.
     A6.3.2.5. Prepares MORDs when emergency work is started before receipt of a valid order.
