BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  AFMC INSTRUCTION 21-104
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                              31 JANUARY 2002
                                                                              Certified Current, 12 January 2011
                                                                                                Maintenance

                                                       CONTROLLED INTERVAL EXTENSION (CIE)
                                                                               PROGRAMS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This public ation is available digita lly o n the HQ AFMC W WW site a t: https://
www.afmc-mil.wpafb.af.mil/pdl/.


OPR: HQ AFMC/ENPM (Mr. Scott McLennan)                                       Certified by: HQ AFMC/ENP
                                                                                          (Mr. A. Gotwald)
Supersedes AFMCI 21-104, 10 Aug 94                                                                 Pages: 4
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. It provides
guidance and procedures for establishing and monitoring CIE programs for aerospace equipment.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision allows for reduction of maintenance and inspection intervals.



1. Purpose. CIE programs set up controlled conditions for extending or reducing maintenance and
inspection intervals without sacrificing safety of flight or reliability.

2. Terms and Definitions. Terms and abbreviations used in this instruction are listed in attachment 1.

3. Procedures. Programmed depot maintenance (PDM) intervals are best determined by evaluating air-
craft safety and reliability requirements, compared to weapon system and cost effectiveness. This tech-
nique relies heavily on maintenance r equirements, known ope rational limits, and engineer ing judgment.
By allowing a percentage of the force to exceed the established PDM interval, then comparing the amount
of wear and damage found on them with that found on baseline PDM aircraft, the possibility of extending
the interval can be evaluated. This emphasis on the extension of the interval for the purpose of increasing
mission readiness and reducing overall cost must be done without sacrificing safety of flight or reliability.
Alternatively, more frequent shorter duration PDM cycles may provide increased aircraft availability,
increased opportunities for economical repairs, and reduced field level maintenance and inspections.
   3.1. CIE programs will consist of plateaus. To provide an acceptable confidence level, the number of
   aircraft placed on each plateau will follow the CIE sample sizes shown below. The time between pla-
2                                                                  AFMCI 21-104 31 JANUARY 2002

    teaus is usually 6 to 12 months. Factors such as PDM tasks, missions, experience, environment and
    hourly or calendar age will be considered in determining time between plateaus and CIE aircraft. The
    CIE sample size for the mission, design and series (MDS) force will be determined by deducting the
    following from the total MDS inventory: aircraft in storage at the Aerospace Maintenance and Regen-
    eration Center, aircraft on ba ilment, aircraft on loa n to other government agencies, and air craft
    belonging to foreign countries supported under international logistics programs.
                          CIE Sample Size
                Force Size                Sample Size
                 37-56                        11
                 57-109                       12
                110-399                       13
Note: CIE programs are not required for MDS forces of 36 or less.
    3.2. Example. For a force size of 100 aircraft with a 36-month PDM cycle and a CIE program for 42,
    48, and 54 months, a total of 36 aircraft with 12 aircraft at each plateau will be required.
    3.3. The major command (MAJCOM) Maintenance Requirements Review Board (MRRB) is the
    authority for changes to the CIE sample sizes.
    3.4. The selection of CIE sample aircraft will be finalized by coordination with the using command or
    commands.
    3.5. Close observation of the effects of CIE on readiness and cost effectiveness is an integral part of
    the CIE program and will be a major consideration for continuing such an effort.
    3.6. It may be necessary to selectively set up more thorough phased or isochronal inspection require-
    ments on CIE sample aircraft to ensure critical equipment or components are in operating condition
    and to promote confidence in continued operation.
    3.7. At the end of the CIE period, each CIE sample aircraft will be scheduled for PDM and considered
    as a prime candidate for including in an ACI sample.

4. Responsibilities. This instruction assigns the following responsibilities:
    4.1. MAJCOM MRRB.
       4.1.1. Identifies those systems for which a CIE program is recommended.
       4.1.2. Exercises surveillance over CIE programs.
       4.1.3. Reviews annually, as part of the PDM review, proposed CIE programs and the results of
       existing CIE programs.
       4.1.4. Evaluates system program director (SPD) requests for deviations from CIE sample sizes.
    4.2. ALC MRRB.
       4.2.1. Reviews annually, as part of the PDM review, proposed CIE programs and the results of
       existing CIE programs.
    4.3. SPD.
       4.3.1. Sets up and monitor required CIE programs for assigned aircraft.
AFMCI 21-104 31 JANUARY 2002                                                                            3

       4.3.2. Determines CIE program needs to include the length of extension, corresponding plateaus,
       and any special inspections required.
       4.3.3. Encourages the using commands to participate in the CIE program by requesting their rec-
       ommended extension intervals and additional inspection needs.
       4.3.4. Publishes a special -6 technical order listing CIE aircraft by serial number and those addi-
       tional special inspection requirements necessary to ensure airworthiness during the extended
       period.
       4.3.5. Formulates the proposed CIE program as an integral part of the PDM package and submits
       for ALC and MAJCOM MRRB review.
       4.3.6. Summarizes results of CIE programs as an integral part of the PDM package and submits
       for ALC and MAJCOM MRRB review.
       4.3.7. Analyzes CIE report data a nd correlate with da ta from ACI, PDM, field reports, material
       deficiencies, accident reports and incident reports to develop recommendations for PDM interval
       changes.
       4.3.8. Makes adjustments to technical order and depot inspection requirements resulting from
       analysis of CIE data.
   4.4. Source of Repair (Organic or Contract).
       4.4.1. Accomplishes ACI and PDM on CIE aircraft as programmed by the SPD.
       4.4.2. Reports significant deficiencies in detail immediately upon discovery to the responsible
       SPD for guidance, corrective action, or disposition.

5. Interface with Other Programs. ACI type reports of PDM inspections conducted on C IE and base-
line PDM aircraft will provide data for analysis under the CIE program. Consideration should be given to
combining ACI, PDM, and CIE programs on the same aircraft.



                                         C. CZARNIECKI, Col, USAF
                                         Chief, Systems Engineering Policy Division
4                                                                    AFMCI 21-104 31 JANUARY 2002

                                               Attachment 1
                                   TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

A1.1. The following terms and abbreviations are used in this instruction:
    A1.1.1. Analytical Condition Inspection (ACI). The systematic disassembly and inspection of a rep-
    resentative sample of aircraft to find hidden defects, deteriorating conditions, corrosion, fatigue, over-
    stress and other deficiencies in the aircraft structure or systems.
    A1.1.2. Controlled Interval Extension (CIE). The controlled extension of a programmed depot main-
    tenance interval based on condition analyses of a representative sample of aircraft. This concept of a
    controlled interval adjustment can also apply to the reduction of depot maintenance intervals.
    A1.1.3. Maintenance Requirements Review Board (MRRB). A panel that assures all valid depot
    level maintenance requirements are evaluated and s cheduled for appropriate fiscal year accomplish-
    ment. The process for this assurance involves an annual on-site review of the proposed maintenance
    program for each wea pon system to assess the depot interval, the time in depot (flow days), and the
    validity of each detailed task in the work package. The panel is comprised of using command repre-
    sentatives and AFMC engineering, funding and aircraft maintenance experts. Changes to an approved
    maintenance program must be submitted with complete justification to the MRRB prior to incorpora-
    tion in the work package and submission for funding. MRRBs are convened at the Air Logistics Cen-
    ter and major command levels.
    A1.1.4. Plateau. The number of months a sample number of aircraft can exceed the normal pro-
    grammed depot maintenance interval.
    A1.1.5. Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM). D epot level inspections and maintenance sched-
    uled on a cyclic basis.
