BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                                        AFMC MANUAL 21-2
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                                                                                    25 JUNE 1997

                                                                                                                                Maintenance

                                                                                            ENGINEERING DATA STORAGE,
                                                                                             DISTRIBUTION, AND CONTROL



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: Det 2 HQ ESC/AV-2 (Bradley Saunders)                             Certified by: Det 2 HQ ESC/AV-2 (Gail P. Brown)
Supersedes SupersedesAFMCMAN 21-2,                                                                          Pages: 30
           6 February 1997                                                                             Distribution: F

This manual in conjunction with AFMCI 21-401, Engineering Data Storage, Distribution, and Control,
provides detailed guidance and instructions for the implementation of policy prescribed for managing
engineering data stored, distributed, and controlled by authorized Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)
Engineering Data Support Centers (EDSC) or repositories. This manual applies to all AFMC offices that
use, analyze, modify, purchase, or evaluate engineering data elements and is limited to only that informa-
tion necessary to accomplish engineering data storage, distribution, and control within the AFMC. All
other information not directly pertaining to this process has been eliminated. This manual does not apply
to the Air National Guard or US Air Force Reserve units and members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision corrects initial editorial ambiguities of structure and updates AFMC Form 41 references.
Appendices were updated as follows: Appendix 1 - DODISS Library requirements to align with AFI
21401 and Appendix 4 - inserted paragraph regarding trade secrets that are proprietary.

Section A     Introduction & Objectives                                                                                                      3
      1.     Introduction. ...............................................................................................................   3
      2.     Objectives. .................................................................................................................   3

Section B     Control & Management Functions                                                                                                 3
      3.     Delivery of Engineering Data. ...................................................................................               3

Section C     Customer Service                                                                                                               4
      4.     Documentation of Findings. ......................................................................................               4

Section D     Freedom of Information Support                                                                                                 7
      5.     Application. ................................................................................................................   7
2                                                                                                AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


Section E   Foreign Military Sales                                                                                                            12
     6.     Requests. ....................................................................................................................    12

Section F   Engineering Data Inactivation, Reactivation, and Destruction                                                                      14
     7.     Procedures. .................................................................................................................     14

Section G   Engineering Data Enhancements and Change                                                                                          15
     8.     Control Procedures. ...................................................................................................           15

Section H   Facilities                                                                                                                        15
     9.     Storage. ......................................................................................................................   15
    10.     AFMC Prescribed Forms: ..........................................................................................                 15

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               16

Attachment 2— EXAMPLE RELEASE LETTER                                                                                                          20

Attachment 3— EXAMPLE INQUIRY LETTER                                                                                                          21

Attachment 4— DENIAL LETTER CRITERIA                                                                                                          22

Attachment 5— EXAMPLE OF A CONTROLLED CONDITION RELEASE LETTER                                                                                25

Attachment 6— INSTRUCTIONS FOR 10 U.S.C. 130 WITHHOLDING                                                                                      26

Attachment 7— EXAMPLE OF A REPOSITORY PROJECT OFFICER’S 10 U.S.C. 130
             DECLARATION                                                                                                                      27

Attachment 8— EXAMPLE OF A TECHNICAL DATA CONTENT MANAGER’S
             10 U.S.C. DECLARATION                                                                                                            28

Attachment 9— DOD FORM 1348-1                                                                                                                 29

Attachment 10— AF FORM 1147 INSTRUCTIONS                                                                                                      30
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                                   3


Section A—Introduction & Objectives

1. Introduction. The AFMC engineering data storage, distribution, and control process applies to all lev-
els of organizations throughout AFMC. It is intended to make efficient and effective use of engineering
data acquired through contract or developed organically.

2. Objectives. The principal objective is to provide detailed guidance for the implementation of AFMCI
21-401 policy. Additionally, where operational relationships are established with other functions, this
guidance is also provided to enhance the effective use of engineering data in support of Air Force weap-
ons and support systems. The processes and procedures established are to ensure that standard engineer-
ing data control practices are implemented and applied to all activities.

Section B—Control & Management Functions

3. Delivery of Engineering Data. Engineering data received must be adequately controlled to assure it
can be used for intended purposes. This includes extensive review of received data for compatibility with
existing data storage and retrieval systems, assurance that data containing limited rights information is
clearly and properly identified, that the quantity of data delivered is complete, and delivery is according
to applicable contract schedules.
   3.1. Delivered Data Completeness. Activities determining technical acceptability of engineering data
   delivered by contract are required to accomplish a completeness evaluation to ensure documents
   which are critical and necessary have not been omitted from the delivery.
       3.1.1. Top-down-breakdown assessments, using the guidelines in MIL-HDBK-288 should be rou-
       tinely applied in the technical acceptance process.
       3.1.2. Initiate action through the program office and contracting officer to address resolution of all
       missing data.
       3.1.3. Manual or computer based records are to be established to record deficiencies in contract
       deliveries and validate corrective actions.
   3.2. Receipt of Engineering Data . AFMC Form 176, Engineering Data Inspection and Processing
   Record, or locally developed automated computer based system, is used to document receipt and
   review of contractor engineering data deliveries. Satisfactory completion of delivered engineering
   data reviews is the basis for acceptance of the data by DD Form 250, Material Inspection and
   Receiving Report, OMB No 0704-0248, action. AFMC Form 176 is also used for reviews of filming
   or scanning of inhouse source documents; refilming or scanning of flawed or mishandled record cop-
   ies of data; and, record deficiencies in a contract delivery.
   3.3. Deliverable Status Tracking. AFMC Form 177, Repository Due-In Asset Record, the Engineer-
   ing Data Acquisition Record File (EDARF), or other locally developed automated computer based
   system, may be used to track contract deliveries of engineering data.
       3.3.1. Records must identify the initial duein date, any revised duein dates, and the actual delivery
       date.
       3.3.2. Pertinent information as specified on AFMC Form 177 or other locally generated computer
       record should be accurately entered to reflect all information necessary to monitor incoming data
       deliveries.
4                                                                       AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


       3.3.3. Periodic review of AFMC Form 177 or extraction of computer reports procedures must be
       accomplished to allow for timely follow up of delinquent contract deliveries.
    3.4. Filed Image Card Accounting. AFMC Form 180, Engineering Data Checkout, will be used to
    account for the removal of repository image cards from master files, reserve files, secondary reserve
    files, or special project files. Each time an image card is removed from a file, the individual removing
    the image card will enter all information on the AFMC Form 180.
    3.5. Fiscal Planning. Authorized AFMC repositories must identify future requirements and forecast
    funds to acquire necessary materiel to support the repository function. In addition to facility and other
    operational requirements, the following items, previously funded by HQ AFMC, must be considered.
       3.5.1. Unprocessed tabulating, aperture, camera, and copy card requirements including DD Form
       1309, Model or Type Designation Card, DD Form 1310, Part and Drawing Number Card,
       and DD Form 1563, Dual Purpose Engineering Document Card.
       3.5.2. Digital media products including computer diskettes, CD ROMs, and magnetic tapes used
       for the production of bidsets and transmittal of engineering data.
    3.6. Engineering Data Replacement. Procedures will be established and applied to replace unusable,
    and acquire missing or overlooked, engineering data.
       3.6.1. Unusable Data. Official record copies of engineering data which have been requested by
       repository users and are determined to be unusable shall be replaced with usable data copies.
       3.6.2. Repositories will make maximum use of the Military Master Engineering Data Asset Loca-
       tor System (MEDALS) to determine if usable data can.
       3.6.3. Repositories will use MEDALS indexes and MIL-HDBK-331 to obtain guidance on how to
       order data.
       3.6.4. Missing and Overlooked Data. Missing data identified during the loading of contract deliv-
       eries, and data overlooked during initial acceptance review, will be identified and submitted to the
       activity working the engineering data acquisition effort.
           3.6.4.1. Each missing and overlooked document, or page of a document, needs to be identi-
           fied.
    3.7. Foreign Visitor Control. The following procedures will be applied to control foreign government
    representative’s access or visits to any authorized AFMC repository.
       3.7.1. Visitor Verification. Verify each foreign government representative has authorization which
       has been coordinated through the foreign country embassy in Washington DC, SAF/IADD, and
       HQ AFMC/INF.
       3.7.2. Visit Authorization. Each visit authorization shall identify the purpose of the visit and the
       weapon system to which the visit applies. Visitors are normally allowed to view master set data,
       pick up selected copies of viewed data, or pick up copies of previously requested data.

Section C—Customer Service

4. Documentation of Findings. Activities with AFMC authorized repositories shall use AFMC Form
179, Repository Release/Withhold Findings Non-Government Activity Request,and AFMC Form
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                               5


179A, Repository Release/Withhold Findings Non-Government Activity Request (Continuation),or
equivalent computer generated file to document release or withholding findings against non-government
requests for engineering data located in the repository master file.
   4.1. Requests. Local and offsite customer requests for data from an EDSC will be accomplished using
   the following procedures.
       4.1.1. Submittal. AF Form 1147, Request for Engineering Data, letter, facsimile, electronic
       mail, message, or telephone mediums may be used to request data. Local and non-local customers
       and EDSCs with access to the Contract Data Management System (CDMS) may also use the
       CDMS medium to order data. AF Form 1147 completion accompanying instructions are contained
       in Attachment 10.
       4.1.2. Authorization. Establish, issue, and maintain authorization accounts for all locally sup-
       ported customers with a continuing need for over-the-counter delivery or digital access. The
       repository must maintain a listing of account numbers and the customer name tied to each account
       number. Computer record files should receive first consideration for keeping current records.
          4.1.2.1. Local or off site customers ordering data over-the-counter or by other means of com-
          munications, must provide a completed AF Form 1147 or provide the repository agent with all
          the information necessary to complete an AF Form 1147.
          4.1.2.2. Customers requiring remote access to electronic engineering data storage systems
          must process a completed AFMC Form 41, JEDMICS Access Request, to the EDSC
          JED-MICS password administrator. Customers requiring over-the-counter access to data from
          the EDSC will process a completed AF Form 1154, Signature Card, or an addendum to the
          AFMC Form 41 which fulfills the same function as the signature card.
          4.1.2.3. Revalidation of authorization listings and system access must be accomplished at
          least annually.
   4.2. Special Actions. AF Forms 1147 should be used by customers to initiate requests for special
   projects such as correction of missing or illegible data, and initiation of challenge actions.
   4.3. Bid Sets. The process for producing bid sets developed jointly by ALC contracting, EDSC, and
   technical content functions will address the following items:
       4.3.1. Names, office symbols, and telephone numbers of focal points.
       4.3.2. The predetermined quantity of bid sets for each request.
       4.3.3. Procedures that allow for increasing or decreasing bidset quantities.
       4.3.4. Procedures that define when slave decks should be prepared.
       4.3.5. Procedures to notify contracting officers when a bidset document image contains a military
       critical sensitive or other restrictive distribution legends other than export control notices.
   4.4. Bid Set Planning .
       4.4.1. Advertising. Ensure the plan requires advertisement of the contract action as required by
       Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 5, and supplements. Solicitations may be simply
       posted in a public place at the contracting office or may require a synopsis in the Commerce Busi-
       ness Daily (CBD) depending on the established thresholds (expected contract cost) in place at the
       time of contract award. Whether "posted" or synopsized in the CBD, the advertisement should
6                                                                      AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


       explain that those interested in submitting a bid must be a certified contractor and must provide a
       copy of their DD Form 2345, Military Critical Technical Data Agreement. The telephone or
       facsimile number of the person who can provide copies of the bid set and related information
       should also be provided.
       4.4.2. Application Control. Ensure the plan requires a statement be provided with the bidset that
       the documents are provided for bidding purposes only, certification is required in writing that cop-
       ies have not been made or provided to any other parties, and that the copies provided have been
       destroyed.
       4.4.3. Source Restriction. Procedures for notifying contracting officers when a bid set only sup-
       ports the contract award to approved or qualified sources.
    4.5. Engineering Data Distribution. The following are established to ensure that standard engineering
    data distribution practices are implemented and applied to all activities authorized AFMC reposito-
    ries:
       4.5.1. Reserve Files and Updates. Repositories shall establish data set reserve files with automatic
       update capability to support Air Force maintenance activities; i.e., depot level overhaul shops and
       field level repair shops. The following practices shall apply:
           4.5.1.1. Primary reserve files with current mailing lists are established and maintained for
           each maintenance activity supported. A secondary reserve file and a special project file may
           also be maintained.
           4.5.1.2. Minimize the requirement for reserve files and manual updates through use of local
           and remote digital access connectivity.
           4.5.1.3. For nondigital data, reserve files should normally contain only noncamera silver
           duplicate master image cards. However, reserve files may be a mixture of camera masters, sil-
           ver duplicate noncamera masters, or diazo copy cards.
       4.5.2. Authorization. Maintenance activities will establish requirements for new sets of data and
       notify the supporting EDSC when a reserve file data set is no longer required. Authorization to
       establish new data sets requires the following actions.
           4.5.2.1. A maintenance or repair activity at a location serviced by an EDSC will submit a data
           set request that includes a justification and impact statement and has been approved by a Chief
           of Maintenance or equivalent level of authority to the servicing EDSC. The EDSC will assign
           a project number and forward the request to the requesting activities MAJCOM focal point.
           4.5.2.2. A nonmaintenance or maintenance activity not serviced by a local EDSC will submit
           a data set request using procedures in 4.5.2.1.. above, but shall process the request through the
           MAJCOM focal point.
           4.5.2.3. After MAJCOM approval, requests will be forwarded to the EDSC that will provide
           the data set and any subsequent updates. Each approved data set request shall specify if the
           request is a one-time issue only or if automatic updates are required.
           4.5.2.4. EDSCs will verify the completeness of each request and, if necessary, request the
           information needed to process the request from the submitting MAJCOM. Initial or corrected
           requests should be processed in 45 calendar days.
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                                  7


          4.5.2.5. Activities that receive reserve or special project updates will periodically review,
          update, and revalidate the need for the files.
   4.6. Reserve File Content. Each reserve file should only contain data required by a maintenance activ-
   ity. Within the constraints of the repository and maintenance facility resources, the following practices
   should be followed:
       4.6.1. Create individual document (part) number listings for each maintenance activity data set.
       4.6.2. Create individual subsets for each next higher assembly (NHA) or end items (EI) associated
       with the basic set of data.
       4.6.3. Maintain current mailing lists that identify the set of data required by each addressee. The
       primary addressees are usually category IV local base-level EDSCs, but may include individual
       offices or persons when a local base-level EDSC is not available at their location.
       4.6.4. Establish procedures to annually update and revalidate data set requirements (add, delete,
       modify, update address, etc.).
   4.7. Department of Defense Index of Specifications and Standards (DoDISS) Support. Each activity
   that has an AFMC authorized repository and wants to establish a DoDISS support capability shall be
   required to budget for and acquire a microfilm or CD-ROM support service for customer use. How-
   ever, customers that make repeated requests for documents listed in the DoDISS will be required to
   establish accounts with the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP).

Section D—Freedom of Information Support

5. Application. When a nongovernment activity submits a request for engineering data that cites or
implies Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) status, the requirements of AFI 37-131/AFMCS 1, Air Force
Freedom of Information Act Program, must be applied in processing the request.
   5.1. Initial Actions. For the handling and processing of an FOIA request, immediate establishment of
   procedures is essential. The following actions are required upon receiving an FOIA request:
       5.1.1. FOIA Focal Point . Designate an engineering data focal point to receive FOIA requests
       from the local base administrative FOIA control office.
       5.1.2. Direct Submissions. Process FOIA requests mailed directly to the engineering data FOIA
       focal point to the local base administrative FOIA control office.
       5.1.3. Management Control. Establish internal FOIA suspense tracking using AF Form 388,
       Communication Control Record, or other local computer generated files. Initiate an AFMC
       Form 179 and AFMC Form 179A or comparable computer record file and complete all required
       entries. Establish a project folder for each request received from the FOIA office which contains,
       as a minimum, an unmarked copy of the FOIA office request and completed AFMC Form 179 and
       AFMC Form 179A. When necessary, make working copies of project file documents for use by
       focal point and repository action agents.
   5.2. Data Search. The assigned repository action agent will search the repository master file to deter-
   mine the availability of the requested data.
8                                                                       AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


       5.2.1. For each requested document record the number of image cards, classification, if previ-
       ously released to public domain, rights status, and distribution statement restrictions in the appro-
       priate column on AFMC Form 179 and AFMC Form 179A.
       5.2.2. Make one set of copy cards for all releasable data and, if requested, one set of paper prints.
       Also make two sets of all documents with restrictive legends. Do not make copies of classified
       documents.
       5.2.3. Process completed project packages to the engineering data FOIA focal point.
    5.3. Availability Review. Review each completed project received from the repository and perform a
    search using MEDALS to determine the availability of data at another repository.
    5.4. Release Letter. Prepare and process a final/interim release letter for all releasable data and, when
    appropriate, identify any document that is not available. When data is not available, enter a suggested
    source for the data based upon a MEDALS search. Attachment 6 contains an example of a final/
    interim release letter.
    5.5. Proprietary Data. Apply the following procedures when a requested document has a proprietary
    ownership or Government Purpose License Rights (GPLR) legend on the image or a restrictive rights
    code has been entered in the Hollerith information:
       5.5.1. E xtension. Contact the administrative FOIA control office and request a 30 calendar day
       extension to process a written inquiry to, and a reply from, the owner of the restricted rights data
       and a follow-on evaluation by the JAG office. Document the new suspense date in block 9 of the
       AFMC Form 179.
       5.5.2. Inquiry Letter. Prepare an inquiry letter to the document owner identified in the GPLR leg-
       end or the original design activity as reflected by the Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE)
       activity. Attach a 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) information page and one set of the image cards with restric-
       tive legends. An example of the preferred inquiry letter is contained in Attachment 3 which has
       been structured to address engineering data needs.
           5.5.2.1. Initiate follow up when a reply to the inquiry letter has not been received within 5
           work days of the updated suspense date. Contact the owner via telephone and ask when a writ-
           ten response can be expected. If necessary, contact the administrative FOIA control office to
           adjust the suspense date.
           5.5.2.2. Evaluate each response and prepare a final release letter to immediately release some
           or all of the documents that can be released. An example of a final release letter is contained in
           Attachment 2.
           5.5.2.3. Prepare a package for JAG evaluation when a response states the documents are not
           releasable. If necessary, schedule a personal meeting to go over technical issues with the JAG
           office so they can make a complete and intelligent review prior to providing a written legal
           opinion. The package should contain:
               5.5.2.3.1. A formal letter requesting an official JAG office opinion.
               5.5.2.3.2. A copy of the inquiry letter mailed to the document owner.
               5.5.2.3.3. A copy of the owner’s response.
               5.5.2.3.4. A print copy of the document which contains the limited rights information (leg-
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                                   9


              end).
              5.5.2.3.5. A copy of any additional contractual agreements that may have been imple-
              mented in the original Purchase Request (PR) or in the original data acquisition contract.
              When applicable, this information should be available from contract files of the Engineer-
              ing Data Acquisition Record File (EDARF) maintained by the Engineering Data Manage-
              ment function.
           5.5.2.4. When a response withholds the release of rights, and the JAG office opinion agrees,
           the documents must be withheld, and a denial letter (Exemption 4 applies) is to be prepared
           and issued. Attachment 4 is an example of a suggested letter.
           5.5.2.5. When a response withholds the release of rights, and the JAG office written response
           does not agree with the response to withhold, the applicable document(s) must be released.
           Initiate action to remove the proprietary legend from the official record copy of data.
   5.6. Militarily Critical Data. Apply the following procedures when a requested document image has a
   legend that says “THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS MILITARILY CRITICAL DATA” or a restrictive
   distribution code statement other than “A”:
       5.6.1. Verification. Contact the document’s technical data content manager to verify that the mil-
       itarily critical data legend is valid.
NOTE: Only documents whose information is totally related to the Militarily Critical Technology List
(MCTL), Munitions List (ML), or Commodities List (CL) may be designated as militarily critical data.
Furthermore, the document’s information must have no commercial value and be solely related to specific
military application or to a deficiency of a potential adversary. Very few unclassified repository docu-
ments are of this nature. Those that do not meet the requirements are usually associated with the ML.
       5.6.2. Release Criteria. Documents appropriately designated as militarily critical data are releas-
       able only if the conditions set forth in a DD Form 2345, Militarily Critical Technical Data Agree-
       ment, apply.
           5.6.2.1. Research the Certified Contractor Access List (CCAL) for each DD Form 2345 and
           verify that the requester is a certified contractor. Then check the DD Form 2345, block 4 busi-
           ness description to see if it “specifically” matches the contents of the militarily critical data
           document. If it does and if the document has previously been released in a documented con-
           trolled bidset solicitation, or if it is expected to be released in a future documented controlled
           bidset solicitation, it is releasable to a certified contractor who meets these requirements. If
           released, a controlled condition release letter will be prepared. Attachment 5 contains an
           example of the controlled release letter.
           5.6.2.2. If a copy of a DD Form 2345 is not received with the request, research the CCAL. If
           the requester is listed, contact by telephone and state that a DD Form 2345 is required to pro-
           cess their request. If the requester is not listed, a denial letter (see Attachment 8) should be
           processed.
              5.6.2.2.1. The following statement must be added to the first paragraph of the letter:
              “Some of the denied documents may be releasable to certified contractors. To become a
              certified contractor, submit a completed DD Form 2345 to: United States/Canada Joint
              Certification Office, Defense Logistics Service Center, ATTN: DLSC-FBA, Federal Cen-
              ter, Battle Creek MI 49017-3084.”
10                                                                        AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


               5.6.2.2.2. When a militarily critical data document is withheld from a request, Exemption
               3, citing 10 U.S.C. 130 condition is applicable and coordination from the JAG office is
               required.
     5.7. Export Control. Documents whose legends have an export-control warning notice are generically
     referred to as export control data. Documents appropriately designated as export control data are
     releasable, unless a critical technological or operational military advantage that meets Statute 10
     U.S.C. 130 withholding criteria is applicable. If a requested document image has an export control
     warning notice legend, accomplish the following:
        5.7.1. 10 U.S.C. 130 withholding is applicable if all five of the factors in Attachment 6 apply.
        5.7.2. If Factor 1a and Factor 1b are both true, contact the technical data content manager and
        determine if paper print or copy card copies are needed. Prepare a 10 U.S.C. 130 declaration,
        attach a copy of Attachment 6, identify the documents to be evaluated, and if necessary any
        required copies of affected documents. Submit this information to the office that is responsible for
        the document’s technical content. Attachment 7 provides an example of a 10 U.S.C. 130 engi-
        neering data focal point declaration. Attachment 8 provides an example of a technical data con-
        tent manager declaration.
        5.7.3. Allow 10 work days for a response, then initiate followup action.
        5.7.4. When the technical data content manager’s declaration states the documents do not meet
        the requirements of Factor 1c, Factor 1d, and Factor 1e, immediately release these documents.
        Prepare a release letter (Attachment 5). If the requester is not a certified contractor the release let-
        ter must also contain the DD Form 2345 releasability requirement statement (see paragraph
        5.6.2.2.1..).
        5.7.5. When the technical data content manager’s declaration states the documents do meet the
        requirements of Factor 1c, Factor 1d, and Factor 1e, schedule a meeting to explain the technical
        factors to the JAG office so they can make a complete and intelligent review prior to providing a
        written legal decision (opinion). The following information must be provided:
            5.7.5.1. A formal letter requesting an official JAG office opinion.
            5.7.5.2. A copy of the applicable inquiry letter (Attachment 3).
            5.7.5.3. A copy of the engineering data focal point declaration (Attachment 7).
            5.7.5.4. A copy of the technical content manager’s declaration (Attachment 8).
            5.7.5.5. A copy of the nongovernment activity’s DD Form 2345.
            5.7.5.6. A paper print copy of any document requested by the JAG office.
        5.7.6. Follow up with the JAG office if their written opinion is not received within 10 work days.
        If the JAG office written opinion agrees with the technical data content manager that 10 U.S.C.
        130 withholding applies, the document must be withheld if the requester’s DD Form 2345 is not
        sufficient for releasability. Prepare a denial letter (Exemption 8, citing 10 U.S.C. 130, applies).
        5.7.7. To be sufficient for releasability, the requester’s DD Form 2345 must meet the condition set
        forth in paragraph 5.6.2. with two exceptions. The exceptions are that the business description
        stated in block 4 of the DD Form 2345 only has to "reasonably" not "specifically" match the con-
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                              11


     tent of the requested document and, the release letter must conform to the example in Attachment
     5.
  5.8. Final Documentation Action. Accomplish completion of all forms or computer files.
     5.8.1. Complete entries in AFMC Form 179.
     5.8.2. Ensure all documentation (inquiry letters, release letters, denial letters, etc.), including
     dates, are appropriately inserted.
     5.8.3. Retain the copies of image cards for all documents with restrictive markings that were not
     released. Hold these cards for at least 90 calendar days beyond the date of the last denial letter
     since the cards may be necessary to process any appeal action by the requester, then destroy them.
     5.8.4. Establish or place any correspondence from a proprietary rights owner, a technical data
     content manager 10 U.S.C. 130 declaration, and a repository project officer 10 U.S.C 130 declara-
     tion in a permanent file to avoid the need to repeat the withhold/release procedures on any future
     FOIA or non-FOIA request for the same document(s).
     5.8.5. Establish pertinent record elements in local data base files to facilitate research on future
     requests.
     5.8.6. Forward all documentation placed in the engineering data focal point project folder reposi-
     tory documentation to the administrative FOIA control office. Ensure that the FOIA office is
     advised that this constitutes closing action for a specific FOIA office project number.
  5.9. Appeals. When an appeal is received, the following must be accomplished:
     5.9.1. Evaluate the requester’s rationale and, if necessary, request an opinion from the technical
     data content manager.
     5.9.2. Provide the JAG office with an evaluation and request their written decision (opinion).
     5.9.3. If the JAG office agrees with the requester, release the documents. If the JAG office does
     not agree, prepare a letter that states the decision to withhold has been upheld. Forward the letter
     to the administrative FOIA control office so they can inform the requester that their appeal has
     been denied locally but it is being forwarded to the HQ AFMC administrative FOIA control office
     for further review.
  5.10. Non-FOIA Requests. When a nongovernment activity submits a request for engineering data
  that does not cite or imply FOIA status, the procedures and processes established to handle an FOIA
  request are implemented with the following exceptions:
     5.10.1. Coordination with, and reporting to, the FOIA control office is not required.
     5.10.2. Coordination with the JAG is not required unless withholding actions are challenged by
     the requester.
     5.10.3. The requirements of AFI 37-131/AFMCS 1, do not apply in processing the request. How-
     ever, the guidance contained in AFI 37-131 should be applied to EDSC actions since withholding
     any data, for any purpose, may result in an FOIA request.
12                                                                       AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


Section E—Foreign Military Sales

6. Requests. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) requests received by the designated center FMS engineering
data monitor are acceptable only from the Air Force Security Assistance Center (AFSAC). FMS requests
from other than AFSAC will be forwarded without action to AFSAC for processing.
     6.1. Accepted Requests. Accepted requests require the following actions:
        6.1.1. Evaluation of Request. Evaluate each AFSAC request and verify that the package contains
        the following:
            6.1.1.1. AFSAC PCO identity and phone number.
            6.1.1.2. An AFSAC case designator project number.
            6.1.1.3. Identifies the specific aircraft T/M/S or EI component or a listing containing the doc-
            ument (part) number, revision level, and CAGE code for each document required if only indi-
            vidual documents are required.
            6.1.1.4. States whether the request is a one-time issue requirement or if subsequent automatic
            updates will be necessary.
            6.1.1.5. Provides a ship to address such as the embassy or country freight forwarder as listed
            in the Military Assistance Program Address Directory (MAPAD).
            6.1.1.6. Provides a 14-digit Military Standard Requisitioning and Issue Procedure
            (MIL-STRIP) number.
            6.1.1.7. States that the AFSAC PCO must be provided the processing cost via telephone or
            other electronic means before making up a set of data for shipment.
     6.2. Processing of Request. Process each AFSAC request as follows:
        6.2.1. Establish an FMS special project folder.
        6.2.2. Remove the requested set of data from repository files.
        6.2.3. Obtain inputs from the technical content manager when necessary.
        6.2.4. Return the request to the AFSAC PCO when the technical data content manager cannot
        identify the individual documents or if unidentifiable individual documents were requested, return
        the request to the PCO for further action with the FMS requester.
        6.2.5. Establish a special project file for FMS requests that require automatic updates.
        6.2.6. Count the number of cards in the set of data and according to with DoD 7290.3-M, Table
        716-3, multiply this number by 88 cents to arrive at the total allowable FMS processing cost.
        6.2.7. Provide the AFSAC PCO with the processing cost by telephone or other electronic means.
     6.3. Lack of Funds. When informed by the AFSAC PCO that funds are not available the following
     procedures apply:
        6.3.1. Terminate the project when directed by the AFSAC PCO response.
        6.3.2. Suspense the request for follow up to the AFSAC PCO on the date the AFSAC PCO indi-
        cates they expect receipt of money.
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                              13


     6.3.3. Initiate follow up by telephone or other electronic means and request the AFSAC PCO for
     direction to proceed or terminate the action on the project.
  6.4. Funding Available. When the AFSAC PCO verifies money is available, use the following to con-
  tinue processing the FMS case.
     6.4.1. Make an image card set using DD Form 1562H(O), Dual Purpose Engineering Document
     Card, or DD Form 1562I(O), Dual Purpose Engineering Document Card.
     6.4.2. Process record copy cards for refile.
     6.4.3. Place the FMS image card set in the folder.
     6.4.4. Make an overall initial numerical listing (index) of all the document numbers and, as appli-
     cable, identify any document number (card) that is classified or has a proprietary ownership leg-
     end. This list will become the preliminary shipping list.
  6.5. Coordination. Prepare and submit a letter to the Foreign Disclosure Policy Office (FDPO) that
  provides the following information:
     6.5.1. Identity of the case designator project number and the aircraft T/M/S or EI component or
     individual document (part) number(s) with revision and CAGE code.
     6.5.2. A copy of the preliminary shipping list.
     6.5.3. The location where documents listed on the shipping list may be viewed.
     6.5.4. Guidance that informs the FDPO that when they approve the request, they must also
     include a signed approved statement on the preliminary packing list and return the list with their
     approval letter.
  6.6. FDPO Procedures. Upon receipt of an engineering data FMS project officer request, the FDPO
  will accomplish the following:
     6.6.1. Determine if any country peculiar limitations apply such as; e.g., a specific configuration.
     6.6.2. Determine if the set of data is necessary (authorized) to support the requesting country
     maintenance needs.
     6.6.3. Determine if any proprietary ownership data should be shipped and, if determined to be
     necessary, initiate action through the engineering data FMS focal point to obtain approval from the
     owner of the proprietary rights data. Attach a copy of the rights release letter to the FDPO
     response.
     6.6.4. Determine if any classified data should be shipped and, if determined to be necessary,
     obtain coordination from HQ AFMC/INF and all other appropriate administrative security con-
     trols functions.
     6.6.5. Submit the FDPO approval/disapproval letter to the repository. If some of the cards are not
     to be shipped, state the reason why and clearly identify on the preliminary packing list which doc-
     ument numbers (cards) are not to be shipped.
  6.7. FDPO Response Actions. Review each response received from the FDPO and accomplish the
  following actions:
14                                                                      AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


        6.7.1. Remove the cards designated for shipment from the repository project folder. As necessary,
        destroy any card identified by the FDPO that shall not be shipped.
        6.7.2. Revise shipping list to reflect FDPO direction.
        6.7.3. Prepare an original and one copy of the revised shipping list and a six part DD Form
        1348-1, DOD Single Line Item Release/Receipt Document. Guidance for preparing a DD Form
        1348-1 is contained in Attachment 9.
        6.7.4. Distribute or utilize the two sets of completed shipping documents DD Form 1348-1 (6
        part), as follows:
            6.7.4.1. Mail parts 1 and 2 of the original set to the AFSAC PCO. The PCO will normally use
            part 1 to bill the FMS customer account and part 2, as necessary, for other case file documen-
            tation.
            6.7.4.2. Retain part 3 through 6 of the original set for in-house record needs.
        6.7.5. Enclose the copy set in the shipment.
        6.7.6. Prepare for shipment and ship by traceable means.
     6.8. Follow-on Support. The following practices shall be applied to follow-on FMS support.
        6.8.1. When the EDSC receives revised or new documents for a set of data shipped under a previ-
        ous FMS action, the EDSC will notify the engineering data FMS focal point of the new delivery
        and specify the total number of cards that would require delivery to a specific FMS country.
        6.8.2. The engineering data FMS project monitor will:
            6.8.2.1. Determine the dollar amount to provide the new cards to the specific FMS country.
            6.8.2.2. Contact the AFSAC PCO by telephone or other electronic means and inform the
            AFSAC PCO of the previous case designator project number.
            6.8.2.3. Request the AFSAC PCO determine if funds are available to pay for the FMS deliv-
            ery.
            6.8.2.4. Verify the FMS country’s ship to address is still the same and, if not, obtain the new
            address.
            6.8.2.5. Obtain a 14-digit MILSTRIP number required to process the automatic update ship-
            ment.
        6.8.3. When the AFSAC PCO confirms money is available follow the procedures applied to an
        initial FMS project.

Section F—Engineering Data Inactivation, Reactivation, and Destruction

7. Procedures. Procedures to accomplish inactivation, reactivation, and destruction will be established.
The following should be considered:
     7.1. Plans. Develop data inactivation, reactivation, destruction plans when receipt of new data, revi-
     sions to existing data, or the phaseout or reactivation of a weapon system EI, NHA, or a bit-piece part
     occurs.
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                              15


       7.1.1. Identify focal point key players such as inventory managers, program manager, technical
       office, cataloging, provisioning, and EDSC activities.
       7.1.2. Ensure plans address such conditions as:
          7.1.2.1. Focal point names, office symbols, and telephone numbers.
          7.1.2.2. Notification procedures.
          7.1.2.3. Transfer of master card files to inactive files.
          7.1.2.4. Transfer of data stored in digital form to a backup media.
          7.1.2.5. Destruction conditions and procedures.
          7.1.2.6. Classified and other types of data media such as artwork.
          7.1.2.7. Technical office actions to delete stock management and cataloging records, purging
          and disposal of excess items, development of a listing of engineering data to be inactivated,
          reactivated, or destroyed.
          7.1.2.8. Customer notification procedures.

Section G—Engineering Data Enhancements and Change

8. Control Procedures. Establish procedures that control the enhancement of drawings or the removal of
restrictive legends.
   8.1. Restrictive Legend Removal. Proper authority to alter the existing document such as a JAG
   authorization letter or a release letter from the owner shall be the sole basis for the removal of any
   restrictive legend.
   8.2. Drawing Changes. Drawing changes shall only be accomplished when authorized by the appro-
   priate configuration management authority (AFMCPAM 63-104) through issuance of an engineering
   order per the criteria of AFI 21-402.

Section H—Facilities

9. Storage. Facilities and procedures for the storage of data must provide protection from damage or
deterioration to maximize data longevity.

10. AFMC Prescribed Forms: 41, 176, 177, 179, 179A, and 180.



                                                     GAIL P. BROWN
                                                     Director, PDSM Program Office
16                                                                AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-4, Engineering Data
AFI 21-401, Engineering Data Storage, Distribution, and Control

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFSAC—Air Force Security Assistance Center
AGMC—Aerospace Guidance and Metrology Center
ALC—Air Logistics Center
CAGE—Commercial and Government Entity
CBD—Commerce Business Daily
CCAL—Certified Contractor Access List
CDMS—Contractor Data Management System
CL—Commodities List
DLSC—Defense Logistics Services Center
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDISS—Department of Defense Index of Specifications and Standards
DoDSSP—Department of Defense Single Stock Point
EDSC—Engineering Data Support/Service Center (support center when referring to a primary DoD
repository, service center when referring to a local base-level repository)
EI—End Item
FDPO—Foreign Disclosure Policy Office
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
HQ—Headquarters
JAG—Judge Advocate General
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAPAD—Military Assistance Program Address Directory
MCTL—Militarily Critical Technology List
MEDALS—Military Engineering Data Asset Locator System
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                                17


MILSTRIP—Military Standard Requisitioning and Issue Procedures
ML—Munitions List
NHA—Next Higher Assembly
OI—Operating Instruction
PCO—Program Control Officer
PDO—Publications Distribution Office
POC—Point of Contact
PR—Purchase Request
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
T/M/S—Type, Model, and Series
U.S.C—An abbreviation for United States Code

Terms
Automatic Update Activity—Activities on an ALC repository mailing list that require sets of data to
support their field level or depot level maintenance shops. The activities usually are a Category III or
Category IV local base-level (domestic and foreign) Engineering Data Service Center (EDSC). However,
exceptions may exist for nonmaintenance activities (e.g., acquisition data management, configuration
management, program management, etc.) and for bases that do not have a local base-level EDSC.
Bid Set—A generic term used to identify image cards (processed copy cards) that provide engineering
data information to support the solicitation of replenishment spares.
DoD Index of Specifications and Standards (DoDISS) Document—Those publications listed in the
DoDISS that are stocked and issued by the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP).
EDSC Activities—Activities that store and distribute engineering data. For the purposes of this manual,
these activities are generically referred to as an official repository. Within the Air Force there are five
categories. Categories I through IV are assigned to local base-level engineering data service centers. The
principal objective of a local base-level EDSC is to support maintenance activities. Category V is
designated as a primary DoD repository and is the only facility authorized to accept data deliveries for
retention as official engineering data. Functional description follows:
Category I EDSC—This EDSC is established to support a base or installation whose mission requires
minimal engineering data. These EDSCs do not maintain data files nor are they authorized to have any
equipment for viewing and reproduction. A DoDISS documents library is permitted.
Category II EDSC—This EDSC is established to support a base or installation whose mission requires
small amounts of engineering data. These EDSCs do not maintain data files but may have equipment for
viewing and printing copies of engineering data. These EDSCs may requisition engineering data on a
one-time basis. A DoDISS documents library is permitted.
Category III EDSC—This EDSC is established to support a base or installation whose mission requires
individual items of data, some partial or complete sets of data, and the maintenance of data files. These
EDSCs requisition data on a one-time basis. They are authorized to have equipment for viewing and
printing copies of engineering data. A DoDISS documents library is permitted.
18                                                                     AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


Category IIIA EDSC—This EDSC is established to support a base or number of bases geographically
located whose mission required tailored set of engineering data. These EDSCs maintain data copy files
and have equipment for viewing and printing. This EDSC category is established primarily for receipt of
digital engineering data through digital transmission from the Category V EDSC in response to remote
digital requests.
Category IV EDSC—This EDSC is established to support a base or installation whose mission requires
complete sets of data. These EDSCs must maintain data files. They are authorized to have equipment for
viewing and printing copies of engineering data. DoDISS documents library is permitted.
Category V EDSC—This EDSC is established to receive new data from contractors, subcontractors,
vendors, and government design activities; process requests for copies of individual items and sets of data
from government and nongovernment activities; provide automatic updates to Category III and Category
IV EDSCs and to other individuals or activities as necessary. These EDSCs are primary DoD repositories
maintaining the official Air Force record copies of data, sets of data (reserve files), and have complete
reproduction capabilities for that data. These EDSCs also perform the local base-level EDSC operations
for their respective bases. DoDISS documents library is permitted.
Engineering Data—Those data, regardless of form or characteristic, required to define a design or
process that can be used to produce, support, operate, test, and inspect a product or service. The term
engineering data is generically used when referring to engineering drawings, level 3 data, level 2 data,
technical data packages, production data, product definition data, and other similar expressions.
Repository Files—As the following files:
Contract File—A file that contains contractual information, as rights-in-data background, contract
numbers delivery dates, and acceptance documentation.
Inactive File—A file used to store Type I camera master cards that are no longer active.
Joint Engineering Data Managment Information Control System (JEDMICS) File—A f i l e t h a t
contains engineering data images stored on optical disks. JEDMICS is associated with Electronic Data
Interchange (EDI), and the philosophies of Continuous Acquisition and Life-Cycle Support (CALS).
Master File—A file that contains the official Air Force record copies of engineering data. The master file
contains copies of repository distribution mediums other than microfilm such as disks, tapes, and
CD-ROMs.
Public Law File—A field that contains release/withhold information such as proprietary ownership
inquiries, 10 U.S.C. 130 declarations, legal opinions, relative to particular data.
Reserve File—A file (primary and secondary) that contains the various sets of data maintained by an
ALC repository.
Special Project File—A file that contains unique card decks (sets of data) for authorized activities that
require automatic updates (e.g., a contractor facility, a foreign country, maintenance shop, etc.).
Temporary File—A file whose principal purpose is to maintain data (processed copy cards) for an active
project that requires input from another activity prior to releasing or destroying the cards such as data
associated with a nongovernment activity request or a bid-set slave deck.
Set of Data—A deck of image cards containing engineering data for various unique systems or
subsystems. These sets of data make up Category V repository reserve files.
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                                                19


Tabulating Cards—An 80-column card, with or without an aperture, on which information is indexed
using punched holes that can be machine-sensed for sorting, collating, listing, or totaling. Individual
explanations for a series of unique military tabulating cards with a “D” size aperture (i.e., DD Form 1562,
Dual Purpose Engineering Document Card) follow:
Aperture Card—An unprocessed tabulating card with an aperture (rectangular hole) designed for the
subsequent mounting of a developed frame of Type I silver-halide (camera or noncamera) microfilm.
Furthermore, the expression “aperture card” is commonly used when referring to any tabulating or
nontabulating card (military or commercial), whether processed or unprocessed, that has an aperture.
Camera Card—An unprocessed tabulating card whose aperture contains undeveloped Type I
silver-halide camera microfilm. A camera card is designed for its film to be exposed and processed while
in the aperture.
Copy Card—An unprocessed tabulating card whose aperture usually contains undeveloped Type II diazo
noncamera microfilm. A copy cards undeveloped diazo film is designed to be exposed and processed by
contact printing in a card-to-card duplicating device.
Image Card—A processed aperture card, camera card, or copy card. A processed card is keypunched
(Hollerith information), has eye-readable (unaided) header information, and its aperture (rectangular
hole) contains developed (imaged) microfilm (silver-halide, diazo, or vesicular).
Nonaperture Tabulating Cards—These cards are used to supplement image card Hollerith information.
The DD Form 1309 card documents additional model or type designations and the DD Form 1310 card
documents additional part and drawing number information.
20                                                   AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


                                      Attachment 2

                              EXAMPLE RELEASE LETTER

Figure A2.1. Example Release Letter
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                               21


                                      Attachment 3

                              EXAMPLE INQUIRY LETTER

Figure A3.1. Example Inquiry Letter
22                                                                        AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


                                                Attachment 4

                                     DENIAL LETTER CRITERIA
1. Use personalized letter format prescribed in AFMAN 37-126, Preparing Official Communications.
2. Acronyms or abbreviations shall not be used in the test of the letter.
3. Expand the first paragraph of the ltter to identify, if applicable, any unique peculiarities.
4. Subsequent paragraphs must address a specific Title 5 exemption condition. One or all the example
paragraphs may need to be incorporated into a letter.
5. The last paragraph in the letter will contain the exact wording specified in the example letter.
6. Denial letters must be signed by the Initial Denial Authority designated by the center commander.
7. A duplicate of the signed original shall be provided to the FOIA control office. The official file copy
shall show coordination with the JAG and FOIA offices.
8. Courtesy copy distribution shall not be entered on the original copy sent to the requester.
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997             23


Figure A4.1. Example Denial Letter
24                                                     AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


Figure A4.2. Example Denial Letter (Cont) Index List
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                        25


                                       Attachment 5

            EXAMPLE OF A CONTROLLED CONDITION RELEASE LETTER

Figure A5.1. Example Of A Controlled Condition Release Letter
26                                                        AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


                                         Attachment 6

                    INSTRUCTIONS FOR 10 U.S.C. 130 WITHHOLDING

Figure A6.1. Instructions for 10 U.S.C. 130 Withholding
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                                                           27


                                         Attachment 7

   EXAMPLE OF A REPOSITORY PROJECT OFFICER’S 10 U.S.C. 130 DECLARATION

Figure A7.1. Example of a Repository Project Officer’s 10 U.S.C. 130 Declaration
28                                                           AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


                                       Attachment 8

 EXAMPLE OF A TECHNICAL DATA CONTENT MANAGER’S 10 U.S.C. DECLARATION

Figure A8.1. Example Of A Technical Data Content Manager’s 10 U.S.C. Declaration
AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997                         29


                                 Attachment 9

                               DOD FORM 1348-1

Figure A9.1. DoD Form 1348-1
30                                                    AFMCMAN21-2 25 JUNE 1997


                                      Attachment 10

                             AF FORM 1147 INSTRUCTIONS

Figure A10.1. AF Form 1147 Instructions
