BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AFMC INSTRUCTION 51-201
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
                                                                           15 DECEMBER 2004

                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 20 November 2014
                                                          Certified Current On 24 October 2014
                                                                                          Law

                                                                   OFF-DUTY EMPLOYMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFMCLO/JAF                                                      Certified by: AFMCLO/CD
(Mr. Mark Stone)                                                          (Mr. Anthony Perfilio)
                                                                                       Pages: 3
Supersedes:    AFMCI 51-201,
               9 August 2000


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-2, Administration of Military
Justice. It provides guidance and procedures on creating, managing, and disseminating directive
and nondirective publications and forms throughout the Air Force. It applies to individuals at all
levels who prepare, manage, review, certify, approve, disseminate and/or use official Air Force
publications and forms, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG), except
where noted otherwise. This AFI may be supplemented at any level, but all supplements that
directly implement this publication must be routed to SAF/AAII Policy Branch for coordination
prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements
in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the
compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                          AFMCI51-201 15 DECEMBER 2004


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFMCI 51-201 by updating the opening paragraph and assigning the
applicable Tier waiver designation. This Instruction requires a (T-3) waiver authority. A margin
bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. Policy:
     1.1. AFMC personnel, both military and civilian, must not engage in off-duty employment
     that:
        1.1.1. Is prohibited by statute or regulation;
        1.1.2. Would detract from readiness; or
        1.1.3. Would pose a security risk.
     1.2. Explanation of Terms.
        1.2.1. The term "off-duty employment" means business activities and compensated
        outside employment, including self-employment. Examples of self-employment include
        the sale of insurance, stocks, mutual funds, real estate, cosmetics, household supplies,
        vitamins, and other goods or services.
        1.2.2. The term "readiness" includes the ability of the Air Force to perform its mission in
        the manner and at the time and place required, and the ability of a military member or
        civilian employee to perform his or her government duties in the manner and at the time
        and place required.
     1.3. All civilian and military personnel who intend to perform off-duty employment,
     including employment while on terminal leave, shall submit an AF IMT 3902 to their first-
     level supervisor at least two weeks before beginning employment (except in cases where
     two-weeks notice is not possible). Final approval must be obtained prior to starting off-duty
     employment. Medical service personnel must comply with the requirements regarding off-
     duty employment in AFI 44-102, Community Health Management, in addition to the
     requirements of this instruction.
     1.4. A new AF IMT 3902 must be submitted whenever the type of employment or the
     employer changes, the individual's Air Force duties change significantly, or the number of
     regularly scheduled off-duty hours increases. Occasional increases in hours due to situations
     such as the availability of overtime work, or the need to fill in for an absent coworker, do not
     require resubmission of the AF IMT 3902. Previously denied requests may be resubmitted
     after a change in the individual's Air Force duties.
     1.5. Military personnel who fail to comply with the filing requirements of this instruction
     violate a lawful general order which may result in appropriate disciplinary action or criminal
     liability under Article 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Air Force civilian
     employees who violate this instruction by failing to comply with its filing requirements are
     subject to appropriate disciplinary action without regard to criminal liability.
2. Procedures for Completing AF IMT 3902:
     2.1. The employee completes Section I.
AFMCI51-201 15 DECEMBER 2004                                                                3


  2.2. The employee's immediate supervisor completes Section II.
  2.3. In cases where the employee is required to file a SF 278, Public Financial Disclosure
  Report, or an OGE Form 450, Confidential Financial Disclosure Report, and where the
  off-duty employment will be with a "prohibited source" as defined in the JER, DoD 5500.7-
  R, (which includes any person or company that does business or seeks to do business with
  the DoD, regardless of the dollar amount of the contract or purchase), the center, wing or
  organization JA shall complete Section III. In other cases, JA review is not required unless
  requested by the employee's immediate supervisor. How- ever, installation commanders may
  require JA review in all cases (this may be accomplished by letter, as opposed to by local
  supplementation of this instruction).
  2.4. Section IV is completed by the first person in the employee's chain of command or
  supervision who is a commissioned military officer or a civilian GS-12 or above (who may
  be the same person as the immediate supervisor). However, if the employee requesting
  approval of off-duty employment is an officer grade O-7 or above in command, then Sections
  II and IV are completed by the officer's ethics counselor. The individuals specified in this
  paragraph who are authorized to complete Section IV of the AF IMT 3902 (other than unit
  commanders) are considered to be Delegatees of Unit Commanders, for purposes of
  completing Section IV of the AF IMT 3902.
  2.5. Filing AF IMT 3902. After a request is approved or disapproved, the original request
  will be maintained either by the individual's unit, or in one or more centralized locations
  (such as a Squadron Section Commander's office), or in such manner as the installation
  commander deems appropriate. In cases where the Legal Office coordinated on the AF IMT
  3902, a copy of the completed AF IMT 3902 will be sent to the Legal Office, which will
  maintain the IMT as required by the Joint Ethics Regulation, DoD 5500.7-R.




                                          MICHAEL N. MADRID, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Staff Judge Advocate, AFMC
