BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                        INSTRUCTION 21-185

                                                                                  15 MAY 2012

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                                  DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                                                               WORKLOAD MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFMC/A4DA                                                 Certified by: HQ AFMC/A4D
                                                                              (Mr. Brian Burks)
Supersedes:   AFLCR 66-48,                                                            Pages: 40
              30 August 1991


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. It provides policy, roles and responsibilities, and instructions for accomplishment
of the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) depot maintenance workload and resource
management, including the AFMC Workload Review (WLR) process and resource planning for
the Air Logistics Center (ALC) Maintenance Wings (MXWs). The overall process is referred to
as WLR. The primary purpose of the WLR is to ensure AFMC has the required capability
budgeted and in-place to meet peacetime depot maintenance missions in the most economical
and effective manner. WLR determines the size of the organic workload based on the funded
customer orders. It provides for centralized planning, analysis, and control of organic depot
maintenance resources and workloads managed by, or approved for accomplishment by, AFMC
at the MXWs. Operating within the framework of AFMC‘s strategic planning, WLR provides
the Command with a depot-level workload planning process and a formal organization for the
future posturing of the organic depot maintenance industrial base. This publication does not
apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records       Disposition       Schedule          (RDS)         located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
 2                                                                                                 AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


imply endorsement by the Air Force. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information



Chapter 1—DEPOT MAINTENANCE WORKLOAD REVIEW PROCESS                                                                                            4
      1.1.   Process Definition. .................................................................................................             4
      1.2.   Planning for WLR. .................................................................................................               4
      1.3.   Aggregation of Funded Customer Orders (resulting in the funded workload
             estimate). ................................................................................................................       4
      1.4.   Workload and Capability Assessment. ..................................................................                            5
      1.5.   WLR Approval. .....................................................................................................               7

Chapter 2—CHANGES TO APPROVED WLR BASELINE                                                                                                     8
      2.1.   Workload Fluctuations and Changes to Approved WLR Baseline. .......................                                               8

Chapter 3—USE OF MANPOWER IN DEPOT MAINTENANCE                                                                                                 9
      3.1.   Organic Manpower. ...............................................................................................                 9
      3.2.   Depot Maintenance Resource Reporting Requirements. .......................................                                       11

Chapter 4—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                          12
      4.1.   HQ AFMC/A4D. ...................................................................................................                 12
      4.2.   HQ AFMC/FMR. ...................................................................................................                 12
      4.3.   Depot Maintenance Funds Holders. .......................................................................                         12
      4.4.   SOSs. .....................................................................................................................      12
      4.5.   SORs. .....................................................................................................................      12
      4.6.   All. .........................................................................................................................   13

Chapter 5—INFORMATION SYSTEMS USED                                                                                                            14
      5.1.   Depot Maintenance Workload Planning and Control System (G004C). ...............                                                  14
      5.2.   Maintenance Planning and Execution System (D363). .........................................                                      14
      5.3.   Depot Maintenance Accounting and Production System (DMAPS) Data Store
             System (DDSS). .....................................................................................................             14
      5.4.   Defense Industrial Financial Management System (DIFMS). ...............................                                          14
      5.5.   Cost and Performance Budget Module (CPBM) (H033). ......................................                                         14
      5.6.   Centralized Access For Data Exchange (CAFDEx). .............................................                                     14
      5.7.   Automated Budget Compilation System-Buy (D075). ..........................................                                       15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                16
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                         3


Attachment 2—REPAIR GROUP CATEGORIES                            24

Attachment 3—REIMBURSABLE CODES                                 25

Attachment 4—WORKLOAD REVIEW FORMATS WITH INSTRUCTIONS          26

Attachment 5—SUPPLEMENTAL HIRING PROGRAMS                       28

Attachment 6—DEPOT ON-SITE CONTRACT AUGMENTEE TEAMS (DO-CATS)   29

Attachment 7—8203 REPORT                                        30
 4                                                                AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012



                                           Chapter 1

               DEPOT MAINTENANCE WORKLOAD REVIEW PROCESS

1.1. Process Definition. WLR is the annual process to review the organic resources necessary
to support the year currently under execution, and projected funded customer orders for the
upcoming year plus two out-years. The WLR process validates workload requirements and
determines the number of standard hours needed to complete the workload. The WLR process
consists of four sub-processes: Planning, Aggregation of Funded Customer Orders, Capability
Assessment, and WLR Approval. The processes are described below in general sequential order.
1.2. Planning for WLR. HQ AFMC/A4DA is responsible for establishing the schedule,
milestones, products and activities required to accomplish WLR; and for coordinating the
planning of the WLR process.
     1.2.1. HQ AFMC/A4DA conducts the WLR Planning Meeting.
     1.2.2. HQ AFMC/A4DA issues the annual WLR Guidance and Data Call, which
     supplements this instruction.
     1.2.3. HQ AFMC/FMR provides the approved Rates and Factors Table to HQ
     AFMC/A4DA.
     1.2.4. HQ AFMC/A4DA posts the Rates and Factors Table and Formats to the Depot
     Maintenance Workload and Capability Management SharePoint website located at
     https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/1259/default.aspx. See Attachment 4.
     1.2.5. HQ AFMC/A1M will review and validate all depot maintenance workload
     computations, and will review and staff all depot maintenance man-hour availability factors.
1.3. Aggregation of Funded Customer Orders (resulting in the funded workload
estimate). In this sub-process, all projected funded customer orders are aggregated and posted to
the SharePoint website by the end of March each year as described below. These orders are used
as the initial baseline for workloading. Additional instructions are provided in the annual WLR
Guidance and Data Call.
     1.3.1. Depot Purchased Equipment Maintenance (DPEM) orders, including Programmed
     Depot Maintenance (PDM), engine overhauls, etc.
        1.3.1.1. HQ AFMC/A4F ensures Centralized Access for Data Exchange (CAFDEx)
        Funded Requirements Management (FRM) workloading data is available for HQ
        AFMC/A4DA to pull and post to the SharePoint website.
        1.3.1.2. DPEM orders not documented in CAFDEx FRM will be provided by the
        applicable funds holders to HQ AFMC/A4DA using the Funded Requirements Projection
        (FRP) form, which is available on the SharePoint website.
     1.3.2. Air Force Global Logistics Support Center (AFGLSC) will aggregate Support
     Division (SD) orders to include exchangeable repairs and Units Under Test (UUT) software.
     SD customer funded orders are based on the Air Force flying hour program, equipment
     months, depot repairable generations, Foreign Military Sales (FMS), and other Service and
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                         5


   agency requirements. The Automated Budget Compilation System (ABCS) file is then
   passed to the Maintenance Planning and Execution (MP&E) System.
   1.3.3. Direct Cite Funded Orders. Direct cite consists of funded orders from FMS;
   interservice workload from the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps; non-Department of Defense
   (DoD) government agencies; the Air Force Academy; General Support Division (GSD);
   Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), and some Public Private Partnership (PPP) agreements
   that are handled individually in the year of execution. The Sources of Supply (SOS) are
   responsible for estimating the value of future direct cite workload based on historical
   workload and known changes. Direct cite customers provide funding directly to the
   performing MXW.
   1.3.4. The managing activities, also referred to as the SOS, will use Formats 1 and 1A to
   aggregate all funded customer orders. The MXW Sources of Repair (SOR) will then
   complete Format 6, which consolidates all three SOS Format 1s by SOR. Any negotiation
   between SOS funds holders and the MXW SORs must be done prior to submitting Formats 1
   and 1A. The SOSs and SORs will forward the completed formats to HQ AFMC/A4DA.
   1.3.5. Approval of Formats 1 and 6. HQ AFMC/A4D will facilitate a review and approval
   of Formats 1 and 6. The results, referred to as the ―approved funded customer orders,‖ will
   be posted to the SharePoint website by HQ AFMC/A4DA and will be used throughout the
   WLR process.
1.4. Workload and Capability Assessment. In this third sub-process, the workload and
capability are reviewed for compliance with Title 10 United States Code (USC) 2472,
Prohibition on Management of Depot Employees by End Strength, and other applicable
directives. In accordance with Title 10 USC 2472, the MXWs have full authority to hire in order
to meet funded requirements. The MXWs shall provide a projected manpower/capability level in
accordance with local policies, and will coordinate the projection through the appropriate local
channels. Installation Manpower Offices will review installation computations and submit to
HQ AFMC/A1M for review. MXW projections will be submitted to HQ AFMC/A4 to be
included as an adjunct submission to the WLR process.
   1.4.1. Workload is comprised of carry-in, plus new funded customer orders, less carry-out.
       1.4.1.1. Carry-in and Carry-out. Maintaining a balance between workload and capability
       includes an analysis of carry-in and carry-out workload. Normally, there will be
       workload started in a previous year that must be completed in the current year of
       execution (carry-in), as well as workload that will not be completed in the year of
       execution and will be carried forward to the following year (carry-out). HQ AFMC has
       carry-out targets to help ensure continuity of work and maintain a consistent level of
       workload within each MXW. These carry-out and net available targets will be
       established in-sync with budget guidance and included in the annual WLR Guidance.
   1.4.2. Capability Review and Management. The SORs will use the approved projected
   funded customer orders (Format 6) and appropriate rates from the Rates and Factors Table to
   determine the Direct Product Standard Hours (DPSHs). Results are then documented on
   Format 7. The SORs and SOSs will not change the approved projected funded customer
   orders without approval of the funds holders.
6                                                                AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


       1.4.2.1. The SORs will use the Format 7 results to determine capability requirements in
       DPSHs. Results are then documented on Format 8 and the Projected/Actual Manpower
       and Capability Report (8203 Report). See Attachment 7 for instructions on completing
       the 8203 Report. The SORs will forward Formats 7 and 8, and the 8203 Report, to HQ
       AFMC/A4DA.
    1.4.3. Flexible Capability. It is AFMC policy to institute flexible capability based on
    workload fluctuations during the execution year. Specific AFMC targets, or directives,
    relative to the use of flexibility options will be provided in the annual WLR Guidance.
       1.4.3.1. Overtime. Overtime is the primary tool for reacting to variability of workload.
       It has proven to be the least expensive on a cost per hour scale, as well as the quickest
       way to react to changes. The ALCs should base a portion of direct/overhead capability
       on overtime. General guidelines for the use and accounting of overtime are outlined
       below.
          1.4.3.1.1. The MXWs are responsible for managing overtime. Each MXW will
          develop an annual capability plan that specifies expected overtime requirements.
          These plans will also include overtime for required overhead support functions over
          and above that required for direct labor, and will be consistent with applicable budget
          guidance.
          1.4.3.1.2. Normally, overtime is spread across all workload categories in order to
          prevent significant imbalances. The MXWs will periodically review actual overtime
          usage to ensure imbalances do not exist, and overtime expended is the minimum
          required to meet funded customer orders. Each MXW is responsible for ensuring
          procedures are in-place to adequately record and report the use of overtime. The
          MXWs will ensure internal recordkeeping procedures are in-place at all levels to
          provide documentation for advanced approval of overtime by local management, as
          well as documentation of the actual amount of overtime used in accordance with
          personnel policy governing overtime.
       1.4.3.2. Depot On-Site Contract Augmentee Teams (DO-CATs). DO-CATs may
       augment only the direct labor civilian workforce at an organic depot by performing
       depot-level maintenance and modifications on a short-term basis. DO-CATs are not used
       to replace the requirement to plan capabilities lead-time away, but to aid in meeting
       increased requirements within lead-time. DO-CATs are funded with organic depot
       maintenance funds. See Attachment 6. Since DO-CATs are counted as ―contract‖ for
       50/50 reporting purposes, a 50/50 impact and HQ AFMC/A4 approval is required.
       Contact HQ AFMC/A4DC for DO-CAT approval request forms. DO-CATs shall not be
       used for production overhead.
       1.4.3.3. Supplemental Hiring Programs. These programs typically guarantee an
       employee a minimum amount of work with no provisions for extended or long-term
       employment. They are designed to allow depot maintenance managers to increase and
       decrease capability without impacting the permanent workforce. See Attachment 5 for a
       breakout of current hiring programs, types of appointments, and the rules that govern
       them.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                  7


          1.4.3.3.1. Temporary Employees. These are organic civil service employees who can
          be hired against an appointment of 1-4 years without the additive cost of paying
          benefits. Temporary employees can be released at will, if not needed.
1.5. WLR Approval. In the fourth sub-process, HQ AFMC/A4DA facilitates the WLR
Meeting, where the funded workload and depot capabilities are reviewed and discussed
collectively by HQ AFMC/A4, A4D, A4DA, A4F, FMR, AFGLSC, and the SOSs and SORs.
   1.5.1. HQ AFMC/A4DA presents a briefing on the MXWs‘ compliance with WLR policy
   and annual guidance.
   1.5.2. The MXWs present their execution plans.
   1.5.3. The output of this meeting is an HQ AFMC/A4-approved WLR baseline, which
   becomes the MXWs‘ execution baseline. This baseline will be used to measure actual
   execution performance during monthly reviews, as well as building the budget. HQ
   AFMC/A4 is the approval authority for WLR.
 8                                                             AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


                                         Chapter 2

                      CHANGES TO APPROVED WLR BASELINE

2.1. Workload Fluctuations and Changes to Approved WLR Baseline. While the WLR
leads to an approved workload and capability baseline, fluctuations to the baseline during the
year of execution, or any planning year, may be significant enough to exceed the planned
flexibility. Minor increases in workload must be executed as part of the flexible component of
the depot‘s capability. Major changes may require action to re-baseline overall capability.
Depot maintenance customers will notify HQ AFMC/A4DA of any budget changes that affect
the workload projections. Any necessary changes to the approved WLR baseline will be
processed using procedures detailed in the annual WLR Guidance.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                      9


                                         Chapter 3

                   USE OF MANPOWER IN DEPOT MAINTENANCE

3.1. Organic Manpower. Air Force manpower resources are budgeted and controlled through
the DoD program element structure. In turn, Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF)
has established the Air Force Program Element Code (PEC) structure to allocate and account for
authorized resources. HQ AFMC/A4 has been delegated specific authority to manage the depot
maintenance PEC.
   3.1.1. AFMC manages its organic depot maintenance manpower program through the
   workload management process. Depot maintenance manpower levels are a function of
   AFMC depot maintenance customer projected funding levels. Depot maintenance manpower
   consists of three labor categories: Direct, Production Overhead, and General and
   Administrative (G&A) Overhead. Definitions of each labor category can be found in
   AFMCI 21-105, Depot Maintenance Work Measurement.
   3.1.2. The depot maintenance manpower program differs from manpower programs
   supported with appropriated funds. Depot maintenance manpower is supported from the
   Working Capital Fund (WCF), which is a revolving fund. The fund incurs costs, bills
   customers, and receives revenue from sales to customers for goods sold or services
   performed. No depot maintenance work is begun until customer funds are obligated. As
   resources (manpower, parts, and utilities) are expended (costs), bills are paid from the WCF
   account. Customers are then billed (sales) and payments are received to replenish the
   account (revenue). Customer funds are not recognized as revenue to reimburse the depot
   maintenance workforce until depot maintenance costs are incurred.
   3.1.3. Another distinguishing feature of depot maintenance manpower is that its civilian
   workforce is managed via funded customer orders, and is not subject to end strength
   constraints. Per Title 10 USC 2472, "The civilian employees of the Department of Defense,
   including the civilian employees of the military departments and the Defense Agencies, who
   perform, or are involved in the performance of, depot-level maintenance and repair
   workloads may not be managed on the basis of any constraint or limitation in terms of man
   years, end strength, full-time equivalent positions, or maximum number of employees. Such
   employees shall be managed solely on the basis of the available workload and the funds
   made available for such depot-level maintenance and repair." The term, man years, is
   synonymous with work-years. The statute means that the depot maintenance workforce is
   sized to the workload to be accomplished.
       3.1.3.1. Title 10 USC 2472 safeguards the civilian workforce against arbitrary manpower
       cuts as long as the authorization is appropriately identified as a depot maintenance
       resource, and is used according to the following rules.
          3.1.3.1.1. A civilian may be identified as a depot maintenance authorization when the
          function being performed is providing 100% support to a depot maintenance
          operation.
          3.1.3.1.2. The 100% support rule alone, does not automatically make an
          authorization a depot maintenance authorization. Some functions are inherently
          Operations and Maintenance (O&M) functions (primarily Base Operating Support)
10                                                            AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


         and should remain O&M regardless of the level of support provided to depot
         maintenance. Examples would include personnel functions or civil engineering
         functions that may provide 100% of their efforts to supporting depot maintenance;
         these positions remain O&M. Depot maintenance reimburses O&M for the support.
         A ―Y‖ shred has been designated as an identifier of depot maintenance reimbursed
         O&M, when added to an O&M PEC. This shred provides a clear separation of
         support services provided by O&M activities from functions performed as normal
         depot maintenance operations. Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4000.19,
         Interservice and Intragovernmental Support, and AFMCI 65-601, Intracommand
         Support, provides additional information regarding WCF activities reimbursing Base
         Operating Support (BOS) costs.
         3.1.3.1.3. A depot maintenance-coded position must be fully embedded in a
         recognizable depot maintenance entity, such as a production division, or overhead
         support to a production division, and not an authorization in an O&M or ―other
         funded‖ organization.
         3.1.3.1.4. A depot maintenance-coded position will not provide support to non-depot
         maintenance operations.
         3.1.3.1.5. A depot maintenance-coded position must have clear identity to an activity
         identified as a ―seller‖ of services or products.
            3.1.3.1.5.1. The depot maintenance resource management organization at the
            ALC will ensure buyer functions are performed by individuals and organizations
            separate from those engaged in seller functions, and vice versa.
         3.1.3.1.6. The functions of a resource assigned to a depot maintenance authorization
         must be governed by policy and procedures established by a depot maintenance
         operation.
  3.1.4. Depot Maintenance Capability and WLR. HQ AFMC/A4D, in conjunction with the
  MXWs, develops policy in support of the workload management process. Policy will be
  issued in the annual WLR Guidance in areas such as overtime and flexible workforce options
  required to meet directed objectives, savings, or efficiencies.
     3.1.4.1. HQ AFMC/A4DA will reconcile the manning levels with current and projected
     levels of customer funding.
     3.1.4.2. Once WLR is complete and approved, HQ AFMC/A4DA will determine if a
     reallocation of manpower authorizations between the MXWs is required in order to
     balance authorizations to workload. If a reallocation is deemed necessary, HQ
     AFMC/A4D will request issuance of a program letter from HQ AFMC/A1M to
     redistribute authorizations. In addition, if depot maintenance is significantly short of
     authorizations to cover the government civilian capability required to produce the
     planned workload, HQ AFMC/A4D will also request appropriate action to obtain
     additional authorizations.
     3.1.4.3. All depot maintenance manpower policies are subject to DoD, Air Force, and
     AFMC manpower policy constraints, as well as Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
     policy with regards to hiring and reduction in force authority.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                  11


3.2. Depot Maintenance Resource Reporting Requirements. The Projected/Actual
Manpower & Capability Report, RCS: MTC-A4(M)8203 (8203 Report), will be provided for all
years of the WLR to be used as an execution document in order to show progress against plan.
In addition, the Civilian Employment Plan (CEP) will be completed by HQ AFMC/A4DA based
on the approved 8203 Report for that execution year.
 12                                                             AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


                                        Chapter 4

                           ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

4.1. HQ AFMC/A4D. Will facilitate the annual WLR process, including the WLR Planning
Meeting, the Formats 1 and 6 Approval Meeting, the WLR Meeting, and the following:
   4.1.1. Maintain WLR policy and the SharePoint website.
   4.1.2. Prepare, coordinate, and issue annual WLR Guidance.
   4.1.3. Manage posting of WLR documents to the Depot Maintenance Workload and
   Capability Management SharePoint website.
   4.1.4. Consolidate and post all funds holders‘ funded customer orders (and any supporting
   documentation) to the SharePoint website. Details required are PCNs and dollars per PCN.
   4.1.5. Review SOR submittals.
   4.1.6. Provide the HQ AFMC/A4-approved WLR baseline to HQ AFMC/FMR for use in
   budget development.
   4.1.7. Develop and use metrics to monitor compliance with WLR policy and annual WLR
   Guidance, and report results to appropriate organizations.
4.2. HQ AFMC/FMR. Will provide the approved Rates and Factors Table to HQ
AFMC/A4DA and use the approved WLR baseline for budget development. HQ AFMC/FMR is
responsible for all budget format preparation, in coordination with HQ AFMC/A4D.
4.3. Depot Maintenance Funds Holders. Will provide their projected funded orders to their
designated aggregator in accordance with the schedule contained in the annual WLR Guidance,
The designated aggregators, in turn, provides the orders to HQ AFMC/A4D. DPEM orders are
provided via the CAFDEx FRM Workloading Report, or the FRP form. AFGLSC-SD orders are
provided via the ABCS file. UUT software orders are provided via the MSD/GSD/UUT
Engineering Project Sustainment Tool (MPST). Direct cite orders are provided via the FRP
form.
   4.3.1. HQ AFMC/A4F will manage the CAFDEx FRM module and support HQ
   AFMC/A4DA in determining the DPEM orders aggregated in the CAFDEx Workloading
   Report.
   4.3.2. AFGLSC will manage ABCS and support HQ AFMC/A4DA in determining the
   exchangeables workload.
4.4. SOSs. The SOSs (OC-ALC, OO-ALC, and WR-ALC) will aggregate funded customer
orders from all funds holders on Formats 1 and 1A, and will provide to HQ AFMC/A4DA for
approval. The SOSs will also provide the lead from the customer side for reconciliation of
customer orders during the collaboration process.
4.5. SORs. The SORs (76 MXW/OBW, 309 MXW/OBW, and 402 MXW/OBW) will complete
Format 6, which consolidates all three SOS Format 1s by SOR, and provide it to HQ
AFMC/A4DA for approval.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                    13


   4.5.1. The SORs will use the approved funded customer orders to determine skills and direct
   employees required in accordance with local manpower policies and any other objectives in
   the annual WLR Guidance. The SORs will then build and forward Formats 7 and 8, and the
   8203 Report to HQ AFMC/A4DA no later than 1 week prior to the WLR Meeting.
   4.5.2. The SORs will present execution plans at the WLR Meeting and use the HQ
   AFMC/A4-approved WLR baseline as the execution plan. Actual execution will be
   measured with respect to the plan in monthly performance execution reviews.
4.6. All. The organizations listed above will support the WLR Planning Meeting, the Formats 1
and 6 Approval Meeting, and the WLR Meeting. In addition, all organizations will coordinate
on the annual WLR Guidance.
 14                                                              AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


                                           Chapter 5

                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS USED

5.1. Depot Maintenance Workload Planning and Control System (G004C). G004C is one
of the systems that can be used to support workload planning and interface data to other systems.
5.2. Maintenance Planning and Execution System (D363). D363 is the Command repository
for all depot maintenance requirements. It provides maintenance program planning, execution,
and management functionality for maintaining major and secondary items. It provides a single
source of requirements managed by the ALCs and other Air Force logistics facilities, and is file-
maintained in accordance with AFMC Manual (AFMCMAN) 20-1, Maintenance Planning and
Execution System.
5.3. Depot Maintenance Accounting and Production System (DMAPS) Data Store System
(DDSS). DDSS is a storage system for historical data elements, which are either not held by the
DMAPS suite of systems or not held on a long-term basis. DDSS is also a relational database
repository allowing a variety of functional end users to inquire and retrieve production
information. DMAPS is the financial system of record and management information system
used to support organic depot maintenance execution at the ALCs. The DMAPS program is a
suite of systems and includes interfaces within the suite and with other systems. Sometimes the
acronym for DDSS is shown as DDS, and can be used interchangeably.
5.4. Defense Industrial Financial Management System (DIFMS). DIFMS is a DoD standard
system that is designed to support financial accounting and reporting of depot maintenance for
the Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force, as well as Navy research and development activities. It
is the Air Force official financial system of record for organic depot maintenance.
5.5. Cost and Performance Budget Module (CPBM) (H033). DMAPS H033 consists of the
Cost and Production Performance Module (CPPM), the CPPM Maintenance Module, and the
Budget Target Module (BTM), which includes functionality of the Cost Transfer Module
(CTM). CPPM is a management information system that provides organic depot maintenance
financial and production information, as well as essential performance indicators for the ALCs.
CPPM reports support the ALCs by providing online, day-to-day visibility of their operating
costs and production performance; allowing them to compare actual results with financial budget
and production targets. BTM is an automated, organic depot maintenance budgeting tool that,
when used in conjunction with the actual historical data captured in CPPM, allows multiple
iterations of the budget/target development process, as well as production and expense ‗what-if‘
scenarios.
5.6. Centralized Access For Data Exchange (CAFDEx). CAFDEx incorporates all DPEM
requirements for customers. Within the FRM module, a workload report is available to
download all customer requirements for workload planning.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                            15



5.7. Automated Budget Compilation System-Buy (D075). D075 is an automated system used
by the SOSs to identify requirements to the MXWs. The MXWs use these requirements to
prepare workload and budget submissions for Repairables and Consumables managed in the
AFGLSC-SD. Computations ran in March and September are used in the WLR.




                                       LORNA B. ESTEP, SES
                                       Deputy Director of Logistics
                                       Directorate of Logistics
 16                                                          AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFMCI 21-105, Depot Maintenance Work Measurement, 30 Apr 08
AFMCI 65-101, Depot Maintenance Accounting and Production System-Financial Policy and
Procedures for Depot Maintenance Accounting and Production System-Financial Policy and
Procedures for Organic Depot Maintenance, 28 Mar 06
AFMCI 65-601, Intracommand Support, 8 May 95
AFMCMAN 20-1, Maintenance Planning and Execution System (MP&E) (D363), 23 Mar 07
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support, 9 Aug 95
Title 10 USC 2472, Prohibition on Management of Depot Employees by End Strength
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A/C—Aircraft
ABCS—Automated Budget Compilation System
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFFSA—Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AFGLSC—Air Force Global Logistics Support Center
AFLCR—Air Force Logistics Command Regulation
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFMCMAN—Air Force Materiel Command Manual
AFNIC—Air Force Network Integration Center
AFPD—Air Force Program Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                 17


AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AL—Annual Leave
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
BOS—Base Operating Support
BTM—Budget Target Module
CA—Contract Augmentee
CAFDEx——Centralized Access for Data Exchange
CAM—Centralized Asset Management
CCIV—Cost Class IV
CEP—Civilian Employment Plan
CLS—Contract Logistics Support
CLSS—Combat Logistics Support Squadron
CPBM—Cost and Performance Budget Module
CPPM—Cost and Production Performance Module
CSAG—MD —Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group-Maintenance Division
CTM—Cost Transfer Module
DA—Department of the Army
DDS—Data Store System
DDSS—Data Store System
DIFMS—Defense Industrial Financial Management System
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DLE—Direct Labor Efficiency
DLY—Direct Labor Yield
DMAPS—Depot Maintenance Accounting and Production System
DO—CAT —Depot On-Site Contract Augmentee Team
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DPAH—Direct Product Actual Hour
DPEM—Depot Purchased Equipment Maintenance
 18                                                  AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


DPSH—Direct Product Standard Hour
FICA—Federal Insurance Contributions Act
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FRM—Funded Requirements Management
FRP—Funded Requirements Projection
FT—Full Time
G&A—General and Administrative
GSD—General Support Division
HLA—Historical Labor Application
HQ—Headquarters
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
LWOP—Leave Without Pay
MISTR—Management of Items Subject to Repair
MP&E—Maintenance Planning and Execution
MSD—Material Support Division
MXW—Maintenance Wing
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OA—Obligation Authority
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
OPMD—Output Per Man Day
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
PCN—Program Control Number
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
PEC—Program Element Code
POH—Production Overhead
PPP—Public Private Partnership
PT—Part Time
R&D—Research and Development
RCC—Resource Control Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                      19


RGC—Repair Group Category
RIF—Reduction in Force
SD—Supply Division
SL—Sick Leave
SM/CM—Single Manager/Commodity Manager
SOR—Source of Repair
SOS—Source of Supply
UMD—Unit Manning Document
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFE—United States Air Force in Europe
USC—United States Code
USCG—United States Coast Guard
USMC—United States Marine Corps
USN—United States Navy
UUT—Units Under Test
WAP—Workload Approval Process
WCF—Working Capital Fund
WLR—Workload Review

Terms
Assigned Strength—The total number of people for which the depot maintenance has an
ongoing hiring obligation, including total on-board, on leave without pay, on sick leave pending
retirement, on-calls, or co-ops in non-pay status, etc.
Attrition—Losses to depot maintenance end strength.
Buyer—An organization and its personnel who purchase services from depot maintenance. This
term, emphasizing the adversarial role existing in the private commercial world, encompasses
those management personnel responsible for complete management of programs for all depot
maintenance customers. Such management responsibilities include developing, determining,
justifying, programming, reprogramming, ordering, and negotiating customer requirements. The
buyer represents the customer and, as such, is responsible for ordering, negotiating, and
purchasing from depot maintenance capability to satisfy customers‘ funded requirements. The
buyer is also responsible for checking with depot maintenance to ensure negotiated funded
requirements are being produced to meet the needs of the customers.
Capability—The aggregation of trained personnel, facilities, equipment, technical data,
software, and related items to perform depot-level maintenance, including overtime, DO-CATs,
etc.
 20                                                                AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


Civilian Employment Plan (CEP)—A monthly hiring plan focusing on end strengths and work-
years, required by HAF. HQ AFMC/A4 will complete the CEPs using data from the 8203
Report.
Civilian End Strength—The total number of government civilian personnel on board and being
paid at the end of an accounting period.
Collocation—Assignment of the maintenance and management functions of one item to a single
location.
Contract Logistics Support (CLS)—A method used to provide all or part of a system's logistics
support by contract throughout its entire life cycle.
Cost Class IV (CCIV)—Maintenance of depot maintenance equipment. Direct labor expended
in direct support of depot maintenance, which is the sole beneficiary of the work done, including
repair, modification, manufacture, assembly, installation, relocation, or storage of shop
equipment, tools, or facilities.
Customer Orders—The workload (in DPSH) that results from Single Managers/Commodity
Managers (SM/CM) applying financial programming authority (either actual current year or
projected program authority) to the requirement. To derive this number, each SOR must
consolidate inputs, in terms of dollars, from the SM/CM. The level of funding is converted to
workload by using approved and planned sales rates and prices. Customer orders added to the
Carry-in Net Available is the total amount of support required of a SOR by the various
customers.
Depot Maintenance—Maintenance performed on materiel requiring major overhauling or
rebuilding of parts, assemblies, subassemblies, and end items; including the manufacture of
parts, modifications, testing, and reclamation. Depot maintenance supports lower categories of
maintenance by providing technical assistance and performing maintenance beyond their
responsibility. In addition, depot maintenance stocks serviceable equipment because it has more
extensive repair facilities than those available elsewhere (e.g., at base level). Depot maintenance
also includes all forms of software maintenance.
Depot Maintenance Working Capital Fund—A working capital account used to finance
organic depot maintenance. It operates as a revolving fund by providing working capital for the
recovery of operating costs through the sale of products and services, and sets up a buyer-seller
relationship with the customer to facilitate the sales.
Depot On—Site Contract Augmentee Team (DO-CAT)—Augment depot workforce at an
organic depot by performing depot-level maintenance and modification on a short-term basis.
Depot maintenance workload may be accomplished by a combination of organic and contract
personnel. DO-CATs are funded with organic depot maintenance funds to help mitigate risk
associated with fluctuations in customer requirements and new workloads. Any DO-CAT
requirement must be approved by HQ AFMC/A4.
Depot Purchased Equipment Maintenance (DPEM)—A program covering the method for
procuring depot maintenance services from depot maintenance resources. This program involves
customer management to determine requirements, obtain financial OA, and provide
programming authority for ordering work from organic depot maintenance; including aircraft
PDM, engine overhauls, software, etc.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                          21


Direct Labor—Workload that can be identified, without undue cost or difficulty, to a specific
job order. Direct labor generally includes the hands-on maintenance, repair, overhaul, test, and
related direct production effort.
Direct Labor Yield (DLY)—The productive time of a direct labor employee out of the total
direct labor paid hours. It takes into consideration the employee‘s efficiency and the time he/she
is not available to perform his/her normal duties (i.e. employee exceptioned out to indirect time,
such as leave, training, etc.).
Direct Product Actual Hour (DPAH)—The actual number of hours employees expend
performing direct labor.
Direct Product Standard Hour (DPSH)—The time it should take a trained direct labor
employee or a group of trained direct labor employees, working at a normal pace, to produce a
described unit of work of an accepted quality according to a specified method under specified
working conditions. Labor standards and development procedures are outlined in AFMCI 21-
105.
Funded Customer Order—The portion of the total requirement designated to receive funding.
Funds Holder—The organization with authority to commit funds and issue a project order or
other funding document directing depot maintenance to perform a repair action.
General and Administrative (G&A) Labor—The time expended by employees performing
functions external to a Maintenance Group; includes all labor not meeting the qualifications for
either direct or production overhead labor.
Historical Labor Application (HLA)—The G004C, CPPM, and DDS historical documents that
show how direct labor resources were used. The HLA is used as a management tool for
projecting future workloads, use of resources, or for indicating trends justifying changes to the
workload projections.
Indirect Labor—All activities at the RCC level, which do not meet the criteria for direct labor;
the cost of which is apportioned over all products in the RCC rather than charged to one or more
specific products, are indirect labor activities. This can also be referred to as Overhead Labor.
Leave—Expressed as indirect labor charges and includes annual leave, sick leave, legal
holidays, elections, special events (days of leave granted by Presidential Executive Order),
administrative leave granted by the base Commander (such as inclement weather), jury duty, and
administrative leave for military reservists.
Manpower Allocation—The authorized Unit Manning Document (UMD) number of
authorizations provided to the Centers as the manpower program prior to the start of the fiscal
year.
Modification—A change in an airframe component, end item, piece of equipment, or software
that affects the performance, ability to perform the intended mission, flight safety, production, or
maintenance.
Months of Net Available—A measurement used by the business planning community that
depicts how much work, in months, remains available at the end of the accounting period. The
metric is derived by dividing the amount of Carry-out Net Available by one-twelfth of the year's
 22                                                                AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


total capability. Reviewing the long-term trends of this measurement provides an indication of
the areas of depot support that require more detailed analysis.
Net Available—The amount of work that has been funded, but not completed, and will be
carried over from one accounting period to the next. Net available can be described as carry-in
(net available carried from the previous accounting period to the current accounting period) or
carry-out (net available carried from the current accounting period to the next). Net available is
determined by subtracting regular and overtime capability from the sum of Carry-in Net
Available and Customer Orders.
On—Board—The total number of civilian personnel present for duty on any given day. On-
board does not always equal end strength.
Organic Maintenance—Depot maintenance performed by AFMC under military control using
government-controlled facilities, tools, test equipment, spares, repair parts, and military or
government civilian personnel.
Output Per Man Day (OPMD)—A productivity indicator showing what portion of an 8-hour
day was used in producing a revenue-earning product. OPMD equals the DPSH produced,
multiplied by 8, and divided by total paid hours times (civilian and military).
Overhead Labor—There are two types of overhead labor: Production Overhead (POH) and
General and Administrative (G&A). Labor expended by depot maintenance personnel
performing the functions above a production RCC level at the Center is overhead labor. Staff
and management functions are overhead labor. Overhead labor is administrative in nature and
provides support to all programs involving maintenance responsibilities.
Overtime—Hours over 80 hours per pay period expended to accomplish work that exceeds the
normal duty schedule of an individual.
Overtime Capability—Used as a planning function, this is the additional amount of DPSHs that
can be applied to the repair program based upon the approved manpower program for the SOR
and the Command overtime policy. On the 8203 Report, the overtime capability is calculated as
DPAH.
Production Overhead Labor (POH)—Labor expended at the RCC level in the maintenance
production functions that does not meet the criteria for direct labor.
Program Control Number (PCN)—A six-position alphanumeric code used by customers of the
Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group-Maintenance Division (CSAG-MD) to identify a
specific customer order to be negotiated for workloads within the Maintenance Division. The
first character identifies the customer of the Maintenance Division. The second character
provides the RGC, and the third character represents the managing ALC for customer orders.
The last three characters are assigned by the ALC MP&E OPR for local identification and
control of a specific order. The last four characters of the PCN are also referred to as the Pseudo
Code.
Programmed Depot Maintenance (PDM)—Depot modification and maintenance of all
scheduled depot requirements accomplished normally on a calendar time cycle.
Pseudo Code—A four-position alpha code used to distinguish workloads. This code is the last
four characters of a six-position Program Control Number.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                       23


Regular Capability—Used for planning purposes, this is the amount of DPSHs, excluding
overtime, which can be applied to the repair program based upon the approved manpower
program for the SOR. On the 8203 Report, the regular capability is calculated as DPAH.
Repair Group Category (RGC)—A single-position, alpha or numeric code, that identifies
specific commodity or effort groupings of AFMC maintenance work requirements.
Resource Control Center (RCC)—The lowest organized unit within depot maintenance for
which costs are collected. RCCs can be direct, production overhead, or G&A.
Seller—An organization and its personnel who sell the services of depot maintenance, and
ensures the needs of the customer are met. This term, emphasizing the adversarial role existing
in the private commercial world, encompasses those maintenance personnel responsible for
developing, identifying, negotiating, workloading, and selling depot maintenance capability to
satisfy the funded needs of the customers. Seller responsibilities also include ensuring the
negotiated funded customer requirements are produced to meet customer needs.
Source of Repair (SOR)—An industrial complex (organic, commercial contract, or interservice
facility) with required technical capabilities to accomplish repair, overhaul, modification, or
restoration of specific types of military hardware or software.
Source of Supply (SOS)—The person who aggregates the customer funded requirements on
Format 1.
Total Paid Hours—The number of paid days in the fiscal year multiplied by 8. This is based on
a standard, 8-hour day and includes regular time, overtime, leave, holidays, etc. These hours are
the basis for accomplishing capability projections and workload negotiations.
Workload—Requirements that will generate on a periodic schedule demanding test, fault
isolation, disassembly, repair/modification, reassembly, inspection, and final test. Workload is
expressed in DPSH and represents the unit of measure to posture the Command.
Workload Review Baseline—The approved output of the WLR process, which provides a
workload and capability projection to be used to establish production targets, manpower
baselines, and preparation of the depot maintenance budget.
Work—Year—The total number of compensable hours in a fiscal year for one employee. This
term replaces previous "man year" terminology.
Yield—The productive time of an individual compared to the total available hours in a work-
year (2080-2096). There are various yield calculations, both DPSH and DPAH, including direct
labor yield with and without overtime, and total yield with and without overtime. Direct labor
yields include only the direct labor hours and work-years; while the total yield includes both
direct and overhead hours and work-years.
    24                                                       AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


                                    Attachment 2
                           REPAIR GROUP CATEGORIES

Category                                Description


A          Aircraft-Fixed Facility/Selected Off-Base Tasks
B          Aircraft Service Work (Un-Programmed)
C          Missile-Fixed Facility (Programmed)
D          Missile Service Work
E          Engine Programmed
F          Engine Service Work
G          Other Major End Items-Fixed Facility (Programmed)
H          Other Major End Item Service Work (Un-Programmed)
J          Exchangeables – Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR)
K          Exchangeable Programmed Project Directive
L          Exchangeables Service Work
M          Area Support
N          Base/Tenet Support
P          Manufacture for the Air Force Stock Funds
R          Manufacture of Centrally Procured Items
S          Software
1          Storage (A/C)
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                               25


                                       Attachment 3
                                REIMBURSABLE CODES

These codes are the same as the customer codes used in the WLR Formats.

Code                                      Description

A             AFMC Maintenance and Customer Support
B             Air National Guard
C             AFMC R&D Support
D             Air Mobility Command (AMC) – All AMC O&M and Non-Transportation WCF
E             Air Mobility Command (AMC) – Transportation WCF
F             Air Combat Command (ACC)
G             Air Force Space Command (AFSPC)
H             Department of the Army (DA)
I             United States Marine Corps (USMC)
J             Base Support 3400 – All Customer O&M Funds
K             Direct Cite Summary
L             Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC)
M             Foreign Military Sales (FMS)
N             United States Navy (USN)
O             Air Education and Training Command (AETC)
P             AFMC Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
Q             Pacific Air Force (PACAF)
R             General Support Division – Supply Management Business Area
S             Commercial Fixed Price Partnering
T             AFMC Modifications Programs – Aircraft, Missiles, Equipment
U             Centralized Asset Management (CAM)
V             United States Air Force Europe (USAFE)
W             Stabilized Rate Partnering
X             MSD – CSAG – Supply Division Operations Support
Y             Other Non-Military Government Agencies
Z             Air Force Reserve (AFR)
1             National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
2             Air Force Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA)
3             Commercial Private Party – Cost Reimbursable
4             United States Coast Guard (USCG)
5             United States Air Force Academy (USAFA)
6             Manufacturing of Centrally Procured Spares – Aircraft, Missile, Equipment,
               Communication
7             Global Strike Command
8             Air Force Network Integration Center (AFNIC)
9             Air Weather Service
0             Joint Communication Support Element
 26                                                             AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


                                        Attachment 4
               WORKLOAD REVIEW FORMATS WITH INSTRUCTIONS

A4.1. Customer funded orders and depot maintenance capability data for the year currently
under execution, and projected funded customer orders for the upcoming year plus 2 out-years,
are submitted on a series of formats.
A4.2. The formats are sequenced and structured such that funded/approved customer orders
(from all funds holders in dollars and by commodity) are translated into SOR dollar allocations
from all source customers. The funded/approved customer orders are then translated into funded
DPSHs; and finally into SOR planned workload and the capability to accomplish that workload.
A4.3. Completion of these formats during the WLR process is mandatory. The completed
formats are submitted to HQ AFMC/A4DA in accordance with the schedule published in the
annual WLR Guidance. There are six formats that must be submitted.
   A4.3.1. Format 1: Customer Orders by SOS Management Center in Dollars.
   A4.3.2. Format 1A: SOS Customer Orders Breakdown by Specific Customer in Dollars.
   A4.3.3. Format 6: Customer Orders by SOR in Dollars.
   A4.3.4. Format 6A: SOR Customer Orders Breakdown by Specific Customer in Dollars.
   A4.3.5. Format 7: Customer Orders in DPSHs.
   A4.3.6. Format 8: Workload and Capability in DPSHs.
A4.4. These formats are appropriately titled workbooks found on SharePoint under the current
WLR time frame. The formats contain both automatic computations and cells for manual data
entry by the originators. Formulas used for automatic computations are not to be altered or
compromised by the user. Instructions for completion of the formats are provided as part of each
format‘s workbook.
A4.5. In addition to the formats covered above, the 8203 Report shall be provided for all years
of the WLR to be used as an execution tracking document. Up-to-date Hiring and Attrition Plans
are required to be developed and maintained. Instructions for completing the 8203 Report are
contained in Attachment 7. The CEP will be completed by HQ AFMC/A4DA.
A4.6. Format 1: Identifies funded and approved customer orders by SOS, and is prepared by
the SOS. It spreads the customer funding projections to the SOR, by commodity, for the 3-year
WLR time frame.
A4.7. Format 1A: Further breaks out the data in Format 1 to show the spread of the customers‘
funded projections to the SOR by commodity and customer.
A4.8. Format 6: Identifies funded customer orders by commodity, originating from each SOS,
and is developed by the SOR. The funding is displayed by commodity for the 3-year WLR time
frame.
A4.9. Format 6A: Further breaks out the funding in Format 6 by commodity and by customer.
A4.10. Format 7: Is prepared by the SOR and provides the DPSHs in relationship to the dollars
in Format 6 by commodity.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                  27


A4.11. Format 8: Is prepared by the SOR to document the approved projected workload and
the SOR‘s capability in DPSHs to accomplish the workload. It captures the carry-in workload
from the previous year, planning year customer orders, and the MXWs‘ planned capability in
DPSHs by commodity. It also portrays the resulting carry-out in DPSHs, and the net available
workload computed in months to available in the next year.
                       28                                                                                                       AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


                                                                                          Attachment 5
                                                               SUPPLEMENTAL HIRING PROGRAMS

                      Table A5.1. Supplemental Hiring Programs
                        PERMANENT               PERMANENT               PERMANENT             PERMANENT               PERMANENT               TEMPORARY
                                                                                                                                                                   TERM
                        FULL-TIME (FT)          PART-TIME (PT)          INTERMITTENT          SEASONAL                ON-CALL                 LIMITED
                                                                                                                                                                   EMPLOYMENT
                        EMPLOYMENT              EMPLOYMENT              EMPLOYMENT            EMPLOYMENT              EMPLOYMENT              EMPLOYMENT
                        5 CFR Part 315,         5 CFR Part 340,         5 CFR Part 340,       5 CFR Part 340,         5 CFR Part 340          5 CFR Part 316.      5 CFR Part 316,
   AUTHORITIES




                        NSPS DoD                NSPS DoD                NSPS DoD              NSPS DoD                                        NSPS DoD             NSPS DoD
                        1400.25-M, SC-          1400.25-M, SC-          1400.25-M, SC-        1400.25-M, SC-                                  1400.25-M, SC-       1400.25-M, SC-
                        1950                    1950                    1950                  1950                                            1950                 1950




                        • 40 hours per week     • 16-32 hours per       • Up to 40 hours      • Up to 40 hours per    • 16-40 hours per       • Up to 40 hours     • Up to 40 hours per
                                                week on a pre-          per week; no          week, with              week                    per week             week
 SCHEDULE




                                                arranged tour of        regularly scheduled   ―Conditions of
   WORK




                                                duty                    tour of duty; and     Employment‖
                                                                        cannot be
                                                                        scheduled in
                                                                        advance

                        • Stable workforce      • Stable workforce      • High turnover       • Fairly stable         • Fairly stable         • High turnover      • Stable workforce
                        • Fixed cost            • Variable cost         • Variable cost       workforce               workforce               • Variable cost      • Variable cost
                        • Inflexible work       • Moderate flexible     • Maximum             • Variable cost         • Variable cost         • Flexible work      • Flexible work
                        schedule                work schedule           flexible work         • Flexible work         • Moderate flexible     schedule             schedule
                        • Covered by            • Covered by RIF        schedule              schedule                work schedule           • Appointed for 1    • Covered by RIF
                        Reduction in Force      and adverse action      • Released and        • Recalled for          • Rapid release and     year, but can be     and adverse action
   PRIMARY FEATURES




                        (RIF) and adverse       procedures              recalled at will      seasonal work and       recall                  extended up to 4     procedures
                        action procedures                               • Work is sporadic    released thereafter     • Work a minimum        years                • Non-status
                                                                        and unpredictable     • Work a minimum        of 6 months in a        • Released at will   appointed for 1-4
                                                                        • Cannot be           of 6 months in a        calendar year           • Not eligible for   years
                                                                        scheduled in          calendar year, but      • ―Conditions of        noncompetitive       • Noncompetitive
                                                                        advance               less than 12 months     Employment‖ are         conversion           conversion to
                                                                                              each year               required                                     career/career
                                                                                              • ―Conditions of        • Expected                                   conditional
                                                                                              Employment‖ are         conversion to year-                          appointment is
                                                                                              required                round employment                             difficult
                                                                                              • Covered by RIF and    • Covered by RIF
                                                                                              adverse action          and adverse action
                                                                                              procedures              procedures

                        • Health insurance      • Health insurance      • None                • Health insurance      • Health insurance      • Health insurance   • Health insurance
                        • Life insurance        (PT employee bears                            (PT employee bears      (PT employee bears      (FT or PT, and       (FT or PT; PT
                        • Retirement            part of cost)                                 part of cost)           part of cost)           over 1 year          employee bears part
                        • Annual Leave          • Life insurance                              • Life insurance        • Life insurance        continuous           of cost)
                        (AL) and Sick           • Retirement                                  • Retirement            • Retirement            service employee     • Life insurance (FT
   BENEFITS




                        Leave (SL)              • AL and SL                                   • AL and SL             • AL and SL             bears all costs)     or PT)
                        • Thrift Savings        • Thrift Savings                              • Thrift Savings Plan   • Thrift Savings        • AL and SL (FT      • Retirement (FT or
                        Plan                    Plan                                                                  Plan                    or PT)               PT)
                                                                                                                                                                   • AL and SL (FT or
                                                                                                                                                                   PT)
                                                                                                                                                                   • Thrift Savings
                                                                                                                                                                   Plan

                        • Promotion,            • Promotion,            • Promotion,          • Promotion,            • Promotion,            • Can detail to      • Promotion,
                        demotion,               demotion,               demotion,             demotion,               demotion,               temporary            demotion,
 CHANGES
 POSITION




                        reassignment, and       reassignment, and       reassignment, and     reassignment, and       reassignment, and       positions            reassignment, and
                        detail                  detail                  detail                detail                  detail                                       detail to term
                                                                                                                                                                   positions

                        • 121.1% of base        • 121.1% of base        • 107.65% of base     • 121.1% of base pay    • 121.1% of base        • 107.65% of base    • 121.1% of base
                        pay for time            pay for time            pay (Federal          for time worked, plus   pay for time            pay (FICA)           pay for time
EMPLOYMENT
 ESTIMATED




                        worked, plus cost       worked, plus cost of    Insurance             cost of up to 6         worked, plus cost                            worked, plus cost
   COSTS




                        of up to 6 months       up to 6 months          Contributions Act     months credit for       of up to 6 months                            of up to 6 months
                        credit for retirement   credit for retirement   (FICA))               retirement while in     credit for retirement                        credit for retirement
                        while in non-pay        while in non-pay                              non-pay status          while in non-pay                             while in non-pay
                        status                  status                                                                status                                       status
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                      29


                                        Attachment 6
           DEPOT ON-SITE CONTRACT AUGMENTEE TEAMS (DO-CATS)

A6.1. Depot maintenance workload may be accomplished by a combination of organic and
contract personnel. DO-CATs augment the depot workforce at an organic depot by performing
depot-level maintenance and modification on a short-term basis to ensure continued customer
support, and help mitigate risk associated with the fluctuation in customer requirements and new
workloads. DO-CATs are used to aid in meeting increased requirements within lead-time. They
are not to be used to replace the government workforce, nor are they to be used to alleviate the
requirement to plan capabilities lead-time away. A side benefit of DO-CATs is that they are a
potential, experienced, labor pool source of qualified candidates for government new hires
should the need arise. DO-CATs are funded with organic depot maintenance funds.
   A6.1.1. DO-CATs perform depot-level maintenance and modification of aircraft, including
   aerospace equipment, communications, electronics and meteorological equipment, automated
   data processing and cryptology equipment, missile weapon systems, and support equipment.
   Direct labor is the only authorized labor category on DO-CAT contracts. DO-CATs may not
   be used for personal services.
A6.2. All DO-CAT contracts must have HQ AFMC/A4 approval, in writing, prior to task order
award. Centers must submit a request to HQ AFMC/A4D with details that answer pertinent
questions; i.e. what workloads require the use of DO-CATs, the number of DO-CATs planned to
be hired; the length of time they are expected to be on-board, etc.
   A6.2.1. Workload accomplished by DO-CATs counts as contract workload for 50/50
   reporting purposes, and must be identified to HQ AFMC during the annual 50/50 data call.
   Any new requirements for DO-CATs, and any increases to existing DO-CATs, require
   approval from HQ AFMC by submitting a Workload Approval Process (WAP) Package to
   HQ AFMC/A4DC. Although this is not a shift of location of workload, the WAP package
   enables 50/50 assessment.
A6.3. No constraints for the use of DO-CATs is directed by this instruction. However,
constraints for the use of this resource may be provided in the annual WLR Guidance.
A6.4. Reporting. The 8203 Report has a section for reporting DO-CATs, and will be used to
measure actual against projected hiring of this flexible capability. All data elements must be
provided in the yearly projection, as well as the monthly actual.
 30                                                              AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


                                         Attachment 7
                                        8203 REPORT

A7.1. Overview. The 8203 Report consists of three sections: Section I, Organic Resources;
Section II, Contract Augmentee (CA) Data; and Section III, Total Organic Capability (Civilian,
Military, and CA). Data used to compile all three sections of this report will be data associated
with depot maintenance resources only. A template will be provided by HQ AFMC/A4DA at the
beginning of each fiscal year with correct man-hours per month for the upcoming year and the
areas identified that requires manual input. Templates with correct work-years will also be
provided for WLR for applicable years. The 8203 Reports are due at the time all WLR formats
are submitted. Protection has been enabled except where data is to be entered, thus entries need
only be made in unprotected cells for monthly data. Year-to-date data is calculated from
monthly data based on formulas residing in the spreadsheet. Do not change any formulas.
Further clarification follows:
   A7.1.1. The 8203 Report is submitted 13 times for each fiscal year. The first 8203 Report is
   a projection for the upcoming fiscal year. The remaining 12 are due the 12th working day of
   the month immediately following the month just completed, and will compare actual monthly
   performance against the projection.
A7.2. . Organic Resources
   A7.2.1. Total Paid Civilian Hours: Total hours a depot maintenance civilian will be
   compensated. This line will be the total of civilian regular time, civilian overtime, and
   civilian leave.
       A7.2.1.1. Civilian Regular Time: Total on-duty regular hours (no overtime, no leave) of
       a depot maintenance civilian. This line will be the total of civilian regular time direct,
       production overhead, and G&A overhead.
       A7.2.1.2. Civilian Regular Time, Direct: Total regular time hours of a depot
       maintenance direct employee performing direct work. This should not include hours of a
       direct employee exceptioned out to other than direct functions. This would be the regular
       time DPAH, Duty Codes 11 and 12. If for any reason an overhead employee is
       exceptioned to direct, the hours expended doing a direct labor function would be
       accounted for here.
       A7.2.1.3. Civilian Regular Time, Production Overhead: Total regular time hours of a
       depot maintenance civilian performing duties classified as production overhead. This
       category would also include the on-duty hours a direct employee spends doing other than
       direct work, including CCIV--Duty Code 14.
       A7.2.1.4. Civilian Regular Time, G&A Overhead: Total regular time hours of a depot
       maintenance civilian performing duties classified as overhead "staff" work.
       A7.2.1.5. Indirect Time (Memo): The time a direct depot maintenance employee spends
       performing other than direct work. Time is exceptioned out to indirect and rolled into
       production overhead. No overtime is to be included in the Indirect Memo Time of the
       8203 Report (or the IF3). Indirect Memo Time should include only civilians; no military
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                    31


     and no overtime. No .Duty Code 14 time is to be included, as it is captured in Production
     Overhead.
     A7.2.1.6. Civilian Overtime:     Total overtime hours worked by depot maintenance
     civilian employees.
     A7.2.1.7. Civilian Overtime, Direct:     Total overtime hours expended by a depot
     maintenance direct employee.
     A7.2.1.8. Civilian Overtime, Production Overhead: Total overtime hours expended by a
     production overhead resource; including CCIV overtime.
     A7.2.1.9. Civilian Overtime, G&A Overhead: Total overtime hours expended by an
     employee performing duties classified as overhead "staff" work.
     A7.2.1.10. Civilian Leave:     Total hours of leave expended by a depot maintenance
     civilian employee.
     A7.2.1.11. Civilian Leave, Direct: Total leave hours of depot maintenance direct labor
     employees.
     A7.2.1.12. Civilian Leave, Production Overhead:          Total leave hours of depot
     maintenance production overhead employees.
     A7.2.1.13. Civilian Leave, G&A Overhead – Total leave hours of depot maintenance
     employees performing duties classified as overhead "staff" work.
     A7.2.1.14. Total Military Hours: Total hours expended by depot maintenance military
     personnel on-duty or on-leave. (NOTE: In military on-duty hours, include any of the
     hours performed by military other than depot maintenance-assigned military; i.e., CLSS.
     They will not appear in a military end-strength number if they are not depot maintenance
     PEC assigned, but their hours will appear in the military on-duty hours.)
     A7.2.1.15. Military On-Duty Time:       Total hours expended by depot maintenance
     military while in on-duty status.
     A7.2.1.16. Military On-Duty Time, Direct: Total hours expended by depot maintenance
     military in on-duty status performing direct labor functions.
     A7.2.1.17. Military On-Duty Time, Production Overhead: Total hours expended by
     depot maintenance military in on-duty status performing production overhead functions.
     A7.2.1.18. Military On-Duty Time, G&A Overhead: Total hours expended by depot
     maintenance military in on-duty status performing duties classified as overhead "staff"
     work.
     A7.2.1.19. Military Leave Time: Total hours expended by depot maintenance military in
     leave status.
     A7.2.1.20. Military Leave Time, Direct: Total hours expended by depot maintenance
     military direct labor personnel in leave status.
     A7.2.1.21. Military Leave Time, Production Overhead: Total hours expended by depot
     maintenance military production overhead personnel in leave status.
32                                                               AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


     A7.2.1.22. Military Leave Time, G&A Overhead: Total hours expended by depot
     maintenance military performing duties classified as overhead "staff" work in leave
     status.
     A7.2.1.23. Total Paid Hours (Civilian and Military): Total hours for depot maintenance
     civilians and military.
  A7.2.2. DPSH: Should be the applicable DPSHs, without CCIV or DO-CATs, for work
  accomplished by depot maintenance personnel during the report period.
  A7.2.3. Man-Hours Per Month: The number of available hours for each month in the fiscal
  year. This number will be provided as a part of the 8203 Report template required for
  execution year reporting, as well as provided as a WLR template.
  A7.2.4. Summary of Work-Years: This particular portion of the report will be a breakout of
  the work-years directly associated with the hours reported above. The categories used are the
  same as used with the hours. Work-years are derived by dividing hours by man-hours per
  month.
  A7.2.5. Civilian End Strength: This element of the spreadsheet is intended to place each
  individual on-board, as of the date of the report, into one of the three labor classifications;
  i.e., direct, production overhead, or G&A overhead, as well as into an employment category.
     A7.2.5.1. Total Civilian End Strength: This number is a roll-up of the information
     contained above.
  A7.2.6. Military End Strength: Total number of military on-board during the report period.
  This number will include only those military personnel authorized as a part of the depot
  maintenance PEC. It will not include such things as CLSS military, who are not a part of the
  depot maintenance PEC, although they may be producing hours that will be counted as
  production while in the depot receiving training.
  A7.2.7. FYXX Civilian End Strength: This number is intended to be a one-time entry for
  the previous year, and should be the total assigned personnel as of 30 Sep for the year just
  completed. It is important to ensure this number is correctly entered in the block
  immediately below the title line. The spreadsheet is set-up to accept it that manner.
  A7.2.8. Employment Section: Provides end strength by category of employment. This
  section provides categories for every employee assigned within depot maintenance. This is
  delineated between the total on-board during any report period, as well as those assigned, but
  not on-board during the report period. The check figure is intended to ensure that the Total
  Civilian End Strength matches the end strength number provided in this section. Both
  categories are intended to capture only the on-board number. Those employees assigned to
  depot maintenance, but not in the on-board number, are captured in the Total Leave Without
  Pay (LWOP) category. The LWOP combined with the total on-board number will equal the
  total assigned for depot maintenance for the month being reported.
  A7.2.9. Other Statistics (Organic Personnel): The categories below have built-in formulas,
  which will calculate the appropriate number from other data provided in the spreadsheet. No
  data should be manually entered here.
     A7.2.9.1. DPAHs (Civilian and Military Capability) With Overtime: Civilian regular
     time direct, plus civilian overtime direct, plus total military direct hours.
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                    33


     A7.2.9.2. DPAHs (Civilian and Military Capability) Without Overtime: Civilian regular
     time direct, plus military direct hours.
     A7.2.9.3. DPAHs (Civilian Capability) With Overtime: Civilian regular time direct, plus
     civilian overtime direct hours.
     A7.2.9.4. DPAHs (Civilian Capability) Without Overtime: Civilian regular time direct
     hours.
     A7.2.9.5. Total Civilian DPAH Yield With Overtime:
              Civilian Regular Direct + Civilian Overtime Direct x 12
         Civilian Regular Time Work-Years + Civilian Leave Work-Years
     A7.2.9.6. Total Civilian DPAH Yield Without Overtime:
                     Civilian Regular Time Direct x 12
         Civilian Regular Time Work-Years + Civilian Leave Work-Years
     A7.2.9.7. Civilian and Military DPAH Yield With Overtime:
                                 Civilian and Military DPAHs x 12
         Civilian Regular Time Work-Years + Civilian Leave Work-Years + Total Military
         Time (Including Leave)
     A7.2.9.8. Civilian and Military DPAH Yield Without Overtime:
                 DPAHs (Civilian and Military) minus Civilian Overtime Direct x 12
         Civilian Regular Time Work-Years + Civilian Leave Work-Years + Total Military
         Time (Including Leave)
     A7.2.9.9. Civilian Direct Labor DPAH Yield With Overtime:
  (Civilian Direct Labor Regular Time Hours + Civilian Direct Labor Overtime Hours) x 12
                   Civilian Regular Time + Leave + Indirect Work-Years
     A7.2.9.10. Civilian Direct Labor DPAH Yield Without Overtime:
         (Civilian Direct Labor Regular Time Hours) x 12
       Civilian Regular Time + Leave + Indirect Work-Years
     A7.2.9.11. Output per Man Day (OPMD):
                  DPSHs Produced x 8
          Total Paid Hours (Civilian and Military)
     A7.2.9.12. Direct Labor Efficiency:
             DPSHs Produced
          DPAHs (Civilian and Military)
     A7.2.9.13. Direct Overtime Percentage (Without Leave):
            Civilian Overtime Direct
          Civilian Regular Time Direct
     A7.2.9.14. Direct Overtime Percentage (With Leave):
                        Civilian Overtime Direct
34                                                            AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


          Civilian Regular Time Direct + Civilian Leave Time Direct
     A7.2.9.15. Overhead Overtime Percentage (Without Leave):
              Civilian Production Overhead + G&A Overhead Overtime
          Production Overhead Regular Time + G&A Regular Time (Civilian)
     A7.2.9.16. Overhead Overtime Percentage (With Leave):
                     Civilian Production Overhead + G&A Overhead Overtime
         Production Overhead Regular Time + Production Overhead Leave + G&A Regular
         Time + G&A Leave
     A7.2.9.17. Total Overtime Percentage (Without Leave):
           Civilian Overtime
          Civilian Regular Time
     A7.2.9.18. Total Overtime Percentage (With Leave):
                    Civilian Overtime
          Civilian Regular Time + Civilian Leave
  A7.2.10. Percent of Total Paid Civilian Hours: This section contains formulas, which will
  calculate percentages from other data provided in the report. No data should be manually
  entered here.
     A7.2.10.1. Regular Time as a Percentage of Total Paid Civilian Hours:
           Civilian Regular Time
          Total Paid Civilian Hours
     A7.2.10.2. Overtime as a Percentage of Total Paid Civilian Hours:
             Civilian Overtime
          Total Paid Civilian Hours
     A7.2.10.3. Leave Time as a Percentage of Total Paid Civilian Hours:
            Civilian Leave Time
          Total Paid Civilian Hours
     A7.2.10.4. Sick Leave (Memo) as a Percentage of Total Paid Civilian Hours:
          Civilian Sick Leave Hours
          Total Paid Civilian Hours
  A7.2.11. Civilian Sick Leave Hours: Sick leave hours consumed by depot maintenance
  civilian employees during the report period.
  A7.2.12. Percent Direct:
        Civilian Regular Time Direct + Civilian Overtime Direct + Civilian Direct Leave
                                  Total Paid Civilian Hours
     A7.2.12.1. Percent Production Overhead:
          Production Overhead Regular Time + Production Overhead Overtime + Production
                                        Overhead Leave
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                    35


                                     Total Paid Civilian Hours
     A7.2.12.2. Percent G&A Overhead:
         G&A Overhead + G&A Overhead Overtime + G&A Overhead Leave
                          Total Paid Civilian Hours
     A7.2.12.3. Percent Production Overhead and G&A Overhead:
         Percent Production Overhead + Percent G&A Overhead = Percent Production
                          Overhead and G&A Overhead
  A7.2.13. Additional Data (Memo Entries):
     A7.2.13.1. Cost Class IV Paid Hours: Total civilian labor expended in Duty Code 14.
     A7.2.13.2. Direct (Including Overtime): Total direct civilian labor expended in Duty
     Code 14.
     A7.2.13.3. Indirect (Including Overtime): Total indirect civilian labor expended in Duty
     Code 14.
     A7.2.13.4. Leave: Total leave expended in Duty Code 14.
     A7.2.13.5. Overtime: Total Duty Code 14 overtime. Memo entry as each category
     above includes overtime, with the exception of leave.
     A7.2.13.6. Duty Code 14 Efficiency:
         CCIV DPSH
         CCIV DPAH
  A7.2.14. DPSH Yields.
     A7.2.14.1. Overtime DPAH: Civilian Overtime DPAH previously provided on Page 1
     under Civilian Overtime, Direct.
     A7.2.14.2. DLE:     Civilian direct labor efficiency previously provided under Other
     Statistics.
     A7.2.14.3. Overtime DPSH: Overtime DPAH x DLE = Overtime DPSH.
     A7.2.14.4. Military DPSH: Military DPAH x DLE = Military DPSH.
  A7.2.15. Total DPSH (Without Duty Code 14 and CA) previously provided.
     A7.2.15.1. DPSH Without Overtime: Self-explanatory.
     A7.2.15.2. DPSH Without Military: Self-explanatory.
     A7.2.15.3. DPSH Without Military and Overtime: Self-explanatory.
  A7.2.16. Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years: Self-explanatory.
     A7.2.16.1. Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years + Military: Self-explanatory.
     A7.2.16.2. Civilian Direct Hours (Regular + Leave + Indirect) – Military: Civilian direct
     regular time, plus civilian direct leave, plus indirect time of the direct employee.
36                                                            AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


     A7.2.16.3. Civilian Direct (Regular + Leave + Indirect) Work-Years: Civilian direct
     regular time work-years, plus civilian direct leave work-years, plus indirect time of the
     direct employee work-years.
     A7.2.16.4. DPAH Hours With Military: Self-explanatory.
     A7.2.16.5. Civilian and Military Direct Work-Years: Self-explanatory.
  A7.2.17. Total Civilian DPSH Yield With Overtime:
         Total Civilian DPSH With Overtime x 12
        Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years
     A7.2.17.1. Total Civilian DPSH Yield Without Overtime:
         Total Civilian DPSH Without Overtime x 12
         Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years
     A7.2.17.2. Total Civilian and Military DPSH Yield With Overtime:
         Total Civilian and Military DPSH With Overtime x 12
         Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years + Military
     A7.2.17.3. Total Civilian and Military DPSH Yield Without Overtime:
         Total Civilian and Military DPSH Without Overtime x 12
          Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years + Military
  A7.2.18. Civilian Direct DPSH Yield With Overtime:
        Civilian Direct DPSH With Overtime x 12
                 Direct Work-Years
     A7.2.18.1. Civilian Direct DPSH Yield Without Overtime:
         Civilian Direct DPSH Without Overtime x 12
                     Direct Work-Years
     A7.2.18.2. Civilian and Military Direct DPSH Yield With Overtime:
         Civilian and Military Direct DPSH With Overtime x 12
                           Direct Work-Years
     A7.2.18.3. Civilian and Military Direct DPSH Yield Without Overtime:
         Civilian and Military Direct DPSH Without Overtime x 12
                               Direct Work-Years
  A7.2.19. Leave Factor (.30 Time) Without Overtime Expressed as a Ratio:
        Direct Paid Leave
        Direct Paid Hours
     A7.2.19.1. Indirect Factor (.20 Time) Without Overtime Expressed as a Ratio:
          Indirect Time
         Direct Paid Hours
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                       37


      A7.2.19.2. Total Indirect Factor Without Overtime: The sum of the Leave Factor and
      the Indirect Factor.
   A7.2.20. Hiring: This number will be only the new employees coming into depot
   maintenance. This could be someone coming from off-the-street or from another
   organization within the Air Force or your ALC, but not currently employed in depot
   maintenance. This would not include someone who has been in a depot maintenance LWOP
   status returning to work.
      A7.2.20.1. Attrition: This number will be only those employees who have left depot
      maintenance roles entirely for whatever reason; i.e., quit, transferred, retired, deceased,
      etc. This should not include anyone who will remain as an assigned depot maintenance
      employee, but simply be in a non-pay status.
      A7.2.20.2. Net Gain/Loss: The difference between Hiring and Attrition (above). The
      check figure should be the difference in the total assigned from one month to the next,
      and should match the plus or minus reflected in the net gain/loss for the report period.
A7.3. . Contract Augmentee (CA) Data: The production hours of a CA performing work in
support of depot maintenance organic operations; commonly referred to as DO-CATs (see
Chapter 2 and Attachment 6).
   A7.3.1. CA DPAH Hours With Overtime: CA actual production hours, including overtime.
      A7.3.1.1. CA DPAH Hours Without Overtime: CA production hours without overtime.
      A7.3.1.2. Work-Years With Overtime: The work-years are derived by dividing CA
      hours (with overtime) by work hours in month for CAs.
      A7.3.1.3. Work-Years Without Overtime: The work-years are derived by dividing CA
      hours (without overtime) by work hours in month for CAs.
      A7.3.1.4. CA Production Overhead Hours With Overtime: CA production overhead
      hours, including overtime.
      A7.3.1.5. CA Production Overhead Hours Without Overtime: CA production overhead
      hours without overtime.
      A7.3.1.6. Work-Years With Overtime: The work-years are derived by dividing CA
      hours (with overtime) by work hours in month for CAs.
      A7.3.1.7. Work-Years Without Overtime: The work-years are derived by dividing CA
      hours (without overtime) by work hours in month for CAs.
      A7.3.1.8. CA G&A Overhead Hours With Overtime: CA production overhead hours,
      including overtime.
      A7.3.1.9. CA G&A Overhead Hours Without Overtime: CA production overhead hours
      without overtime.
      A7.3.1.10. Work-Years With Overtime: The work-years are derived by dividing CA
      hours (with overtime) by work hours in month for CAs.
      A7.3.1.11. Work-Years Without Overtime: The work-years are derived by dividing CA
      hours (without overtime) by work hours in month for CAs.
38                                                          AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012


     A7.3.1.12. CA Total Hours With Overtime: The total hours of a CA performing work in
     support of depot maintenance, including overtime.
     A7.3.1.13. CA Total Hours Without Overtime: The total hours of a CA performing
     work in support of depot maintenance without overtime.
     A7.3.1.14. Work-Years With Overtime: The work-years are derived by dividing CA
     hours (with overtime) by work hours in month for CAs.
     A7.3.1.15. Work-Years Without Overtime: The work-years are derived by dividing CA
     hours (without overtime) by work hours in month for CAs.
  A7.3.2. CA DPSH Produced With Overtime: The DPSHs of a CA performing work in
  support of depot maintenance, including overtime.
     A7.3.2.1. CA DPSH Produced Without Overtime: The DPSHs of a CA performing work
     in support of depot maintenance without overtime.
  A7.3.3. Direct Labor Efficiency (for CAs): Obtained by dividing the CA DPSHs by the CA
  DPAHs.
  A7.3.4. Work Hours in Month for CAs: The number of available hours in each month of the
  fiscal year for CAs. This will generally differ from government monthly work hours.
  A7.3.5. Total CA DPSH Yield With Overtime:
       Total CA DPSH With Overtime x 12
          CA Regular Time Work-Years
     A7.3.5.1. Total CA DPSH Yield Without Overtime:
        Total CA DPSH Without Overtime x 12
             CA Regular Time Work-Years
     A7.3.5.2. CA Direct DPSH Yield With Overtime:
        CA Direct DPSH With Overtime x 12
                  Direct Work-Years
     A7.3.5.3. CA Direct DPSH Yield Without Overtime:
        CA Direct DPSH Without Overtime x 12
                  Direct Work-Years
  A7.3.6. Total Number of CAs On-Board: Self-explanatory.
  A7.3.7. Total CA Direct Hours: Total CA direct hours performed in support of depot
  maintenance.
     A7.3.7.1. On-Duty Direct: Direct CA time spent performing direct work.
     A7.3.7.2. Indirect Labor Hours: Direct CA hours spent performing other than direct
     work.
     A7.3.7.3. Indirect Labor Factor for CAs: The time a direct CA spends performing other
     than direct work expressed as a ratio.
       Indirect Time With Overtime
AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012                                                                    39


       Direct Paid Hours With Overtime
   A7.3.8. Output Per Man Day (OPMD) CAs: The portion of an 8-hour day used by a CA
   producing a revenue-earning product.
         CA DPSH Produced x 8
          Total CA Paid Hours
A7.4. . Total Organic Capability (Civilian, Military, and CA): All data in this section is fed
from Sections I and II.
   A7.4.1. DPAHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) With Overtime: DPAHs (Civilian
   and Military Capability) With Overtime + CA Direct DPAH Hours With Overtime.
       A7.4.1.1. DPAHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) Without Overtime: DPAHs
       (Civilian, Military Capability) Without Overtime + CA Direct DPAH Hours Without
       Overtime.
   A7.4.2. DPSHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) With Overtime:         Total DPSHs
   Without Duty Code 14 and CA + CA DPSHs Produced With Overtime.
       A7.4.2.1. DPSHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) Without Overtime: DPSH
       Without Overtime + CA DPSHs Produced Without Overtime.
   A7.4.3. Total DPAH (Civilian, Military, and CA) Yield With Overtime:
               DPAH (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability With Overtime x 12
     Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years + Military Work-Years + CA Work-Years
       A7.4.3.1. Total DPAH (Civilian, Military, and CA) Yield Without Overtime:
                 DPAHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability Without Overtime x 12
       Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years + Military Work-Years + CA Work-Years
   A7.4.4. Total DPSH (Civilian, Military, and CA) Yield With Overtime:
               DPSHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) With Overtime x 12
     Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years + Military Work-Years + CA Work-Years
       A7.4.4.1. Total DPSH (Civilian, Military, and CA) Yield Without Overtime:
               DPSHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) Without Overtime x 12
       Civilian Regular Time + Leave Work-Years + Military Work-Years + CA Work-Years
   A7.4.5. DLE With Overtime:
     DPSHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) With Overtime
     DPAHs (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) With Overtime
   A7.4.6. Indirect Labor Factor:
      Civilian Indirect Time (Memo) + CA Total Indirect Labor
     DPAHS (Civilian, Military, and CA Capability) With Overtime
   A7.4.7. OPMD (Civilian, Military, and CA):
     Total DPSHs (Without Duty Code 14 and CA) + CA DPSH Produced With Overtime x 8
                Total Paid Hours (Civilian and Military) + Total CA Direct Hours
40   AFMCI21-185 15 MAY 2012
