BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND
AIR FORCE MATERIEL COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 15-102

                                                                                 5 MARCH 2014

                                                                                         Weather

                                                    TERRESTRIAL AND SPACE WEATHER
                                                    SUPPORT ACROSS THE INTEGRATED
                                                           LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT
                                                                       FRAMEWORK

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                      Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFMC/A3OW                                                  Certified by: HQ AFMC/A3O
                                                                                 (Colonel Dumke)
                                                                                        Pages: 11
Supersedes:    AFMCI15-102,
               1 October 1998


This instruction implements the objectives of AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather Operations, by
providing guidance, identifying, establishing and sustaining terrestrial and space weather support
to Air Force (AF) acquisition processes and supporting research, development, test, and
evaluation (RDT&E). It establishes policy and procedures for managing Air Force Materiel
Command (AFMC) terrestrial and space weather support to Air Force acquisition programs and
technology-based efforts. It identifies the responsibilities to determine, document and coordinate
terrestrial and space weather support requirements of Air Force acquisition programs from
concept through system retirement, including deployment and some aspects of employment in
accordance with AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management. This instruction specifies the
development of documents detailing terrestrial and space weather support concepts and
methodology. This publication may not be supplemented by lower organizational elements.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The
authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated
with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publica tion OPR for non-tiered
 2                                                              AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014


compliance items. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The revised AFMCI
15-102 strengthens support to acquisition and RDT&E by providing a framework for
collaboration ensuring terrestrial and space weather sensitivities are accounted for during the
entire life cycle of a program or effort. It provides guidance to the field regarding information
that can help determine impacts to current and future programs/efforts, value-added to
programs/efforts and insight into emerging weapon systems for operational planning/support.
1. Acquisition Weather Support.
     1.1. Purpose. To ensure the success of acquisition, RDT&E efforts across AFMC with
     integrated weather support. This instruction outlines processes and provides guidance to
     ensure meteorological expertise, knowledge and related infrastructures are aligned and
     integrated appropriately within AF acquisition related activities.
     1.2. Objective. To support operationally relevant and cost effective research, development,
     deployment, sustainment and improvement of AF weapon systems. Meteorological subject
     matter experts throughout AFMC and lead commands identify support requirements,
     resolving/mitigating deficiencies and/or gaps, and integrating meteorological intelligence
     into the Life Cycle Management of weapons systems. Research, acquisition, test and space
     weather meteorologists can be assigned and embedded within AFMC to provide support for
     organizations to include the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL), Air Force Life Cycle
     Management Center (AFLCMC), Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC), Air Force Test
     Center (AFTC), Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC) and HQ AFMC. These
     research, acquisition, staff and space weather meteorologists will be collectively referred to
     as “staffmets” through the entirety of this instruction. Staffmets perform or support basic
     research, development, acquisition and testing of AF weapon systems and capabilities by
     identifying, documenting and providing assistance to resolve environmental sensitivity issues
     to support acquisition programs. Staffmets also prepare the Air Force and Army operational
     terrestrial and space weather communities to support new weapon system
     development/implementation by assisting lead commands with defining tactics, training, and
     procedures for operational support.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. HQ AFMC/A3 responsibility. HQ AFMC/A3OW will:
     2.1.1. Provide organizational structure, training guidance/recommendations, recommended
     equipment/tools to manage all operational and acquisition weather support within the
     command. Maintain awareness and advise leadership both within the command and at
     Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA) on emerging
     technology areas requiring specialized terrestrial and space weather support. Work with
     AFRL Space Weather Subject Matter Experts for advice, help and support as needed to
AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014                                                                         3


  support leadership briefings on Space Weather effects. Manage staffmets to support materiel
  solutions. (T-2)
     2.1.2. Provide functional oversight, policy guidance and assistance to staffmets; assist
     with resolving manpower shortfalls; visit supported organizations to determine
     requirements for meteorological assistance; assist customers in analyzing environmental
     sensitivities of systems, assess the need for terrestrial and space weather support (e.g., for
     C4I systems, models and simulations), evaluate the need for other types of weather
     support (e.g., data collection campaigns, terrestrial and space weather effects tools);
     provide or arrange for support and request assistance from other agencies, as needed. (T-
     2)
     2.1.3. Review requirements documents and appropriate information sources (e.g.,
     databases, reports, etc.) for operational thresholds and potential impacts related to the
     supported program/project/work unit and provide affected organizations guidance, as
     needed. (T-2)
     2.1.4. Semiannually (May and November), review “Program/Project/Work Unit” Briefs
     (Attachment 2), “Value Added” reports (Attachment 3) and “Emerging Technologies and
     Weapon Systems” reports (Attachment 4) and distribute to Air Force Weather functional
     staffs and other offices as needed for their planning, programming and budgeting. (T-2)
     2.1.5. Assist staffmets, as needed, with support required for the transition from
     Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E) to Operational Test and Evaluation
     (OT&E), or in providing/arranging for support if DT&E and OT&E are combined. (T-2)
     2.1.6. Facilitate, as needed, interactions between HAF, AFWA, MAJCOMs, Field
     Operating Agencies, AFMC Centers/Directorates/offices and Army Acquisition on issues
     concerning terrestrial and space weather support requirements and acquisition processes.
     (T-2)
     2.1.7. Assist staffmets with professional development. This includes working with the
     supported unit for coding of acquisition positions to support attainment of program
     management level 1, systems engineering level 1 a nd test level 1 certifications, as
     needed. This includes assistance with continuation training to include recommended
     online, formal classes/courses, symposiums, conferences, etc. Manage a crossfeed
     program to exchange technical, acquisition and other appropriate information within
     AFMC and among other interested offices. The intent is to help the staffmets understand
     how and where terrestrial and space weather can influence a program/project/work unit or
     new initiative throughout its life cycle. (T-2)
  2.2. Staffmets supporting AFMC. Staffmets will:
     2.2.1. Identify, in coordination with lead commands and AFMC/A3OW, tactics,
     techniques and procedures for new weapon systems supported throughout the Air Force
     Weather (AFW) community as outlined by the Defense Acquisition System.
     Identification practices should include research in AF, designated DoD agencies and
     approved private institutions and conducting comprehensive gap analysis to reveal
     potential meteorological support and capability gaps or deficiencies. (T-2)
4                                                           AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014


    2.2.2. Determine and communicate to lead command and AFMC/A3OW organizational
    meteorological support requirements to include assisting customers in analyzing
    environmental sensitivities of systems, assessing the need for weather support (e.g., for
    C4I systems, models and simulations), evaluating other types of weather support
    requirements (e.g., data collection campaigns, weather effects tools); providing or
    arranging for support, and requesting assistance from other agencies as needed. (T-2)
    2.2.3. Identify and document in direct coordination with program/project/work unit
    offices, environmental thresholds in DoD procurement and acquisition
    policies/documentation (e.g. DFARS and DoD Directive 5000.01), as required.
    Documentation will include system terrestrial and space weather sensitivity impacts and
    potential design criteria impacts for the supported effort. Identify potential weather
    support shortfalls to supported offices and HQ AFMC/A3OW. (T-2)
    2.2.4. Provide or arrange for environmental support to customer programs during
    RDT&E; coordinate test criteria and meteorological support for weather sensitive
    systems under test and programs as initiated and updated by the program/project/work
    unit office; consult with the T&E support agency on a ny DT/OT&E weather support
    requirements. (T-2)
    2.2.5. Submit semi-annual program/project/work unit briefs to HQ AFMC/A3OW on 15
    April and 15 October, on all programs requiring terrestrial and space weather support at
    their location, in accordance with Attachment 2.                  Coordinate the draft
    program/project/work unit brief with the program/project/work unit office. If no change
    has occurred since the last submission, report “no change.” (T-2)
    2.2.6. Prepare and submit to HQ AFMC/A3OW, or make available electronically,
    reports of “Value-Added” of their services (Attachment 3). Reports will be semi-annual ,
    due 15 April and 15 October, and an interim report when a project or major tasking is
    completed. (T-2)
    2.2.7. Prepare and submit “Emerging Technologies and Weapon Systems” report
    (Attachment 4) by 15 October. Reports will be an annual assessment to help terrestrial
    and space weather planners at all levels to take into account emerging technologies and
    weapon systems being developed by and for DoD that may or will have terrestrial and
    space weather sensitivities and may or will need weather support capabilities. Emphasis
    is on identifying new or enhanced weather support capabilities that are not yet available
    or planned, and will be needed to support future developmental testing and operations,
    but before it is to be operationally tested and fielded. (T-2)
    2.2.8. Provide consultation services related to development of the terrestrial and space
    weather support concept of operations (CONOPS) for new systems, and on operating,
    environmental support, and modeling and simulation requirements for inclusion in
    system requirements documents as needed/requested. (T-2)
    2.2.9. Review all publications listed in Attachment 1 of this instruction. (T-2)
    2.2.10. Complete initial and continuation training to include completing the requirements
    for Program Management, Test and Systems Engineering level 1 certification through
    Defense Acquisition University. Complete recommended meteorological and acquisition
    online courses, formal classes/courses, symposiums, conferences, etc. Review key
AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014                                                                        5


       references cited in this instruction (Attachment 1) and the Acquisition Intelligence
       Guidebook (AIG) to help understand how and where weather can influence a
       program/project/work unit/new initiative throughout its life cycle and how that process is
       managed. Maintaining and pursuing professional development is critical to providing the
       best possible support to customers. (T-2)
   2.3. Acquisition and RDT&E leaders/directors. Program Managers, Single Managers,
   Product Directors, Technology Directors, Development Planning Team Leaders, or Initiative
   Leads will:
       2.3.1. Consult with assigned staffmets to ensure terrestrial and space we ather effects are
       considered in program/project/work unit capability and requirements development,
       planning, and processes. (T-2)
       2.3.2. Provide staffmets access to program/project/work unit technical details,
       requirements, and capabilities so assessment of future weather sensitivities and weather
       support requirements can be determined and planned for by AFW community and
       acquisition/RDT&E program offices. (T-2)
   2.4. Headquarters and Centers.      HQ AFMC A/2/5, AFRL, AFLCMC, AFSC, AFTC,
   AFNWC will:
       2.4.1. Consult with staffmets to ensure terrestrial and space weather effects and support
       requirements are assessed throughout the life cycle of portfolio/program/project/work
       unit technologies and weapon systems. (T-2)
       2.4.2. Provide staffmets access to program/project/work unit technologies and weapon
       systems’ technical details, requirements, and capabilities so assessment of weather
       sensitivities and weather support requirements can be planned. Staffmets need access
       from the beginning of concept definition and throughout the program’s life cycle to
       provide technical assistance in mitigating the effects of adverse impacts from terrestrial
       and space weather phenomena to reduce R&D and acquisition costs, and ensure AF
       weather resources are prepared to support development, testing and fielding/operational
       employment of emerging technologies and weapon systems. (T-2)
       2.4.3. Support professional development of assigned and/or attached staffmets to include
       acquisition professional development program certificatio ns and continuation training.
       Provide recommendations for specialized classes/courses, symposiums, conferences, etc.,
       that would provide further understanding to supported technologies/efforts. (T-2)
3. Acquisition.
   3.1. Defense acquisition. The Defense Acquisition System is the management process by
   which, the DoD provides effective, affordable, and timely systems to the users as stated in
   DoD Directive 5000.01. An Acquisition Program is a directed, funded effort that provides a
   new, improved, or continuing materiel, weapon or information system, or service capability
   in response to an approved need. A simplified and flexible management framework for
   translating capability needs and technology opportunities, based on approved capability
   needs, into stable, affordable, and well- managed acquisition programs that include weapon
   systems, services, and automated information systems is outlined in DoD Instruction
   5000.02.
6                                                              AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014


       3.1.1. Terrestrial and space weather personnel are key players within the AF acquisit ion
       process. Staffmets provide all necessary technical advice, information, and aid, from
       terrestrial and space weather perspectives, to AFMC acquisition programs/projects/work
       units through all phases of the acquisition life cycle. Staffmets work with the respective
       program/project/work unit offices to identify and quantify weather sensitivities.
       3.1.2. Staffmets identify weather support requirements for AF acquisition and
       technology-based programs. Staffmets ensure weather support requirements and
       resources are identified in technology and acquisition documents, such as the Test and
       Evaluation Master Plan through the supported program/project/work unit offices. They
       ensure new resource requirements potentially impacting AFW are identified for HAF and
       AFWA as the AFW Lead Command.
    3.2. Development planning (DP). DP encompasses the engineering analysis and technical
    planning activities that provide the foundation for informed investment decisions on the
    fundamental path a materiel development will follow to effectively and affordably meet
    operational needs (DoDI 5134.16). Some DP is performed proactively, in anticipation of
    future needs per AFI 63-1.
       3.2.1. Staffmets support the DP process by assisting with the translation of operational
       deficiencies into technology needs in the earliest stages of the acquisition process.
       Successful translation requires an intimate understanding of warfighter needs, and a close
       interaction with industry, the Science and Technology (S&T) community, academia,
       AFRL’s Battlespace Environment Lab and with the AFMC Program Offices to develop
       materiel and non- materiel solutions for identified shortfalls. StaffMets must work within
       these established acquisition processes to ensure systems are developed to work
       effectively in their intended terrestrial and space environments. AFRL’s significant
       investment, expertise, knowledge and interface to the S&T community for Space
       Weather needs to an explicit part of this process, particularly in the Space Weather
       domain.
       3.2.2. Staffmets are a key component in the Integrated Life Cycle Management of
       weapon systems. They assist with the application of standard systems engineering
       processes and practices to ensure the integrity, mission assurance, operational safety,
       suitability, and effectiveness (OSS&E) of each system throughout its life cycle from
       concept development through disposal IAW AFPD 63-1.




                                     WILLIAM J. THORNTON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                     Director of Air, Space and Information Operations
AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014                                                                 7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3170.01, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
DoDI 5134.16, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems Engineering (DASD(SE))”, 19
Aug 2011
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 12 July 2010
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March
2007
AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command--Communications and Information Management, 22
March 2001
AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather Operations, 19 February 2010
AFPD 61-1, Management of Science and Technology, 18 August 2011
AFPD 63-1, Integrated Life cycle Management, 3 July 2012
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life cycle Management, 8 April 2009
AFI 63-1201, Life cycle Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
AFI 99-101, Developmental Test and Evaluation, 1 November 1996
AFI 99-102, Operational Test and Evaluation, 1 July 1998
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 26 February 2008
AFI 99-106, Joint Test and Evaluation Program, 26 August 2009
 8                                                             AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 2
PROGRAM/PROJECT WORK UNIT BRIEF FORMAT (UNCLASSIFIED/CLASSIFIED
                         AS NEEDED)

Table A2.1. Program/Project work Unit Brief Format
PROJECT/PROGRAM: Next Generation Disintegrating Ray Gun
DATE OF LAST UPDATE: 1 Apr 2012
PURPOSE/PROGRAM DESCRIPTION: (GENERAL OVERVIEW OF
PROGRAM/PROJECT/WORK UNIT)

The purpose of this program is to develop and field a disintegrating ray gun, a man portable hand
weapon with adjustable capabilities, capable of melting through structures or rendering enemy
personnel unconscious.

ENVIRONMENTAL SENSITIVITIES: (ANYTHING THAT WILL AFFECT THE
OPERATION, EMPLOYMENT OR SUPPORT OF THE PROGRAM/PROJECT/WORK
UNIT OR ITS SUPPORT SYSTEMS)

Abrasion of lens covers Electro-Magnetic field variations
Absorption of energy by atmospheric gasses/particles/precipitation
Exposure to space environment both near earth and inter-stellar

ANTICIPATED AFW SUPPORT REQUIREMENTS: (NEW TECHNOLOGIES,
MODELS, MANNING REQUIREMENTS, OPERATIONS CHANGES OR
EQUIPMENT REQUIRED TO SUPPORT THE PROGRAM THROUGHOUT ITS
LIFE CYCLE)

Climatic atmospheric dust concentrations
Forecast of Electro-Magnetic field densities
Tactical Decision Aid (TDA) for range and lethality calculations

PROGRAM STATUS: (GENERALIZED TIME TABLE OF PROGRAM
INCLUDING TEST PLANS, DEVELOPMENT, DEPLOYMENT, AND FIELDING)

Lead Command: ACC, AMC, AFSOC, etc.

Responsible Organization: AFRL/XXX

Milestones:
Request for Proposal (RFP): 1 Mar 2011
Concept Definition: 1 Feb 2012
DT & E: 1Mar 2013
Critical Design Review: 1 Nov 2013
OT & E: 1 Apr 2014
Manufacture: 1 Jun 2015
AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014                                                                         9


Field: 1 Nov 2015

PAST/CURRENT/FUTURE SUPPORT: (MAJOR SUPPORT YOU HAVE PROVIDED
OR PLAN TO PROVIDE TO SUPPORT THIS PROGRAM/PROJECT)

Helped define environmental requirements for RFP
Hosted technical working groups to define environmental sensitivities and support requirements
Established working group to define TDA requirements
Will monitor contract performance for TDA or TTP development

DATA AFW MIGHT BE ABLE TO USE: (ANY OUTPUT PARAMETERS FROM
THIS PROGRAM WITH POTENTIAL WEATHER/SPACE APPLICATIONS)

Discharge data could assist AFW in determining atmospheric transmission and ionization
properties

POINTS OF CONTACT: (POCs AT THE STAFFMET UNIT, PRODUCT
CENTER, LABORATORY, TEST CENTER, MAJCOM, OR AIR STAFF)

Capt Fantastic (Program Manager) AFRL/XXX DSN 555-5555 email:
Mrs. F. Awesome (Deputy Program Manager) AFRL/XXX DSN 555-5556 email:

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS: (ICD, CDD, CPD, CONOPS, etc.)

Intergalactic Expeditionary Force (IEF) CONOPS 08-001
Tactical Defense Systems, 1 Apr 09
IEF ICD 08-004/III
Multipurpose Focused Energy Portable Weapon, 1 Oct 10

ESTIMATED PROGRAM/PROJECT/INITIATIVE/EFFORT COST:

$1.4B is estimated life cycle cost through FY22
 10                                                              AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014


                                          Attachment 3
                           VALUE-ADDED REPORT GUIDANCE

A3.1. Value-added information: helps to quantify your contribution to a larger
program/project/work unit or goal and may help substantiate the inherently governmental nature
of the supporting work. Negative-type reports can also contain valuable information, such as
money wasted through unnecessary contracts when in-house staffmet support was available but
not used; retroactive fixes that could have been prevented with appropriate early staffmet
involvement; or inadequate support for testing of fielded systems due to lack of development
efforts in another area. Tie your value added reports and/or support to time saved, which should
translate to dollars and cost savings, if possible. Quantifying what value we add is meaningful to
others and helps us all in the long run. When first defining, or redefining, support to a particular
program or project, try to evaluate and prioritize the benefits you foresee for each contribution. A
sense of where the biggest payoffs are for the program may help structure your efforts.
A3.2. Minimum Value-Added Report Items
   A3.2.1. Cost/Financial Impact:
       A3.2.1.1. Saved cost of hiring a contractor, which translates to $175K
       A3.2.1.2. Advice resulted in purchase of best-value equipment saving $20K
   A3.2.2. Schedule Impact:
       A3.2.2.1. Enabled program to get ahead of schedule by 3 months
       A3.2.2.2. Testing completed 3 days early due to forecast saving $150K/day
   A3.2.3. Performance Impact:
       A3.2.3.1. Advice resulted in design change, saving $30M
       A3.2.3.2. Enhanced the performance of a system – increased accuracy by 12%
A3.3. Specific examples:
   A3.3.1. Damage to telescope mirror due to icing would cost $1M in repair and 6 months
   downtime.
   A3.3.2. Without weather support, $400K per year could be wasted in unproductive attempts
   to test.
   A3.3.3. Extended sensor window coating life by 300%; service life from 5 years to 15 years.
   A3.3.4. Weather support saves 10% of program costs per year, which translates to $1.3M for
   FY12.
   A3.3.5. Located testing location for key crosswind parameter after program unsuccessfully
   tried three locations without weather consultation at a cost of $2.4M.
   A3.3.6. Test moved up three days due to forecasted conditions, saving $1.5M in program
   costs.
   A3.3.7. Sensor being re-designed due to weather input for unrealistic environment saving
   $14.5M.
AFMCI15-102 5 MARCH 2014                                                                        11


                                          Attachment 4
          EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES AND WEAPON SYSTEMS REPORT
              FORMAT(UNCLASSIFIED/CLASSIFIED AS NEEDED)

A4.1. Reports will be an annual assessment to help weather planners at all levels to take into
account emerging technologies and weapon systems being developed by and for DoD that may
or will have weather sensitivities and may or will need weather support capabilities. Emphasis is
on identifying new or enhanced weather support capabilities that are not yet available or planned,
and will be needed to support future testing and operations, but well before it is to be tested and
fielded.
A4.2. Within each section provide an assessment of groups of technology (e.g. hypersonics,
hyperspectral, ultraspectral, nanotechnology, visual and acoustic stealth, teleporting) categories
or weapon systems (e.g. laser weapons in lower troposphere, Next Generation Strike Aircraft)
being developed and your assessment as to current and planned weather support capabilities and
whether there are shortfalls, capability gaps in weather support capabilities expected during the
time frames and whether new capabilities are needed and your estimate of what is needed before
these technologies and systems are tested and fielded. Provide source for detailed information on
each program/technology (e.g. your Project Brief, technical white paper, technical article in
journal, etc). Please provide as many specifics as possible to include specific dates for when
testing will begin, IOC/FOC, specific weather sensitivities or specific weather support needed to
exploit technology or system operationally, new capabilities or enhancements needed for
terrestrial weather, space weather forecast models and observation systems/platforms to include
new parameters to be observed/forecasted. Try to determine if developer is willing to pro vide
funding for development of necessary weather support capabilities. Reports are normally
unclassified, but can include a classified portion when necessary through appropriate classified
channels.
A4.3. Emerging Technologies
   A4.3.1. Near-Term (Current to next 5 years)
   A4.3.2. Mid-Term (5 to 15 years)
   A4.3.3. Far-Term (Greater than 15 years)
A4.4. Emerging Weapon Systems
   A4.4.1. Near-Term (Current to next 5 years)
   A4.4.2. Mid-Term (5 to 15 years)
   A4.4.3. Far-Term (Greater than 15 years)
