BY ORDER OF THE                                                   AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              31 JANUARY 2003



                                                      AIR EDUCATION AND TRAINING COMMAND




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOOT (Col James Brooks)                                           Certified by: HQ USAF/XO
                                                                                 ( Lt Gen Charles F. Wald)
Supersedes AFMD 3, 1 Sept 1996                                                                      Pages: 2
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the responsibilities of the
Air Education and Training Command (AETC).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision reflects the HAF staff reorganization and recent publication changes. Redefines flying
training responsibilities. Adds the responsibility of oversight, integration and management of the AF
Advanced Distributed Learning Program.


1. Mission . The mission of Air Education and Training Command (AETC) is to recruit, train, and edu-
cate professional airman to sustain the combat capability of America’s Air Force. AETC recruits and pre-
pares officers, airmen, and civilian employees for Air Force duties. AETC provides training and
education as directed by the CSAF for all AF components to ensure Total Force personnel have the requi-
site skills, training and education necessary to perform the AF mission. AETC also provides international
and inter-service training and education. This organization is a Major Command of the United States Air
Force.

2. Command . The Commander, Air Education and Training Command:
   2.1. Commands the forces of the Air Education and Training Command.
   2.2. Is responsible to the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force for administration and opera-
   tional control of assigned forces.

3. Responsibilities .
   3.1. Accesses and classifies officer and enlisted personnel.
   3.2. Provides initial military training to officer and enlisted personnel through Basic Military
   Train-ing, Officer Training School and/or Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC).
2                                                                        AFMD3 31 JANUARY 2003


    3.3. Develops, conducts and evaluates initial skills, advanced technical training and graduate aca-
    demic education programs.
    3.4. Develops and conducts undergraduate and graduate flying training as assigned by the Chief of
    Staff.
    3.5. Conducts joint, medical service, and readiness training.
    3.6. Conducts Air Force security assistance training.
    3.7. Provides and administers professional military education programs for officers, enlisted and
    civilian personnel.
    3.8. Administers Air Force ROTC and Junior ROTC programs.
    3.9. Administers the Community College of the Air Force.
    3.10. Recalls Individual Ready Reservists.
    3.11. Provides mobility and contingency tasking support to combatant commanders.
    3.12. Provides oversight, integration and management for the AETC responsibilities concerning the
    AF Advanced Distributed Learning Program. Coordinates AFADLP functions and implementation
    actions for the Total Force.
    3.13. Provides management and oversight for the Air Force’s auxiliary Civil Air Patrol.



                                                     ROBERT H. FOGLESONG, General, USAF
                                                     Vice Chief of Staff
