BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 58
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           13 NOVEMBER 2002



                                                              AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND
                                                               COUNTERPROLIFERATION AGENCY
                                                                                   (AFNWCA)


NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: AFNWCA (Lt Col Robbins)                                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/XON
                                                                              (Brig Gen Robert L. Smolen)
                                                                                                   Pages: 2
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the responsibilities of the
Air Force Nuclear Weapons and Counterproliferation Agency (AFNWCA).


1. Mission. The mission of the Air Force Nuclear Weapons and Counterproliferation Agency (AFN-
WCA) is twofold: (1) to assure the surety and military effectiveness of the Air Force portion of the nuclear
weapon stockpile and (2) provide the warfighter advanced weapons and technical assessments to counter
the full spectrum of conflicts and threats. AFNWCA, a field operating agency reporting to the Director of
Nuclear and Counterproliferation (AF/XON), is headquartered in the Pentagon with a field office at Kirt-
land AFB NM.

2. Command. The Director, Air Force Nuclear Weapons and Counterproliferation Agency, directs,
leads, and manages a team of scientists, engineers, and program managers to:
   2.1. Maintain the safety, reliability, and operational effectiveness of the Air Force’s element of the
   nuclear weapons stockpile.
   2.2. Identify, evaluate, and analyze advanced technologies for countering the full spectrum of threats.

3. Responsibilities. The Air Force Nuclear Weapons and Counterproliferation Agency:
   3.1. Oversees the Air Force nuclear weapons stockpile stewardship activities including, system devel-
   opment and acquisition, as well as stockpile life extension.
   3.2. Serves as the Air Force technical advisor to HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, unified commands, and OSD
   on nuclear weapon and counterproliferation matters providing technical expertise throughout product
   life cycle.
   3.3. Serves as the formal Air Force programmatic and technical interface to the National Nuclear
   Security Administration (NNSA) on nuclear and counterproliferation matters.
2                                                                    AFMD58 13 NOVEMBER 2002


    3.4. Ensures appropriate funding is available for Air Force nuclear weapons research, development,
    testing, and evaluation (RDT&E) to include safety and reliability testing.
    3.5. Establishes and manages joint DoD-DOE Project Officers Groups (POGs) for all Air Force
    nuclear weapons in the nuclear stockpile and provides the Lead Project Officer (LPO) to direct the
    POG activities.
    3.6. Coordinates mission requirements and performs analyses and assessments in the areas of coun-
    terforce weaponry, passive and active defense, passive and remote detection, target characterization
    intelligence, and technical issues dealing with treaty compliance.
    3.7. Identifies, evaluates, and analyzes advanced technologies, and performs studies and analytical
    assessments to support evolving nuclear and counterforce missions.
    3.8. Provides technical assessments as well as weapons effects and consequence modeling to support
    advanced weapon concepts as well as current warfighting operations.
    3.9. Provides support to the warfighter and Unified Command CINCs for countering chemical, bio-
    logical, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and other asymmetric
    capabilities/targets as requested.



                                                    CHARLES F. WALD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                                    DCS/Air & Space Operations
