BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 37
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                  28 MAY 2003



                                                         AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER (AFPC)




NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFPC/DPSAXM                                                         Certified by: HQ USAF/DPP
       (Mr. Edward Salzwedel)                                                 (Maj Gen John M. Speigel)
Supersedes AFMD 37, 1 December 1995.                                                             Pages: 2
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This mission directive defines the mission, command and responsibilities of the Air Force Personnel Cen-
ter (AFPC).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

The pub was updated to comply with AF Policy Directive 10-1, Mission Directives and AFI 10-101, For-
mat and Content of Mission Directives. The updates reflect changes in current terminology. Send com-
ments and suggested improvements of this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication, to HQ AFPC/DPSAX, 550 C Street West Suite 38, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4740. A bar
( | ) indicates revision from the previous edition.


1. Mission. Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center (HQ AFPC) executes and integrates United States
Air Force (USAF) personnel programs to develop Air Force (AF) people and meet the field commanders’
needs. HQ AFPC is a Field Operating Agency (FOA) of Headquarters United States Air Force.

2. Command. The AFPC Commander.
   2.1. Is responsible to the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel, HQ USAF. AFPC/CC executes Person-
   nel policy by developing, coordinating, and implementing standards, systems, programs and proce-
   dures for military and civilian personnel operations.

3. Responsibilities. AFPC.
   3.1. Executes policies which specify the scope of military personnel functions at installation, interme-
   diate and command levels.
2                                                                               AFMD37 28 MAY 2003


       3.1.1. Manages and operates Air Force military personnel data and information systems, executes
       policies that govern active duty accessions, testing, classification, assignments, personnel records
       systems, performance evaluations, promotions, reenlistments, retention, awards and decorations,
       appearance, entitlements, fundraising, personnel assessment, retiree affairs, family matters, retire-
       ments, separations, personnel readiness and Air Force casualty reporting. Interfaces with Air
       National Guard and Air Force Reserve personnel programs impacting the Total Air Force.
    3.2. Manages and operates Air Force civilian personnel data and information systems, career manage-
    ment, recruitment, development and placement programs. Implements and manages centralized Air
    Force civilian personnel processes that include external staffing (noncompetitive appointment author-
    ities and competitive case examining) and internal merit promotion program, civilian education and
    development, intern recruiting/development, career programs, official personnel folders and associ-
    ated processes, civilian benefits and entitlements, classification, personnel assessment programs,
    experience and education coding, the standard core personnel document library and permanent
    change of station orders.



                                                     RICHARD E. BROWN III, Lt General, USAF
                                                     DCS/Personnel
