BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 45
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                18 APRIL 2013



                                                 AIR FORCE SECURITY FORCES CENTER
                                                                           (AFSFC)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSFC/SPC                                                        Certified by: HQ AF/A7S
                                                                   (Brig Gen Allen J. Jamerson)
Supersedes:   AFMD 45, 4 April 2003                                                     Pages: 3


This directive states the mission, defines the command structure and establishes the
responsibilities of the Air Force Security Forces Center (AFSFC). Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This directive
updates the mission, office symbols, and assigned duties of the AFSFC. Changes include
grammatical and wording changes throughout to improve clarity and text changes.
1. Mission. A Field Operating Agency of AF/A7S, which organizes, trains, and equips Security
Forces to deliver integrated defense, nuclear/non-nuclear physical security, combat arms, law
enforcement, antiterrorism, training, resource protection and corrections, enabling the effective
force protection of Air Force, joint and coalition missions worldwide. Acts on behalf of the
Director of Security Forces as the executive agency for the Department of Defense (DOD)
Military Working Dog (MWD) Program.
2. Command. The Commander AFSFC:
   2.1. Exercises command over assigned personnel and oversight of facilities, properties and
   funds.
   2.2. Coordinates with other law enforcement and security agencies at the DOD, Service and
   Federal levels.
 2                                                                       AFMD45 18 APRIL 2013


     2.3. Works with DOD, Headquarters Air Force, major commands (MAJCOM), direct
     reporting units, forward operating agencies and Joint Services on operational matters
     pertaining to implementation of HQ AF/A7S programs.
     2.4. Serves as Career Field Manager for SF officers.
3. Responsibilities. AFSFC Commander:
     3.1. Executes Mission, Equipment, Force Packaging (MEFPAK) responsibilities for all
     standard security forces unit type codes (UTCs).
     3.2. Directs the SF Operations Center on behalf of the HQ USAF Director of Security
     Forces.
     3.3. Provides management and oversight on behalf of the Director of Security Forces as the
     executive agent for the DOD and Air Force MWD programs.
     3.4. Provides direction and guidance for SF pipeline, advanced and ground combat readiness
     training and education, and force development support to SF officer, enlisted and civilian
     personnel.
     3.5. Shapes strategy, direction, synchronization and integration of police services
     programming.
     3.6. Develops and coordinates Integrated Defense (ID) guidance and standards for garrison,
     in-transit and expeditionary environments.
     3.7. Provides AF antiterrorism (AT) guidance. In conjunction with the Defense Threat
     Reduction Agency's (DTRA) Joint Staff Integrated Vulnerability Assessment (JSIVA) teams,
     conducts multi-disciplinary higher headquarters vulnerability assessments for all AF active,
     guard and reserve installations and sites. In conjunction with the AF Critical Asset Risk
     Management (CARM) Program office, coordinates joint vulnerability assessments and
     critical asset risk assessment to lessen impact on affected installations.
     3.8. Manages the Deliberate Planning Framework (DPF). Identifies and validates career field
     effects gaps and develops solutions across the organize, train and equip spectrum.
     3.9. Manages Force Protection Commodities Council.
     3.10. Serves as requirements manager to assess, develop, validate and prioritize all SF
     requirements in coordination with AF/A7SX coordination and compliance with the Joint
     Capabilities Integration and Development System.
     3.11. Provides subject matter expertise, requirements definition and oversight for AF
     Protection Level 1-3 non-nuclear systems and nuclear weapons security to include Protection
     Level 1 Nuclear Security Sensor Systems.
     3.12. Provides program management and oversight of AF small arms and light weapons
     (SA/LW), ground munitions and Non-Lethal Weapons Program requirements.
     3.13. Manages Defense Biometric Identification Systems to include acquisition, installation
     and testing for all AF bases worldwide.
     3.14. Acts as the subject matter expert for all SF operational/combat stress resiliency efforts.
     3.15. Accomplishes operational test and evaluation. Participates in the Combined Test Force.
AFMD45 18 APRIL 2013                                                                         3


  3.16. Manages AF Corrections System and AF Return-to-Duty program.
  3.17. Conducts strategic analysis to develop the Security Forces Strategic Plan.
  3.18. Serves as AF/A7S Program Manager for Lessons Learned (L2). Collects after action
  reports and lessons identified to validate, disseminate, resolve and coordinate relevant
  Tactics, Techniques and Procedures, guidance and disseminates Lessons Learned through the
  Joint Lessons Learned Information System and SF Security Management and Resource
  Tracking Network (SMARTNet).
  3.19. Performs all duties regarding Information Technology Portfolio Management with
  three main goals: maximize the value of the AF/A7S portfolio against the objectives of DOD;
  balance the portfolio; link the portfolio to the strategic goals and visions. These processes
  result in recommendations carried out in the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development
  System (JCIDS) and the Defense Acquisition System and Planning, Programming, Budgeting
  & Execution (PPBE).
  3.20. Acts as the Program Management Office for SMARTNet; including the AF Criminal
  Justice Information System SFMIS, the DOD Military Working Dog Management System,
  and numerous other software applications and Security Forces functional systems.




                                           JUDITH A. FEDDER, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
