BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 44
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            4 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                         Safety

                                                              AIR FORCE SAFETY CENTER



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSC/SEA                                                            Certified by: AF/SED
Supersedes: AFMD 44, 13 November 2002                                   (Mr. Roberto Guerrero)
                                                                                       Pages: 2


Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

This directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the
responsibilities of the Air Force Safety Center (AFSC).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This document is
revised to reflect the current organization designation and requirements.
1. Mission. The mission of the Air Force Safety Center (AFSC) is to develop policy, provide
guidance, education, training, and oversight of the Air Force Safety and Nuclear Surety programs
to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of safety education and training, risk management,
and mishap prevention. These programs cover aviation, ground, space, conventional and nuclear
weapons, directed energy, human factors and other emerging technologies to include Safety and
Nuclear Surety education and training support of the Air Force mission. The overall purpose of
Safety and Nuclear Surety policies and programs are to prevent the unnecessary loss of
personnel, facilities, equipment, and resources, preserve and enhance the combat capability of
the Air Force and ensure compliance with DoD Nuclear Weapons System Safety Standards. The
goal is to conserve Air Force resources by eliminating mishaps through proactive hazard
identification, and risk management consistent with operational requirements. This authority is
delegated by the Secretary of the Air Force through the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
 2                                                                      AFMD44 4 October 2011


Installations, Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE) in HAF MD 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the
Air Force (Installations, Environment And Logistics), and is further delegated to the Air Force
Chief of Safety (AF/SE) through the Chief of Staff of the Air Force in HAF MD 1-46, Chief of
Safety.
2. Command. The AFSC Commander:
     2.1. Serves as the Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE), and reports directly to Chief of Staff of
     the Air Force (CSAF).
     2.2. Interacts and communicates directly with all major commands (MAJCOM), direct
     reporting units (DRU), and field operating agencies (FOA), as well as all official government
     and DoD agencies on safety tasks for which AFSC has assigned responsibility.
     2.3. Air Force Deputy Chief of Safety also acts as the Safety Center Executive Director and
     handles day-to-day operation of the Center and the programs assigned to Air Force Safety.
     2.4. The AFSC is organized as a FOA.
3. Responsibilities. AFSC will:
     3.1. Develop Safety and Nuclear Surety program management policy.
     3.2. Develop and maintain an effective safety management system and record keeping
     database.
     3.3. Develop and conduct AF Safety education and training.
     3.4. Develop and maintain instructions governing AF mishap prevention and mishap
     investigation and act as final authority in interpretations of 91-series instructions.
     3.5. Develop and manage AF-level programs to aid in mishap prevention.
     3.6. Develop and maintain capability to provide commanders with technical assistance for
     mishap prevention and investigation.
     3.7. Review and evaluate mishap investigation reports and track mishap recommendations
     through completion.
     3.8. Manage AF mishap prevention education and media information through safety
     education, AF Crash Laboratory training, recurring magazine publications, safety videos,
     online, web-based, and social media content.
     3.9. Evaluate the compliance of MAJCOM safety and mishap prevention programs.
     3.10. Manage and administer the AF Safety Awards Program.
     3.11. Manage and administer the AF Risk Management (RM) Program.
     3.12. Develop Air Force Occupational Safety (AFOSH) standards. Monitor and evaluate
     AFOSH programs to comply with the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA).




                                              GREGORY A. FEESTMajor General, USAF
                                              Chief of Safety
