BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 19
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           13 NOVEMBER 2002



                                                      AIR FORCE CENTER FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                                       EXCELLENCE (AFCEE)



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILEE (Lt Col David L. Yang)                                     Certified by: HQ USAF/ILE
                                                                          (Maj Gen Earnest O. Robbins II)
Supersedes AFMD 19, 1 September 1997                                                              Pages: 4
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the responsibilities of the
Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This mission directive contains changes required to conform to AFPD 10-1, dated 15 November 2001,
and AFI 10-101, dated 15 November 2001. Changes indicate update of the assignment of OPR and certi-
fying official. Minor changes were made to text context to reflect updated responsibilities.


1. Mission. The Air Force Center for Environmental Excellence (AFCEE) provides a full range of tech-
nical and professional services to the Air Force community in areas related to environmental restoration,
pollution prevention, environmental planning, design and construction management, and comprehensive
planning and design. Regional Environmental Offices (REOs) represent the Air Force to federal, state,
and local agencies to facilitate regional environmental compliance and management.

2. Command. The AFCEE Director:
   2.1. Is responsible to the Air Force Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/ILE).
   2.2. Directs the AFCEE.

3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. AFCEE provides its customers with products/services in the following areas:
       3.1.1. Environmental Restoration. Performs cradle-to-grave management for base environmental
       restoration. Services span the full spectrum of cleanup activities, from preliminary assessment/site
       investigation to remedial action, remedial process optimization, and site close out. Serves as pri-
2                                                                    AFMD19 13 NOVEMBER 2002


    mary restoration agent and consultant to the Air Force Base Conversion Agency (AFBCA) and
    major commands (MAJCOMs) for designated bases. Provides technical assistance to HQ USAF
    and MAJCOMs on issues affecting restoration policy and guidance, and munitions response pro-
    gram development. Provides development and operation of the Air Force Environmental
    Resources Program Information Management System (ERPIMS). The Air Force agent for restora-
    tion technology transfer. Identifies and validates environmental research and development
    requirements, manages demonstration projects, and maintains technical libraries. Provides techni-
    cal support to the Air Force Legal Services Agency’s Environmental Law and Litigation Division,
    and the Department of Justice on issues relating to Air Force Third Party Site environmental lia-
    bilities.
    3.1.2. Environmental Quality. Provides full service pollution prevention and environmental com-
    pliance advice, assistance and project execution services for the Air Force and other federal enti-
    ties as directed. Environmental Quality responsibilities include: hazardous material, hazardous
    waste, air quality, water quality, solid waste, toxics, pesticides, incidents and spills. Provides spe-
    cial expertise and contract services for environmental construction and operations, environmental
    education and training, compliance assurance through pollution prevention, range compliance
    issues and force protection. Performs program management for the protocols governing the Air
    Force environmental auditing program. Promotes the cross feeding of ideas, processes, and proce-
    dures through an environmental information clearinghouse, the annual Joint Service Pollution
    Prevention and Hazardous Waste Management Conference and Exhibition, and environmental
    education and training repository. Provides development, sustainment and management for the
    Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Management System. Provides technical assis-
    tance to HQ USAF and MAJCOMs on issues affecting pollution prevention and environmental
    compliance policy and guidance.
    3.1.3. Environmental Conservation and Planning. Provides a full array of comprehensive plan-
    ning and environmental management products, services and technical support to Air Force com-
    manders and unit personnel in the accomplishment of their compliance with environmental laws
    and regulation, and mission requirements. Provides execution expertise to Air Force units in the
    areas of Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ), Environmental Impact Analysis Process,
    Comprehensive Planning, GeoBase, and Natural and Cultural Resources. Serves as program man-
    ager for Air Force Comprehensive Planning, Natural and Cultural Resources programs, and pro-
    vides assistance to HQ USAF on issues affecting program policy and guidance. Air Force unit
    missions are supported with AICUZ Reports, comprehensive plans, environmental impact state-
    ments, environmental assessments, environmental baseline surveys, natural and cultural resource
    management plans and budgets, range support plans, and GeoBase support. Functional area con-
    sultation, contracting services, and planning assistance teams are available to MAJCOMs and
    installations.
    3.1.4. Regional Environmental Offices. Provide Air Force oversight of regional environmental
    compliance management. The REOs are proactive in assisting MAJCOMs in resolving compli-
    ance issues with federal and state regulators. Monitor rulemaking at the state and federal levels to
    keep Air Force personnel aware of changing regulatory requirements. Convey current standards
    and assist MAJCOMs in achieving compliance with environmental statues and regulations. Inter-
    face with regulators to identify enforcement trends and issues that may impact the Air Force.
    Develop strategies for Air Force participation in federal, regional, and state natural/cultural
    resources initiatives. Serve as the Department of Defense (DoD) Regional Environmental Coordi-
AFMD19 13 NOVEMBER 2002                                                                                     3


      nator in Regions II, VI and X. Also serve as the Air Force Regional Coordinator in all Regions
      I-X.
      3.1.5. Facility Design and Construction Management. Advances installation excellence and Air
      Force quality of life through standards and criteria development, and through execution of sound
      design and construction management principles. Functional experts for the Air Force Civil Engi-
      neer in the areas of architecture, interior design, landscape architecture, sustainable facilities, dis-
      abled accessibility, the Air Force family housing and dorm master plans, the Air Force design and
      agent awards program, and medical facility design and construction management. Develops, tests,
      and documents new project management, acquisition and construction methodologies. Standard-
      izes and documents the Air Force’s practice of military construction design and construction man-
      agement. Additionally, center of excellence for military family housing privatization, portfolio
      management, and loan servicing. Provides design and construction agent services for military
      family housing and other projects as requested by MAJCOMs. Serves as the design and construc-
      tion agent for military family housing projects, as requested by MAJCOMs.
   3.2. AFCEE sustains its operations with the following internal support functions:
      3.2.1. Mission Support. Develops and manages AFCEE financial programs and manpower
      requirements. Provides logistical, public affairs, and graphics support. Manages and maintains the
      computer and support systems to sustain AFCEE’s operation. Also provides stakeholder involve-
      ment program support including counsel, services, and products to implement environmental
      community involvement and public participation programs for AFCEE project managers and cus-
      tomers.
      3.2.2. Legal. Provides legal services to AFCEE, and AFCEE’s customers, as required and consis-
      tent with the provisions of AFI 51-102 (19 July 1994). These services include the providing of
      information, analysis and guidance to AFCEE personnel and customers on matters of environmen-
      tal law, contract law, fiscal law, ethics, Air Force, DoD and Federal regulations and policy, pro-
      curement issues, and compliance with international agreements. Manages and maintains AFCEE’s
      law library. Interfaces with federal, state, and local agencies to facilitate regulator approval of
      AFCEE products and services.
      3.2.3. Contracting. Provides a full range of contracting support for AFCEE.
      3.2.4. Operations and Development. Directorate provides support to facilitate strategic focus,
      organizational design, oversight of performance measurements, and emphasis towards continuous
      improvement.

4. Relations to Other Commands and Agencies.
   4.1. AFCEE is a field-operating agency under USAF/ILE.
   4.2. Elements of the Air Force Legal Services Agency’s Environmental Law and Litigation Division
   collocated with the REOs provide legal advice and assistance on regional environmental issues.
   4.3. Human Systems Wing, Contracting Division (HSC/PK) provides contracting authority to
   AFCEE contracting officers.
   4.4. Interacts with bases, MAJCOMs, AFBCA, Defense Energy Support Center, and SAF/IE to exe-
   cute designated environmental projects.
4                                                                    AFMD19 13 NOVEMBER 2002


    4.5. Regional liaison with federal, state, and local agencies and the public concerning environmental
    issues.

5. Direct Communications. AFCEE is authorized direct communications with the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency’s regional administrators, senior state regulatory officials, various Air Staff elements,
other government agencies and military services, MAJCOMs, agencies and bases, and industry.



                                                    MICHAEL E. ZETTLER, Lt General, USAF
                                                    DCS/Installations and Logistics
