BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 31
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              24 OCTOBER 2012



                                                   AIR FORCE INSPECTON AGENCY (AFIA)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-publishing website: www.e-
               publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: SAF/IG                                                                  Certified by: SAF/IG
                                                                      (Lt Gen Stephen P. Mueller)
Supersedes:    AFMD 31, 1 August 2006                                                     Pages: 3


This directive outlines the core responsibilities of the Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA), a
field operating agency (FOA) that serves as the action arm for the Secretary of the Air Force
(SECAF) Inspection System. All records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW the Air Force (AF) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located on the AF Portal at the AF
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) link. Route recommended changes and
questions to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Mission. AFIA provides independent inspection, evaluation, and analysis to advance
continuous improvement of mission effectiveness at all AF levels. AFI 90-201, Air Force
Inspection System, outlines agency responsibilities to evaluate AF activities and policies, identify
deficiencies, and recommend improvement areas for peacetime and wartime missions.
2. Organizational and Command Structure. The agency reports directly to the Secretary of
the Air Force Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG) and is comprised of five directorates:
Medical Operations (SG), Mission Support (MS), Oversight and Evaluation (OV), Process
Improvement and Integration (PI), Training and Inspections (TI).
3. Responsibilities. AFIA:
   3.1. Conducts Health Services Inspections (HSI) of medical units and aeromedical
   evacuation squadrons assigned to the active and air reserve components with regards to
   health care quality, availability, and resource management.
 2                                                                AFMD31 24 OCTOBER 2012


     3.2. Collaborates with the Air Force Surgeon General’s office, the Air Force Medical
     Operations Agency (AFMOA), and the Major Commands (MAJCOM) on HSI policies and
     procedures.
     3.3. Inspects radioactive material permits issued to authorized AF users under the master
     materials license granted by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).
     3.4. Conducts 100 percent oversight of all Nuclear Surety Inspections (NSI), Limited NSIs,
     re-inspections of nuclear-capable units, and select Initial NSIs to assess MAJCOM IG
     performance and provide The Inspector General (TIG), Chief of Staff of the Air Force
     (CSAF), and SECAF an independent perspective of the safety, security, and reliability of
     units and nuclear weapons.
     3.5. Integrates a core team of nuclear inspectors with MAJCOM Inspector General (IG)
     teams to conduct thorough NSIs.
     3.6. Conducts basic and nuclear inspection training and certification.
     3.7. Observes MAJCOM IG teams during all types of inspections and provides feedback to
     MAJCOM IGs and SAF/IG on their effectiveness.
     3.8. Independently conducts Unit Effectiveness Inspections (UEI), statutory, and special
     interest item inspections for AF-level FOAs and direct reporting units (DRU).
     3.9. Serves as the AF gatekeeper to manage the centralized AF inspection schedule which
     includes all inspection activities by external, non-AF agencies.
     3.10. Consolidates and reports statutory information to Congress and the Department of
     Defense.
     3.11. Provides subject-matter expertise related to training, inspections, and other activities
     directed or supported by CJCSI 3263.05, Nuclear Weapons Technical Inspections.
     3.12. Plans and conducts management inspections for AF units above wing level to report on
     their efficiency, effectiveness, economy, and discipline.
     3.13. Conducts AF-wide trend analysis for IG inspections to identify systemic deficiencies
     across the AF, health services and the nuclear enterprises.
     3.14. Manages the Inspector General Inspection Reporting System, a collection of
     information technology systems and capabilities that provide inspection scheduling,
     planning, execution, and post-inspection analysis and reporting.
     3.15. Prepares the TIG Brief magazine to ensure IGs, commanders, and Airmen have access
     to relevant information for the entire spectrum of IG activities.
     3.16. Maintains an appropriate staff to provide legal reviews/recommendations to the
     command team, computer and communications support, and otherwise manage, plan,
     program, budget, and execute resources and activities associated with the agency’s command
     code.
4. Direct Communication. Communicates with HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, Numbered Air Forces,
FOAs, DRUs, the Air National Guard and AF Reserve, AF units and installations, sister services,
the Department of Defense, and other government agencies on matters of direct interest to
AFIA’s mission areas and responsibilities.
AFMD31 24 OCTOBER 2012                                                                          3


5. Relationships with Other Units or Agencies. AFIA may coordinate directly with other
agencies to avoid duplication of effort, increase mission effectiveness, and promote collaboration
and mutual support of inspections, audits, and training activities.




                                             STEPHEN P. MUELLER
                                             Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             The Inspector General
