BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                              AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 52
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               16 MARCH 2010



                                                                                        Weather

                                                  AIR FORCE WEATHER AGENCY (AFWA)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-WP                                             Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O-W
Supersedes: AFMD52, 19 March 2004                                             (Dr. Fred P. Lewis)
                                                                                         Pages: 3


This publication delineates the mission, chain of command, and responsibilities of the Air Force
Weather Agency (AFWA).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety.
1. Mission. The mission of AFWA is to maximize America’s power by enabling decision
makers to exploit timely, accurate, and relevant weather information every time, everywhere.
AFWA is a field operating agency, reporting to Headquarters, United States Air Force Director
of Weather, Deputy Chief of Staff, Air, Space and Information Operations, Plans and
Requirements (HQ USAF/A3O-W).
2. Command. The AFWA Commander:
   2.1. Reports directly to HQ USAF/A3O-W.
   2.2. Commands the forces of AFWA.
3. Responsibilities. AFWA’s Commander will:
   3.1. Provide regional scale analysis and forecast products, data and services through
   subordinate Operational Weather Squadrons and Weather Squadrons.
   3.2. Provide centralized support to include
       3.2.1. Fine scale weather modeling.
2                                  AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE52 16 MARCH 2010


       3.2.2. Global cloud analysis and forecasts.
       3.2.3. Space weather observations, analysis, and forecasts.
       3.2.4. Climatological products, services, and storage of USAF Climatic Data.
       3.2.5. Armed Forces Network regional Long Range Forecasts/Outlooks.
       3.2.6. Weather analysis and forecasting for the National Intelligence Community.
       3.2.7. Global volcanic ash monitoring, modeling and prediction.
       3.2.8. Host a single web portal of AF weather and climatology information.
    3.3. Provide input to A3O-W planning, programming, and budgeting of AF-wide weather
    acquisition programs, standard procedures, and technical training. As funds holder, plans,
    budgets, and executes funds to support fielding, and sustaining standard, inter-operable and
    integrated AFW systems in support of AF/A3O-W approved plans and programs.
    3.4. Serve as the AF weather lead for fixed and deployable weather and communications
    equipment, and is the focal point for interactions with acquisition System(s) Program Offices
    (SPO) and sustainment organizations, Space and Missile Systems Center, Electronic Systems
    Center, Ogden Air Logistics Center, and Space Logistics Group.
       3.4.1. Manage weather equipment requirements process on behalf of A3O-W.
       3.4.2. Manage the A3O-W approved equipment fielding lists.
       3.4.3. Direct Test and Evaluation activities on AF weather formal acquisition,
       commercial off-the-shelf, non developmental, and government furnished fixed and
       deployable weather and communications equipment, technologies and capabilities.
       3.4.4. Provide personnel to assist theater weather forces with initial deployable weather
       system network connection and set-up and assist with maintenance troubleshooting and
       repair that is beyond the scope of the operator.
       3.4.5. Manage centralized weather system maintenance support.
    3.5. Serve as the AF weather lead for terrestrial and solar weather systems and programs.
       3.5.1. Manage funding for numerical weather prediction development as directed by
       AF/A3O-W.
       3.5.2. Interact with governmental meteorological agencies and universities to improve
       meteorological techniques.
       3.5.3. Manage research and development activities as directed by AF/A3O-W.
    3.6. Provide architecture lead to develop and maintain the AF weather architecture as
    directed by AF/A3O-W.
    3.7. Manage communications/information technology capabilities and information assurance
    for AF weather-unique operations.
    3.8. Forward all Memoranda of Agreement/Memoranda of Understanding (MOA/MOU)
    with other AF agencies, service branches, federal agencies, or nations to A3O-W for
    signature.
AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE52 16 MARCH 2010                                                 3


  3.9. Serves as a DoD lead for Meteorological Satellite Data Exploitation.
     3.9.1. Ingest, processing, storing and displaying satellite data.
     3.9.2. Identifies Defense Meteorological Satellite Program and future meteorological
     satellite requirements to support DoD activities, to include launch requests, recommended
     sensor complements, and orbital configurations.
  3.10. Manage the AF weather standardization and evaluation program for weather operations
  (SEPWO) in accordance with AFI 15-180.
  3.11. Provide specialized technical training solutions to improve the performance of AF
  weather personnel.
  3.12. Manage efforts to support and improve the air and space environmental information
  provided to Air Force, Army, and joint operations through the exploitation of science and
  technology; implements new capabilities and products based on operational shortfalls/gaps.
  3.13. Provide support to the tri-agency WSR-88D (NEXRAD) Radar Operations Center
  IAW with the tri-agency MOA on NEXRAD Operations.
  3.14. Operate the Air Force Weather Technical Library.
  3.15. Provides AFWA Scientific and Technical Information Program (STINFO) and AFWA
  Foreign Disclosure Officer (FDO) services.
  3.16. As appropriate, collaborate on matters relating to terrestrial and space weather
  operations, procedures, training, and evolving improvements to weather support with
  equivalent US government organizations and other military staffs.
  3.17. Provide support/advice to the Office of the Federal Coordinator of Meteorology
  (OFCM) as directed by AF/A3O-W.
  3.18. Oversee the status of AFWA operations, production, acquisition, and support roles that
  deliver data, equipment, training, and sustainment services.




                                            PHILIP M. BREEDLOVE, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS, Operations, Plans & Requirements
