BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 62
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 17 MARCH 2010


                                                          AIR FORCE PETROLEUM AGENCY




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFPA/CC                                            Certified by: AF/A4L (Maj Gen Robert H.
                                                                                    McMahon)
                                                                                       Pages: 3


This directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the
responsibilities of the Air Force Petroleum Agency (AFPA) as an Air Force Field Operating
Agency (FOA). It applies to the AFPA. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. Mission. AFPA is the service control point for all Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) fuel-
related support issues. The agency provides the warfighter and space launch activities with
technical support and specialized capabilities in petroleum, propellants, cryogenics, alternative
fuels, chemicals and gases for all aerospace vehicles, systems and equipment. Additionally,
AFPA develops quality assurance specifications and standardized agreements ensuring
interoperability with commercial, inter-service, and international allied interests for sustainment
of USAF, joint, and combined force actions in steady state and expeditionary environments. The
agency provides professional (analytical, scientific and engineering) services, to include
contingency, operational and technical support to Air Force installations and fuels managers
worldwide. AFPA also develops technical guidance and procedures for operations and
maintenance for the fuels community and assists commanders in implementation of fuel product
distribution and fuel quality programs. AFPA develops and provides technical guidance related
to fuel quality, infrastructure, equipment and vehicles. Finally, the agency evaluates and
recommends new or improved technologies to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of fuel
operational support capabilities. It’s important to note that the term “fuel” used in this directive
2                                                                   AFMD62 17 MARCH 2010


includes petroleum, alternative and synthetic fuels, including but not limited to Fischer-Tropsch
fuel and biofuels, propellant, chemical, lubricants, and gases, as well as cryogenic products used
in aerospace and vehicle operations.
2. Command. The AFPA Commander:
    2.1. Is responsible to the Director of Logistics (AF/A4L).
    2.2. Commands the Air Force Petroleum Agency.
3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. AFPA provides specialized technical capabilities, products and services to customers,
    coordinates with business partners and acts as the Service Control Point for Air Force fuels-
    related topics and issues with Defense Energy Support Center (DESC). Additionally, AFPA
    manages five aerospace laboratories and one deployable Air Transportable Theater
    Laboratory Set (ATTLS) with worldwide presence. The AFPA provides products/services in
    the following areas:
    3.2. Operations Support. Provides support to the Air Force Fuels Management functional
    area. The Facilities and Distribution Division performs operational oversight, shapes
    operating and fuel quality guidance, recommends authorizations and requirements for
    mission-support fuels vehicles and equipment; provides oversight and remedy for fuels
    mishaps and safety incidents; and provides an interface to MAJCOM and NAF fuel staffs in
    order to formulate solutions for operational fuels events in contingency or wartime theaters at
    Air Force bases, worldwide. In addition, it performs fuels facilities engineering support
    functions for fuels Military Construction (MILCON), Sustainment, Restoration,
    Modernization and Environmental, emergency repair, and infrastructure privatization
    programs; and, is the Air Force’s direct conduit to DESC. Further, it provides
    facility/equipment design standards to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and
    the Fuels Facility and Engineering Panel. The Technical Division identifies, investigates,
    and provides recommendations and direction to correct fuel contamination events, hazards,
    equipment, and system deficiencies, Air Force-wide; develops and publishes fuel quality
    standards; performs operational test and evaluation on filtration technologies; interprets
    laboratory analyses and develops corrective action; provides direction to first responders for
    fuel related incidents; and, develops and maintains technical orders for product quality.
    3.3. Business Support. Provides direct support to all AFPA internal operations and the Air
    Force Fuels Management functional area. The Resources Management Division performs
    oversight for all AFPA contracted and cost-recovery programs; provides a budget function
    for AFPA Program Objective Memorandum (POM), Operations and Maintenance execution,
    and AF/A4L portfolio management for fuels automation and other A4L-sponsored fuels
    programs; provides manpower and personnel support for seven geographic locations,
    worldwide; and, performs analysis and research for fuels infrastructure, equipment,
    information technology, quality, and conservation for formulating business decisions. The
    Plans and Programs Division performs all programming and staffing actions for integrating
    DESC fuels policy and procedures within the Air Force structure; performs program
    management and integration for fuels automation programs to include automatic
    identification technology (AIT) aimed at improving fuels accountability, operations and
    safety; serves as lead subject matter expert for fuels automated programs; and serves as the
AFMD62 17 MARCH 2010                                                                            3


   Air Force fuels requirements agent that collects, validates, and submits all Air Force fuel
   requirements to DESC.
   3.4. Product Support. Provides support to the Air Force Fuels Management functional area,
   Air Force Research Laboratory, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, NATO, and
   System Program Offices. The Science and Technology Division provides professional
   logistics, technical, and product process support capabilities to the warfighter for aerospace
   Petroleum, Oils, and Lubricants (POL), chemical, and cryogenic life cycle demands. It
   partners with government, industry, and US allied nations to research and develop
   technologies and alternative/synthetic fuels necessary to meet US military requirements and
   promote interoperability in expeditionary operating environments. It serves as the Air Force
   representative and functional expert for the NATO Standardization Agreements (STANAGs)
   and Coordinating Research Council (CRC) for aircraft and ground fuel products. The
   Laboratory Division operates five aerospace fuels labs and one ATTLS worldwide, and
   performs laboratory testing using American Society for Testing and Materials Standards,
   Military Standards, and Air Force Technical Order protocols. It performs investigative-
   failure analysis of unknown fuel and cryogenic contaminants; performs quality surveillance
   testing for Air Force and DoD activities to include aviation and ground fuels and
   propellants/chemicals supporting space launch activities; provides quality surveillance testing
   for gaseous products, packaged POL products and chemicals; and, develops and evaluates
   emerging laboratory testing technologies.
4. Relationships to Other Commands and Agencies:
   4.1. AFPA is a field operating agency of the AF/A4L.
   4.2. AFPA is the Air Force voting member on the DoD Installation Planning and Review
   Board to prioritize annual fuels MILCON projects.
   4.3. AFPA is a member of the DESC Executive Agency (EA) Component Steering Group.
5. Communications. AFPA communicates with the Department of Energy, DLA, Air Staff
elements, other government agencies, military Services, Air Force major commands, bases,
NATO countries and the commercial petroleum industry.




                                            LOREN M. RENO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                            DCS/Installations, Logistics, and Mission Support
