BY ORDER OF THE                                                  AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 20
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           13 NOVEMBER 2002



                                                            AIR FORCE CIVIL ENGINEER SUPPORT
                                                                              AGENCY (AFCESA)



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILEE (Lt Col David L. Yang)                                     Certified by: HQ USAF/ILE
                                                                          (Maj Gen Earnest O. Robbins II)
Supersedes AFMD 20, 1 September 1997                                                              Pages: 4
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the responsibilities of the
Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This document contains major revisions over the previous edition. Sections 3-5 have been completely
revised.


1. Mission. Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA) provides contingency, operations, and
technical support to Air Force installations and civil engineers worldwide. Fields the best equipment,
business practices, engineering standards, and professional training for mobility forces and facilities
maintenance. Provides specialized capabilities in fire protection, explosive ordnance disposal, pavements
evaluation, aircraft arresting systems, power systems, and infrastructure life-cycle planning, design, and
construction.

2. Command. The AFCESA Commander:
   2.1. Is responsible to The Air Force Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/ILE).
   2.2. Commands the Air Force Civil Engineer Support Agency (AFCESA).

3. Responsibilities. AFCESA provides Air Force major commands (MAJCOMs), base civil engineers
(BCEs), and other Air Force and non-Air Force customers specialized capabilities, products, and services
to support Civil Engineer (CE) core competencies:
   3.1. Expeditionary Engineering.
2                                                                       AFMD20 13 NOVEMBER 2002


       3.1.1. Contingency Support. Establishes and implements programs to maximize air base readiness
       and prepare BCEs for rapid and effective response to contingency operations.
       3.1.2. Prime BEEF (Base Engineer Emergency Force) and RED HORSE (Rapid Engineer
       Deployable Heavy Operational Repair Squadron, Engineer). Oversees the Prime BEEF and RED
       HORSE programs, including personnel and logistical force structuring for engineers on mobility
       teams. Plans and hosts biennial Readiness Challenge international contingency war skills compe-
       tition.
       3.1.3. Readiness Operations Center (ROC). Operates the Air Force Civil Engineer Support
       Agency ROC to support Air Staff, MAJCOMs, and theater contingency equipment requirements
       by acting as the functional manager on behalf of the Air Force Civil Engineer.
       3.1.4. Air Force Contract Augmentation Program (AFCAP). Negotiates and administers the
       AFCAP contract to provide worldwide on-call contractor support for disaster response, contin-
       gency deployment operations, and military operations other than war.
    3.2. Installation Engineering.
       3.2.1. Force Development. Determines doctrine, policy, and direction for all CE Air Force Spe-
       cialties (AFSs). Establishes equipment, tools, and training standards that ensure mission-capable
       military and civilian engineers. Evaluates career field strength and provides justification for selec-
       tive reenlistment bonuses and total personnel requirements for school seat authorizations.
       3.2.2. Technical Support. Develops standards and criteria for the design, construction, operation,
       maintenance, and renovation of facilities and utility systems Air Force wide. Provides profes-
       sional engineering and other technical assistance to MAJCOMs and bases to help solve complex
       and unique infrastructure problems, develop modernization plans, reduce energy consumption,
       and lower rates for utility services. Manages the Air Force facility energy program. Hosts the Air
       Force Utility Rates Management Team and the Air Force Utilities Litigation Team.
       3.2.3. Technology Integration. Facilitates integration of software, hardware, communications
       infrastructure, and process improvements to ensure the base communication architecture will sup-
       port BCE automation requirements. Provides guidance and customer assistance to installations
       and MAJCOMs supporting information technology initiatives.
       3.2.4. Vehicles and Equipment. Establishes vehicle/equipment standards that ensure BCEs have
       the right equipment, vehicles, and materiel.
       3.2.5. Best Business Practices. Provides work force multipliers and productivity enhancements to
       help BCEs perform more effectively and efficiently and at reduced cost across the full array of
       engineering activities.
       3.2.6. Contracting Support. Provides consultant services and superior contract tools to BCEs to
       improve performance and reduce costs.
       3.2.7. Research, Development, and Acquisition (RD&A) Consultation. Provides the bridge
       between MAJCOM BCE required capabilities and product development by serving as the civil
       engineer user technical representative throughout the RD&A process.
    3.3. Emergency Services
AFMD20 13 NOVEMBER 2002                                                                               3


      3.3.1. Full Spectrum Threat Response (FSTR). Manages the Air Force FSTR Program, which
      integrates guidance, training, equipment, and exercises for all installation emergency first
      responders (fire, EOD, medical responders, and security forces). Supports the emergency manage-
      ment programs of the Department of Defense (DOD), Department of Energy (DOE), Department
      of Transportation (DOT), Office of Homeland Defense (HLS), Nuclear Regulatory Commission
      (NRC), and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) consistent with US Air Force
      operational requirements.
      3.3.2. Fire and Emergency Services. Manages implementation of the Air Force Fire and Emer-
      gency Services Program. Serves as the DOD Executive Agent for the DOD Firefighter Certifica-
      tion System and the DOD Firefighter Health/Fitness Program.
      3.3.3. Explosive Ordnance Disposal. Serves as the Air Force EOD Action Officer to the DOD
      EOD Program Board. Serves as the Air Force advocate at the Munitions Buy Budget program for
      the civil engineering community and the Security Forces K-9 community.
      3.3.4. Agreements. Serves as the functional expert and manages Standard NATO (North Atlantic
      Treaty Organization) Agreements (STANAGSs) for fire, EOD, and nuclear, biological, and chem-
      ical (NBC) response.
   3.4. AFCESA also employs on-call specialized support teams to meet both peacetime and wartime
   requirements.
      3.4.1. The Civil Engineer Maintenance, Inspection, and Repair Team (CEMIRT) provides world-
      wide on-site intermediate and depot-level maintenance, inspection, and repair of electrical gener-
      ation and distribution equipment and aircraft arresting systems, as well as technical support of
      heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and refrigeration systems.
      3.4.2. The Airfield Pavements Evaluation (APE) Team conducts scheduled and contingency
      structural evaluations of pavements for the Air Force, providing essential mission planning infor-
      mation on the strength and load-carrying capacity of steady-state and contingency airfield pave-
      ments.
   3.5. AFCESA provides integral technical, professional, and administrative support to HQ USAF/ILE
   in the implementation and management of Civil Engineer policies, programs, and operations.

4. Relationships to Other Commands and Agencies.
   4.1. AFCESA is a field operating agency of the Air Force Civil Engineer.
   4.2. Attorneys from the Air Force Legal Services Agency’s Litigation Division are collocated with
   AFCESA engineers to form a Utility Rates Management Team that provides assistance in negotiating
   equitable utility rates with state and local utility providers.
4                                                                     AFMD20 13 NOVEMBER 2002


5. Direct Communications. AFCESA is authorized direct communications with the Department of
Energy, senior state regulatory officials, various Air Staff elements, other government agencies and mili-
tary services, Air Force commands, agencies, and bases, and industry.



                                             MICHAEL E. ZETTLER, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             DCS/Installations and Logistics
