BY THE ORDER OF                                                AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 41
THE SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           12 JULY 2002



                                                      AIR FORCE MANPOWER AND INNOVATION
                                                                          AGENCY (AFMIA)



NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: AFMIA/HR (Mr. Ralph S. Himelrick)               Certified by: AFMIA/CC (Col Ronnie D. Sullivan)
                                                                                           Pages: 2
                                                                                    Distribution: F




1. Mission . To improve AF mission performance, effectiveness and resource efficiency, AFMIA deter-
mines current and future, peacetime and wartime resource requirements. Partners with HQ USAF, AF
functional communities, and field commanders to complete objective and innovative manpower studies.
Develops AF-level programming factors, performs special HQ USAF studies, and assists MAJCOMs
with competitive sourcing.

2. Command . The AFMIA Commander:
   2.1. Commands a HQ USAF Field Operating Agency (FOA) and two operational squadrons; FOA
   reports to HQ USAF/XPM.
   2.2. Exercises command jurisdiction over assigned personnel, facilities, property, and funds.
   2.3. Establishes mission goals to help improve:
       2.3.1. Resource decision-making across the Air Force.
       2.3.2. Air Force process management.
       2.3.3. Air Force performance management to include planning, measuring and reporting perfor-
       mance outcomes, and linking resources to performance and goals.

3. Responsibilities . AFMIA:
   3.1. In concert with AF functional managers per Annual Planning and Programming Guidance, rec-
   ommends to AF Corporate Structure the most efficient and effective use of AF manpower resources.
       3.1.1. For review of Air Force-wide common functions, Air Staff functional managers will part-
       ner with AFMIA to conduct a zero-based review of their entire function.
2                                                                              AFMD41 12 JULY 2002


       3.1.2. Air Force-wide military and civilian manpower requirements must be validated by AFMIA,
       approved by HQ USAF/XPM, and accepted by the Air Force Corporate Structure before they can
       be used in the programming/resourcing process.
    3.2. Assists functional managers to implement Air Force Competitive Sourcing (CS) and Commercial
    Activities programs. Assists Air Force functional communities and field units with executing the CS
    process and developing CS products.
    3.3. Develops guidance on the Air Force’s Performance Management program and serves as execu-
    tive agent for the Air Force Performance Measures Reporting System.
    3.4. Provides operational contingency support to HQ USAF by implementing Air Force-wide man-
    power readiness programs and maintaining AF wartime manpower systems and data.
    3.5. Provides manpower and management consultation services to HQ USAF and Air
    Force functional communities for systems optimization, improved resource utilization, and enhanced
    mission effectiveness/efficiency in peace and contingency operations.
    3.6. Develops programming tools, organizational and process-related standards, organizational staff-
    ing requirements, and resource allocation studies.
    3.7. Promotes and manages Air Force-wide organizational performance awards and manages the
    Innovative Development through Employee Awareness (IDEA) program, to include responsibility for
    the IDEA Program Data System.
    3.8. Serves as the Air Force focal point for government-wide and industry best practices for use in Air
    Force functions.
    3.9. Administers and maintains central collection and distribution of AF best practices database.
    3.10. Serves as Air Force executive agent for Air Force-wide Manpower Data Systems and the Logis-
    tics Composite Model.
    3.11. Oversees the development and management of the Air Force-level manpower and organization
    career field training architecture and curriculum.

4. Records Disposition : Ensure that all records created by this AFMD are maintained and disposed of
IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.”



                                             DUNCAN J. McNABB, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             DCS/Plans and Programs
