BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 56
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            14 JANUARY 2014



                                                     AIR FORCE AGENCY FOR MODELING
                                                             AND SIMULATION (AFAMS)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3O-C                                                            Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                       (Maj Gen Steven Shepro)
Supersedes:   AFMD 56, 25 July 2003                                                    Pages: 7


This directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the
responsibilities of the Air Force Agency for Modeling and Simulation (AFAMS) as an Air Force
(AF) Field Operating Agency (FOA). Throughout this publication, the term "LVC” (live,
virtual, constructive) foundations refers to LVC simulations and supporting infrastructure,
models, databases, tools and services which support operational training. LVC Operational
Training (LVC-OT) is inextricably linked to and enabled by LVC foundations and provides an
environment that allows individuals and units to improve operational readiness. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Submit
requests for waivers through the chain of command to the Publication OPR. Ensure that records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the
AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision is extensive and requires a complete review. AFAMS is a Field Operating Agency
(FOA) of the Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF) under the Deputy Chief of Staff
Operations, Plans & Requirements (AF/A3/5), under the direction of the Director of Operations
(AF/A3O).
1. Mission. AFAMS is the lead agent for centralized management of Air Force cross-
functional and shared LVC foundational capabilities and resources supporting AF Service
 2                                                               AFMD56 14 JANUARY 2014


Core Functions (SCF). The AFAMS mission is to provide seamless integration of cross
functional LVC environments for operational training that allow warfighters to maximize
performance and decision making. Guided by the AF mission to fly, fight and win…in air,
space, and cyberspace, AFAMS collaborates with and provides support to Combatant Command
(CCMD) Air Components, Major Commands (MAJCOMs), AF Reserve Command (AFRC), Air
National Guard (ANG), Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) and
Field Operating Agencies (FOAs). AFAMS serves as the HAF lead for AF LVC foundations
and integration with the Department of Defense (DoD), Service Components, other government
agencies, international partners, academia and industry. This mission focus is key to providing
necessary development and implementation of standards for common access and interoperability
within the LVC domain for efficient and secure global operations.
2. Command. The AFAMS Commander will:
     2.1. Execute this mission directive.
     2.2. Exercise command over assigned personnel, facilities, property and funds.
     2.3. Operate according to policy, guidance and oversight from the Director of Operations,
     Deputy Chief of Staff Operations, Plans and Requirements, HQ USAF, the Pentagon,
     Washington, D.C. (AF/A3O).
3. Responsibilities. AFAMS is responsible for implementation of AF/A3O policy and guidance
and for orchestrating AF LVC foundations and integration support. AFAMS will implement
policy, guidance and oversight as stated in AFPD 16-10 (Modeling and Simulation), and other
HAF approved directives, mandates, and authoritative sources for integration of AF LVC
foundations capabilities.
     3.1. LVC Foundations Management - AFAMS will execute AF-level centralized
     management, coordination and integration of the technical and non-technical aspects of
     cross-functional and shared AF LVC foundations (infrastructure, knowledge management
     and workforce development) to improve interoperability and prevent unnecessary
     duplication/redundancies.
        3.1.1. LVC Infrastructure - Provide technical oversight of the cross-cutting LVC
        infrastructure between major training enclaves to improve interoperability across HAF,
        MAJCOMs and with other services and coalition partners to effectively and efficiently
        integrate AF LVC training systems and networks to support OT requirements by
        executing the following responsibilities:
            3.1.1.1. Define, evaluate, report and advocate AF LVC technical capabilities /
            specifications (e.g., distributed training system architectures; common/shared
            components, data, tools and services; standards; protocols; information assurance;
            security and connectivity) to effectively integrate AF LVC training systems and
            networks.
            3.1.1.2. Evaluate and advocate solutions in support of the LVC enterprise networks
            (e.g. monitor and report on demand for and supply of hardware/software/data,
            bandwidth, and associated support services) to promote AF LVC distributed training
            capability.
AFMD56 14 JANUARY 2014                                                                     3


        3.1.1.3. Identify and advocate LVC infrastructure standards to support distributed
        training capability for cross-MAJCOM and Joint training events/exercises; and to
        promote reusability and interoperability of AF LVC assets.
           3.1.1.3.1. Lead the implementation of common LVC standards, interfaces and
           metadata to improve reuse, accessibility, and trustworthiness of LVC tools, data,
           and services.
           3.1.1.3.2. Advocate acquisition community's efforts to ensure authoritative data
           complies with DoD and other Service definitions for interoperability of common
           applications in LVC environments.
           3.1.1.3.3. Lead HAF efforts to coordinate/manage AF requirements
           integration/adherence with standards (e.g., SISO-STD-003-2006 and SISO-STD-
           004-2004) to achieve a common Joint/coalition LVC environment with the other
           DoD Components.
        3.1.1.4. Promote the use of authoritative LVC models and data by developing,
        maintaining, and managing AF LVC knowledge management sites and tools to
        include an LVC community portal, a LVC resource registry, and a LVC requirements
        database.
        3.1.1.5. Develop recommendations, coordinate, and maintain LVC infrastructure
        metrics to measure and track progress of LVC investments (e.g., map LVC
        operational capability to operator training requirements).
     3.1.2. LVC Knowledge Management - Capture, distribute, and effectively use AF LVC
     knowledge to achieve effective development and integration of AF LVC architectures
     and distributed training capability by executing the following responsibilities:
        3.1.2.1. Identify and coordinate science and technology improvement, innovation and
        transition in support of LVC systems’ capabilities.
        3.1.2.2. Identify LVC best practices across MAJCOMs to improve visibility of LVC
        software practices and standards that enable convergence with DoD and coalition
        partners operational architectures.
        3.1.2.3. Establish and maintain guides, examples, and on-line tools for effective and
        efficient LVC development, interoperability, and reuse of distributed training
        capability.
        3.1.2.4. Serve as an AF advocate for LVC-OT capability through active collaboration
        with the acquisition and analysis communities, and facilitate coordination across
        MAJCOMs and with DoD, other US Government, industry, academia, and
        international partners.
        3.1.2.5. Use applicable standards (e.g., SISO-STD-003-2006, Standard for Base
        Object Model (BOM) Template Specification) to ensure Air Force LVC metadata is
        visible, accessible, and discoverable in the DoD metadata search capability.
        3.1.2.6. Coordinate through AF/A3O to the AF representative of the DoD M&S
        Steering Committee to synchronize AF LVC capability with DoD and industry
        standards.
4                                                                AFMD56 14 JANUARY 2014


           3.1.2.7. In concert with HAF LVC-OT/M&S policy organizations, keep AF/A3O
           informed on the state of AF LVC efforts (e.g. LVC programs/initiatives, Joint and
           coalition M&S capabilities/requirements, and LVC program funding).
           3.1.2.8. Collaborate with appropriate OSD, Air Force and other Service organizations
           (e.g., DoD Modeling and Simulation Executive Agents, the AF/A3/5 Weather
           Directorate, etc…) on issues relating to M&S representations of the air, space,
           cyberspace and geospatial environments to properly represent LVC environmental
           data.
       3.1.3. Workforce Development - Assist with the development of an AF M&S
       professional workforce supporting LVC foundations by executing the following
       responsibilities:
           3.1.3.1. Through AF/A3O, develop AF specific LVC training and coordinate with
           other DoD Components to ensure commonality.
           3.1.3.2. Assist MAJCOMs and functional experts in identifying and consolidating
           M&S training requirements to develop training standards and certification criteria for
           a professional M&S workforce required to support LVC foundations.
           3.1.3.3. Develop, coordinate, offer and conduct LVC foundational courses to AF
           M&S community and other DoD and Service Component training organizations.
    3.2. Combatant Command (CCMD)Air Component and MAJCOM Support - AFAMS will
    serve as the AF LVC-OT focal-point for facilitating the use of cross-functional and shared
    LVC foundational capabilities/resources in support of AF distributed training and LVC
    enabled events by executing the following responsibilities:
       3.2.1. Facilitate implementation of HAF approved LVC foundations roadmaps, plans and
       strategy.
       3.2.2. Establish/maintain liaison with select AF/DoD organizations with AF LVC
       equities.
       3.2.3. Facilitate cross-MAJCOM coordination of AF LVC programs and initiatives.
       3.2.4. In coordination with AF/A3O and appropriate MAJCOMs/DRUs, advocate
       appropriate representation of AF air, space and cyberspace capabilities in AF and other
       DoD LVC-OT events.
       3.2.5. Identify, capture and advocate advanced AF LVC requirements, concepts and
       capabilities in concert with AF MAJCOMs.
       3.2.6. Track operational user requirements for major cross-MAJCOM LVC programs
       and initiatives.
       3.2.7. Facilitate AF LVC initiatives within AF and Joint requirement processes,
       programs and systems; and conduct LVC foundational assessments for the HAF.
       3.2.8. Support MAJCOMs and HAF to ensure LVC foundational issues (initiatives,
       enhancements, shortfalls, and disconnects) are accurately presented to the AF Corporate
       Structure.
AFMD56 14 JANUARY 2014                                                                    5


     3.2.9. Assist MAJCOMs and Components to identify LVC capabilities for effective
     application in support of mission rehearsal, readiness and potential combat operations.
  3.3. LVC Standards Enforcement / Compliance - AFAMS will facilitate HAF oversight of
  cross-functional and shared LVC architecture and interoperability standards compliance by
  executing the following responsibilities:
     3.3.1. Serve as the HAF A3/5 office of primary responsibility in coordination with
     SAF/CIO A6 for LVC systems certification to facilitate required certification of LVC
     training systems.
         3.3.1.1. Monitor and report LVC related Information Assurance (IA) compliance
         issues to HAF, MAJCOMS and other appropriate authorities.
         3.3.1.2. Coordinate Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A) policy and
         procedures to ensure effective application to LVC integrated architecture.
         3.3.1.3. Advise AF/A3O to ensure LVC training system/asset compliance with the
         DoD Discovery Metadata Specification IAW DoDI 8320.02 titled, “Sharing Data,
         Information, and Information Technology (IT) Services in the Department of
         Defense.”
         3.3.1.4. Support HAF in the review and coordination of LVC system waiver requests
         with appropriate AF authorities.
         3.3.1.5. Support HAF in addressing mission driven data content and interface
         requirements of the Net Ready Key Performance Parameter (NR-KPP).
     3.3.2. Support HAF in overseeing AF and MAJCOM compliance with LVC
     infrastructure standards and report to AF/A3O and MAJCOM commanders.




                                         BURTON M. FIELD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         DCS, Operations, Plans and Requirements
 6                                                            AFMD56 14 JANUARY 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and
National Security Systems (NSS), 5 May 2004
DoD Directive 5000.59, DOD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Management, 8 August 2007,
DoD Directive 8320.02, Data Sharing in a Net-Centric Department of Defense, 2 December
2004,
DoD Instruction 5000.61, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification, Validation, and
Accreditation (VV&A), 9 December 2009
DoD Instruction 8320.02, Sharing Data, Information, and Information Technology (IT) Services
in the Department of Defense, 5 August 2013
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012
CJCSI 6212.01 series, Net Ready Key Performance Parameter, 21 March 2012
Air Force Policy Directive 16-10, Modeling and Simulation, 10 March 2006
Air Force Instruction 16-1001, Verification, Validation and Accreditation (VV&A), 1 June 96
Air Force Instruction 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
IEEE Std 1278.1-2012, IEEE Standard for DIS - Application Protocols
IEEE Std 1516-2000, M&S High Level Architecture (HLA) - Framework and Rules
IEEE Std 1516.1-2000, Standard for M&S HLA - Federate Interface Specification
IEEE Std 1516.2-2000, Standard for M&S HLA - Object Model Template (OMT) Specification
SISO-STD-003-2006, Standard for Base Object Model (BOM) Template Specification
SISO-STD-004-2004, Standard for Dynamic Link Compatible HLA API Standard for the HLA
Interface Specification
SISO-STD-006-2010, Standard for Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS) Simulation Package
Interoperability (CSPI) Reference Models
SISO-STD-007-2008, Standard for Military Scenario Definition Language (MSDL)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
API—Application Programmer Interfaces
DIS—Distributed Interactive Simulation
HLA—High Level Architecture
IEEE—Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
LVC—Live, Virtual and Constructive
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
AFMD56 14 JANUARY 2014                                                                          7


SISO—Simulation Interoperability Standards Organization

Terms
Lead Agent—The organization that controls or directs the course of a task, event, or process.
"LVC” Foundations— Refers to LVC simulations and supporting infrastructure, models,
databases, tools and services which support operational training. LVC environments range from
stand-alone weapon system simulator training to full spectrum distributed mission operations
designed to rehearse complex mission objectives and accurately represent operating
environments, threats, and available C2ISR support functions.
