BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 12
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                         17 DECEMBER 2007
                                                                       Certified Current 2 February 2012


                                                            UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
                                                                                     (USAFA)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
                       http://afpubs.hq.af.mil. If you lack access contact your Publishing Distribution
                       Office (PDO).
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1D                                                                      Certified by: HQ USAF/A1
                                                                                   (Lt Gen Roger A. Brady)
Supersedes AFMD 12, 1 June 1999                                                                    Pages: 2

This mission directive provides general guidance about the mission and assigned duties of the United
States Air Force Academy. This organization is a Direct Reporting Unit of the United States Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision completely restructures the organization and content of AFMD 12 in accordance with AFI
10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives. The mission statement is revised; a new paragraph is
added detailing the scope of the Superintendent’s command; deletes all mention of subordinate unit
responsibilities, and focuses only on the Superintendent’s responsibilities in accomplishing the mission.


1. Mission. To educate, train, and inspire men and women to become officers of character motivated to
lead the United States Air Force in service to our nation.

2. Command. The Superintendent, United States Air Force Academy:
   2.1. Reports directly to the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force.
   2.2. Exercises administrative and operational control over assigned personnel, including cadets and
   preparatory school cadet candidates.
   2.3. Is the installation commander of the Academy reservation.
   2.4. Implements the Secretary of the Air Force policy.

3. Responsibilities. The Superintendent, United States Air Force Academy:
   3.1. Organizes, trains, and equips assigned forces to accomplish the Academy mission.
2                                                                       AFMD12 17 DECEMBER 2007


    3.2. Maintains a single integrated course instruction (COI) for Academy cadets and cadet candidates.
    Prepares future officers in all respects to lead a widely diverse military force operating globally. Exe-
    cutes the integrated COI to develop cadets holistically achieving competencies through three interre-
    lated development processes as an integral part of the Air Force’s Continuum of Learning:
       3.2.1. Education. An accredited undergraduate education that underpins their ability to serve
       within the uncertainties of the 21st century global environment; preparing them to lead the Air
       Force.
       3.2.2. Training. Build skill sets required of military professionals, equipping them with the tools
       they will need to remain physically and mentally fit to carry out the Air Force mission.
       3.2.3. Experiences. Provide hands-on practice following and leading within teams and organiza-
       tions in both structured and uncertain environments; exercising and reinforcing their education
       and training, and strengthening the foundation for leadership, professionalism, and the Airman’s
       perspective necessary for operational success.
    3.3. Promotes USAFA as a proud symbol of the Air Force to the American public.
    3.4. When directed, provides combat-ready forces, support, and equipment to combatant command-
    ers.



                                                DUNCAN J. MCNABB, General, USAF
                                                Vice Chief of Staff
