BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 14
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               7 APRIL 2006
                                                                   Certified Current on 22 October 2013


                                                            AIR FORCE OPERATIONAL TEST AND
                                                                EVALUATION CENTER (AFOTEC)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/TEP                                                             Certified by: HQ USAF/TE
                                                                                  (Mr. John T. Manclark)
Supersedes AFMD 14, 1 January 1999                                                              Pages: 2




SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Updates Air Force Mission Directive (AFMD) 14, 1 Jan 99, as follows: describes AFOTEC’s enhanced
earlier involvement in a wider range of test and evaluation (T&E) concept development efforts and pro-
grams introduced by acquisition reform; and a new strategy for transforming America’s defense and
AFOTEC’s capabilities-based assessments and evaluations.


1. Mission. As the Air Force’s Operational Test Agency (OTA), AFOTEC evaluates the capability of
systems to meet warfighter needs by planning, executing, and reporting independent operational assess-
ments, tests, and evaluations. From concept development to system fielding, AFOTEC evaluates a sys-
tem’s overall operational capability as determined by effectiveness, suitability, and other operational
considerations, and assesses operational impacts in future and current battlespace environments.

2. Command. AFOTEC:
   2.1. Is a direct reporting unit responsible to the Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force (CSAF)
   as delegated by the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF).
   2.2. Executes policy from HQ USAF Director of Test and Evaluation.
   2.3. Is authorized direct communication concerning operational test and evaluation (OT&E) matters
   between the AFOTEC Commander, other USAF major commands (MAJCOM), heads of DOD com-
   ponents, Service OTAs, and other government agencies.
2                                                                               AFMD14 7 APRIL 2006


3. Responsibilities. The AFOTEC Commander:
    3.1. Independently leads the planning, execution, and reporting of operational assessments, tests, and
    evaluations on Air Force acquisition programs, to include new and existing systems, modification
    programs, commercial-off-the-shelf items, non-developmental items, and evolutionary acquisitions,
    with consideration given to emergent joint service, allied, and other agency mission capabilities.
    3.2. Leads the personnel, facilities, property, and funds organic to AFOTEC, and exercises control of
    operational test events using personnel and resources allocated to AFOTEC.
    3.3. As an independent OTA, participates in the Air Force acquisition process without undue influ-
    ence by development agencies, development contractors, or users.
    3.4. When directed, manages and/or participates in the planning, conduct, and reporting of multi-Ser-
    vice, multi-agency, DOD, and Air Force operational test activities.
    3.5. Engages in early and continuous involvement with the acquisition logistics and user communities
    to reduce program risk and deliver mission capable systems to the warfighter sooner and at reasonable
    cost. Early involvement includes supporting operational capability requirements development, assist-
    ing the shaping of the acquisition strategy, influencing system design and development by providing
    feedback, and appropriate participation in integrated T&E activities to ensure systems are ready for
    users and developers for dedicated operational testing.
    3.6. Supports Air Force and joint warfighters in the formulation, development, demonstration, and
    assessment of concepts, doctrines, mission needs, and requirements for the development of new capa-
    bilities such as Advanced Concept Technology Demonstrations (ACTD), and joint or Service emerg-
    ing technology experimentation.
    3.7. Provides evaluation of a system’s overall mission capability as determined by effectiveness, suit-
    ability, and other operational considerations to assist in filling warfighter capability gaps across the
    full range of Air Force and selected joint and allied initiatives.
    3.8. Provides OT&E information and expertise to MAJCOMs, other DOD components, Air National
    Guard, Air Force Reserve Command, CSAF, SECAF, Combatant Commands, Office of the Secretary
    of Defense, Congress, and other government agencies.



                                                JOHN D.W. CORLEY, General, USAF
                                                Vice Chief of Staff
