BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 30
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                26 APRIL 2012
                                                     AIR FORCE HISTORICAL RESEARCH
                                                                    AGENCY (AFHRA)




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AFHRA/DR                                                             Certified by: AF/HO
Supersedes: AFMD 30, 11 May 1995                                    (Mr. William C. Heimdahl)
                                                                                       Pages: 4


This Directive states the mission, defines the command structure, and establishes the
responsibilities of the Air Force Historical Research Agency (AFHRA). This publication does
not apply to the Air National Guard. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs (AF/HO),
1190 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1190, Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision completely restructures the organization and content of AFMD 30 in accordance
with AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives. The mission description changed
to include a field support function. This change removes all references to Contingency
Historical Information Preservation (CHIP) teams. Two newly assigned responsibilities include
maintaining courses and providing field support to Air Force History Program personnel.
1. Mission. The AFHRA preserves Air Force history and provides information and analyses to
support official customers and the general public. The AFHRA also administers the lineage,
heritage, and emblems of Air Force organizations; supports contingency operations; prepares
reference works; conducts an oral history program; operates an information system to index and
 2                                                                      AFMD30 26 APRIL 2012


retrieve historical data; and provides field support to Air Force History and Museums Program
(AFHMP) personnel.
2. Command.
     2.1. The AFHRA is a field operating agency (FOA) reporting to AF/HO. As a tenant
     organization at Maxwell AFB, Alabama, it receives support in the functional areas of base
     personnel, judge advocate, information management, security, supply, contracting,
     transportation, services, safety, and training through support agreements with Air University
     (AU) and/or the 42d Air Base Wing.
     2.2. The Air Force District of Washington provides major command (MAJCOM)-level
     manpower and budget support.
     2.3. The Institute of Heraldry, United States Army, provides final art work, embroidery
     manufacturing drawings, and flag drawings for United States Air Force (USAF) heraldry.
     2.4. The Air Force Inspection Agency conducts periodic Compliance Inspections to verify
     Agency adherence to Public Law, Executive Orders, and Department of Defense and Air
     Force directives.
3. Responsibilities. The AFHRA:
     3.1. Collects, preserves, and manages the Air Force historical document collection. This
     collection includes periodic histories and supporting documents prepared by Air Force
     organizations, monographs, studies, reports, operational data, recorded interviews, personal
     papers of retired or deceased Air Force personnel, and other source materials.
     3.2. Answers requests for historical information from government agencies and the public.
     3.3. Operates classified and unclassified reading rooms to provide patrons with ready access
     to source materials.
     3.4. Prepares books, monographs, research reports, studies, document collections,
     bibliographies, and other historical works about the Air Force and military aviation.
     3.5. Supports the professional military education programs of AU.
     3.6. Determines the lineage and honors of Air Force organizations and prepares and updates
     lineage and honors histories of selected organizations.
     3.7. Verifies the aerial victory credits for members of the Air Force and its antecedents.
     3.8. Maintains the organizational records of Air Force units and establishments.
     3.9. Prepares the Air Force Organizational Status Change Report (RCS: HAF-HO(M)7401).
     3.10. Compiles and maintains a list of active Air Force and Air Force Reserve Command
     organizations.
     3.11. Advises manpower and organization offices at HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, Direct
     Reporting Units (DRUs), and FOAs on the selection of units and establishments to be
     activated or inactivated and other related organizational matters.
     3.12. Maintains the records of Air Force organizational emblems and flags. Reviews,
     approves, and processes requests for new or changed emblems and provides Air Force
     guidance on heraldry.
AFMD30 26 APRIL 2012                                                                          3


   3.13. Reviews classified holdings for downgrading or declassification in accordance with
   current guidance.
   3.14. Advises the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and other holders
   of Air Force historical records about downgrading or declassification of material in the
   AFHRA collection.
   3.15. Microfilms or digitizes historical documentation and provides or sells copies as
   required.
   3.16. Operates and maintains the Inferential Retrieval Indexing System (IRIS) and related
   information system resources to help manage the AFHRA collection.
   3.17. Conducts and transcribes oral history interviews of current and former Air Force
   leaders and other knowledgeable people.
   3.18. Solicits, organizes, and preserves the private papers of retired and deceased personnel
   of significance to the historical record of the Air Force.
   3.19. Designates and provides assistance to AFHRA Research Associates.
   3.20. Prepares, conducts, and maintains courses of instruction to meet objectives identified
   by AF/HO.
   3.21. Provides field support to AFHMP personnel covering basic troubleshooting of
   historical product deficiencies, the interpretation of AFHMP policies and procedures, and
   technical guidance concerning software applications used to prepare organizational history
   reports.
4. Direct Communications. The AFHRA is authorized direct communications with all
interested parties on matters for which it is responsible.




                                           C. R. ANDEREGG
                                           Director, Air Force History and Museums
                                           Policies and Programs
 4                                                               AFMD30 26 APRIL 2012


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives, 12 February 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 13 October 2011
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFHMP—Air Force History and Museums Program
AF/HO—Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs
AFHRA—Air Force Historical Research Agency
AFHRA/DR—Director, Air Force Historical Research Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive
AU—Air University
CHIP—Contingency Historical Information Preservation
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IRIS—Inferential Retrieval Indexing System
MAJCOM—Major Command
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
