BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 35
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                10 JUNE 2011



                                                      AIR FORCE MEDICAL OPERATIONS
                                                                    AGENCY (AFMOA)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMOA/CCE                                             Certified by: AF/SG3 (Col James D.
                                                                                      Collier)
Supersedes:   AFMD 35, 1 January 1996                                                 Pages: 9


OPENING PARAGRAPH: This directive states the mission, defines the command structure,
and establishes the responsibilities of the Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA) as an
Air Force Field Operating Agency (FOA). It applies to the AFMOA. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Directive was expanded to include new responsibilities of the Air Force Medical Operations
Agency due to implementation of PAD 07-13. The new version of AFMD 35 includes the
responsibilities of the following: Commander’s Support Staff (CSS), Commander’s Action
Group (CAG), MAJCOM AFMOA Team For Requirements and Information X-Fer (MATRIX),
Transformation (CCO), Medical Support, Medical Services, Nursing Services, Biomedical
Sciences, Air Force Drug Testing Lab and Dental Services.
1. Mission. AFMOA supports all aspects of Air Force and Joint missions through the execution
of programs to enhance the health and performance of Airmen and members of other Department
of Defense (DoD) Services through healthcare operations in Air Force medical treatment
facilities (MTFs) and other Air Force medical units. AFMOA further supports these missions
through promotion of health and provision of healthcare for family members who are authorized
beneficiaries for DoD healthcare. AFMOA is the Surgeon General’s primary focal point for
 2                                                                      AFMD35 10 JUNE 2011


execution and standardization of plans, practices, procedures and programs in planning, budget
execution, logistics, clinical operations, clinical quality management, family advocacy and health
promotions for the Air Force Medical Service (AFMS). AFMOA coordinates medical process
improvement activities IAW AFMS strategies.
2. Command. The AFMOA Commander:
     2.1. Commands personnel assigned to AFMOA.
     2.2. In coordination with the Health Care Operations Directorate (AF/SG3), supports and
     oversees execution of Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) guidance and programs.
     2.3. Provides support to Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Department of Defense, major
     commands, other federal agencies and external civilian medical and research organizations
     on behalf of AFMS interests.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The AFMOA Commander:
        3.1.1. Develops plans, practices and procedures to provide a fit and healthy USAF
        fighting force.
        3.1.2. Directs clinical activities necessary to meet the requirements of Congressionally
        mandated DoD health care benefits entitlements.
        3.1.3. Directs clinical quality improvement and risk management programs.
        3.1.4. Manages the allocation and utilization of manpower and funds for AF MTFs in
        accordance with programming and budgeting by the Strategic Medical Plans, Programs
        and Budget Directorate (AF/SG8).
        3.1.5. Develops recommendations for the Surgeon General in coordination with other
        directorates regarding optimal apportionment of resources to clinical processes to meet
        strategic priorities pertaining to readiness, provision of quality clinical care and force
        development.
        3.1.6. Leads analysis of healthcare processes in the interest of quality care, efficient use
        of resources and clinical currency of health care professionals. Leads proposal and
        execution of AFMS health care process improvement initiatives as approved by the
        Surgeon General.
     3.2. Commander’s Support Staff (CSS).
        3.2.1. The CSS is responsible for overall management of personnel and administration
        duties and acts as liaison for the Military Personnel Flight’s programs and services;
        3.2.2. Monitors the submission, coordination and completion of all MILPDS-produced
        documents; manages and maintains EPRs/OPRs, PRFs, decorations, leave, files
        management, INTRO/Out-processing, officer/enlisted training, promotion, fitness
        program, DTS, Government Travel Card, LODs, performance feedbacks, urinalysis
        trusted agent, quarterly awards program coordinator, appointment letters, unit health
        monitor, contract verification system monitor, security badge control, IMPAC card,
        newcomer’s orientation, UIF and control rosters, WAPS testing, reenlistments, duty
        status, officer and enlisted classification and retirements to support the AFMOA/CC.
AFMD35 10 JUNE 2011                                                                          3


  3.3. Commander’s Action Group (CAG).
     3.3.1. The CAG is responsible for overall communication and guidance in AFMOA.
     The CAG provides support to AFMOA/CC and staff with civilian personnel oversight
     and program management.
     3.3.2. Perform Strategic Planning: anticipate future needs, generate ideas, authority to
     task directorates; meets with AFMOA/CC regularly to discuss current/hot issues,
     upcoming events, to plan accordingly.
     3.3.3. Conduct research, direct special projects, compiles briefings.
     3.3.4. Perform Strategic Communication: compile briefings, prepare correspondence,
     remarks/speeches for such forums as NOVA, conferences, etc; facilitates AFMOA social
     media/network; optimizes technology to improve communications and strengthen
     relationships with MAJCOM/SGs and MTFs.
     3.3.5. Review and approve correspondence (briefings, memos, BBPs, any AFMOA/CC
     signature-required correspondence) prior to AFMOA/CC’s review.
     3.3.6. Perform civilian personnel management duties.
     3.3.7. As the pay pool administrator, manages and oversees the guidance governing the
     hiring staff, classification and appraisals.
     3.3.8. Coordinate education and training guidance and procedures pertaining to civilian
     employees.
  3.4. MAJCOM-AFMOA Team For Requirements and Information X-Fer (MATRIX).
     3.4.1. This cell will be responsible to maintain responsive and coordinated bi-directional
     information flow and responses between AFMOA and each MAJCOM.
     3.4.2. Gatekeeper “Single Point of Entry / Exit” for large MAJCOM tasks requiring
     detailed analysis.
     3.4.3. Maintains and updates AFMOA Vector Check web site with pertinent data and
     analysis. Provides MAJCOMs with real-time access to pertinent data utilizing Vector
     Check.
     3.4.4. Focal communicator with AFMOA resources stationed within each respective
     MAJCOM. Holds periodic training and video teleconferencing sessions to address issues
     associated with duties within each respective MAJCOM and addresses concerns as
     appropriate.
     3.4.5. Reports periodically to AFMOA senior leadership on pending tasks and identifies
     barriers hindering improved communications and issues hindering mission
     accomplishment.
     3.4.6. Manages AFMOA workflow process establishing internal suspenses to meet the
     demand of both internal and external tasks.
  3.5. Transformation (CCO).
     3.5.1. This division directs and coordinates the integrated planning, scheduling,
     execution and assessment of the performance analysis and improvement program using
4                                                                   AFMD35 10 JUNE 2011


       proven continuous process improvement methods. Works directly with senior AFMS
       leadership to ensure continuous process improvement (CPI) activities align to AF/SG
       strategic vision and priorities focusing on productivity and efficiency. Coordinates
       integrated planning, scheduling, execution and assessment of prioritized CPI activities
       and monitors success. Provides direct support to the field on AFMS CPI program and
       related policies, procedures, as wells as goals and strategies to achieve them.
    3.6. Medical Support.
       3.6.1. Medical Support Directorate is responsible for medical administrative support to
       AFMOA/CC and is comprised of five divisions: Logistics, Resource Management, Plans
       and Programs, Health Benefits and Information Management/Information Technology.
       Provides functional consultation for the Air Force Medical Service.
       3.6.2. Medical Logistics. The Medical Logistics Division provides guidance and
       direction for medical logistics operations at all AFMS MTFs, both peacetime and
       deployed.
       3.6.3. Life-cycle management of all medical and surgical supplies, pharmaceuticals,
       medical equipment and facility management functions in the MTF and across the AFMS.
       3.6.4. Medical Resource Management. The Medical Resource Management Division is
       organized into three branches responsible for oversight, execution and tracking of all
       aspects of the AF/SG budget including the Defense Health Program, Line of the Air
       Force-funded and other associated medical appropriations.
       3.6.5. Serves as the primary focal point for tracking Uniformed Business Office
       functions along with tracking monthly workload, personnel costs and expenditures
       associated with the delivery of healthcare across the Air Force Medical Service.
       3.6.6. Medical Plans and Programs. The Medical Plans and Programs Division serves as
       the planning, programming and implementation arm of Defense Health Plan manpower in
       the Program Objective Memorandum (POM) Cycle and the Amended POM cycle for the
       AFMS allocations (excluding HAF programs). Air Reserve Component (ARC) resources
       are line (non-DHP) authorizations and are managed by AFRC/SGX in conjunction with
       AFRC/A1 for the AF Reserve and the ANG Readiness Center for all ANG medical
       authorizations.
       3.6.7. Unit Manpower Document (UMD) management, program analysis and all aspects
       of UMD management are completed in conjunction with the MTF and GSUs in support
       of MAJCOM/SGs.
       3.6.8. Directs and oversees the Rules of Engagement in the execution and programming
       Fiscal Year Defense Plan (FYDP) by maintaining balanced Program Element Codes in
       the year of execution and in the out years.
       3.6.9. Coordinates with MAJCOMs on bi-annual Career Progress Group review for both
       enlisted and officer ranks redistribution and programming.
       3.6.10. Health Benefits. The Health Benefits Division is primarily organized by
       TRICARE regions, Overseas, West, South and North cells to maximize communications
       with the Managed Care Support Contractors within the Division’s respective offices.
       Provides inputs on TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration (TOPA) policy and
AFMD35 10 JUNE 2011                                                                             5


     strategic vision. Oversees, interprets and guides the implementation of TOPA programs
     throughout AF MTFs.
     3.6.11. The Medical Support Branch oversees all aspects of Medical Records
     Management and execution of the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act
     in support of the AFMS.
     3.6.12. Medical Information       Management       (IM)/Information     Technology     (IT)
     Information Services.
     3.6.13. Interprets and guides the implementation of policy and provides information
     assurance support to AF MTFs.
     3.6.14. Serves as the Subject Matter Experts (SME) for IT and information assurance as
     it relates to the operation of medical technology services.
     3.6.15. Shall provide first line of support for MTFs interfacing with external agencies.
     3.6.16. Responsible for the AFMS-wide annual desktop technology refresh of
     computers, laptops and printers.
     3.6.17. Provides day-to-day IT support for AFMOA/AFMSA personnel assigned to 3550
     S. General McMullen, San Antonio, TX 78226.
  3.7. Medical Services.
     3.7.1. Medical services directorate is responsible for oversight of and direct support to
     medical operations. Executes and provides inputs to medical operations policy, strategic
     vision, medical operations, behavioral health and expeditionary capabilities for the
     CSAF, the AF/SG and the AFMOA/CC. The Directorate will be structured in six
     divisions: Care Coordination, Clinical and Business Analysis, Medical Continuation,
     Mental Health, Provision of Medical Care and Clinical Quality.
     3.7.2. Care Coordination. Care Coordination guides execution/implementation of
     Population Health and Medical Management programs for AFMS in support of MHS.
     Develops and monitors tools to evaluate and improve effectiveness of Medical
     Management programs across the AFMS. Coordinates with AMEDD for approval and
     disbursement of Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) materials to AF facilities.
     3.7.3. Clinical and Business Analysis. This division is responsible for analysis,
     development and optimization of population health to include health promotion, trainee
     health and supporting deployment of the AFMS version of Patient Centered Medical
     Home. This requires creating, prototyping, deploying and evaluating strategies to
     implement AFMS policies and programs. The division supports evidence-based
     medicine, clinical and community preventive services, applied health research, medical
     record coding (Central Coding contract oversight), centralized clinical information
     analysis and in collaboration with the MTFs, develops the AFMS business
     plan. Provides support for the Post Deployment Health Re-Assessment, Customer
     Service and MHS Survey working group and business planning processes.
     3.7.4. Medical Continuation. Medical Continuation manages all ARC members that have
     acquired an illness or injury while on Title 10 orders. The role of the case managers is to
     collaborate with ARC units, Tri- services MTFs, AFRC, NGB, to ensure that ARC
6                                                                       AFMD35 10 JUNE 2011


       members are receiving the proper care and entitlements in a timely fashion. Coordinate
       and direct medical related inquires to the appropriate Air Force Agencies As subject
       expert’s, make policy recommendations, provide guidance, management tools and
       informatics to DOD on medical continuation issues.
       3.7.5. Mental Health. The Mental Health division will oversee and support MTF efforts
       involving Clinical Psychology and Psychiatry, Family Advocacy, Social Work, Suicide
       Prevention, Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordination, Deployment
       Mental Health and Substance Abuse/Demand Reduction programs.
       3.7.6. Provision of Medical Care. The Provision of Medical Care Division provides
       medical and business strategy consultation and products to all levels of the AFMS from
       the SG to the individual medical personnel. This consultative service has core Medical
       Corps expertise that represent every medical specialty. Strategic involvement in posturing
       services to accomplish the Air Force and US war and peace time medical missions is
       accomplished using the AFMS business rules and in collaboration with AFPC, the VA
       and sister services. Daily operational and tactical missions are facilitated via consultative
       interface with all levels of medical command and the individuals.
       3.7.7. Clinical Quality. Quality operations will involve support and oversight of MTF
       work in Risk Management, MIIs, Patient Safety, Data Analysis, Education and Training,
       Inpatient and Outpatient Quality, Credentialing and Privileging and Compliance and
       Process Improvement.
    3.8. Nursing Services.
       3.8.1. The Nursing Directorate is responsible for the execution of AF/SG policies
       supporting AF expeditionary capabilities and is the principle consultant to the
       AFMOA/CC on nursing services. It is comprised of three divisions: Provision of Nursing
       Care, Nursing Service Resourcing and Education and Training. The Nursing Directorate
       provides guidance, clinical oversight and reach-back support for AF nursing
       3.8.2. Provision of Nursing Care. This division is composed of Inpatient Care and
       Outpatient Care and provides expert consultative leadership supporting officer and
       enlisted nursing staff for AF MTFs. The division directly supports AFSO21 initiatives
       through consultation and local event facilitation.
       3.8.3. Outpatient Care. Provides guidance and interpretation of policies, procedures and
       standards of practice for all aspects of outpatient nursing care across the AFMS. This
       includes support for inspections by Health Services Inspectors, AAAHC and support for
       AFMS initiatives at each facility. Provides direct support to and communicates concerns
       from MTFs to HAF as appropriate. Interfaces with other clinical specialties and
       consultants to provide standardized support and guidance to the MTFs.
       3.8.4. Inpatient Care. Provides guidance on policies, procedures and standards of
       practice for all aspects of inpatient nursing care across the AFMS. This includes support
       for inspections by Health Services Inspectors, JCAHO and support for AFMS initiatives
       at each facility. Provides direct support to and communicates concerns from MTFs to
       HAF as appropriate. Interfaces with other clinical specialties and consultants to provide
       standardized support and guidance to the MTFs.
AFMD35 10 JUNE 2011                                                                        7


     3.8.5. Nursing Service Resourcing. This division provides expert nursing resources in
     research, analysis, data and consultation that helps to guide decision makers with
     business planning, proper alignment/allocation of nurse staffing, UTC assignments and
     all issues related to nursing resources for the AFMS. The division participates in force
     development and a broad spectrum of issues for nursing staff across the AFMS.
     3.8.6. Education and Training. This division will direct and manage programs to provide
     professional and career development to AFMOA personnel and will serve as consultant
     for the AFMS on education/training and professional development issues. The division
     will manage On-the-Job Training responsibilities; the Self-Aid/Buddy Care, Emergency
     Medical Technician, life support and Unit Training Manager programs; Air Force
     Institute of Technology short courses and formal course training quotas. The Education
     and Training Division will provide consultation and advice to the AFMS for management
     of same programs and of Training Affiliation Agreements, annual training requirements,
     Mirror Force initiatives and competency and training requirements.
  3.9. Biomedical Sciences.
     3.9.1. Directs execution of Biomedical Sciences Corps programs through two divisions:
     Air Force Blood program and Pharmacy Operations and assists in the oversight of the Air
     Force Drug Testing Lab (AFDTL). Act as an advisor to BSC Chief on BSC issues and
     provides feedback and progress on implementation of programs. Responsible to forward
     data calls to MTF’s and provide a consolidated report back to the BSC Chief.
     3.9.2. Air Force Blood Program (AFBP).         The AFBP's mission includes planning,
     coordinating, budgeting and policy formation related to worldwide garrison and
     contingency blood support. The AFBP Office serves as consultant to the AF/SG on
     blood donor and transfusion service issues or policies and represents the AF/SG to the
     Armed Services Blood Program (joint level). The AF/SG is the Food and Drug
     Administration license holder for the AF manufacture of blood products. The AFBP
     maintains an ongoing program of quality assurance and compliance validation of AF
     blood manufacturing and transfusion practices to ensure AF compliance with federal and
     accreditation standards. The AFBP serves as the executive agent for the two Armed
     Services Whole Blood Processing Laboratories, which provide CONUS and OCONUS
     blood trans-shipment services and participate in the DoD Frozen Blood Program to
     manufacture and distribution contingency stockpiles of frozen red cells. The AFBP also
     acts as an advisor to the Tri-Service Blood Bank Fellowship graduate education program
     on curriculum and standards requirements.
     3.9.3. Pharmacy Operations. This division is responsible for executing AFMS policies
     for pharmacy and directing operations in support of AF pharmacy capabilities, in
     collaboration with the Associate Chief for Pharmacy. The division also coordinates on
     manpower and resource management issues and seeks AF-wide opportunities to
     standardize processes for improved patient safety and increased operational efficiency.
  3.10. Air Force Drug Testing Lab .
     3.10.1. Headquarters Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory (HQ AFDTL) is the drug
     testing portion of the Air Force Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP) and reports
     directly to the AFMOA/CC. The USAF DDRP mission is to detect and deter illegal drug
8                                                                     AFMD35 10 JUNE 2011


       use by service members and thereby support commanders in ensuring the readiness of the
       fighting force. HQ AFDTL supports this mission by conducting urine drug testing on
       samples from all active duty and reserve USAF members as well as National Guard
       soldiers and airmen worldwide. It also reports these testing results and prepares
       documentation in support of administrative and judicial proceedings. The final aspect of
       HQ AFDTL's mission is to develop new methodologies for drug detection as new trends
       in drug abuse in DoD are observed.
    3.11. Dental Services.
       3.11.1. The Dental Directorate provides inputs to and executes dental operations policies,
       the Air Force Dental Service (AFDS) strategic vision and expeditionary capabilities for
       the AF/SG and the AFMOA/CC. AFMOA/SGD provides guidance, clinical oversight
       and reach-back support through three divisions: Clinical Dentistry, Dental Support and
       Dental Training. It directs efficient and effective delivery of dental services and
       resources, Dental Corps and 4Y0 force management and education and training to
       support the AFMS dental mission and its dental treatment facilities (DTFs),
       MAJCOM/SG staffs and the AFMOA/CC. Provides advice and staff assistance to DTFs
       on clinical practice, clinic management and leadership development. In addition, the
       Dental Directorate coordinates with the Air National Guard Assistant and AFRC/SGD on
       Air Reserve Component (ARC) dental matters relating to the total force.
       3.11.2. Clinical Dentistry. This division monitors the business plan performance for the
       individual DTFs and advises the Chiefs of Dental Services on staffing issues (to include
       manning assists) and performance improvement processes. It disseminates clinical
       practice policies for all DTFs. Standards of care, clinical practice and infection control
       guidelines and clinical pathways are monitored and this division provides guidance on all
       aspects of dental practice management. AFMOA/SGDD also interfaces with clinical
       dental specialties and consultants to provide standardized support and guidance and
       addresses dental laboratory issues and enlisted standards of practice. The Division Chief
       participates in dental officer career vectoring, SQ/CC candidate selection and leadership
       development via the Dental Development Team.
       3.11.3. Dental Support. This division monitors and analyses dental performance metrics
       including Air Force Dental Readiness Assurance Program compliance and DTF
       Satisfaction Health Access Readiness Performance (SHARP) trends. Oversees data
       collection and surveys DTFs and uses the information to participate in the POM build
       with the Dental Operations Panel, to coordinate and assist in the validation of equipment
       unfunded requirements and monitor execution year funding. Addresses UMDs, contracts
       and technology integration throughout the AFDS. Monitors private sector care Active
       Duty Dental Plan (ADDP) utilization and leadership effectiveness. The Division Chief
       participates in dental officer career vectoring, SQ/CC candidate selection and leadership
       development via the Dental Development Team.
       3.11.4. Dental Training. This division provides direct support and communication to
       DTFs for formal AFDS courses, selection and coordination of education and training
       quotas (both officer and enlisted) and dissemination of information for graduate dental
       education. The division also oversees the applications, student progress and assignment
       coordination for the Dental Hygiene Training Scholarship program. Interfaces with
AFMD35 10 JUNE 2011                                                              9


     MAJCOM training managers, acts as liaison to the AFMS Schoolhouse and monitors
     enlisted continuing education throughout the AFDS.




                                     CHARLES B. GREEN
                                     Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                     Surgeon General
