BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 39
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     6 JULY 2011



                                                           AIR FORCE OFFICE OF SPECIAL
                                                                       INVESTIGATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: SAF/IGX                                         Certified by: SAF/IGX (Col James Hudson)
Supersedes: AFMD 39, 9 January 2006                                                    Pages: 4


This Directive states the mission of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI),
communicates responsibilities of the AFOSI, and explains the organizational relationship
between the AFOSI, the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), and The Inspector General of the
Air Force.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Directive clarifies AFOSI’s responsibilities in permissive, uncertain and hostile
environments globally, updates the AFOSI mission to include support to the Global Strike
Command nuclear convoy mission, clarifies AFOSI’s relationship with the Department of
Defense Cyber Crime Center (DC3) and updates terminology for the Polygraph and Credibility
Assessment (PCA) program.
1. Mission. AFOSI is a field operating agency under the direction and guidance of The
Inspector General of the Air Force (SAF/IG). It is a federal law enforcement agency with
responsibility for conducting criminal investigations, counterintelligence and specialized
investigative activities, protective service operations and integrated force protection for the Air
Force. AFOSI is also a combat-ready military organization that provides the Air Force a
wartime capability to conduct, in hostile and uncertain environments, counter-threat operations
to find, fix, track, and neutralize enemy threats. And, AFOSI is the Air Force's focal point for
working with U.S. and foreign nation law enforcement and security services in order to provide
timely and accurate threat information in all environments.
 2                                                                          AFMD39 6 July 2011


2. Command. The Commander, AFOSI:
     2.1. Reports to and operates under the guidance and direction of SAF/IG.
        2.1.1. Will notify the SECAF in writing, informing SAF/IG, of any instance in which a
        commander, or any other Air Force official, attempts to impede an investigation or limit
        the use of investigative techniques through the use of that commander's or official's
        authority.
        2.1.2. Exercises command authority over all assigned personnel, facilities, property, and
        funds, and is delegated the independent authority within the Air Force to initiate and
        conduct criminal investigations and counterintelligence activities in accordance with
        AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence.
        2.1.3. Provides combat-ready military and deployment-ready civilian forces to
        combatant commanders through the Air Force component.
3. Responsibilities. AFOSI:
     3.1. Organizes, trains, equips, and assesses performance of all AFOSI field units.
     3.2. Outside of established foreign base perimeters and in accordance with any applicable
     international agreement, is the Air Force lead for locating and tracking enemy and terrorist
     operatives threatening U.S. and allied personnel and resources through focused, proactive
     investigative operations.
     3.3. Coordinates and conducts neutralization of enemy and terrorist threats with appropriate
     U.S. and allied forces.
     3.4. Within its investigative jurisdiction, identifies and investigates crimes against people,
     crimes against private and U.S. Government property, fraud, technology transfer violations,
     environmental violations, terrorism, and desertion.
     3.5. Conducts counterintelligence collections and is the Air Force's sole agency for
     conducting counterintelligence investigations, and offensive counterintelligence operations.
     3.6. Investigates intrusions and intentional sabotage of Department of Defense (DoD)
     computer systems and augments the Air Force information warfare mission.
     3.7. Executes the DoD Counterdrug Strategy within the Air Force by detecting, interdicting,
     suppressing and monitoring the flow of illegal drugs into the U.S. via Air Force channels.
     Proactively detects and investigates the use, possession, and sale of illegal drugs by U.S. Air
     Force members and employees.
     3.8. Is the Air Force single point of contact for protective service operations protecting
     senior US, DoD, Air Force, and Allied officials.
     3.9. Provides law enforcement and counterintelligence support to Air Force Global Strike
     Command in support of USAF nuclear convoys.
     3.10. Executes special access program (SAP) security and security oversight responsibilities
     for all Air Force SAPs and non-AF SAPs where the AF has been assigned responsibility in
     accordance with AFPD 16-7, Special Access Programs.
AFMD39 6 July 2011                                                                              3


  3.11. Employs specialized investigative techniques to include forensics, along with
  specialized behavioral science assessments, tools and techniques in conducting criminal
  investigations, counter-threat operations, and counterintelligence operations and
  investigations.
  3.12. Executes the U.S. Air Force Technical Surveillance Countermeasures (TSCM)
  program.
  3.13. Functions as the Air Force office of primary responsibility for Polygraph and
  Credibility Assessment (PCA) examinations.
  3.14. Operates the U.S. Air Force Special Investigations Academy.
  3.15. Maintains liaison and is the Air Force single point of contact with federal, state, local,
  and foreign nation law enforcement, counterintelligence, and security agencies for matters
  falling within the AFOSI mission.
  3.16. Serves as the designated focal point to coordinate matters regarding DoD Executive
  Agent responsibilities, functions, and authorities for the Department of Defense Cyber Crime
  Center (DC3).
  3.17. Collects, analyzes, and disseminates threat information.




                                            MARC E. ROGERS, Lt General, USAF
                                            The Inspector General
 4                                                                    AFMD39 6 July 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 16-7, Special Access Programs, 29 December 2010
AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 January 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
DC3—Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center
DoD—Department of Defense
PCA—Polygraph and Credibility Assessment
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
TSCM—Technical Surveillance Countermeasures Program
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
