BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE MISSION DIRECTIVE 1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                      8 APRIL 2011



                                                          HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE (HAF)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AAX                                                                  Certified by: SAF/AA
                                                                            (Mr. William Davidson)
Supersedes:    AFMD 1, 28 September,                                                        Pages: 5
               2004


This directive states the mission, command structure, and responsibilities of the Department of
the Air Force Headquarters.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised to reflect compliance with current formatting guidance IAW
AFI 33-360. The cyberspace mission is defined. It now includes the SAF/LL office which was
inadvertently left out of the previous published version.
1. Mission. Headquarters Air Force (HAF) assists the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) and
the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) in conducting the affairs of the Department of the Air
Force to fulfill the Department’s functions, duties, and responsibilities set forth in Title 10 of the
United States Code (10 USC) and relevant Department of Defense (DoD) issuances. The HAF
develops policies, plans, and programs, establishes requirements, and provides resources to
support the Air Force’s mission to defend the United States and protect its interests through the
use of air and space and cyberspace power. The HAF is an integrated staff comprised of the
offices of the Secretariat and the Air Staff. Generally, there will be no duplication of functions
within HAF organizations, however the Secretariat will retain oversight and control of matters
within their respective areas of responsibility. Those organizations having complementary
responsibilities will avoid redundancy to the maximum extent possible.
2. Command. The SecAF is the head of the Department of the Air Force. The SecAF is
responsible for, and has the authority necessary to conduct all affairs of the Department of the
Air Force. The chain of command for purposes other than operational control of forces assigned
 2                                                                        AFMD1 8 APRIL 2011


to combatant commands runs from the Secretary of Defense (SecDef) to the SecAF. All Air
Force Major Commands (MAJCOMS) report to the CSAF.
     2.1. The SecAF exercises authority primarily through civilian officials appointed by the
     President and confirmed by the Senate, specifically, the Under Secretary of the Air Force
     (USecAF), four Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force, the General Counsel of the Air Force,
     as well as the CSAF. The SecAF utilizes the assistance of the Secretariat and Air Staff
     personnel in carrying out these responsibilities, but retains immediate supervision of
     activities that involve vital relationships with Congress, the SecDef, other governmental
     officials, and the public.
     2.2. The CSAF performs his duties under the authority, direction, and control of the SecAF,
     presides over the Air Staff, and is the principal military advisor to the SecAF on Air Force
     activities. The CSAF also serves as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) and the
     Armed Forces Policy Council. In the JCS capacity, the CSAF is one of the military advisors
     to the President, the National Security Council, and the SecDef. The CSAF is not subject to
     the authority, direction and control of the SecAF when he is acting solely in his capacity as a
     member of the JCS; however, the CSAF shall keep the SecAF fully informed of significant
     military operations affecting the duties and responsibilities of the Department of the Air
     Force to the extent permitted by the authority, direction, and control of the SecDef.
3. Responsibilities. The SecAF is responsible for all of the Department of the Air Force affairs
and for fulfilling the Department of the Air Force’s functions, duties and responsibilities set forth
in Sub-Title D of 10 U.S.C. and the current version of Department of Defense Directive (DODD)
5100.1, Functions of the Department of Defense and its Major Components.
     3.1. The SecAF is responsible for, and, unless limited by lawful authority, has the authority
     necessary to conduct all affairs of the Department of the Air Force, including the following:
        3.1.1. Recruiting;
        3.1.2. Organizing;
        3.1.3. Supplying;
        3.1.4. Equipping (including research and development);
        3.1.5. Training;
        3.1.6. Servicing;
        3.1.7. Mobilizing;
        3.1.8. Demobilizing;
        3.1.9. Administering (including the morale and welfare of personnel);
        3.1.10. Maintaining;
        3.1.11. Construction, outfitting, and repairing of military equipment; and,
        3.1.12. Construction, maintenance, and repair of buildings, structures, and utilities; the
        acquisition, management and disposal of real property or natural resources.
     3.2. The SecAF is also responsible to the SecDef for the following activities of the
     Department of the Air Force:
AFMD1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                             3


       3.2.1. Operation and efficiency of the Department of the Air Force;
       3.2.2. Formulation of policies and programs fully consistent with national security
       objectives and policy (established by the President and SecDef);
       3.2.3. Effective and timely implementation of policy, program, and budget decisions and
       instructions of the President or SecDef;
       3.2.4. Carrying out the functions of the Department of the Air Force so as to fulfill (to
       the maximum extent practicable) the current and future operational requirements of the
       Combatant Commands;
       3.2.5. Effective cooperation and coordination between the Department of the Air Force
       and other DoD components to provide for more effective, efficient, and economical
       administration and to eliminate duplication;
       3.2.6. Presentation and justification of the Department of the Air Force positions on
       plans, programs, and policies of the DoD; and,
       3.2.7. Effective supervision and control of Air Force intelligence activities.
   3.3. The SecAF is also responsible for any other activities prescribed by law or by the
   President or SecDef.
   3.4. The CSAF, subject to the authority, direction, and control of the SecAF, is responsible
   for the following:
       3.4.1. Presiding over the Air Staff;
       3.4.2. Transmitting Air Staff plans and recommendations to the SecAF and advising the
       SecAF with regard to such plans and recommendations;
       3.4.3. Acting as the SecAF’s agent in carrying out the plans or recommendations of the
       Air Staff;
       3.4.4. Exercising supervision, consistent with the authority assigned to the combatant
       commanders, over such members of the Air Force as the SecAF determines;
       3.4.5. Performing the duties prescribed for the CSAF under 10 U.S.C. Section 171 as a
       member of the Armed Forces Policy Council, as well as other duties prescribed by law;
       and,
       3.4.6. Performing other military duties as assigned to the CSAF by the President, the
       SecDef, or the SecAF.
   3.5. The CSAF also performs duties as a member of the JCS.
       3.5.1. The CSAF shall inform the SecAF regarding military advice rendered by members
       of the JCS on matters affecting the Department of the Air Force, to the extent that such
       action does not impair the independence of the CSAF in his role as a member of the JCS.
       3.5.2. Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the SecDef, the CSAF shall keep
       the SecAF fully informed of significant military operations affecting the duties and
       responsibilities of the department of the Air Force.
4. Organization. The HAF consists of two major entities, created by 10 U.S.C. -- the
Secretariat and the Air Staff. In addition to the Secretariat and the Air Staff, the SecAF may
 4                                                                       AFMD1 8 APRIL 2011


establish other organizational entities which report to the HAF (e.g., Field Operating Agencies
(FOAs), Direct Reporting Units (DRUs).
     4.1. The Secretariat, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. Section 8014, is composed of the following
     officials and offices:
        4.1.1. The SecAF;
        4.1.2. The USecAF;
        4.1.3. Four Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force;
        4.1.4. The General Counsel of the Air Force;
        4.1.5. The Inspector General of the Air Force;
        4.1.6. The Chief of Legislative Liaison;
        4.1.7. The Air Reserve Forces Policy Committee; and,
        4.1.8. Such other offices as the SecAF may establish or designate.
     4.2. The Secretariat, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. Section 8014, Subsections (c) and (d), has sole
     responsibility for supporting the Department in the following functions:
        4.2.1. Acquisition;
        4.2.2. Auditing;
        4.2.3. Comptroller (including financial management);
        4.2.4. Information management;
        4.2.5. Inspector General;
        4.2.6. Legislative affairs;
        4.2.7. Public affairs; and,
        4.2.8. Research and development.
     4.3. The Air Staff is responsible for providing professional assistance to the SecAF, the
     Secretariat, and the CSAF. The Air Staff, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. Section 8031, is composed
     of the following officials and offices:
        4.3.1. CSAF;
        4.3.2. The Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force;
        4.3.3. Deputy Chiefs of Staff and Assistant Chiefs of Staff of the Air Force, as prescribed
        by the SecAF, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8035 of Title 10;
        4.3.4. The Surgeon General of the Air Force;
        4.3.5. The Judge Advocate General of the Air Force;
        4.3.6. The Chief of the Air Force Reserve; and,
        4.3.7. Such other Air Staff offices as the SecAF may establish or designate.
     4.4. Under the authority, direction, and control of the SecAF and the CSAF, as well as the
     limitations set forth in paragraph 4.2, the Air Staff is responsible for:
AFMD1 8 APRIL 2011                                                                                5


       4.4.1. Preparing for the employment of the Air Force and such recruiting, organizing,
       supplying, equipping, training, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing, administering, and
       maintaining of the Air Force that will assist in the execution of any power, duty, or
       function of the SecAF or CSAF;
       4.4.2. Investigating and reporting on the efficiency of the Air Force and its preparation to
       support military operations by combatant commands;
       4.4.3. Preparing detailed instructions for the execution of approved plans and supervising
       the execution of those plans;
       4.4.4. Coordinating the actions of organizations of the Air Force as directed by the
       SecAF or the CSAF; and,
       4.4.5. Performing other duties, not otherwise assigned by law, as may be prescribed by
       the SecAF or the CSAF.
5. Delegation of Authorities. The organizational mission directives under this AFMD will
delegate or re-delegate authority from the SecAF to two-letter offices and officials named within
that organizational mission directive. The HAF officials to whom authorities are delegated or re-
delegated, unless otherwise restricted by law or directive, may re-delegate authority to other
offices or officials. Any official re-delegating authority may further restrict/limit the authority.
Any re-delegation of authority shall not be effective unless it is in writing.
6. Succession Order for the Office of the Secretary. The succession order for the Office of
the SecAF is established by Executive Order 12909. The authority provides that if the SecAF
dies, resigns, is absent, or is disabled, then the USecAF will serve as Acting SecAF. If the
USecAF is unable to assume the duties of the SecAF, then either an Assistant Secretary or the
General Counsel of the Air Force, in the order fixed by their length of service as permanent
appointees in such positions, will serve as Acting SecAF. If the USecAF and none of the
Assistant Secretaries or the General Counsel of the Air Force are able to serve as Acting SecAF,
then the CSAF shall perform such duties. The SecAF may determine those circumstances, if
any, when his or her absence requires the assumption of duties as Acting SecAF in accordance
with Executive Order 12909.




                                              Michael B.Donley
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
