BY ORDER OF THE                                                Air Force Mission Directive 27
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        28 NOVEMBER 2012



                                              AIR FORCE FLIGHT STANDARDS AGENCY
                                                                         (AFFSA)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFFSA/CC                                                  Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O
                                                                     (Maj Gen James J. Jones)
Supersedes:   AFMD 27, 27 September                                                  Pages: 7
              2011


This publication delineates the mission, chain of command and responsibilities of the Air Force
Flight Standards Agency (AFFSA). AFFSA is a Field Operating Agency organized under the
Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements, Headquarters, United States Air
Force. This AFMD supports AF Policy Directive 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures and AF
Policy Directive 13-2, Air Traffic, Airfield, Airspace and Range Management. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the     Air     Force      Records       Disposition    Schedule    (RDS)        located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been updated to capture changes that occurred as a result of the flight
inspection mission transfer to AMC, adds the USAF Operational Support Facility (OSF) mission
and responsibility for Air Traffic Control (ATC) and Landing Systems (ATCALS) system
management, clarifies AFFSA’s role as an ATCALS maintenance provider and simplifies the
description of unit responsibilities.
1. Mission. The Air Force Flight Standards Agency's mission is to maximize effectiveness of
USAF global air operations and ensure USAF access to worldwide airspace in all weather
conditions.
2. Command. The AFFSA Commander:
   2.1. Reports directly to the HAF Director of Bases, Ranges and Airspace (AF/A3O-B).
 2                                                             AFMD27 28 NOVEMBER 2012


     2.2. Commands personnel assigned to AFFSA; organizes, trains and equips AFFSA
     personnel with appropriate resources and infrastructure to accomplish the AFFSA mission as
     contained herein (or as directed) and prepares deployable personnel and assets to support
     combat, combat support and contingencies as directed.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Serves as USAF Lead Command IAW AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command—
     Communications and Information Systems Management, for fixed and deployable Airfield
     Operations (AO) systems and software. Airfield Operations systems include both ATCALS
     and Airfield Management (AM):
        3.1.1. Provides Requirements Management for AO systems and software. This includes
        developing and processing Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
        (JCIDS) and other requirements documents, program management directives,
        maintenance concepts and engineering change proposals for ATCALS and AM systems,
        addressing user requirements in all matters affecting the development, acquisition,
        testing, modification and logistical support of fixed-base and deployable ATCALS.
        3.1.2. Monitors and analyzes performance results against operational needs by using
        predetermined standards to ensure user requirements are satisfied and initiates corrective
        actions as necessary. This includes prioritizing ATCALS and other AO programs and
        modifications as co-chair of the Product Improvement Working Group and advising the
        ATCALS Single Manager and MAJCOMs in matters affecting logistics support of
        ATCALS equipment. Provides system management support for AO systems and
        software.
        3.1.3. Operates the USAF operational support facility for ATC radar automation
        systems; provides software, hardware and technical support services for other USAF
        ATC automation and AM operations systems.
        3.1.4. Prepares and presents Program Objective Memorandum initiatives to the
        designated Core Function Lead Integrator and Air Force Corporate Structure.
     3.2. Serves as DoD requirements lead for fixed-base ATC radar, automation and
     communications switching systems under the National Airspace System (NAS)
     Modernization Program.
     3.3. Plans, conducts and reports on operational test and evaluation of Acquisition Category
     (ACAT) III ATCALS.
     3.4. Provides USAF/DoD-level subject matter expertise on AO and instrument procedures
     systems and policies to various groups within the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA),
     International Civil Aeronautical Organization (ICAO) and North Atlantic Treaty
     Organization, to include Head of Delegation duties.
     3.5. Formulates and publishes standardized AO operating criteria and instructions to include
     AM, ATC and instrument procedures development for USAF total force fixed-base and
     contingency/wartime missions while ensuring interoperability with applicable FAA, service,
     joint, ICAO and coalition guidance. Evaluates and submits recommendations for requests for
     waivers, generates USAF-level flying instructions and manuals, flight procedures criteria,
     aeronautical information, and operational guidance for all USAF aircraft.
AFMD27 28 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                        3


  3.6. Serves as the HAF OPR for the Airfield Operations Certification Inspection (AOCI)
  outlined in AFI 13-204, Volume 2, Airfield Operations Standards and Evaluations and AFI
  90-201, Inspection Program. Augments MAJCOM IG and functional inspection teams as
  required.
  3.7. Serves as the DoD lead agency for military flight data policy and procedures.
  3.8. Recognizes outstanding airmen by conducting quarterly Lt Gen Gordon A. Blake
  Aircraft Save Award and Aircraft Assist Awards Boards, the annual US Air Force AO
  Awards Boards and the Col Joseph B. Duckworth Annual USAF Instrument Award Board.
  3.9. Provides USAF focal-point for ATCALS maintenance by managing and executing
  regional maintenance center, Specialized Communications Team (SCT) and ATCALS
  evaluation activities. Performs maintenance on ATCALS USAF-wide via the regional
  maintenance centers. Resolves complex or unusual technical problems and provides
  enhanced system-specific technical training to USAF technicians and operators.
  3.10. Provides wind turbine modeling/evaluation and operational recommendations for
  USAF, ANG and AFRC fixed and deployable locations.
  3.11. Maintains survey capability to support ATCALS siting, modeling and analysis for
  ATC radar, navigational aids and communications systems.
  3.12. Ensures AFFSA pilots remain current, proficient and qualified in NC-21A aircraft to
  maintain relevancy and credibility by flying conventional, Area Navigation (RNAV),
  Required Navigation Performance (RNP), Reduced Vertical Separation Minima (RVSM),
  Ground-Based Augmentation System (GBAS) and Space-Based Augmentation System
  (SBAS) procedures. Relays, through first-hand experience, current requirements and
  expectations in the rapidly changing US NAS. Remains credible in air traffic procedures
  (USAF/FAA/ICAO), USAF flying procedures and global air operations in order to:
     3.12.1. Ensure proper development, implementation and refinement of worldwide USAF
     flying rules and procedures.
     3.12.2. Conduct Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) evaluations
     of US NAS and USAF ATCALS systems; emerging navigation, communication,
     surveillance, cockpit displays and landing systems; and support and sustain advances in
     civil technology with military applications.
     3.12.3. Conduct Instrument Refresher Program unit support and staff assistance visits
     and other pertinent mission-related temporary duty as necessary.
     3.12.4. Conduct other flying operations in support of active air defense missions,
     homeland defense, airfield suitability evaluation; and currency, upgrade and
     familiarization flights as necessary.
  3.13. Manages non-procedural data for USAF entries in DoD Flight Information Publication
  program.
  3.14. Conducts the USAF AIS, the premier USAF instrument flight education program, in
  order to train and certify qualified individuals as Instrument Refresher Course Instructors and
  to keep USAF pilots abreast of latest USAF, FAA and ICAO standards and guidance.
  3.15. Promotes USAF aviation safety by:
 4                                                          AFMD27 28 NOVEMBER 2012


        3.15.1. Providing Accident Investigation Board (AIB) technical expertise and/or
        securing primary and/or conditional ATC/AM/ATCALS/Ops Safety Investigation Board
        (SIB) members, as required.
        3.15.2. Reviewing final SIB reports for concurrence and/or providing comment for the
        Memorandum of Final Evaluation regarding any SIB Recommendations tasking AFFSA
        or USAF/A3/5 affecting flying operations, AM, ATC, or instrument procedures services.
        3.15.3. Performing the function of Flight Safety Officer for USAF A3/5, to include
        membership on the HAF Mishap Working Group and the preparation of briefings for the
        Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force’s semi-annual HAF Mishap Review Board.
        3.15.4. Facilitating unmanned aerial system and remotely-piloted aircraft (RPA)
        operations in the NAS by developing operations, procedures and standards in
        coordination with MAJCOMs, other services, the FAA, joint and coalition entities as
        required, and ensuring ATCALS support this integration.
     3.16. In coordination with the NextGen LSO, develops requirements, standards, procedures
     and timelines to evaluate, analyze and implement new and emerging technologies such as
     NextGen, Communications, Navigation and Surveillance/Air Traffic Management
     (CNS/ATM) and other AO systems to enable global access for continued USAF aeronautical
     operations.
        3.16.1. Liaises with, and provides assistance to, the DoD NextGen Lead Service Office
        and NextGen program office.
        3.16.2. Operates as the USAF Next Generation Air Transportation System (NextGen)
        lead for matters pertaining to airfield operations.
     3.17. Evaluates current/emerging cockpit avionics/displays, data processing systems and
     instrument flight technology implementation via Cockpit Working Groups and cockpit
     endorsement for AF/A3O.
     3.18. Enters into agreements (Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs), Memorandums of
     Understanding (MOUs) and Federal Reimbursable Agreements (FRAs)) with agencies listed
     in paragraph 4 as required to conduct business outlined in this AFMD.
4. Direct Communications are authorized with the FAA, Joint Staff, HAF, MAJCOMs, units,
Army, Navy, Coast Guard, Marines, National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), depots,
systems telecommunications engineering managers (STEMs) and joint/coalition forces on
matters relating to:
     4.1. Requirements and sustainment management and planning, programming and budgeting
     of DoD- and USAF-wide AO acquisition or modernization programs.
     4.2. Standardization and evaluation of procedures for ATC, AM, ATCALS, flight crews,
     airfield surveys, instrument procedures and Remote Maintenance Centers.
AFMD27 28 NOVEMBER 2012                                                               5


  4.3. Other matters as necessary or as directed by USAF/A3O-B or higher authority.




                                         HARRY C. DISBROW, SES, DAF
                                         Associate DCS, Operations, Plans, and
                                         Requirements
 6                                                         AFMD27 28 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-1, Mission Directives, June 2002
AFI 10-101, Format and Content of Mission Directives, February 2003
AFI 10-601, Operational Capabilities Requirements Development, July 2010
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, March 2007
AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command—communications and Information Systems
Management, March 2001
AFPD 11-2, Aircrew Operations, January 2012
AFI 11-201, Flight Information Publications, March 2009
AFI 11-202 Volume 3, General Flight Rules, October 2010
AFI 11-210, Instrument Refresher Program, February 2005
AFI 11-230, Instrument Procedures, March 2010
AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic Control, Airspace, Airfield and Range Management, August 2007
AFI 13-204, Airfield Operations Procedures and Programs, September 2010
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, April 2009
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, February 2008
MPTO 00-33A-1001, General Communications Activities Management Procedures and.
Practice Requirements, November 2011
TO 0025-108, Depot Purchased Equipment Maintenance, June 2012

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFSA—Air Force Flight Standards Agency
AIB—Accident Investigation Board
AIS—Advanced Instrument School
AM—Airfield Management
AO—Airfield Operations
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATCALS—Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems
CNS/ATM—Communications, Navigation, Surveillance/Air Traffic Management
DoD—Department of Defense
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
AFMD27 28 NOVEMBER 2012                                     7


HAF—Headquarters Air Force
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration & Development System
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAS—National Airspace System
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
OSF—Operational Support Facility
OT&E—Operational Testing and Evaluation
RNAV—Area Navigation
RNP—Required Navigation Performance
RPA—Remotely Piloted Aircraft
SCT—Specialized Communications Team
SIB—Safety Investigation Board
SME—Subject Matter Expert
STEM—Systems telecommunications engineering managers
