BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                       INSTRUCTION 99-101
CENTER (AFNWC)
                                                                                    2 MAY 2013

                                                                            Test and Evaluation

                                                        NUCLEAR ENTERPRISE TEST AND
                                                           EVALUATION MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFNWC/ENT                                                        Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                             (Dr. Mark Mehalic)
Supersedes:   AFNWCI 99-103,                                                          Pages: 18
              6 November 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and
Evaluation and Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 99-103, Test Management.
Development, sustainment, and test activities of nuclear components are governed by joint
Department of Defense (DOD)/ Department of Energy (DOE) agreements. This instruction
applies to all Air Force Nuclear Weapon Center (AFNWC) organizations. The Test and
Evaluation (T&E) management described herein encompasses all T&E activities required for
acquisition and sustainment of nuclear weapon systems. This includes but is not limited to aging
and surveillance, support equipment, and software. The procedures outlined in this instruction
apply to all acquisition and sustainment efforts for which AFNWC has engineering and/or
technical management responsibility for the test project. This includes tests conducted for
AFNWC involving non-AFNWC organizations. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) or the Air National Guard (ANG). However, nuclear and non-
nuclear components, sub-systems, and associated logistics support elements that require testing
and nuclear certification throughout the system lifecycle are covered as described in AFI 63-103,
Joint Air Force (AF) – National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) Nuclear Weapons Life
Cycle Management, and AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program. In conjunction with AFI
63-103 and AFI 63-125, this instruction provides test management policy guidance and
procedures for all T&E conducted by or for the AFNWC. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
 2                                                                                             AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


363, Management of Records¸ and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This publication may not
be supplemented or further implemented/extended. Requests for waivers must be submitted to
the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a complete replacement and expansion of AFNWCI 99-103, Test and Evaluation
Management, dated Nov 6, 2009, and must be reviewed in its entirety. Significant changes
include: clarification of requirements and guidance for test plans, test reports, Technical Review
Boards (TRB), Safety Review Boards (SRB), Integrated Test Teams (ITT) and additional
implementation guidance from AFI 63-103 and AFI 63-125. A requirement to utilize AFMAN
63-119, Certification of System Readiness for Dedicated Operational Test and Evaluation was
added.

        1.     Introduction and Overview. ...................................................................................             2
        2.     Organizational Responsibilities. ............................................................................              3
        3.     Test Management. ..................................................................................................        6
Figure 1.      Test Planning Timeline ..........................................................................................         10
        4.     ITT Processes. ........................................................................................................   10
        5.     TRB & SRB Process. .............................................................................................          11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           13


1. Introduction and Overview. In conjunction with AFI 99-103, AFI 63-103, AFI 63-125 and
AFMCI 99-103, this instruction establishes a consistent T&E management process to be used in
the acquisition and sustainment of nuclear weapon systems by the AFNWC. This includes
defining the role of a T&E manager within AFNWC Directorates and the role of the AFNWC
Center Test Authority (CTA) in performing functions relative to T&E management. NOTE:
This instruction uses the term “Directorates” to include all AFNWC organizations and their
subordinate units.
     1.1. Applicability.
        1.1.1. AFNWC has management and engineering responsibility when a proposed test
        involves the evaluation of designs, modifications, upgrades, software changes or
        qualification, aging and surveillance testing, or changes that fall under the management
        responsibility of the AFNWC Directors/System Program Managers (SPM). When
        AFNWC does not have management responsibility, the processes outlined within AFI 63-
        103, AFI 63-125 or other applicable directives take precedence in support of the
        responsible organization’s test policy.
        1.1.2. AFNWC units geographically separated from Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB)
        shall comply with this instruction in addition to local guidance at their host base set forth
AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013                                                                       3


       in their Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). In the event of a conflict between this
       instruction and local MOA guidance, a proposed solution shall be negotiated at the unit
       working level; the proposed solution shall be coordinated with the AFNWC CTA and at
       an appropriate level with the Host Unit. The agreement, deviation, or waiver for the
       agreed upon solution shall be approved by the AFNWC Center Commander
       (AFNWC/CC) and the Host Unit Commander or their delegated authority.
   1.2. AFNWC T&E Organizations.
       1.2.1. CTA. The AFNWC CTA will establish procedures for implementing T&E
       processes for nuclear and non-nuclear components, sub-systems, and logistics support
       elements IAW AFI 99-103, AFI 63-125, AFI 63-103, and AFMCI 99-103. The CTA will
       provide the single face to the Program Manager (PM) for T&E assistance and advise
       AFNWC leadership on T&E issues, policy, and procedures.
       1.2.2. Directorate T&E Focal Point. Each Directorate will appoint a focal point for
       T&E matters. The Directorate T&E Focal Point will be the liaison for the CTA, guide
       Directorate T&E efforts, and provide Directorate leadership a single face for T&E issues.
       Refer to paragraph 2.4.2 for responsibilities.    NOTE: This instruction uses the term
       “Directorate T&E Focal Point” to apply to all units within AFNWC performing T&E
       functions.
2. Organizational Responsibilities.
   2.1. AFNWC/CC. The AFNWC/CC is responsible for establishment of the CTA and
   procedures for implementing the AFNWC’s T&E process consistent with public law, the
   DOD 5000-series regulations, AFI 63-series publications, AFI 99-series publications, and
   AFMCI 99-103. AFNWC/CC will:
       2.1.1. Approve mutual agreements or MOAs with other Government Agencies for Joint
       T&E and appropriate DOD test centers to maintain local Test Representative (TESTREP)
       support, as required.
       2.1.2. Establish the CTA within AFNWC Engineering and Technical Management
       Directorate (AFNWC/EN). The CTA is the authority for T&E policy and guidance, and
       is the single face to the PM for test program assistance and to the center leadership for
       issues concerning T&E policy and procedures as they relate to acquisition and
       sustainment decision making.
       2.1.3. The CTA will:
          2.1.3.1. Support the program offices, Joint Test Working Groups (JTWGs), Joint
          Test Subgroups (JTSGs), and Integrated Test Teams (ITTs) by performing duties as
          outlined in AFMCI 99-103, paragraph 2.2.2 and AFI 63-103 paragraph 19.2.5.
          2.1.3.2. Approve candidates to chair TRBs to ensure thorough assessment of test
          plans for technical soundness and adequacy.
          2.1.3.3. Approve candidates to chair SRBs, in coordination with AFNWC/SU, to
          ensure thorough assessment of test plans for safe conduct.
          2.1.3.4. Approve and sign all test plans and subsequent test reports, unless delegated
          by the CTA to the Directorate T&E Focal Point.
4                                                               AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


         2.1.3.5. Coordinate on test and applicable program documentation and assist in
         development, including, but not limited to, documents listed below:
             2.1.3.5.1. Nuclear Weapon Subsystem Test Plans (NWSSTPs) to determine test
             requirements where AFNWC has management and/or engineering responsibility.
             2.1.3.5.2. Test and Evaluation Strategies (TES).
             2.1.3.5.3. Test and Evaluation Master Plans (TEMPs) or applicable document
             which incorporates TEMP material (i.e. Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP)).
             2.1.3.5.4. Life Cycle Sustainment Plan (LCSP).
             2.1.3.5.5. Certification Requirement Plans.
             2.1.3.5.6. JTWG and ITT charters.
             2.1.3.5.7. Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) Certification of System
             Readiness recommendations (AFMAN 63-119).
             2.1.3.5.8. Additional test related program documentation as required. Templates
             for test plans, test reports, and Test Readiness Reviews (TRR) will be maintained
             by the CTA’s office and provided to test programs as required.
         2.1.3.6. Serve as advocate for AFNWC T&E workforce issues, providing review of
         T&E workforce requirements and advising AFNWC senior staff as required.
         2.1.3.7. Notify Headquarters AFMC Air, Space and Information Operations
         Directorate (HQ AFMC/A3) annually of Responsible Test Organization (RTO)
         designations.
         2.1.3.8. Coordinate on all joint AF-NNSA developmental and operational tests.
         2.1.3.9. Support operational Major Commands (MAJCOM) in planning and
         executing nuclear weapon system tests.
         2.1.3.10. Support the JTWG and Joint Test Sub Group (JTSG) to plan and conduct
         joint flight-testing of NNSA-developed Joint Test Assemblies (JTA), Developmental
         Joint Test Assemblies (DJTAs), Vibration Fly-Around (VFA), Compatibility Test
         Units (CTUs), Instrumented Mock Test Units (IMTUs), and other tests as required by
         the Joint Flight Test (JFT) programs.
         2.1.3.11. Support User Commands and JTWG chairs in developing/updating the
         NWSSTP for weapon system/warhead testing.
         2.1.3.12. Collaborate with joint AF-NNSA Project Officer Groups (POG) to ensure
         alternative testing capabilities are explored to provide continuous weapon testing
         support.
         2.1.3.13. Ensure nuclear weapon system test and evaluation requirements are
         considered in Air Force Test Investment Planning and Programming, and DOD Major
         Range Test Facility Base reviews.
    2.2. AFNWC/EN will:
      2.2.1. Assign EN representatives to specific tests to ensure technical sufficiency, as
      appropriate. At a minimum, EN will be a member of all ITTs.
AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013                                                                     5


  2.3. AFNWC Safety, Security, and Infrastructure Directorate (AFNWC/SU) will:
     2.3.1. Approve candidates to chair SRBs to ensure thorough assessment of test plans for
     safe conduct.
         2.3.1.1. Assign SU safety representative as SRB chair or members as appropriate.
  2.4. Directorates. Each SPM/Director will, as applicable:
     2.4.1. Identify Directorate T&E Focal Point within their organization and submit the
     appointment to the CTA.
  2.4.2. The focal point will:
         2.4.2.1. Act as a single point of contact to the Directorate for communication of T&E
         information. Appointed Directorate T&E Focal Point should be certified as level II in
         the Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) in T&E or will achieve
         level II APDP T&E certification within two years of appointment.
         2.4.2.2. Ensure test plans are developed for all test projects per applicable test
         planning guidance. The test plan will include test procedures, hazard analyses, and a
         safety annex/appendix, see paragraph 3.4 for guidance of test plans. The T&E Focal
         Point will ensure associated reviews and reports comply with applicable guidance to
         include AFI 63-125 and AFI 63-103, and the plan is complete and ready for technical,
         safety, and readiness reviews.
         2.4.2.3. Obtain approval and signature for all test plans and test reports by the CTA
         unless otherwise delegated.
         2.4.2.4. Make initial recommendations on technical and safety risk, ensure tests are
         conducted IAW an approved test plan and coordinate all RTO recommendations,
         TES, TEMPs, NWSSTPs, ITT, JTWG charters with the CTA prior to submittal for
         approval.
         2.4.2.5. Ensure test planning adheres to the Test Planning Timeline (Figure 1).
     2.4.3. Ensure programs carry out test management responsibilities IAW public law, AFI
     99-103, AFMCI 99-103, AFI 63-103, AFI 63-125, and applicable MOA or Memorandum
     of Understanding (MOU). Nuclear components are governed by joint NNSA/DOD
     agreements.
     2.4.4. Ensure programs follow and adhere to AFMAN 63-119 and provide formal
     certification of readiness for operational testing to the Operational Test Organization
     (OTO) or Operational Test Agency (OTA). Coordinate certification recommendation
     with CTA prior to approval.
     2.4.5. Ensure new acquisitions (i.e. pre-milestone C), Sustainment Modifications (i.e.
     programs that retain/restore capabilities or modernize after milestone C) and Capability
     Modifications (i.e. programs that enhance operational suitability or technical
     performance) for nuclear weapons systems, support equipment and facilities are defined
     and managed IAW AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, AFI 10-601,
     Operational Capability Requirements Development, and tested IAW AFI 99-103 and AFI
     63-103. Programs identified as form, fit, function, interface (F3I) replacements
 6                                                                AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


        especially need to investigate the applicability of test and evaluation to ensure all
        requirements are met.
        2.4.6. Nominate potential TRB and SRB chairs to the AFNWC CTA and SU (SRB) on
        an annual basis each January by letter. Candidates must possess the technical
        qualifications to perform these duties.
        2.4.7. Approve test plans, accept risk for test activities and appoint chairpersons to TRRs
        and ITTs.
3. Test Management. AFNWCI 99-101 guidelines will apply to all test management processes
for AFNWC managed test programs, as well as AFNWC managed portions of test programs in
which AFNWC participates via MOA/MOU. AFNWC has engineering and/or technical
management responsibility when a proposed test involves the evaluation of designs,
modifications, upgrades, or changes that fall under the management responsibility of the SPMs
within AFNWC.
     3.1. Programs Supported. The AFNWC supports all programs in the Air Force Life Cycle
     Management Center Strategic Systems (AFLCMC/SS) portfolio. Additionally, AFNWC test
     requirements originate from program or process management activities supporting nuclear
     certification management, independent safety analyses, and special studies programs.
     AFNWC test requirements may also arise as a result of AFNWC participation in interagency
     test efforts outlined under MOAs/MOUs. Specific examples from AFI 63-103, AFI 63-125,
     and MOAs/MOUs are:
        3.1.1. Nuclear weapon/warhead POGs (B61, B83, W80, W87, W78, etc) follow the
        guidelines established in AFI 63-103. Testing associated with acquisition and
        modification of nuclear weapons are driven by joint test AF-NNSA MOA.
        3.1.2. Aircraft Monitor and Control (AMAC) POG: The AMAC POG as established by
        DOD letter from the Director of Defense Research and Engineering to the Chairman of
        the Atomic Energy Commission via the Military Liaison Committee to standardize,
        coordinate, publish and maintain interface and test criteria for assuring compatibility
        between NNSA developed nuclear weapons (bombs and warheads) and DOD developed
        aircraft/air launched delivery systems. The AMAC POG assists appropriate
        Aircraft/Nuclear Weapons POGs on matters pertaining to AMAC-related interface
        criteria and requirements.
        3.1.3. Nuclear Certification: The AFNWC has nuclear certification responsibility for all
        combat and non-combat delivery vehicles, facilities and support equipment as described
        in AFI 63-125. The System Program Office (SPO) (Aircraft, Cruise Missiles, or
        Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs)) is the focal point for detailed DOD
        acquisition and modification activities relating to systems that have a nuclear weapon
        delivery role. The SPO has responsibility to fund and conduct activities required to
        obtain Nuclear Certification of the system IAW AFI 63-125. The AFNWC performs
        AMAC testing as part of the aircraft certification process to verify the electrical signals
        and characteristics between aircraft and the weapon. AMAC testing is governed by local
        operating instruction. AFNWC has Nuclear Certification responsibility (review of testing
        and analysis) for all platforms and support equipment that interfaces (holds/stores, lifts,
        carries, uploads/downloads, tests, etc) with a nuclear weapon or weapon system. The
AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013                                                                             7


     AFNWC supports safety design evaluation IAW AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and
     Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, and AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design
     and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software and other applicable
     safety instructions.
  3.2. ITT. The AFNWC will follow the T&E principles in AFI 99-103. Testers must
  collaborate with each other, acquisition officials, and requirements sponsors using the ITT as
  the T&E focal point for each program. The ITT is responsible for creating and managing a
  TES/TEMP for the life of each program. SPMs will establish ITTs at the appropriate
  programmatic level. Refer to Section 4 of this instruction for specific ITT guidance.
  3.3. JTWG. For Joint AF-NNSA testing and assessment AFNWC will follow the guidance
  in AFI 63-103 and the current MOA or MOU between the NNSA and the AF.
  3.4. Test Planning. All test activities shall have an approved test plan IAW the Test
  Planning Timeline (Figure 1) and paragraph 3.6. of this instruction. The test plan shall
  provide sufficient detail to identify data and resource requirements to support the
  assessment/evaluation. Test limitations, safety and security issues, specific test events,
  scenarios, schedule, measures, data collection (who, what, when, where, why, and how), data
  reduction and analysis shall be described. As a minimum, the test plan shall include the
  following elements:
     3.4.1. Distribution Statement. Proper distribution statement IAW AFI 61-204,
     Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information.
     3.4.2. Objective. Overall test objective (as determined by the ITT).
     3.4.3. Background. Give reasons for conducting the test and summarize what the
     results are expected to demonstrate. Provide a short summary on how the testing relates
     to the overall program objectives.
     3.4.4. Scope and Methodology. Provide a statement summarizing the details and extent
     of testing to be accomplished. Describe test objectives that are to be met by the test.
     Indicate whether the test is a single test or a series of tests. Methodology describes how
     specific requirements will be verified and key activities will be emulated in the test
     environment such as, field test, field exercises, hybrid test facilities, integration facilities,
     modeling and simulation (M&S), analysis, or special test.
     3.4.5. Limitations. Identify test limitations or constraints, how they are being mitigated
     and how they are expected to impact the conclusions that will be drawn from testing. It
     will also show differences between test scenarios versus operational scenarios and the
     tested system versus the planned operational system and describe how these differences
     (limitations) will be addressed. Typical limitations may include simulation of conditions,
     lack of control of the test conditions, limited sample of environmental conditions, etc.
     3.4.6. Test provisioning. This element includes identifying proper resources such as
     manpower, funding, instrumentation and data analysis required to conduct a test.
         3.4.6.1. Specific equipment and instrumentation to be used including part numbers,
         serial numbers or other identifying information.
         3.4.6.2. All calibration traceability documentation (e.g. cal. sheets), ranges, dates,
         part numbers, serial numbers, etc. for all equipment/instrumentation.
8                                                               AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


           3.4.6.3. Required configuration of equipment/instrumentation. For software testing,
           include Computer Program Identification Number (CPIN) for released software or
           version number for software without an established CPIN.
           3.4.6.4. Test environment includes the test facilities, environmental conditions
           (humidity, temperature, pressure, altitude, explosives, background radiation levels,
           shielding requirements, etc.) and restrictions on when/where the test may be
           conducted.
       3.4.7. Requirements. This includes but is not limited to Measures of Effectiveness
       (MOE), Measures of Performance (MOP), Measures of Suitability (MOS), evaluation
       criteria, success criteria, data requirements and data products. Requirements must trace
       to a specification or higher level requirements documents. Test requirements shall adhere
       to the following guidelines:
           3.4.7.1. Requirements shall be expressed in a Requirements Correlation Matrix
           (RCM).
           3.4.7.2. Requirements shall be measurable and testable, and include evaluation
           method, evaluation criteria and uncertainties. Evaluation methods include inspection,
           demonstration, test and analysis. Evaluation criteria include threshold/objective,
           high/low limit, pass/fail, etc.
       3.4.8. Safety requirements. This element includes safety requirements to include test
       unique hazards. Include any risks and mitigations.
       3.4.9. Security Requirements. This element includes security requirements involving
       any security classifications, data collection safeguards, and sensitive security
       requirements among contractors, foreign nationals, etc. Reference all applicable security
       classification guides.
       3.4.10. Environmental Impact Analysis. This element determines the effect of the
       testing on the environment. Reference AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact Analysis
       Process.
       3.4.11. Test Reporting. This element identifies the reports required during and upon the
       completion of testing. Include a distribution list for test reports.
       3.4.12. Responsibilities. This element defines the responsibilities of each member or
       organization represented in the ITT. This includes who is accepting the risk for this test
       event.
    3.5. Test Plan Approval. The following steps will be conducted for all test plans:
       3.5.1. RTO Coordination. The RTO will review the test plan and ensure the test is
       conducted IAW an approved test plan and test safety documentation, regardless of
       whether the RTO conducts the test or assigns conduct to a participating test organization.
       3.5.2. AFNWC CTA will review for approval and signature.
       3.5.3. TRB. The TRB will conduct an independent review of the technical adequacy of
       the test plan, and assign an overall technical risk level. See Section 5 for details.
AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013                                                                             9


     3.5.4. SRB. The SRB will conduct an independent safety review of the test approach,
     and assign an overall safety risk level. See Section 5 for details.
     3.5.5. Approval. Each SPM or designee is the approval authority for all test plans
     developed by their respective organizations.
  3.6. TRR. All test events shall conduct a TRR to ensure all the elements of the test are
  ready to execute, risks have been identified, mitigated and accepted. See Figure 1 for
  appropriate TRR timeline.
  3.7. Test Execution. All testing will be conducted IAW an approved test plan.
  3.8. Test Reporting. All test activities will generate a test report. The test report is the
  primary work deliverable produced from testing and shall provide sufficient detail to capture
  the results of the test and inform decision makers. An overview of the test results and
  detailed test results shall be described in the test report in addition to sections that will mirror
  information detailed in the test plan including objective, background, scope and
  methodology, limitations. In addition to test specific requirements, a test report shall include
  the following:
     3.8.1. Distribution Statement. Proper distribution statement IAW AFI 61-204.
     3.8.2. Objective. Restate the overall test objectives from the test plan.
     3.8.3. Background. Restate background from test plan.
     3.8.4. Scope and Methodology. Restate scope and methodology from test plan.
     3.8.5. Test Equipment and Instrumentation. Include a list of equipment and
     instrumentation that was used during the test to include calibration traceability
     documents, serial numbers and any other identifying attributes.
     3.8.6. Equipment under Test Description. Provide a detailed description of the item
     under test, including support equipment and data acquisition equipment. Clearly describe
     the configuration of the test setup, include pictures or diagrams as necessary. State any
     changes that were made during the test or any deviations from the test plan.
     3.8.7. Test Results Overview. This shall include an overall assessment of the test and
     specify whether test objectives were met. Compare test results with requirements of the
     system. Identify any effects the test environment had on results including uncertainties
     (error propagation, confidence and error bounding, etc.) and method used to analyze data.
     3.8.8. Appendices. This section shall include any additional information necessary to
     make the report stand on its own including, but not limited to, system programmatics,
     detailed test results, test equipment list (included name, model, serial number, calibration
     traceability information, etc.), deficiency reports, test plan, test procedures, completed
     RCM, and distribution list.
  3.9. Test Report Approval.
     3.9.1. All final test reports shall be archived in the Defense Technical Information Center
     (DTIC) or another national archive system.
 10                                                            AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


      3.9.2. The RTO will initiate watch items and/or deficiency reports (DRs) IAW TO 00-5-
      1, AF Technical Order System and TO 00-35D-54-WA-1, USAF Deficiency Reporting
      and Investigation System.
      3.9.3. The PM shall coordinate the test report with all stakeholders according to
      processes defined by the AFNWC organization managing the test. All personnel and
      organizations that signed the final test plan should be considered for coordination of the
      test report. All test reports will be coordinated with AFNWC CTA for review and
      approval signature.
   3.10. Milestones.
      3.10.1. Directorates will manage test planning/reporting processes to meet the timeline
      outlined in Figure 1 below.

Figure 1. Test Planning Timeline




      3.10.2. The TRB and SRB may be held electronically with the results to be presented at
      the T-5 TRR. Results should be sent to AFNWC CTA for review prior to the T-5 TRR.
      3.10.3. An Initial TRR may be held at T-30 to address risk areas prior to final test
      preparations to include resource deployment and support unit commitments.
      3.10.4. The final report is due at the Final Test Event (FTE) plus 30 days. FTE is
      defined as the final day analysis is completed to support conclusions.
4. ITT Processes.
   4.1. Authority/Charter. The ITT will develop a formal charter IAW AFI 99-103,
   Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation.
      4.1.1. The SPM will designate a representative from his or her Directorate to co-chair the
      ITT.
      4.1.2. The charter will describe team membership, responsibilities, resources, and
      products for which the ITT is responsible.
AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013                                                                       11


      4.1.3. The ITT co-chair will submit the charter to the AFNWC CTA for review and
      coordination prior to approval.
      4.1.4. The PM level or above and OTO representative will approve and sign the ITT
      charter. All other stakeholders are coordinating signatories.
      4.1.5. The ITT will review and update the ITT charter as determined by the co-chairs.
   4.2. OT&E Co-chair Designation.
      4.2.1. For each project or program the ITT co-chair is responsible for determining the
      OTO. Refer to AFI 99-103 Figure 4.3 to determine what organization should function as
      OTO. Testers must be proactive in supporting ITT initial formation.
   4.3. RTO Designation.
      4.3.1. An RTO is designated for every test project or program. The ITT will initiate the
      RTO designation process.
      4.3.2. Once the ITT identifies a test requirement, the ITT and CTA will work together to
      identify an appropriate RTO or develop justification to waive the RTO requirement.
      Once an appropriate RTO is determined, the ITT will draft a letter to the RTO
      designation approval authority and coordinate through the CTA. An organization may be
      designated as the RTO for multiple closely related projects.
      4.3.3. The RTO designation approval authority is the Program Executive Officer (PEO).
      If the project does not fall under a PEO, the approval authority is the AFNWC/CC or
      their designee. The RTO designation request will be endorsed by AFNWC CTA before
      going to the approval authority.
      4.3.4. The CTA will inform HQ AFMC/A3 of RTO designation/waiver approvals.
   4.4. Data Archiving Strategy.
      4.4.1. The ITT will develop a strategy for archiving key T&E information and data that
      have significant record value for permanent retention. The retention of test plans,
      TEMPs, analyses, annexes, and related studies, in addition to final reports, shall be
      archived in the DTIC or another national archive system.
5. TRB & SRB Process.
   5.1. TRB/SRB Chairperson Nomination.
      5.1.1. Directorate SPM nominates TRB and SRB Chairpersons, and alternates if desired,
      by letter to AFNWC CTA and SU (SRB) on an annual basis each January.
      5.1.2. TRB and SRB Chairpersons must be independent, government employees that are
      technically qualified to fill the role of TRB and SRB Chairperson.
      5.1.3. AFNWC CTA and SU (SRB) will review nominations, and if nominees are
      qualified, approve TRB and SRB chairpersons by letter.
   5.2. TRB Process.
      5.2.1. The PM shall notify the TRB chair no later than 30 days prior to the test event (see
      Test Planning Timeline, Figure 1). The PM can initiate the TRB process earlier for test
      events that potentially have a higher technical risk level.
12                                                             AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


     5.2.2. The TRB shall review a test plan to assess its technical adequacy and overall
     technical risk. At a minimum this will be based on an assessment of test requirements,
     techniques, approaches and objectives.
     5.2.3. The TRB will identify risks, and may assist the PM to eliminate or mitigate risks.
     5.2.4. The TRB will produce a memo (e-mail, letter, or report) detailing the technical
     risks associated with the test event. At a minimum the memo will include risk, details on
     potential mitigation measures, the original risk level, and risk level after potential
     mitigation. The TRB memo will be used to inform the TRR chairperson and AFNWC
     CTA of technical risks associated with the test event. Refer to AFI 63-101, Acquisition
     and Sustainment Life Cycle Management paragraph 3.48 for guidance on completing a
     risk matrix.
  5.3. SRB Process.
     5.3.1. The PM shall notify the SRB chair no later than 30 days prior to the test event (see
     Test Planning Timeline, Figure 1). The PM can initiate the SRB process earlier for test
     events that potentially have a higher safety risk level.
     5.3.2. The SRB will assess whether the PM/ITT has identified and mitigated all health
     and safety hazards.
     5.3.3. The SRB will produce a memo (e-mail, letter, or report) detailing the safety risks
     associated with the test event. At a minimum the memo will include a risk matrix, details
     on potential mitigation measures, the original risk level, and risk level after potential
     mitigation. The SRB memo will be used to inform the TRR chairperson and AFNWC
     CTA of safety risks associated with the test event. Refer to AFI 91-202 for guidance on
     completing a risk matrix.




                                          SANDRA E. FINAN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013                                                                    13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 Aug 2002
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 3 Aug 2011
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 26 Feb 2008
AFMCPD 99-1, Test Management, 4 Nov 2004
AFPD 63-17, Technology and Acquisition Systems Security Program Protection, 26 Nov 2001
AFMCI 99-103, Test Management, 22 Nov 2004
TO 00-35D-54-WA-1, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigation System, 1 Nov 2004
AFMAN 63-119, Certification of System Readiness for Dedicated Operational Test and
Evaluation, 20 Jun 2008
AFI 63-103, Joint Air Force – National Nuclear Security Administration (AF-NNSA) Nuclear
Weapons Life Cycle Management, 24 Sep 2008
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 12 Jul 2010
AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, 6 Nov 2009
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, 15 Mar 2004
AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact Analysis Process,12 Mar 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008, Guidance Memorandum, 13 Oct 2011
AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems, 04 Aug
2010
AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software,
1 Feb 1999
NNSA - AF Joint Testing and Assessment of the Nuclear Weapons Stockpile, DE-GM04-
94AL94738 (Revision 1) 13 Aug 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847 Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations And Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
 14                                                       AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMC/A3—Air Force Materiel Command Air, Space and Information Operations
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFMCPD—Air Force Materiel Command Policy Directive
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWCI—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Instruction
AFNWC/CC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Commander
AFNWC/EN—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Engineering and Technical Management
AFNWC/SU—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Safety, Security, and Infrastructure
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFLCMC/SS—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center Strategic Systems
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMAC—Aircraft Monitor and Control
ANG—Air National Guard
APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program
CPIN—Computer Program Identification Number
CTA—Center Test Authority
CTU—Compatibility Test Unit
DJTA—Developmental Joint Test Assembly
DOD—Department of Defense
DOE—Department Of Energy
DR—Deficiency Report
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
EN—Engineering Directorate
F3I—Form, Fit, Function, Interface
FTE—Final Test Event
FRP—Full-Rate Production
AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013                         15


HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
ICBM—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile
IMTU—Instrumented Mock Test Unit
ITT—Integrated Test Team
JFT—Joint Flight Test
JTA—Joint Test Assembly
JTSG—Joint Test Sub-Group
JTWG—Joint Test Working Group
KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
LCSP—Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
LPO—Lead Project Officer
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
MAJCOM—Major Command
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOE—Measures of Effectiveness
MOP—Measures of Performance
MOS—Measures of Suitability
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NWC—- Nuclear Weapons Council
NNSA—National Nuclear Security Administration
NWSSTP—Nuclear Weapon Subsystem Test Plan
OI—Operating Instruction
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OTA—Operational Test Agency
OTO—Operational Test Organization
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
POG—Project Officers Group
 16                                                               AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


PTO—Participating Test Organization
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RTO—Responsible Test Organization
SE—Test Safety Office
SPM—System Program Manager
SPO—System Program Office
SRB—Safety Review Board
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TES—Test and Evaluation Strategy
TESTREP—Test Representative
TO—Technical Order
TRB—Technical Review Board
TRR—Test Readiness Review
USAF—United States Air Force
VFA—Vibration Fly-Around

Terms
Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC)— An AFMC Center, with Headquarters on
KAFB, responsible for the safety, security, and reliability of the nuclear weapons / nuclear
weapon systems that support the National Command Structure and the Air Force war-fighter.
AMAC Testing—Demonstrates compliance of the nuclear weapon / nuclear weapon system
interface with the specifications of the Aircraft Monitor and Control (AMAC) Specification
Standard No. SYS 1001-02: System 1 Basic Interface Specification and No. SYS 2001-04: System
2 Basic Interface Specification.
Center Test Authority (CTA)— A product or logistics center resident T&E expert(s) providing
advice to center leadership on issues of T&E and assistance to center program managers.
Computer Program Identification Number (CPIN)— A standardized identifier for an
embedded computer system software configuration item or computer software configuration item
version, and its related engineering documentation.
Developmental Testing (DT)— Testing that focuses on activities to demonstrate the feasibility
of conceptual approaches, evaluate design risk, identify design alternatives, compare and analyze
trade-offs, and estimate satisfaction of operational requirements. Any testing used to assist in the
development and maturation of products, product elements, or manufacturing or support
processes.
Integrated Test Team (ITT)— A team within each organization responsible for the overarching
T&E strategies and policies for a program or group of related programs co-chaired by
AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013                                                                      17


operational testers and the program manager. The ITT maintains test oversight into all
modifications, acquisitions, sustainment efforts and other projects for the organization. The
CTA will be a member of each ITT. The ITT is the focal point for all T&E activities within its
organization.
Joint Test Subgroup (JTSG)— Group chartered by the LPO through the POG with
membership from POG organizations, as needed that provides independent coordination and
evaluation of weapon system developmental testing activities.
Joint Test Working Group (JTWG)— Group chartered under the auspices of current
AF/NNSA Joint Test MOA co-chaired by the MAJCOM and NNSA with membership from Air
Force, NNSA, and other organizations as needed that provides independent coordination and
evaluation of weapon system operational testing activities. The JTWG develops, implements
and maintains the NWSSTP.
Lead Project Officer (LPO)— Selected by the lead service and charged with chairing the POG
and coordinating the efforts of the other project officers. Represents the POG at the Nuclear
Weapon Council (NWC), NWC Standing and Safety Committee and other decision making
bodies.
Operational Testing (OT)— Testing that evaluates the effectiveness and suitability of systems
operating under realistic conditions to determine whether the system meets the minimum
acceptable operational performance requirements.
Program Executive Officer (PEO)— A military or civilian official who has responsibility for
directing several Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) and for assigned major system
and non-major system acquisition programs. A PEO has no other command or staff
responsibilities within the MDAP, and only reports to and receives guidance and direction from
the DOD Component Acquisition Executive.
Program Manager (PM)— The designated individual with responsibility for and authority to
accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s
operational needs. The PM shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance
reporting. Operating as the single manager, the PM has total life cycle system management
authority.
Project Officers Group (POG)— A POG is a group of DOD/DOE personnel assigned to
coordinate the development and compatibility assurance of a designated nuclear weapon system
and its associated interfaces.
Responsible Test Organization (RTO)— The lead government developmental test organization
that is qualified to conduct and/or responsible for overseeing Developmental Test and Evaluation
(DT&E).
Safety Review Board (SRB)— An independent review of the safety risks of the test plan
resulting in the assignment of an overall safety risk.
Sustainment— Any post-production, routine or non-routine, change to a nuclear weapon and/or
its MCs or STS. Studies of sustainment concepts or activities to implement such concepts are
collectively defined to be sustainment programs. Sustainment includes activities or testing
involved in aging and surveillance activities.
 18                                                                 AFNWCI99-101 2 MAY 2013


Technical Review Board (TRB)— An independent review of the technical adequacy and
technical risks of the test plan, resulting in an assignment of an overall technical risk level.
Test Environment— A description of the location(s), time(s) of day, weather, and other
conditions required for the tests. For software testing include the development environment and
the operating system that will be used for development, qualification or operational testing.
Test Execution— The phase of a test program during which testing (ground, flight, etc.) is
accomplished.
Test Limitations— Areas and issues identified during test planning, which the testing effort will
not address. These allow testers and readers of the test report to understand why certain aspects
may not have been addressed by the testing. This element includes identifying test limitations or
constraints and how they are expected to effect the conclusions that will be drawn from testing.
Typical limitations are simulation of conditions, lack of control of the test conditions, limited
sample of environmental conditions, etc.
Test Plan— Governing, overarching document for conducting a specific test.
Test Planning— The phase of a test program during which objectives, criteria, and requirements
are determined and coordinated/acquired.
Test Provisioning— The identification of proper resources such as manpower, funding,
instrumentation, and data analysis required to conduct a test.
Test Reporting— The phase of a test program during which the results, findings, and
recommendations from Test Execution are formally presented to the test requester.
Test Safety Office— The 377 ABW Safety Offices is the AFNWC Safety Office
(AFNWC/SE).
Test Unique Hazards— A hazard that is not associated with the basic operation of the aircraft,
test article, vehicle, system under test, or facility. Typically, the hazard is introduced as a result
of the test environment or test method that is outside the normal operation of the system under
test.
