BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                       INSTRUCTION 63-110
CENTER
                                                                            4 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                     Acquisition

                                                                TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT
                                                                          AND CONTROL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication and forms are available digitally on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFNWC/ENS                                                        Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                             (Dr. Yolanda King)
                                                                                      Pages: 12


This Technical Management and Control (TMC) Instruction establishes guidance for performing
technical assessments (and progress against program plans) for programs managed by Air Force
Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC), except for the 377th Air Base Wing. In accordance with
Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety,
Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), this
Instruction applies to AFNWC programs by determining the key data and processes needed to
successfully assess whether the program execution is commensurate with the program plan in the
areas of performance, cost, and schedule. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)       Records     Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This is the initial publication of this
Instruction. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Acronyms.

1. Overview.
   1.1. This Instruction describes the processes for performing technical assessments and
   progress against program plans for programs managed by AFNWC. For the purposes of this
   process, the term “technical assessment” involves the determination of key data and
 2                                                         AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011


     processes needed to successfully assess whether the program execution is commensurate
     with the program plan in the areas of performance, cost, and schedule. This Instruction also
     documents process responsibilities, resources and training. This Instruction is intended to
     assist in the planning, assessing, analyzing, and controlling the various technical activities
     associated with AFNWC-managed programs, including sustainment and nuclear certification
     activities. It is to be implemented as appropriate to each individual program, and should not
     be interpreted to define actual contractual requirements. In accordance with AFI 33-360
     paragraph 2.3, if any guidance in this Instruction conflicts with guidance issued by a higher-
     level unit (e.g., the Federal Acquisition Regulations), the higher-level publication shall take
     precedence.
     1.2. TMC provides for establishing and managing the project, and the involvement of
     relevant stakeholders. It also allows for developing and sustaining the infrastructure and
     measurement capability to support management information needs.
2. Scope. This Instruction serves to identify specific roles and responsibilities for AFNWC
subordinate organizations entrusted to carry out the TMC activities. The activities identified in
this Instruction address both “established” and “non-established” (pre-Milestone B) programs
managed by the AFNWC. The TMC process presented in this Instruction is intended to codify
the Air Force System Engineering Assessment Model (SEAM) best practices into policy,
identify specific roles and responsibilities of the organizations entrusted with the responsibilities
to carry out the TMC process, and provide clarification beyond the guidance presented in
AFMCI 63-1201.
3. Work Products. The following are typical (though not universal) lists of work products
which are necessary elements of this TMC process, and, as applicable, are required artifacts that
are generated through the sequence of acquisition program phases:
     3.1. Acquisition Life Cycle Work Products.
        3.1.1. Systems Engineering Plan (SEP)
        3.1.2. Integrated Master Schedule (IMS)
        3.1.3. Life Cycle Managemnt Plan
        3.1.4. Cost & Schedule Baselines
     3.1.5. Earned Value Measurement System
     3.1.6. Integrated Master Plan (IMP)
     3.2. AFNWC Sustainment Work Products
        3.2.1. Depot Maintenance Activation Plan
        3.2.2. Integrated Logistics Support Plan
        3.2.3. Product Support Management Plan
        3.2.4. Unique Identification Plan
        3.2.5. Single Acquisition Mangement Plan
     3.3. Nuclear Certification Work Products.
        3.3.1. Nuclear Certification Impact Statement
AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                   3


       3.3.2. Certification Requirements Plan
       3.3.3. Nuclear Compatibility Certification Statement
       3.3.4. Nuclear Safety Evaluation
       3.3.5. Master Nuclear Certification List
   3.4. Other Work Products. Other work products, not listed above, may be necessary or
   unique to a particular activity managed by AFNWC. These requirements will be documented
   in appropriate local instructions.
4. Roles & Responsibilities. The following responsibilities and authorities are identified as
necessary for the successful accomplishment of AFNWC TMC, in accordance with published
Air Force acquisition management practices.
   4.1. AFNWC. TMC shall be accomplished by coordinating efforts amongst all relevant
   stakeholders, to include (but not limited to) the AFNWC directorates for Engineering
   (AFNWC/EN), Financial Management (AFNWC/FM), Contracting (AFNWC/PK), Test
   (AFNWC/ENT), Logistics (AFNWC/LG), and Intelligence and Capability Integration
   (AFNWC/XR). Subordinate offices within the AFNWC (e.g., Directorates, Divisions)
   conducting TMC activities that do not have these functional activities inherent to their
   normal operations will obtain assistance from any of the other AFNWC directorates, as
   necessary.
   4.2. AFNWC Program/Project Manager (PM).
       4.2.1. The Program Manager will be the primary decision authority for programs during
       the TMC process. Until a program becomes an Acquisition Program (i.e., post-Milestone
       B), AFNWC/XR will provide the necessary acquisition manpower to support the User in
       the administration of TMC, and, with close coordination with the User, serves as the
       Project Manager.
       4.2.2. The PM shall request resources needed to support the TMC process, develop the
       work products, and provide the necessary services of the process as needed. Resources
       will include adequate funding, appropriate physical facilities, and skilled personnel with
       appropriate tools.
       4.2.3. The PM shall assign responsibility and authority for performing the process,
       developing work products, and providing the services of the process. In assigning
       accountability, the PM will ensure the achievement of specified results throughout the
       life of the program. The PM will assign responsibility using detailed job descriptions
       and/or project documents, and ensure designated personnel have documented authority to
       perform the assigned responsibilities.
       4.2.4. The PM will also identify a Process Point of Contact (POC) for this Process,
       whose responsibility is to review this TMC process annually and track recommended
       changes. The POC will also ensure that training is performed in accordance with the
       training section of this process.
   4.3. Chief Engineer (CE).
       4.3.1. The CE shall establish and maintain plans for performing TMC. The plan, as a
       minimum, will describe the activities, resources, and schedule required to accomplish this
 4                                                        AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011


        process, to include engineering activities required in the support of nuclear equipment life
        extension programs and the Department of Energy acquisition process (commonly
        referred to as the “6.x process”).
        4.3.2. The CE shall monitor and control the TMC process, ensuring that cost, schedule,
        performance, and risk parameters are met. The role of the CE may be fulfilled by an
        appropriate designee, as identified by the responsible AFNWC PM.
        4.3.3. The CE shall review the activities, status and results of the TMC process with the
        PM (and higher-level management as necessary), and resolve any identified problems.
        Following process reviews, the CE will coordinate with the Process POC and provide
        recommendations to the PM regarding policy, process and resources to facilitate
        improvement. The CE will continue to monitor activities to ensure compliance with this
        process.
     4.4. The User. The User is defined here as Air Force Global Strike Command, who is the
     primary user of the systems developed by AFNWC and will be indirectly or directly involved
     in most, if not all, aspects of TMC. Other Users may include United States Air Forces
     Europe, Air Armament Center and Air Combat Command. The User will provide
     requirements and support to AFNWC during the TMC process.
     4.5. Developmental Test & Evaluation (DT&E) Organizations. DT&E organizations will
     be designated to test performance requirements as indicated in the system test plan. Key
     DT&E personnel may also be invited to meetings and reviews in order to understand the
     system or sub-system design, integration, and predicted performance, or provide feedback on
     demonstrated performance and technical assessment.
     4.6. Operational Test & Evaluation (OT&E) Organizations. OT&E organizations will
     be designated to test, in an operationally realistic environment, overall system integration,
     controls and displays, and system performance and effectiveness as indicated in the Test and
     Evaluation Master Plan or similar document. Key OT&E personnel may also be invited to
     meetings and reviews in order to understand the system or sub-system design, integration,
     predicted performance, or provide feedback on demonstrated performance and technical
     assessment.
5. Process. This section provides a description of the TMC process. The documented process,
as part of the overall Instruction, provides the basis for planning, performing and managing the
activities, work products, and services associated with the TMC process.
     5.1. Prepare for Integrated Management.
        5.1.1. Establish and Maintain the Project Environment. The government program office,
        in coordination with the Prime Contractor, shall define the project’s processes to form an
        integrated approach for managing the product throughout its lifecycle. The cognizant
        authority shall implement technical standard work and process guidelines and establish a
        work environment that facilitates work by co-located or distributed teams.
        5.1.2. Establish and Maintain Supplier Agreements. An optimal acquisition path, e.g.,
        Commercial Off-The-Shelf, Formal Agreement, In-House Vendor, etc., shall be
        evaluated and determined for each product or product component to be acquired.
        Technical requirements shall be established and support shall be provided to the
AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                   5


       contracting agency in selecting suppliers and establishing supplier agreements (via the
       Statement of Work (SOW)), Memorandum of Agreement or contract.
       5.1.3. Establish and maintain Integrated Product Teams. With shareholder participation,
       the government program office shall establish a shared vision for the project consistent
       with the mission, goals, expectations, and constraints. The AFNWC PM shall establish
       and maintain integrated teams based on a product oriented hierarchy, and shall allocate
       requirements, responsibilities, tasks and interfaces to teams in the integrated team
       structure. Team membership, its leaders, resources and other constraints, shall be
       documented.
       5.1.4. Establish and Maintain Measurement Approach. Measurement objectives and
       criteria shall be established based on the project’s risks and issues. How measurement
       data will be obtained, stored, updated and presented, shall be specified, as well as
       measures and analysis procedures to address information needs. Also, the frequency of
       data measurement shall be determined through consideration of project maturity and
       complexity, and the needs of stakeholders.
   5.2. Perform Integrated Management.
       5.2.1. Monitor and Control the Project in Accordance with Project Commitments.
Performance of agreements on commitments shall be monitored and controlled addressing each
critical dependency with those responsible for providing or receiving the work product.
       5.2.2. Monitor and Control Coordination and Collaboration. The government program
       office shall manage and monitor stakeholder involvement, to include the Weapon System
       Supply Chain Management Team, resolving all coordination issues and ensuring
       collaboration among interfacing teams.
       5.2.3. Execute Supplier Agreements. Technical activities, as specified in supplier
       agreements, shall be monitored and accomplished. Selected supplier processes shall be
       monitored, as well. Supplier products shall be evaluated and (if meeting acceptance
       criteria) accepted.
       5.2.4. Obtain and Analyze Specified Measurement Data. Measurement data shall be
       collected and analyzed as planned, with additional analysis conducted when necessary,
       results reviewed with relevant stakeholders, and measurement criteria refined for future
       analysis. Progress relative technical, cost and schedule plans shall be monitored and
       analyzed immediately after they are established, as well as throughout the life cycle. The
       root causes for any variances shall also be analyzed.
       5.2.5. Monitor the Development and Delivery of Project Data. Deliverable technical data
       shall be reviewed for completeness, accuracy, and currency to ensure program integrity
       and health. The process for developing the project data shall also be reviewed.
   5.3. Monitor and Control Technical Progress.
       5.3.1. Technical Reviews/Audits. Technical reviews and audits are to be conducted when
       all key entry criteria are met, and closed when the exit criteria are met. In accordance
       with the IMP/IMS, plan and conduct these technical reviews, assessments, and audits
       using the applicable standards and regulations.
6                                                       AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011


       5.3.2. Assess Results of Technical Reviews. The results of all technical reviews shall be
       examined to support key milestone decisions, higher level reporting, and project re-
       planning, as required.
       5.3.3. Manage Project Work Products and Data. Project data, work products and
       documents shall be managed with the appropriate levels of version control. The
       established mechanisms shall also be monitored to ensure project data are controlled.
    5.4. Monitor and Control Corrective Actions.
       5.4.1. Collect and Analyze Project Issues. Project issues shall be collected and analyzed
       through program management reviews, technical reviews, milestone reviews and analysis
       of program metrics, in order to determine and track corrective actions. Corrective actions
       shall be preformed, as required, by modifying any of the following: The product, the
       SOW and/or objectives, requirements and/or specifications, and estimates and plans.
       Corrective actions shall also be preformed when re-negotiating commitments, adding
       resources, changing processes, or revising mitigation actions.
       5.4.2. Establish and Maintain A Deficiency Reporting System. A deficiency reporting
       system shall be established and maintained that includes deficiency identification, root
       cause analysis, and corrective action mechanisms. Also, criteria, processes, and
       procedures for determination and disposition of non-conforming products shall be
       established and maintained to prevent their unintended use or delivery.
       5.4.3. Manage Corrective Actions to Closure. The PM shall monitor and manage
       corrective actions to closure, identifying and collecting lessons learned to be used to
       update processes.
    5.5. Technical Assessment Key Areas.
       5.5.1. The following information and data should be considered during program planning
       and execution as key areas to be monitored. By monitoring progress against plans, these
       areas can provide sufficient data to keep programs on track to a successful conclusion.
       5.5.2. The PM (or his designee) may decide that a given area is not needed for a given
       activity, e.g., “Cost Performance Index (CPI)” for a Firm Fixed Price Contract, or “Field
       Availability” for a development contract. In such cases, it may be reasonably dispensed
       with.
       5.5.3. For all paragraphs below labeled “Key Area,” the required information and data
       are described along with the measures used to assess technical progress.
    5.6. Data Collection.
       5.6.1. For each Key Area, the POC, who is assigned by either the PM (or his designee),
       will monitor and analyze progress against the program plan, and archive all data and
       associated work products. To the maximum extent possible, data will be transferred to
       the program office electronically. The POC is responsible for providing analysis and
       presenting data to the PM and CE when updates are received.
       5.6.2. All key area updates should be received, reviewed, and assessed on a monthly
       basis. The PM (or his designee) may decide to review an individual key area on a more
       frequent basis, if necessary.
AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     7


       5.6.3. Key Area 1: IMS.
          5.6.3.1. The program will have an IMS that shall clearly delineates work packages
          within the next three to six months, with planned duration and completion; work
          package progress to date; predecessors and successors for all activities; critical path
          for the schedule; risk mitigation plans/events for all High/Medium risk items; and
          resource loading for scheduled activities.
          5.6.3.2. The IMS should be analyzed to assess schedule progress, if key events are
          behind schedule, if resource loading is an issue between program activities, and/or if
          there are barriers towards successful progress of critical path events.
          5.6.3.3. The PM should work directly with the stakeholder’s organization’s Master
          Scheduler on all IMS issues, to assess the balance of schedules and/or critical path
          events among other major programs.
       5.6.4. Key Area 2: Cost.
          5.6.4.1. When cost reports or cost information are received, the CPI and Schedule
          Performance Index (SPI), or other measures, are used to monitor and assess the
          program’s Earned Value. Both CPI and SPI measures should be 1.0 ± 5%.
          5.6.4.2. If the CPI or SPI fall outside the stated range, the AFNWC CE should review
          all activities with the Prime Contractor to assess the primary reasons for CPI and/or
          SPI deviations. Additionally, action plans should be developed to correct downward
          trends and promote progress in a successful manner.
       5.6.5. Key Area 3: Funding Availability / Obligations & Expenditures.
The financial manager will monitor the program funding requirements versus funding available.
The financial manager will also monitor program funding obligations and expenditures in
accordance with the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) guidelines and goals.
       5.6.6. Key Area 4: Work Package Earned Value & Status.
          5.6.6.1. The contractor has responsibility for earned value activities, on contracts that
          require earned value determinations. However, during metrics reviews, earned value
          of work packages will be assessed and monitored, which includes active participation
          on the part of the United States Air Force (USAF). All work packages should have
          clearly definable events assigned, with associated hours required for completion.
          Most efforts requiringwork packages should be relatively short in duration, on the
          order of less than two months.
          5.6.6.2. Additionally, each discrete event should have clearly defined rules for taking
          credit for progress or completion. Events should be assigned personnel required to
          complete the event.
          5.6.6.3. Once all events within a work package have been defined regarding the
          predicted effort required (in hours) and resources have been assigned, the overall plan
          for the work package is complete. On a periodic basis, e.g., weekly, as the events
          within the work package are assessed, progress regarding the plan is calculated and
          assessed.
8                                                     AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011


       5.6.6.4. Additionally, the USAF program office should assess whether additional
       resources, personnel, or equipment are needed to complete specific events. In some
       cases, work packages competing for the same personnel may have to be assessed and
       arbitrated according to priority.
    5.6.7. Key Area 5: Risk Assessments.
       5.6.7.1. Risk assessments, risk mitigation planning, and risk mitigation monitoring
       should be performed in accordance with the applicable Risk Management process,
       which ensures that the risk mitigation activities are monitored against the program
       plan.
       5.6.7.2. In summary, risks should be actively addressed each week. The formal
       review of the risk database is accomplished via a monthly risk review, as specified in
       applicable AFNWC Risk Management guidance. USAF program teams are expected
       to work actively with the Prime Contractor during tailoring and execution of the
       documented Risk Management Process.
       5.6.7.3. New risks should be identified during the assessment of technical progress
       and shall be managed in accordance with applicable AFNWC Risk Management
       guidance.
    5.6.8. Key Area 6: Technical Status & Technical Assessment.
       5.6.8.1. It is critical for program success to accurately assess the technical status and
       challenges at every stage in order to make informed decisions and to maintain
       adequate technical progress. The process for accomplishing this assessment is
       complex and interrelated with many other activities, in both the Prime Contractor’s
       team and the Government program office. The processes described below have been
       tailored specifically for the contractor/ government team.
       5.6.8.2. Program technical assessments should be accomplished through the
       following processes. The major processes are Technical Interchange Meetings
       (TIMs), Working Group Meetings, Program Management Reviews, and formal
       reviews. All meetings or reviews should incorporate a meeting organizer (to schedule
       facilities, provide maps and agendas, and manage the invitee list); an agenda; purpose
       & goals (agreed to by all Stakeholders); presentation material; technical data (to
       supplement presentation material, if needed); and action item process.
       5.6.8.3. In addition, formal reviews such as the System Requirements Review,
       Preliminary and Critical Design Reviews, Test Readiness Reviews, and Nuclear
       Certification Reviews should establish entrance and exit criteria. The entrance
       criteria, and all key events leading up to the review, must be completed prior to the
       review. The exit criteria must be monitored, reviewed, and completed prior to close-
       out of the design review. Both the entrance and exit criteria should be agreed to by
       all Stakeholders.
       5.6.8.4. Regardless of the process used for technical assessment, status of specific
       items should be reviewed and discussed. During these discussions, the associated
       cost, schedule, and performance of the system, sub-system, or components will be
       discussed in relation to the program plan. If needed, action items shall be created to
AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    9


        document the necessary steps to resolve any open issues. Any risks that may surface
        can be managed in accordance with appropriate AFNWC Risk Management
        guidance.
        5.6.8.5. As an outcome of technical assessment discussions, if the status of the item
        is not on track for success, then the Decision Analysis process may be invoked to
        evaluate alternative solutions.
        5.6.8.6. If briefing charts or other documents are used during the TIM, these files
        should be provided to the program office. Data provided to the government will be
        filed electronically in accordance with the subject area.
        5.6.8.7. Working Groups (WGs) may be chartered for complex design issues or test
        planning, such as (but not limited to) simulations, specialized testing, integration, or
        test planning. WGs shall have a specific charter defined by the USAF Program CE,
        in coordination with the Prime Contractor.
        5.6.8.8. Formal reviews, typically required during the System Development and
        Demonstration (SDD) phase, will also have entrance and exit criteria. The USAF
        Program CE (or designee) will work with the Prime Contractor to tailor the entrance
        and exit criteria to/from the Prime Contractor’s Systems Engineering Process.
        5.6.8.9. All action items resulting from a review will contain a definition of the
        assigned action item, when it was assigned, the responsible person for the action item,
        the expected closure date, and the current status and progress to date.
        5.6.8.10. The USAF action item monitor will archive all action items on the AFNWC
        computer network and maintain status for same. He/she shall exchange weekly
        updates with the Prime Contractor to ensure accuracy, and will inform the responsible
        person of upcoming action item due dates.
        5.6.8.11. Action items may be closed once the USAF Program CE and the Prime
        Contractor agree that the action item has been sufficiently resolved.
     5.6.9. Key Area 7: Top Program Priorities and Upcoming Technical Events.
        5.6.9.1. On any contract, all upcoming events/tasks, their relative priority, and
        resources required to address them should be discussed. In the event there are
        equivalent priority tasks needing the same resources, the AFNWC CE and the
        government Contracting Officer should jointly discuss and agree on which task has
        the higher priority.
     5.6.10. Key Area 8: Staffing.
        5.6.10.1. Staffing levels will be monitored relative to the staffing plan. Additionally,
        any specialty manning or surge needs shall be noted.
        5.6.10.2. If staffing is significantly over or under the staffing plan, discussions should
        center on the potential risks of falling behind schedule, overrunning budget, or not
        completing required tasks. If additional manpower is needed, discussions should be
        held between the PM and the government Contracting Officer to focus on actions
        needed to work with functional managers to acquire the necessary personnel.
     5.6.11. Key Area 9: Units Produced Per Month / Units Repaired Per Month.
 10                                                      AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011


The USAF will assess units produced and units repaired per month, versus the program plan. If
units produced or repaired per month is not meeting the program plan, the team shall identify the
primary reasons and decide the necessary steps for recovery.
       5.6.12. Key Area 10: Fielded System Metrics. The PM will assess fielded availability
       versus prior agreements with the Warfighter. If the fielded availability is not meeting the
       program plan, then the team shall identify the primary reasons for not meeting the plan
       along with associated steps necessary for recovery. This plan, which documents the
       issues, expected resolution, and projected completion date, will be coordinated with the
       Warfighter. The Warfighter will supply operational use hours for all fielded equipement
       on a monthly basis. The team will use this data to track actual use, identify and track
       failure trends, and calculate Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF).
       5.6.13. Key Area 11: Technical Data Delivery.
           5.6.13.1. If technical data is to be delivered to the Government, the USAF will assess
           and monitor the data deliveries against the program plan.
           5.6.13.2. Typically, technical data which constitutes the program performance
           baseline will be delivered as a contract delivery item, which will be reviewed for
           technical accuracy, completeness, and adequacy.
6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   6.1. Prescribed forms.
         There are no prescribed forms.
   6.2. Adopted forms.
        AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                             EVERETT H. THOMAS
                                             Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                11


                                       Attachment 1
                   GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND ACRONYMS

References
Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG), 12 December 2009, (https://dag.dau.mil)
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) System Engineering Plan (SEP) Preparation Guide,
Version 2.01, April 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program,15 March 2004 (revised, 22 October 2009)
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LSCE), 14 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AF Systems Engineering Assessment Model (SEAM) Management Guide, Version 1, 1 August
2008

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWC/EN—Directorate for Engineering
AFNWC/ENT—Directorate for Test
AFNWC/FM—Directorate for Financial Management
AFNWC/LG—Directorate for Logistics
AFNWC/PK—Directorate for Contracting
AFNWC/XR—Directorate for Intelligence and Capability Integration
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CE—Chief Engineer
CPI—Cost Performance Index
DT&E—Developmental Test & Evaluation
IMP—Integrated Master Plan
IMS—Integrated Master Schedule
LCSE—Life Cycle Systems Engineering
 12                                                 AFNWCI63-110 4 FEBRUARY 2011


MTBF—Mean Time Between Failure
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
OT&E—Operational Test & Evaluation
PM—Program Manager / Project Manager
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SDD—System Development and Demonstration
SEAM—Systems Engineering Assessment Model
SEP—System Engineering Plan
SOW—Statement of Work
SPI—Schedule Performance Index
TIM—Technical Interchange Meeting
TMC—Technical Management and Control
WG—Working Group
