BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                      INSTRUCTION 36-802
CENTER
                                                                                13 APRIL 2011

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                                   TIME AND ATTENDANCE
                                                                       (T&A) PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFNWC/FMA                                                        Certified by: AFNWC/FM
                                                                          (Brig. Gen. Harencak)
                                                                                       Pages: 3


This instruction implements DoD Financial Management Regulation (DoDFMR) 7000.14-R, Vol
8, Civilian Pay Policy and Procedures, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-802, Pay Setting and
Kirtland Air Force Base Instruction (KAFBI) 36-801, Civilian Overtime. It defines the process
for time and attendance to ensure employees’ attendance (work or absence) is properly recorded
and reported in order to compute pay, leave and allowances. Refer recommended changes and
questions about the publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363. Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.mt.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of
any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does
not imply endorsement by the Air Force. It applies to all personnel in the Air Force Nuclear
Weapons Center and 498 Nuclear Systems Wing (NSW) at Kirtland AFB.

1. Time & Attendance (T&A) Process
   1.1. The employee (or their designated timekeeper) will record their biweekly attendance
   and/or absence on KAFB IMT Form 2, Time and Attendance Record. The employee or
   timekeeper will submit their completed timesheet to the supervisor for certification
   (signature). Once supervisor has certified his/her organization’s timesheets, they will either
   be input into the pay system by the organization’s designated timekeeper or submitted to
   AFNWC/FM for input.
 2                                                            AFNWCI36-102 13 APRIL 2011


     1.2. All scheduled leave shall be documented and approved in writing by the supervisor via
     OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence (see paragraph 4). Unscheduled
     leave can be documented on the OPM Form 71 or the employee must initial for their leave on
     the KAFB IMT Form 2. Completed, signed OPM Form 71s will be submitted with KAFB
     IMT Form 2.
     1.3. All premium work (overtime, compensatory time, holiday worked) will be documented
     and approved in advanced, when feasible, via AF IMT Form 428, Request for Overtime,
     Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time (see Paragraph 5). Completed, signed AF
     IMT Form 428s will be submitted with KAFB IMT Form 2.
2. Certification: Supervisors will ensure checking of daily attendance is performed. They will
certify time on the KAFB IMT Form 2. By signing the T&A form, the supervisor is attesting
that, to the best of their knowledge, the actual work schedules and time reported is true, correct
and accurate.
3. Alternate Work Schedule (AWS): The recording of absences is treated in the same manner
for employees working a regular or alternate work schedule. Work schedule changes will not be
accomplished by the timekeepers in the Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS) unless there is an
approved schedule change on file.
4. Leave Approval: All scheduled leave will be documented and approved in writing by a
supervisor designated to make such approvals (per authorization letter on file). Employees will
provide an OPM Form 71 to the supervisor before the leave is taken. This form may be
submitted in electronic or hard copy. If leave is not approved in advance because of an unusual
or emergency situation, it should be reviewed for approval or disapproval as soon as reasonably
possible. Approving officials shall properly control the use of overtime and annual leave in the
same pay period. Requesting Official will explain why the work to be accomplished during the
overtime period could not be accomplished during normal duty hours, especially when granting
employees leave during the same pay period.
5. Overtime/Compensatory (Comp) Time Approval: IAW AFI 36-802 the AF IMT Form
428 will be requested by the supervisor of the employee with proper justification to obtain prior
approval of all overtime/comp time/holiday worked, when feasible. Justifications will provide
enough information to show overtime and compensatory time is essential to satisfy mission
requirements. Approving officials will disapprove overtime requests that do not provide
sufficient justification. The approval authority on the AF IMT Form 428 will be appointed in
writing by AFNWC directors and 498 NSW group/squadron commanders. Appointment letters
will be sent to AFNWC/FM Civilian Pay analyst. If an AFNWC director is a requestor, then the
approval must be their supervisor. This form should be submitted in electronic format. The limit
for using compensatory time is the end of the 26th pay period after the pay period in which the
employee earned the compensatory time. The employee is then paid for unused compensatory
time at the overtime rate at which it was earned. Please review KAFBI 36-801 for preparing and
processing AF IMT Form 428 requests.
6. Review of Overtime/Comp time: Unit commanders will inspect civilian overtime and
compensatory time processing quarterly to verify responsible officials (requestors and approvers)
are following established procedures. If discrepancies are found, take immediate action to correct
the discrepancy, such as a corrected time sheet, missing documentation completed (do not back
AFNWCI36-102 13 APRIL 2011                                                               3


date, annotate that this discrepancy was found during quarterly inspection) or missing
initials/signatures.
7. Retention of Records: All KAFB IMT Form 2s, OPM Form 71s, AF IMT Form 428s and all
supplementary records will be retained and disposed of in accordance with AFRIMS Records
Disposition Schedule. Reference DoDFMR 7000.14-R, Vol 8, para 020703. Retain payroll
documentation for 6 years.
8. Timekeeper/Requestors/Approver Designation: All timekeepers, requestors and approving
officials for KAFB IMT Form 2, OPM Form 71 and AF IMT Form 428 will be appointed in
writing by AFNWC directors and 498 NSW group/squadron commanders. Original appointment
letter will be submitted and retained by AFNWC/FM. Organizations will maintain a file copy.
Appointment letters must be updated when changes occur. Timekeepers, requestors and
approvers must have completed Civilian Pay and Overtime training, which will be held semi-
annually or as needed
9. Adopted Forms
  KAFB IMT Form 2, , Time and Attendance Record
  OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence
  AF IMT Form428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time
  AF IMT Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                              GARRETT HARENCAK,
                                              Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander
