BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                       INSTRUCTION 63-103
CENTER
                                                                            1 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                     Acquisition

                                                                                       DESIGN



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFNWC/ENS                                                        Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                             (Dr. Yolanda King)
                                                                                      Pages: 11


This Instruction establishes policies and procedures for conducting design for all configuration
items of program baselines managed by Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC). This
Instruction establishes and documents process stakeholders, roles and responsibilities for design
activities in accordance with AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and
Effectiveness (OSS&E) and Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE). This Instruction applies to
all programs within all AFNWC organizations except for the 377th Air Base Wing. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does
not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) Units. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field through
the appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.

1. Overview. This Instruction establishes policies and procedures for conducting design for all
configuration items of program baselines managed by AFNWC. AFNWC organizations must
ensure complete, accurate and current design.
 2                                                           AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011


2. Stakeholders & Responsibilities.
     2.1. AFNWC. AFNWC program offices may delegate design management as necessary.
     Regardless of delegation, AFNWC shall nevertheless retain full insight, oversight, and
     visibility into all significant design activities as determined by the Program Manager (PM).
     “Program office” is defined as any management center where there is an assigned PM
     managing Acquisition Category (ACAT) IC, II, and III programs, as well as non-ACAT
     efforts.
     2.2. Design Process OPR. The design process OPR will track recommended changes and
     review the design process annually. The OPR shall ensure personnel using the design
     process are adequately trained, in accordance with the applicable training section of AFNWC
     OI 33-01.
     2.3. Program Manager.
        2.3.1. For purposes of this Instruction, a PM is any person assigned system management
        or single management responsibilities for ACAT IC, II, and III programs, as well as non-
        ACAT efforts.
        2.3.2. The PM shall assign responsibility with commensurate authority to perform design
        processes, develop work products, and provide services related to the design effort. In
        assigning accountability, the PM will ensure achievement of specified results throughout
        the life of the program. The PM will assign responsibility using detailed job descriptions
        and/or project documents, and ensure designated personnel have documented authority to
        perform the assigned responsibilities.
        2.3.3. During the design process, the PM shall ensure that key manufacturing and
        production processes, procedures, and data requirements are established. At a minimum,
        the PM shall ensure that the following items are addressed during the design process:
            2.3.3.1. Hardware drawings (baseline);
            2.3.3.2. Software and firmware drawings (configuration baseline for programming
            processes);
            2.3.3.3. System hardware test requirements;
            2.3.3.4. System hardware test descriptions, pass/fail criteria;
            2.3.3.5. Test data storage and archival plans;
            2.3.3.5.1. Test flow;
            2.3.3.6. Plans for      measurement    of   time   required       for   all   manufacturing
            steps/processes;
            2.3.3.7. Key metrics and information to be used during manufacturing.
     2.4. Chief Engineer.
        2.4.1. The Chief Engineer (CE) shall develop the design plan and oversee the design
        process. The plan, at a minimum, will describe the activities and resources required to
        accomplish the design.
        2.4.2. The CE shall ensure:
AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     3


          2.4.2.1. The process is performed according to the design plan;
          2.4.2.2. The process adheres to its description;
          2.4.2.3. The process yields the desired outcomes/products according to an objective
          evaluation of work products against the applicable standards;
          2.4.2.4. Issues are identified and necessary corrective action is taken.
       2.4.3. Unless otherwise indicated, the CE shall review the activities, status and results of
       the design process with the PM (and higher level United States Air Force (USAF)
       management as necessary), and resolve any identified problems. Following process
       reviews, the CE will make recommendations for process improvement to the design
       process OPR.
   2.5. Supervisor. The supervisor shall ensure that members of the design team complete
   required training per all applicable AF and Department of Defense (DoD) regulations.
   2.6. Integrated Product Team. The PM will organize and staff an Integrated Product Team
   (IPT) to address the design process. This team will be a multidisciplinary body composed of
   logisticians, engineers, technical specialists, contract specialists, business and financial
   analysts, and also representatives from the customer. Teams can consist of government and
   private sector functional experts, and should be structured to provide a system orientation
   focused on a performance-based strategy rather than focusing on individual logistics support
   elements or technical disciplines.
3. Resources. AFNWC manning requirements to be identified and reported by all levels.
4. Process.
   4.1. Design Process Description. This section establishes a description of the design
   process. The design process provides the basis for planning, performing and managing
   activities, work products, and services, and shall be maintained as a continuing reference for
   existing and future program activities. Specific practices included in this description are
   taken from AF Systems Engineering Assessment Model (SEAM) Management Guide, Version
   1, 1 August 2008. This process is for new procurement or system-level redesign where the
   total program costs are $10M or greater. See Figure 4.1
 4                                                                                AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011


Figure 4.1. Process Flow Diagram



                        1. Prepare             2. Conduct                 3. Analyze,               4. Develop, document a
                        Draft                  Preliminary                select product            detailed design &
     Start              Technical              Design Review              component                 implementation strategy
                        Data                                              solutions
                        Package



                                                                                      M& S results                      WBS
                                                                                     Trade studies w/AoA’s             TRA
          Drawings                    PDR entrance/exit criteria
                                                                                     KPPs                              MRA
          ICDs                        Program plans, schedules, costs
                                                                                     R & M analysis                    Mfg plan
          M&S                         Performance Requirements
         BOMs, etc..                   - -Operational use cases                      Interfaces, etc.                  TDP
                                        - - DoDAF views, etc.                         KPP’s, etc.                        BOMs, etc.

                                                                                                                      Interfaces,
                                                                                                                       etc.
                                                                                                                      KPP’s, etc.

                     6. Product                            5. Procurement and                    4. Conduct Critical
                     Component                             Receipt of First                      Design Review
                     Verification                          Article Components



                        Documentation of
                                                                                       CDR entrance/exit criteria
                        key assembly and
                                                                                       Program plans, schedules, costs
                        test techniques                                                Performance Requirements




                 7. Product-Component                     8. Product Level                            9. First Article
                 Integration                              Verification and Validation                 Acceptance




                    Assembly Procedures Documentation
                    Identification of Design Constraints
                    Product Integration & Interface Description Review
                    Certification Data
                                                                                                          Finish




     4.2. Work Products.
AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                5


     4.2.1. The following work products are generated prior to, and required for, the design
     process. All documents are under the control of the applicable approval authority and are
     maintained within the program office:
        4.2.1.1. System Performance Specification (SPS). Typically prepared during
        Milestone (MS) A, the SPS is derived from the draft Capability Development
        Document (CDD) and the Initial Capabilities Document (ICD);
        4.2.1.2. Key Performance Parameters (KPP);
        4.2.1.3. Department of Defense Architecture Framework (DoDAF) views;
        4.2.1.4. Engineering drawings;
        4.2.1.5. Operational use cases;
        4.2.1.6. Bill of Materials (BOM);
        4.2.1.7. Interface Control Document;
        4.2.1.8. Systems Requirements Review (SRR). Defense Acquisition Guidebook
        (DAG) paragraph 4.3.2.4.2.1 is the standard for SRR preparation, content and success
        criteria;
        4.2.1.9. System Functional Review (SFR). DAG 4.3.2.4.2.2 is the standard for SFR
        preparation, content and success criteria. The first SFR during MS A begins the
        process of allocating requirements to separate sub-systems and organizational IPTs;
        4.2.1.10. Preliminary Design Review (PDR) entrance and exit criteria. DAG
        4.3.2.4.2.3 is the standard for PDR preparation, content and success criteria. The PDR
        establishes the functional baseline;
        4.2.1.11. Critical Design Review (CDR) entrance and exit criteria. DAG 4.3.3.4.2 is
        the standard for CDR preparation, content and success criteria. CDR establishes the
        product baseline;
        4.2.1.12. Documented baseline (e.g., functional, allocated);
        4.2.1.13. Trade studies/analyses;
        4.2.1.14. Statutory requirements;
        4.2.1.15. Technical Data Package (TDP).
     4.2.2. The following are typical work products resulting from the design process. These
     work products can either be generated by the program office, or serve as inputs to the
     program office’s oversight/insight to the design process. While these are typical work
     products, other items, just as effective, may be produced:
        4.2.2.1. DoDAF views;
        4.2.2.2. Interface descriptions;
        4.2.2.3. Top level engineering drawings;
        4.2.2.4. Software architectures;
        4.2.2.5. Interface design documents;
6                                                  AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011


    4.2.2.6. Interface Control Working Group (ICWG) charter and minutes;
    4.2.2.7. Operational use cases;
    4.2.2.8. Sequence and collaboration diagrams;
    4.2.2.9. State charts or diagrams;
    4.2.2.10. Technical review(s) entry and exit criteria;
    4.2.2.11. Allocated baseline;
    4.2.2.12. Selection criteria;
    4.2.2.13. KPP;
    4.2.2.14. Modeling & Simulation (M&S) results;
    4.2.2.15. Trade studies with Analysis of Alternatives (AoA);
    4.2.2.16. Critical operational issues;
    4.2.2.17. Technical Performance Measures (TPM);
    4.2.2.18. Reliability and maintainability analysis;
    4.2.2.19. Usability analysis;
    4.2.2.20. Development specifications;
    4.2.2.21. Work Breakdown Structure (WBS);
    4.2.2.22. Technology Readiness Assessment (TRA);
    4.2.2.23. Manufacturing Readiness Assessment (MRA);
    4.2.2.24. Preliminary and final BOMs;
    4.2.2.25. Integrated Logistics Support Plan (ILSP);
    4.2.2.26. Make-or-buy analysis;
    4.2.2.27. Industrial base analysis (to include diminishing manufacturing sources);
    4.2.2.28. Packaging, Handling, Storage and Transportation (PHS&T) documentation;
    4.2.2.29. TDP;
    4.2.2.30. CDR entry and exit requirements, and CDR action item closure;
    4.2.2.31. Manufacturing plan;
    4.2.2.32. Installation plan;
    4.2.2.33. User manual;
    4.2.2.34. Technical Orders (TO);
    4.2.2.35. Training manual;
    4.2.2.36. Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO);
    4.2.2.37. Digital system models;
AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  7


        4.2.2.38. Assembly procedures and sequences;
        4.2.2.39. Interface drawings and documents;
        4.2.2.40. Integration and test documents;
        4.2.2.41. Product and product-component certifications.
  4.3. Preliminary Design.
     4.3.1. The CE shall ensure that the design makes use of acceptable standards, and
     consider interface requirements and product partitioning to facilitate the incorporation of
     security technologies, and robust components, easily replaceable once they become
     obsolete.
     4.3.2. The CE shall have visibility into the design artifacts that describe the conditions,
     functions, operating modes, and operating states specific to the components of the
     architecture. The CE shall maintain documented interaction of the product-components
     with the environment, other systems, and end users, including modes and operating states
     for a particular component or set of components. The CE shall ensure the use of
     modeling, analysis, and verification techniques to the maximum degree possible.
     4.3.3. The CE shall retain visibility into all significant preliminary design activities as
     determined by the PM in order to continuously perform technical assessments and risk
     analyses regarding the program status.
     4.3.4. As part of the requirement to conduct technical reviews, a PDR shall be conducted
     based on entrance and exit criteria. During the PDR, typically conducted at the
     conclusion of the preliminary design phase, the PM and CE shall verify whether the
     design is consistent with program plans, schedules, and production unit cost estimates.
     The PM and CE shall also verify that all performance requirements, including reliability,
     maintainability, availability, and safety, can be achieved.
        4.3.4.1. The CE shall insure preparation of a TDP, including appropriate elements of
        the technical baseline (e.g., drawings, interface control documents, software
        documentation, BOMs, etc.), for review during the PDR.
     4.3.5. As early as possible during the design phase, the CE shall ensure that:
        4.3.5.1. Design documentation (e.g., DoDAF views, interface design documents) is
        developed and maintained;
        4.3.5.2. Initial designs for each component, end item, system, etc., are developed
        based on identified requirements and constraints. Purchasing Commercial Off The
        Shelf (COTS) products shall be considered, as well as new development;
        4.3.5.3. Any design alternatives are evaluated based on established selection criteria.
        M&S and prototyping shall be used, as required;
        4.3.5.4. Production planning, tool design, assembly methods, finishing processes,
        personnel training and special processes, e.g., one-time inspection or test that cannot
        be verified later in the process, are performed before rate production at the integrator
        and major supplier facilities;
8                                                         AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011


           4.3.5.5. Qualified manufacturing processes are documented and placed under
           configuration control.
       4.3.6. The CE shall ensure that special tools, training materials, test equipment, and
       manufacturing processes are accredited using actual prototype or development hardware
       that is production representative to the maximum extent practical.
    4.4. Detailed Design.
       4.4.1. Detailed designs for components, end items, systems, etc., shall be developed and
       maintained. The AFNWC program office may delegate responsibility for developing and
       documenting a detailed design and implementation strategy. The CE shall have
       oversight, insight, and visibility into the structure and capabilities of product-components
       throughout the design phase.
       4.4.2. A CDR shall be conducted based on entrance and exit criteria. During CDR,
       which typically concludes the detailed design phase, the PM and CE shall verify that the
       design is consistent with program plans, schedules, and production unit cost estimates.
       They shall also verify all performance requirements can be achieved.
           4.4.2.1. The CE shall insure preparation of a TDP, including appropriate elements of
           the technical baseline (e.g., drawings, interface control documents, software
           documentation, BOMs, etc.), for review during the CDR.
    4.5. Procurement and Receipt of First Article Components.
       4.5.1. AFNWC program offices may delegate responsibility for sub-system and
       component procurement, test, and integration.
       4.5.2. The program office shall maintain oversight, insight, and visibility into the TDP
       development. The program office shall also retain full oversight, insight, and visibility
       into all component and sub-systems procurement, test, and integration activities in order
       to continuously perform technical assessments and risk analyses regarding the program
       status. During this program phase, the PM shall ensure the components and sub-system
       performance and integration are consistent with program plans, schedules, and support
       system performance requirements. This shall be confirmed during the first article
       inspection. Additionally, the PM shall ensure component and sub-system costs and cost
       projections support production unit cost estimates.
    4.6. Integration.
       4.6.1. AFNWC program offices may delegate responsibility for sub-assembly and
       component integration via contract language or method of performance specification
       control. When the responsibility is conferred, the program office shall maintain
       oversight, insight, and visibility of the integration process and ensure:
           4.6.1.1. Establishment and maintenance of the product integration approach, defining
           and documenting assembly procedures and sequences that minimize product
           integration risks. Any constraints on the design arising from the integration strategy
           shall be identified; consideration of requirements for test equipment, test software, or
           other integration items such as fixtures; review of the product integration sequence on
           a periodic basis with revisions as needed;
AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    9


          4.6.1.2. Establishment and maintenance of procedures and criteria for integration of
          the product-components; verification of component compatibility with the integration
          environment; provision of sufficient data to support certification;
          4.6.1.3. Pro-active management of internal and external interface definitions,
          designs, and changes for products and product-components, and periodically review
          all interface descriptions for coverage and completeness;
          4.6.1.4. Product-component verification prior to assembly, ensuring that each
          product-component required to assemble the product has been properly identified,
          functions according to its description, and that its interfaces comply with the
          applicable interface description; further development and documentation of key
          assembly and test techniques during first article production for use in subsequent full-
          rate production;
          4.6.1.5. Assembly of product-components according to the product integration
          sequence and established procedures; acceptance or readiness to test criteria defined
          during design and integration are satisfied; assessments that can also be performed for
          different stages of component assembly as identified in the integration sequence and
          available procedures;
          4.6.1.6. First article product assembly is ready for acceptance, verification and
          validation;
          4.6.1.7. Sub-assembly or components shall be built and integrated in such a manner
          that testing verifies it meets its allocated requirements and supports overall system
          performance.
5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   5.1. Prescribed Forms:
       There are no prescribed forms.
   5.2. Adopted Forms:
       AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            Everett H. Thomas, Brig. General, USAF
                                            Commander, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
 10                                                  AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG) (https://dag.dau.mil)
AF Systems Engineering Assessment Model (SEAM) Management Guide, Version 1, 1 August
2008
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), 14 October 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
BOM—Bill Of Materials
CDD—Capability Development Document
CDR—Critical Design Review
CE—Chief Engineer
COTS—Commercial Off The Shelf
DAG—Defense Acquisition Guidebook
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDAF—Department of Defense Architecture Framework
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
ICWG—Interface Control Working Group
ILSP—Integrated Logistics Support Plan
IPT—Integrated Product Team
KPP—Key Performance Parameters
LCSE—Life Cycle Systems Engineering
MRA—Manufacturing Readiness Assessment
MS—Milestone
AFNWCI63-103 1 FEBRUARY 2011                              11


M&S—Modeling & Simulation
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PHS&T—Packaging, Handling, Storage and Transportation
PM—Program Manager
SEAM—Systems Engineering Assessment Model
SEP—System Engineering Plan
SFR—System Functional Review
SPS—System Performance Specification
SRR—Systems Requirement Review
TDP—Technical Data Package
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Orders
TO—Technical Orders
TPM—Technical Performance Measures
TRA—Technology Readiness Assessment
USAF—United States Air Force
WBS—Work Breakdown Structure
