BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                        INSTRUCTION 63-108
CENTER
                                                                                  27 APRIL 2011

                                                                                       Acquisition

                                                                          RISK MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFNWC/ENS                                                          Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                               (Dr. Yolanda King)
                                                                                        Pages: 12


This Risk Management Instruction establishes policies and procedures for conducting risk
management for all programs managed by Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC). This
instruction establishes and documents guidelines, processes, stakeholders, roles and
responsibilities of risk management activities in accordance with Air Force Materiel Command
Instruction (AFMCI) 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
(OSS&E) and Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), October 2009. This instruction applies to
all programs within all AFNWC organizations except for the 377th Air Base Wing. This
instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. This instruction does
not apply to Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional‘s chain of command. This is the initial publication of
this instruction. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

1. Introduction.
   1.1. Scope. This document establishes the guidelines, policies and procedures for AFNWC
   and subordinate organization personnel who develop, implement, manage, review, or
   approve risk management for systems, subsystems, end-items, and services (referred to as
   programs throughout this document) procured under Air Force Instruction (AFI) 63-101,
 2                                                             AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011


     Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, Under Secretary of Air Force for
     Acquisitions (SAF/AQ) and Secretary of Air Force (SAF/US) Memo, Risk-Based Decision
     Making, and SAF/AQ Guidance Memorandum, Life Cycle Risk Management. This
     instruction extends and codifies the guidance of Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 63-128,
     Guide to Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, AFMCPAM 63-101, Risk
     Management, and the Risk Management Guide for DoD Acquisition.
     1.2. Applicability. Excepted as noted above, this applies to all personnel in the AFNWC
     enterprise. This instruction documents process responsibilities, resources, training, and
     process improvement procedures. The AFNWC‘s mission includes nuclear weapon
     maintenance and operational readiness issues. A proper risk management process is required
     to enable executive leaders to make decisions on acceptable risk and risk handling options to
     help ensure strategic goals are met.
     1.3. Implementation. Within the AFNWC, each subordinate organization must utilize risk
     management as one of the key elements in the executive decision-making process. Risk
     management is a proactive process that must be forward-looking, structured, continuous, and
     informative. Execution of the risk management activities and plans shall be done by cross-
     functional teams that may include program managers (PMs), project managers, cost
     estimators, and analysts, contracting specialists, intelligence specialists, sustainment
     planners, schedulers, sub-system managers, engineers, and other specialists as required. Joint
     agencies and teams (e.g., the Program Officer‘s Group (POG)) must implement a risk
     management process.
     1.4. Precedence. In accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
     paragraph 2.3, as supplemented by AFI 33-360_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I, Publications and
     Forms Management, statutory law, Federal, Department of Defense (DoD), Joint Staff,
     United States Air Force (USAF), Assistant Secretary of the AF for Acquisitions (SAF/AQ),
     and Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) guidance, instructions, and directives take
     precedence over this instruction. Specifically, this instruction supports but does does not
     supersede guidance provided in AFI 63-103, Joint Air Force – National Nuclear Security
     Administration (AF-NNSA) Nuclear Weapons Life Cycle Management. This instruction does
     not supersede guidance provided in AFI 91-102, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention
     Program, as supplemented by AFI91-202 AFMCSUP_I or by AFI 92-202 HILLAFBSUP_I
     (where appropriate). This instruction may be used in joint agency or team activities but shall
     not supersede applicably joint agency guidance.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. AFNWC Roles and Responsibilities. The AFNWC shall ensure program acquisition
     plans and strategies provide for risk management, and that identified risks and their root
     causes are considered in milestone decisions. Per AFI 63-103, paragraph 19.2.3.1.2, the
     AFNWC shall support POG risk management activities as required. In conjunction with the
     procuring contracting officer, the AFNWC shall ensure program contract(s), Statement of
     Objectives, Statements of Work, and Contract Deliverable Requirements Lists include
     provisions to support a defined program risk management process and plan. Program-level
     risks and their mitigations shall be annually reviewed by the AFNWC and ranked with
     respect to the Air Force 5X5 Risk Matrix/Rating as shown in Figure 1.
AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011                                                                      3


Figure 1. Air Force 5X5 Risk Matrix/Rating


                       5   Low   Moderate      High        High       High


                       4   Low   Moderate    Moderate      High       High
         Likelihood/




                       3   Low     Low       Moderate     Moderate    High


                       2   Low     Low         Low        Moderate   Moderate


                       1   Low     Low         Low          Low      Moderate

                            1       2           3            4          5
                                            Consequence


              2.1.1. Commander, AFNWC (AFNWC/CC). The AFNWC/CC shall:
              2.1.1.1. Support the Air Force Program Executive Officer for Strategic Systems
              (AFPEO/SS) for all appropriate acquisition risk activities.
              2.1.1.2. Be the decision authority for the classification of AFNWC enterprise-level
              sustainment moderate and high risks, as described in Figure 1
              2.1.1.3. Participate in executive program reviews, program management reviews, or
              life cycle management reviews, for high risks (as shown in Figure 1) and their
              mitigation plans, as appropriate.
              2.1.1.4. Ensure the risk description and mitigation plan for moderate and high risks
              are provided to the DoD mandated Milestone Decision Authority prior to program,
              technical, and Milestone reviews, e.g., Milestone Decision Authority for Acquisition
              Category (ACAT) I programs, as appropriate.
              2.1.1.5. Ensure the Milestone Decision Authority‘s acceptance of the risk or plan is
              documented in the approval documentation, e.g., Acquisition Decision Memorandum.
      2.1.2. Director of Engineering and Technology (AFNWC/EN). The Director of
      Engineering shall monitor activities to ensure compliance with this process. The Director
      of Engineering shall be the principle advisor to the AFNWC/CC for integrated risk
      assessments.
   2.2. Subordinate Organization Responsibilities. The subordinate organization shall
   implement risk management for appropriate programs and operations managed by the
   subordinate organization. This instruction may be refined by local instructions and
   documents to reflect local policies and procedures.
4                                                              AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011


       2.2.1. Program Manager. System program managers, PMs, and lead project managers for
       the purpose of this document are referred to as the PM. For programs or projects without
       a designated system program manager, the lead project or PM shall implement all risk
       related activities in support of the appropriate higher authority responsible for all risk
       related decisions on their program. The PM shall:
           2.2.1.1. Be responsible for all risk-related decisions on their program.
           2.2.1.2. Be responsible for establishing and monitoring the program‘s risk
           management efforts and the development of the program‘s risk data and risk process
           documentation.
           2.2.1.3. Ensure their integrated risk management process includes all disciplines
           required to support the life cycle of their system (e.g., systems safety, logistics,
           systems engineering, manufacturing, in-service support, contracts, test, earned value
           management, finance, etc.).
           2.2.1.4. Approves proposed risk mitigation strategies and should include operational
           users and other stakeholders in the formulation and acceptance of risk mitigation
           plans.
           2.2.1.5. Reports program risks to the AFPEO/SS and user personnel prior to
           Milestone decisions, following significant risk changes, or as requested.
       2.2.2. Chief Engineer. The Chief Engineer shall monitor activities to ensure compliance
       with this and local processes. The Chief Engineer is the principle advisor to the PM for
       integrated risk assessments and mitigations. For the case of programs and project without
       a designated Chief Engineer, the appropriate lead engineer shall be responsible. The
       Chief Engineer or appropriate lead engineer shall provide process improvement
       suggestions to the PM and to AFNWC Director of Engineering and Technology or
       appropriate AFNWC designee. The Chief Engineer, or identified agent shall:
           2.2.2.1. Maintain, or oversee the maintenance of, the program‘s risk management
           database;
           2.2.2.2. Brief the PM on the status of program risk;
           2.2.2.3. Track efforts to reduce moderate and high risks to acceptable levels;
           2.2.2.4. Facilitate risk assessments; and
           2.2.2.5. Prepare risk briefings, reports, and documents required for program reviews.
    2.3. Risk Management Board (RMB). This board is chartered as the senior program group
    that evaluates all program cost, performance, and schedule risks; their root causes,
    unfavorable event indications; and planned risk mitigations.       The RMB evaluates and
    prioritizes program risks and appropriate risk mitigation strategies for each identified root
    cause. Systems safety risk management is covered under Military Standard (MIL-STD)
    882D, Standard Practice for System Safety and must comply with Department of Defense
    Instruction (DODI) 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System which dictates
    specific levels of approval. Program system safety risk management may or may not be
    managed by the program RMB, however; safety risks must also be evaluated for
    programmatic impact (cost, schedule, and performance). All appropriate risks must be
AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011                                                                    5


   reported at program reviews, per AFI 63-101. Standardized risk information about each
   program shall be updated monthly and be provided to leadership at least quarterly. Risk
   information shall be provided for required acquisition reviews and/or operational reviews.
   2.4. User/Operations Community. The primary user of the systems maintained by the
   AFNWC shall typically be involved with major program risk mitigation strategies which may
   affect cost, schedule, or performance baselines.
3. Life Cycle Risk Management.
   3.1. Risk Management Planning. The risk management planning documentation may be
   integrated into overall program planning and program documents such as the Integrated
   Master Plan, Systems Engineering Plan (SEP), Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP), or it
   may be a stand-alone document. Each PM within the AFNWC is responsible for developing
   and maintaining a risk management planning documentation to execute throughout their
   program‘s life cycle. The risk management planning documentation shall document the
   strategy and methods for identifying and tracking root causes, developing risk-mitigation
   plans, performing continuous risk assessments to determine how risks and their root causes
   have changed, risk training and tools, and assigning adequate resources to include personnel.
   The members of the risk management team and their responsibilities should be documented
   in the risk management planning documentation, which should answer the questions: ―who,
   what, where, when, and how.‖ Each functional lead is responsible for conducting risk
   planning in the manner defined in this process. The chief engineer or program lead engineer
   shall support the PM to monitor planning activities to ensure compliance with this process.
   The PM should annually review the risk management planning documentation and revise it,
   if necessary. The risk management planning documentation may require updating to
   accommodate events such as:
      3.1.1. A change in acquisition strategy or support strategy
      3.1.2. Preparation for a milestone decision
      3.1.3. Results and findings from event–based technical reviews
      3.1.4. An update of other program plans, and
      3.1.5. Preparation for a Program Objective Memorandum submission.
   3.2. Risk Management Documentation. The activity of developing and documenting an
   organized, comprehensive, and interactive strategy and methods for identifying and tracking
   future root causes, developing risk-mitigation plans, performing continuous risk assessments
   to determine how risks and their root causes have changed, and assigning adequate resources
   must be documented. Typically, this is documented in a risk management plan (RMP)
   although it may be a part of other documentation, such as an LCMP. The following extends
   and amplifies the information identified in AFI 63-101, paragraph 3.48 and AFPAM 63-128
   Chapter 12 as to what must be included in the RMP or its equivalent.
      3.2.1. Program Summary. The RMP summary should describe the program and
      document goals and the philosophy of implementing proactive risk management to
      provide war-winning nuclear capabilities, on time and on cost.
      3.2.2. Risk Management Strategy. The risk management strategy shall state the risk
      management purpose and objective. The RMP's strategy to manage root causes provides
6                                                          AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011


    the program team with direction and a basis for execution. The strategy is intended to
    identify and address all risk areas or events that have a significant probability of
    occurring or may have a critical impact on the program if they occur. Both technical and
    non-technical areas shall be evaluated to identify possible risk events that may cause cost,
    schedule or performance impacts. Risk categories to be assessed by each program
    include: cost, schedule and technical performance. Risks associated with the activities
    needed to design, develop, produce and support the system shall be placed in these areas
    constitute generic categories. Per AFI 63-1201, each individual program must maintain a
    list of the agreed to categories into which the risks shall be divided.
    3.2.3. Responsible/Executing Organization. The RMP shall assign responsibilities for
    specific areas and identify additional technical expertise needed.
    3.2.4. Risk Management Process and Procedures. The RMP shall utilize the Air Force‘s
    rating scheme described in AFPAM 63-128. Reporting and documentation described in
    AFPAM 63-128 shall be implemented according to RMP. The considerations for
    mitigation planning shall be included in the RMP, and updated as appropriate. For each
    risk assessment, the program team must establish how the actual assessment shall be
    conducted. At least four choices are available
       3.2.4.1. Conduct the assessment as part of the normal activity of the program office
       3.2.4.2. Establish a risk assessment team, as a temporary team or permanent
       organization
       3.2.4.3. Establish a Government-industry team; or
       3.2.4.4. Request an external team or combined program office-external team.
       3.2.4.5. The program team is the core group of individuals who shall conduct the risk
       assessment; nominally consisting of individuals with expertise in budget, cost
       estimating, logistics, manufacturing, program management, schedule analysis,
       systems engineering, and test. Throughout the duration of each program, assessments
       shall regularly be accomplished (at a minimum, monthly) to identify, analyze and
       prioritize risk. Risk assessment shall be an iterative process conducted throughout the
       design, development and sustainment of each system.
    3.2.5. Risk Identification. The RMP shall identify the process and teams that shall
    perform risk identification. Risk identification examines a program to determine ―What
    can go wrong?‖ Each risk identified shall be clearly assigned ownership and
    responsibility. The risk scenario is described with an ―If X occurs, then Y results‖
    statement. It is critical to determine the root cause, which can be determined by
    decomposing the issue to the lower levels of activity or by asking the ―5 Why‘s.‖
    3.2.6. Risk Analysis. The objective of the risk analysis step is to determine the
    probability that a root cause ―X‖ might occur with the resultant
    cost/schedule/performance impact of ―Y‖. The impact or consequence should be a
    credible potential result. Optimally, the analysis is based upon scientific calculations
    (fault tree analysis) or historic data, but it may rely upon or be tempered by expert
    judgment. Only the most severe consequence from a root cause is placed on the risk
    matrix for program reviews. Programs must use the standard Life Cycle Risk
AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011                                                                    7


     Management 5X5 matrix (See Figure 1), likelihood criteria (see AFPAM 63-128 Table
     12.1) and consequence criteria (see AFPAM 63-128 Tables 12.2, 12.3, and 12.4) to
     analyze program risk. In this document Figure 1 is adapted from Figure 12.2 of
     AFPAM 63-128 showing the identification of High, Moderate, and Low risk categories.
     All moderate and high risks must be presented using the standard 5X5 matrix as a part of
     program, technical, and milestone decision reviews. Mission assurance and system safety
     risks identified using the MIL-STD-882D shall be translated as described in Table 3.1 of
     AFI 63-101. Program managers may develop additional consequence criteria if needed,
     but must describe these in the RMP. If the likelihood or consequence cannot be
     reasonably assessed, it may be separately reported as a ―concern.‖
     3.2.7. Risk Management/Mitigation Planning. Risk Mitigation Plans describe actions to
     eliminate or reduce the identified risks, as well as risk measures, indicators, and trigger
     levels for use in tracking the effectiveness of the mitigation actions. The tracking plans
     are developed separately from the RMP in order to address individual risks and are
     tactical in nature. Risk mitigation plans are prepared for all moderate and high risks.
     Options for addressing risks include ―controlling‖, ―accepting‖, ―transfer‖, and ―avoid‖.
     In a risk averse nuclear maintenance environment, moderate and high risks should
     normally be mitigated or eliminated. Formal decisions to proceed at program reviews
     constitute approval of the current risk assessments and management/mitigation plans.
     For each selected option, the responsible functional area shall develop specific tasks to
     mitigate the risk.
     3.2.8. Risk Mitigation Implementation and Tracking. The RMP shall describe the
     mitigation process and documentation plan (e.g., risk tracking database). Assumptions
     used in the development of the mitigation tasks shall be documented. Recommended
     actions requiring resources outside the scope of a contract or outside of official tasking
     shall be clearly identified, and the functional areas, the risk category, or other
     management plans that may be impacted shall be listed. Formal decisions to proceed
     (e.g., Milestone Decisions, Acquisition Strategy Panels, etc.) constitute approval of a
     program‘s current risk assessment and mitigation plans. Decisions to implement
     mitigation actions or acceptance of risks shall be documented in program review
     documentation. At each meeting of the RMB, mitigation actions shall be assessed for
     effectiveness and implementation timeliness. If actions have not reduced risks to
     acceptable levels, the risk management process starts again with planning, identification,
     analysis, etc.
  3.3. Risk Reporting. At a minimum, the PM shall present the following risk related
  information as a part of all program, technical, and milestone decision reviews and to support
  other key decision points, as appropriate
     3.3.1. All programs shall use the standard 5X5 risk. The program shall plot and describe
     the top five risks and all of the program‘s moderate and high risks
     3.3.2. The Technology Readiness Levels (TRLs) of all critical technology elements. See
     the Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG) for more information
     3.3.3. The system‗s assessed Manufacturing Readiness Levels (MRLs). See the DAG for
     more information
 8                                                                   AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011


        3.3.4. The Probability of Program Success Windshield Chart; and
        3.3.5. All high and serious Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health risks
        identified using the MIL-STD-882D system safety methodology and the translation table
        found in AFI 63-101.
     3.4. Relationship to Other Program and Risk Management Activities. Risk management
     is one of many aspects important to successful program development, implementation,
     deployment and support. Risk management reports shall provide input into the final
     production and OSS&E baselines and other program processes/documentation (e.g., LCMP,
     SEP, Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP), Program Environmental Safety &
     operational Health Evaluation (PESHE), Product Support Strategy and Plan, Information
     Assurance Plan, Program Protection Plan, Site Activation Plan, Disposal Plan, Cost and
     Schedule Estimates, etc.)
        3.4.1. Standard Risk Process. Figure 2 Standardized Risk Management Process (c.f.,
        AFPAM 63-128, Chapter 12), shows the basic sequence of key activities during
        Operations and Support and how risk management plays a key role. These steps are
        applied in a continuous and iterative manner throughout the life cycle of the product.

Figure 2 Standardized Risk Management Process
    Standardized Process Steps (at
     the Macro Level)
       1 - Risk Management Planning
       2 - Risk Identification       1. Risk
                                   Management
       3 - Risk Analysis            Planning

       4 - Risk Handling/Mitigation                                          5. Risk Mitigation
                                                                               Implementation
        Planning                                       2. Risk                  and Tracking
                                                    Identification
       5 - Risk Mitigation
        Implementation and Risk
        Tracking                                                      3. Risk Analysis




                                                                                               4. Risk
                                                                                         Handling/Mitigation
                                                                                             Planning


                           All steps occur throughout life cycle


        3.4.2. Supportability Assessment. The supportability assessment should assess risks
        against current and future operations. Sustainment risks warranting particular attention
        include obsolescence, aging trends, unintended usage profiles, surveillance, and
        maintenance activities. The product support strategy should provide inputs to update the
        RMP for full-rate production and operations and support. The review should provide an
        overall system hazard risk assessment. It should quantify and relate future levels of
AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011                                                                       9


      system operational risk and system readiness to future year operations and support and
      procurement budgets. The post-deployment review should validate mitigation of risks
      and document any remaining residual risks. Disposal decisions (e.g., destroy, recycle,
      etc.) should be informed by risk assessments of each alternative. Key activities from
      previous phases (e.g., materiel solution analysis, technology development, engineering &
      manufacturing development, etc.) can be found in AFPAM 63-128.
4. Tools and Training Resources.
   4.1. Active Risk Manager. The Active Risk Manager (ARM) is a comprehensive
   Enterprise Risk Management tool which can be used to: identify requirements and business
   activities, risks, incorporate concerns and issues into a risk register, assist in risk severity
   assessment, risk mitigation planning, and risk analysis forecasting. The ARM community of
   practice can be found at the following site: https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/eis/arm. The
   tool itself can be accessed at: https://arm.eis.afmc.af.mil/arm/Startup/SplashIndex.html.
   For access to these sites contact the Systems Engineering Division, Air Force Nuclear
   Weapons Center (AFNWC/ENS). ARM is a web-based risk management tool that
   encompasses the entire risk management process, providing a feedback loop and audit trail.
   It provides the AFNWC the ability to view risks regardless of physical location and allows
   for consolidation of data from multiple systems into one management dashboard view. ARM
   is the system of choice for AFNWC.
   4.2. Training Resources. Personnel shall receive training within 6 months of assignment to
   risk management activities. The PM will establish internal risk management training
   requirement, source, and review frequency. Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT),
   Defense Acquisition University (DAU), and approved local resources may be used to support
   program office risk management training.

5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

5.1. Adopted Forms.
    AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                             GARETT HARENCAK
                                             Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
 10                                                        AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011


                                       Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 11 June 2009
AFI 33-360_KIRTLANDAFPSUP_I, Publications and Forms Management, 10 January, 2011
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management. 17 April 2009
AFI 63-103, Joint Air Force – National Nuclear Security Administration (AF-NNSA) Nuclear
Weapons Life Cycle Management, 24 September 2008.
AFI 63-1201, Acquisition & Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 23 July 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), 14 October 2009
AFMCPAM 63-101, Risk management, 9 July 1997
AFPAM 63-128, Guide to Acquisition And Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 05 October
2009
Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG), Version 1.6, 24 July 2006, (https://dag.dau.mil)
DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, December 8, 2008
MIL-STD-882D, Standard Practice for System Safety, Version D, 10 Feb 2000
Risk Management Guide for DoD Acquisition, August 2006
SAF/AQ and SAF/US Memo, Risk-Based Decision Making, 31 Aug 2007
SAF/AQ Guidance Memorandum, Life Cycle Risk Management, 4 Nov 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWC/CC—Commander, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWC/EN—Director of Engineering, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWC/ENS—Systems Engineering Division, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011                                                            11


AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPEO/SS—Air Force Program Executive Office for Strategic Systems
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ARM—Active Risk Manager
CC—Commander
DAG—Defense Acquisition Guidebook
DAU—Defense Acquisition University
DoD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
LCSE—Life Cycle Systems Engineering
MIL—STD—Military Standard
MRL—Manufacturing Readiness Level
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
PESHE—Program Environmental Safety & operational Health Evaluation
PM—Program Manager
POG—Program Officer‘s Group
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMB—Risk Management Board
RMP—Risk Management Plan
SAF/AQ—Under Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
SAF/US—Secretary of the Air Force
SEP—Systems Engineering Plan
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TRL—Technology Readiness Level
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Consequence—The outcome of a future occurrence expressed qualitatively or quantitatively,
being a loss, injury, disadvantage or gain.
 12                                                            AFNWCI63-108 27 APRIL 2011


Issue—A problem or consequence which has occurred due to the realization of a root cause. A
current issue was likely a risk in the past that was not successfully mitigated.
Risk—A measure of future uncertainties in achieving program performance goals within defined
cost and schedule constraints. It has three components: a future root cause, a likelihood assessed
at the present time of that future root cause occurring, and the consequence of that future
occurrence.
Risk Analysis—The activity of examining each identified risk to refine the description of the
risk, isolate the cause, and determine the effects and aiding in setting risk mitigation priorities.
Defines each risk in terms of its likelihood, its consequence, and its relationship to other risk
areas or processes.
Risk Identification—The activity that examines each element of the program to identify
associated future root causes, begin their documentation, and set the stage for their successful
management. Risk identification begins as early as possible in successful programs and
continues throughout the life of the program.
Risk Management—An overarching process that encompasses identification, analysis,
mitigation planning, mitigation plan implementation, and tracking of future root causes and their
consequence.
Risk Management Planning—The activity of developing and documenting an organized,
comprehensive, and interactive strategy and methods for identifying and tracking future root
causes, developing risk-mitigation plans, performing continuous risk assessments to determine
how risks and their root causes have changed, and assigning adequate resources.
Risk Mitigation Plan Implementation—The activity of executing the risk mitigation plan to
ensure successful risk mitigation occurs. It determines what planning, budget, and requirements
and contractual changes are needed, provides a coordination vehicle for management and other
stakeholders, directs the teams to execute the defined and approved risk mitigation plans,
outlines the risk reporting requirements for ongoing monitoring, and documents the change
history.
Risk Mitigation Planning—The activity that identifies, evaluates, and selects options to set risk
at acceptable levels given program constraints and objectives. It includes the specifics of what
should be done, when it should be accomplished, who is responsible, and the funding required to
implement the risk mitigation plan.
Risk Tracking—The activity of systematically tracking and evaluating the performance of risk
mitigation actions against established metrics throughout the acquisition process and develops
further risk mitigation options or executes risk mitigation plans, as appropriate. It feeds
information back into the other risk management activities of identification, analysis, mitigation
planning, and mitigation plan implementation.
