BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                     INSTRUCTION 63-101
CENTER
                                                                        11 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                  Acquisition

                                                       CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFNWC/ENS                                                      Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                           (Dr. Yolanda King)
                                                                                    Pages: 15


This Configuration Management (CM) Instruction establishes policies and procedures for
conducting CM for all Configuration Items (CI) of program baselines managed by Air Force
Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC). This Instruction also documents process stakeholders and
responsibilities. It implements Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 63-1201,
Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectivenkess (OSS&E) and Life Cycle
Systems Engineering (LCSE). This Instruction applies to all programs within all AFNWC
organizations except for the 377th Air Base Wing. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard
(ANG). The Configuration Control Board (CCB) process defined herein is established by the
AFNWC Commander (CC) to recommend approval or disapproval of Engineering Change
Proposals (ECPs), Requests for Deviations, and Requests for Waivers for which AFNWC and its
subordinate organizations have responsibility. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field through
the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
Glossary of References and Supporting Information.
 2                                                        AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011


1. Overview. This Instruction establishes policies and procedures for conducting CM for all CIs
of program baselines managed by AFNWC. AFNWC organizations must ensure complete,
accurate and current CM.
2. Stakeholders and Responsibilities.
     2.1. AFNWC. CM shall be accomplished by coordinating efforts between engineering,
     financial management (FM), contracting (PK), testing, logistics (LG), and program
     management functional areas within the applicable program office.
     2.2. Program Manager (PM). The PM is responsible for all changes to technical
     requirements, configurations, and baselines.
        2.2.1. The PM shall, either directly or through appropriate delegation, establish and
        maintain configuration and change management systems. Such systems shall enable the
        disciplined management and control of changes to the product and related work products.
        2.2.2. The PM shall provide adequate resources, as identified at all levels, for performing
        the CM process, developing work products, and providing the necessary services of the
        process as and when needed. Resources will include adequate funding, appropriate
        physical facilities, skilled personnel, and appropriate tools.
        2.2.3. The PM shall assign responsibility and authority for performing the process,
        developing work products, and providing the services of the process. In assigning
        accountability, the PM will ensure the achievement of specified results throughout the
        life of the program. The PM will assign responsibility using detailed job descriptions
        and/or project documents, and ensure designated personnel have documented authority to
        perform the assigned responsibilities.
        2.2.4. The PM shall ensure required training for members of the project team who both
        perform CM and support it.
        2.2.5. In the case of pre-milestone B programs, the Project Manager may fulfill the
        responsibilities of the PM.
     2.3. Chief Engineer (CE). The CE is responsible for implementation (through delegation if
     applicable) of CM, and any decisions that the PM may delegate.
        2.3.1. The CE shall establish and maintain plans for performing the CM process. The
        plan, at a minimum, will describe the activities, resources, and schedule required to
        accomplish this process.
        2.3.2. The CE shall monitor and control the CM process, ensuring:
            2.3.2.1. The process is performed as planned;
            2.3.2.2. The process adheres to its description;
            2.3.2.3. The process yields the desired and auditable outcomes;
            2.3.2.4. Issues are identified and necessary corrective action is taken.
        2.3.3. The CE shall review the activities, status and results of the CM process with the
        PM, and higher level management if necessary, to resolve any identified problems.
        Following process reviews, the CE will coordinate with the Process OPR and provide
AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                 3


     recommendations to the PM regarding policy, process and resources to facilitate
     improvement.
     2.3.4. The CE shall establish and maintain a strategy for technical baseline management.
     He/she shall specify which CIs will be controlled during the various phases of product
     development (what baselines will be established and when). He/she shall define
     membership of the CCB(s). Although the CE shall have ultimate responsibility for the
     disposition, access to, release and control of the technical baselines, he/she may define
     which members of the CCB(s) will have authority to access and release design and
     product baselines, and authorize changes to the baselines as the product progresses
     through its life cycle.
     2.3.5. The CE shall identify the CIs and related work products that will be placed under
     CM. He/she will assign, or delegate assignment of, unique identifiers for each CI and
     identify their functional and physical attributes. The CE shall also specify the control
     characteristics for each item, e.g., the organization or person having item responsibility,
     what degree of control, and at what point the item should be placed under CM.
     2.3.6. The CE shall be responsible for creating and releasing technical baselines,
     ensuring that all baselines are created from CIs described within the CM system and that
     they are documented, authorized and released in accordance with CM plans.
     2.3.7. The CE is responsible for establishing and maintaining plans for managing the
     configuration of all work products for the program baseline and any related updates and
     changes.
     2.3.8. The CE shall be responsible for annually performing configuration audits to
     maintain configuration baseline integrity and confirm that all baselines and associated
     documentation are accurate. He/she shall record the audit results as appropriate.
     2.3.9. Following configuration audits, this Instruction and other elements of the Program
     Systems Engineering Plan or Life Cycle Management Plan will be updated as
     appropriate.
     2.3.10. The CE, in coordination with the PM will designate or delegate designation of
     the following:
        2.3.10.1. CCB Membership see paragraph 4.2.4.1.
        2.3.10.2. CCB Point of Contact (POC) to manage System Performance Specification
        (SPS) ECPs as needed;
        2.3.10.3. Interface Control Document (ICD) POC to manage all work products
        related to ICD changes;
        2.3.10.4. CI POC;
     2.3.11. The CE will assign or delegate assignment of an individual to be responsible for
     any initiative driving a given change action, this person to be known as the ECP Manager
     or the Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager.
     2.3.12. In the case of pre-milestone B programs, the project/lead engineer may fulfill the
     responsibilities of the CE.
 4                                                      AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011


     2.4. Process POC. The POC for this process shall be the Configuration Management
     Officer (CMO).
        2.4.1. The CMO will review the process annually and track recommended changes.
        2.4.2. The CMO will ensure training is accomplished, as needed, for the entire project
        team (to include stakeholders), for people both performing and also supporting, the
        process. For those merely in a support role to CM, overview training is appropriate for
        orientation purposes. The CMO will ensure said process training is properly
        documented.
     2.5. CCB POC. The CCB POC is responsible for conduct of the CCB as described herein
     (see Attachment 2, CCB Conduct Checklist).
     2.6. ICD Change POC. The ICD POC will manage all work products related to the ICD.
     2.7. ECP Manager / Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager. The ECP Manager or Request
     for Deviation/Waiver Manager collects and presents all information required for CCB
     members to understand the action before them, its potential impacts, and the options
     available to complete that action.
     2.8. CCB Responsibilities. CCB members will evaluate proposed changes for, and provide
     evaluations to, the ECP Manager or to the Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager by the
     requested date.
     2.9. CCB Chairperson. The CCB Chairperson will approve/disapprove the ECP based on
     the inputs from the CCB members and the CE if necessary.
     2.10. Configuration Item POC. The CI POC is responsible for maintenance of all CI records
     (and versions thereof), change requests (CRs), and all related documentation, on the AFNWC
     computer network.
        2.10.1. The CI POC shall track the status of all CRs to closure. He/she shall summarize
        and record the impact that the change will have on the product, related work products,
        use of the product, logistics support, schedule and cost. He/she shall maintain control
        over the configuration of the associated work product baseline, to include tracking the
        configuration of each of the CIs, providing a new CI number if necessary, and updating
        the baseline.
        2.10.2. The CI POC shall establish and maintain records describing the CIs for which
        they are responsible, ensuring the information permits forward and backward traceability
        to other baseline configuration states.
     2.11. War Fighter. End users will be indirectly involved in the CM process, and all changes
     to the weapon SPS will be coordinated with them.
3. Delegation and Authority.
     3.1. Class I ECP Authority. Membership in the CCB shall be clearly defined by the CE, in
     accordance with paragraph 4.2.4.1. Members having authority to access and release design
     and product baselines, as well as authorize changes to baselines as the product progresses
     through its lifecycle, shall be identified. The resulting CCB shall establish and maintain a
     strategy for technical baseline management. During system life cycle, the CCB shall be
     accountable for the disposition of, access to, release of, and control of (including approval
AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                   5


   and disapproval), all changes, waivers, and deviations to system level performance
   specifications via Class I ECPs.
   3.2. Class II Change Delegation. Class II configuration changes may be delegated to the
   Prime Contractor via contract language or method of performance specification control, as
   appropriate. Delegated changes are not managed by the Government CCB, but usually via
   contractor CCB or other internal process. The Government maintains oversight and insight
   into the contractors’ CM processes and has access to change, waiver, and deviation records.


   3.4. Change Prioritization. An Advance Change Study Notification (ACSN) shall be used to
   provide the program office with a one page summary of the proposed activity.
       3.4.1. When proposed changes under consideration by the CCB cannot be accomplished
       due to inadequate resources, the proposal will be deferred or disapproved. However, the
       CCB Chairperson may recommend to the Group Commander and the PM that the work
       described by the proposal should be accomplished at the expense of other requirements,
       due to its criticality in correcting performance deficiencies.
   3.5. Reasons for ECPs. The CCB may review and act upon requirements changes that:
       3.5.1. Are needed to correct a deficiency, address a direct hazard to personnel, or address
       potential damage to, or destruction of equipment;
       3.5.2. Make significant and measurable improvements in operational or logistics support;
       3.5.3. Affect life cycle costs/savings;
       3.5.4. Address a design tradeoff.
4. Process. This section establishes a description of the CM process for changing an existing
product baseline (see Figure 4.1.). The documented process as part of the overall Instruction
provides the basis for planning, performing and managing the activities, work products, and
services associated with the process. Establishment of the initial baseline and determination of
what CIs shall be documented and tracked is covered under responsibilities of the CE, in
paragraph 2.3. Maintaining the documented description of the CM Process shall be the
responsibility of the CMO.
   4.1. A checklist for the conduct of the CCB is included in Attachment 2.
   4.2. The process steps are as follows:
       4.2.1. Step 1: Receipt of Action. The Program Lead Engineer becomes aware of a
       pending ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver action, designates an ECP Manager or
       Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager for the action, and notifies the CE of an
       impending ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver;
       4.2.2. Step 2: CCB Notification. The ECP Manager or Request for Deviation/Waiver
       Manager notifies the CCB POC who notifies members that an ECP or Request for
       Deviation/Waiver has been received within 30 days of receipt of the ECP;
       4.2.3. Step 3: Documentation:
6                                                  AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011


       4.2.3.1. Preparation of CCB Directive Sheet. The ECP Manager or Request for
       Deviation/Waiver Manager prepares the CCB Directive (CCBD), Air Force Materiel
       Command (AFMC) Form 518, Configuration Control Board Directive. Instructions
       for completing AFMC Form 518 are included with this Instruction for reference
       (Attachment 3);
       4.2.3.2. Preparation of the OSS&E Checklist. The ECP Manager or Request for
       Deviation/Waiver Manager, with assistance from subject matter experts (if needed),
       prepares the OSS&E Checklist;
       4.2.3.3. The ECP Manager or Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager will assess the
       action for impacts to the OSS&E Checklist. The ECP manager apprises the CCB of
       any impacts via the CCB summary briefing or the remarks section of the CCBD;
       4.2.3.4. OSS&E Baseline Document (OBD) Update. The ECP Manager or Request
       for Deviation/Waiver Manager, with assistance from subject matter experts (as
       needed) will evaluate the program OBD for impact. The OBD will be updated,
       approved, and distributed as required;
       4.2.3.5. Preparation of Summary Briefing (if needed). The ECP Manager or Request
       for Deviation/Waiver Manager, with assistance from subject matter experts as
       needed, may prepare a briefing to present complex changes in a simplified manner;
       4.2.3.6. If the content of the ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver is straightforward,
       the Manager may choose to discuss the documentation without the aid of the
       summary briefing. In these instances, the ECP itself serves as the documentation of
       the action. The remarks section of the CCBD discusses any OSS&E impacts or states
       “No OSS&E impacts.”
    4.2.4. Step 4: Coordination of Action with CCB Members. The ECP Manager or
    Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager, with assistance from subject matter experts (as
    needed) will brief (individually or as a group) all CCB members on ECP or Request for
    Deviation/Waiver content using either the above mentioned summary briefing or the ECP
    itself. The CCB Chairperson may choose to conduct a formal review of the action with
    all CCB members due to action content or for reasons of efficiency;
       4.2.4.1. The following functional representatives or designated alternates constitute
       the CCB membership:
           4.2.4.1.1. Applicable Engineering representative (Chairperson);
           4.2.4.1.2. Applicable CC or equivalent authority (Alternate Chairperson);
           4.2.4.1.3. Applicable LG Representative;
           4.2.4.1.4. Applicable Test Representative;
           4.2.4.1.5. Applicable Sustainment Representative;
           4.2.4.1.6. Applicable FM Representative;
           4.2.4.1.7. Applicable PK Representative;
           4.2.4.1.8. Applicable Safety Representative;
AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                7


            4.2.4.1.9. Applicable Manufacturing Representative;
            4.2.4.1.10. User representative (if proposed change affects the weapon system
            level specification).
        4.2.4.2. CCB members will evaluate proposed changes and provide evaluations to the
        ECP Manager (or to the Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager) by the requested
        date. The ECP Manager may request weekly or bi-weekly status updates from the
        CCB at his/her discretion. CCB members will signify concurrence or non-
        concurrence by signing CCB documentation. In the event of non-concurrence,
        members not concurring shall provide a written rationale to the CCB Chairperson;
     4.2.5. Step 5: Coordination of Action with Stakeholders. The ECP Manager or Request
     for Deviation/Waiver Manager will coordinate the action with all affected stakeholders.
     At a minimum, this will include the war fighter and the Government office responsible
     for the platform. Coordination via E-mail is acceptable, but all coordination must be
     documented and archived with the ECP and CCBD;
     4.2.6. Step 6: Documentation of Minutes of the CCB and Action Items. The ECP
     manager produces minutes of all interaction with the CCB members (formal briefing or
     walk around). If there are any action items generated during the CCB coordination
     process, the ECP Manager or Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager will document the
     action item, generate a sufficient response to the action item, and coordinate the results
     with the individual who generated the action item, the CE, and the CCB Chairperson;
     4.2.7. Step 7: Coordination Signatures.    The ECP Manager or Request for
     Deviation/Waiver Manager will obtain CCB member concurrence via signatures (manual
     or electronic) on AFMC Form 518;
     4.2.8. Step 8: Chairperson’s Signature. Once all CCB action items have been
     satisfactorily resolved and CCB member signatures obtained, the CCB Chairperson will
     disposition the action. Disposition options available to the CCB Chairperson include:
        4.2.8.1. Approve as written;
        4.2.8.2. Approve with comments;
        4.2.8.3. Disapprove. Reason(s) will be stated in the CCB documentation signed by
        the Chairperson;
        4.2.8.4. Defer for further investigation. Since proposed actions are generally time-
        dependent, the CCB Chairperson will limit deferral actions whenever possible. A
        suspense date will be established for future CCB action at the time of deferral.
     4.2.9. Step 9: CE Memo for Record.              The ECP Manager or Request for
     Deviation/Waiver Manager will draft a Memo for Record (MFR) which documents the
     outcome of the CCB process, and references all documentation (ECP, CCB Directive
     Sheet, OSS&E Checklist, coordination, summary briefing, and action items) to be
     reviewed and signed by the CE. The MFR shall be placed in the CCB folder and retained
     for record. The Procuring Contractor Officer (PCO) will prepare a contractual response
     letter regarding the action, including any comments;
8                                                 AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011


    4.2.10. Step 10: Action Archive and CCB Documentation. All CCB documentation is
    maintained until the removal of the product from Air Force inventory. While the
    program is managed by the AFNWC program office, all documentation is archived by the
    date of the CCB in a CCB electronic folder on the appropriate AFNWC server;
       4.2.10.1. When transitioned to a sustaining activity, that activity maintains this
       documentation in accordance with the sustaining activity’s processes. The ECP
       Manager will archive all ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver and CCB
       documentation, which includes (at a minimum, but not limited to) the following:
           4.2.10.1.1. ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver Package;
           4.2.10.1.2. OSS&E Checklist;
           4.2.10.1.3. Any summary Briefing(s)
           4.2.10.1.4. Stakeholder coordination documentation;
           4.2.10.1.5. AFMC Form 518, with all signatures;
           4.2.10.1.6. Action Items;
           4.2.10.1.7. CCB Minutes;
           4.2.10.1.8. CE’s MFR.
AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011      9


Figure 4.1. PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
 10                                              AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011




5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   5.1. Adopted forms.
       AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
       AFMC Form 518, Configuration Control Board Directive




                                       EVERETT H. THOMAS
                                       Brigadier General, USAF
                                       Commander
AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011                                                              11


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMCI 63-1201 Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LSCE), 14 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMC Form 518, Configuration Control Board Directive, 27 March 2002
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT— Acquisition Category
ACSN— Advance Change Study Notification
AF— Air Force
AFMC— Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI— Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFNWC— Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG— Air National Guard
CC— Commander
CCB— Configuration Control Board
CCBD— Configuration Control Board Directive
CDCA— Current Document Change Authority
CE— Chief Engineer
CM— Configuration Management
CMO— Configuration Management Officer
CI— Configuration Item
CR— Change Request
ECP— Engineering Change Proposal
FM— Finance
ICD— Interface Control Document
ICN— Interface Change Notification
 12                                                     AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011


LSCE— Life Cycle Systems Engineering
LG— Logistics
MFR— Memo for Record
OBD— OSS&E Baseline Document
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD— Office of the Secretary of Defense
OSS&E— Operational Suitability, Safety, & Effectiveness
PCO— Procuring Contractor Officer
PK— Contracting
PM— Program Manager
POC— Point of Contact
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SEP— System Engineering Plan
SPS— System Performance Specification
US— United States
USAF— United States Air Force

Terms and Definitions
Baseline— An agreed-to description of the attributes of a system, at a point in time, which
serves as a basis for defining change.
Engineering Change Proposal— A proposed change affecting technical baselines; the
documentation by which the change is described, justified, and submitted to the Government for
approval.
Class I ECP— An ECP proposing a change to approved configuration documentation for which
the Government is the Current Document Change Authority (CDCA) or that has been included in
the contract or statement of work by the tasking activity and:
       1. Affects any physical or functional requirement in approved functional or configuration
       documentation, or;

       2. Affects any approved functional, allocated or product configuration documentation,
       and cost, warranties or contract milestones or;

       3. Affects any approved product configuration documentation and one or more of the
       following: government furnished equipment; safety; compatibility, interoperability or
       logistic support; delivered technical manuals for which changes are not funded; will
       require retrofit of delivered unites; preset adjustments or schedules affecting operating
       limits or performance to the extent that a new identification number is required;
       interchangeability, substitutability, or replaceability of any item down to non-repairable
AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  13


       subassemblies; sources on a source control drawing; skills, manning, training, biomedical
       factors or human engineering design.
Class II ECP— An ECP proposing a change to approved configuration documentation for
which the Government is the CDCA or that has been included in the contract or statement of
work by the tasking activity and which is not Class I.
Configuration Item— The basic units of CM. A CI is defined as any hardware, software or
combination that satisfies an end-use function or is designated for separate CM.
Configuration Management— Establishes and maintains consistency of a product's attributes
with its requirements and product configuration information. CM processes help to identify what
is developed, to ensure products are consistent via various audits, to control changes and to
provide consistent status information. CM has key linkages with the Data Management and
Interface Management Processes as well.
Configuration Management Plan— is used to guide the detailed activities of the CM Process.
The CM Plan should be used as a repository for the ideas, schedules, actions and agreements that
drive the CM activity during a given acquisition phase.
Formal Review— A review of the action conducted by the CCB chairperson and including all
CCB members.
Request for Deviations or Waivers— A document which requests temporary departure from a
contractually imposed configuration baseline, either prior to manufacture of an item (deviation)
or after manufacture of an item (waiver). Waivers shall be resolved within 90 days.
Technical Baseline— A set of specifications or work products that has been formally reviewed
and agreed on, and which thereafter serves as the basis for further development and authoritative
representation of the product. Technical baselines provide a stable basis for continuing evolution
of CIs. Once established, changes to the items can only be done through a formal change
process.
Performance Baseline— Program specific baseline definitions are documented either in the
Program Systems Engineering Plan for Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) oversight
programs or the Life Cycle Management Plan for Acquisition Category (ACAT) IC, II, III and
non-ACAT programs. The performance baseline (as part of overall program documentation) is
typically managed using an integrated data management (CM) software tool. However, all CIs
constituting the performance baseline shall be managed by CI POCs chosen from the United
States (US) Air Force (USAF) Integrated Product Team. Changes to the performance baseline
other than the SPS are described in this document. For example, the Interface Design
Specification and ICD are managed by the Interface Control Working Group, and have changes
documented via ICNs.
 14                                                    AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011


                                        Attachment 2
                               CCB CONDUCT CHECKLIST

This checklist is to be used when processing an ECP:

      Receipt of Action (CE)
      Designate an ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager for the action
      CE acknowledges receipt of an impending ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver
      CCB Notification (ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager)
      Notify CCB members regarding receipt of ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver
      Documentation (ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager)
      Prepare CCB Directive Sheet
      Prepare OSS&E Checklist
      Prepare Summary Briefing (if needed)
      Brief (individually or as a group) all CCB members on ECP or Request for
      Deviation/Waiver content (ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager)
      Coordinate the action with all stakeholders (ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver
      Manager)
      Document Minutes of the CCB (as appropriate) and Action Items (ECP or
      Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager)
      Obtain CCB member concurrence via signatures on AFMC Form 518 (ECP or
      Request for Deviation/Waiver Manager)
      Obtain CCB Chairperson’s disposition of the action (ECP or Request for
      Deviation/Waiver Manager)
      CE Memo for Record (ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver Mgr)
      Draft MFR for the contract file
      Obtain CE’s signature on the MFR
      Prepare a contracts letter containing contractual response on the action (PCO)
      Archive Action and CCB Documentation (ECP or Request for Deviation/Waiver
      Manager)
AFNWCI63-101 11 FEBRUARY 2011                                                            15


                                          Attachment 3
                INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AFMC FORM 518

Prior to processing ECP:

      Box 1. Fill in Program Name
      Box 2. Fill in Date of CCBD
      Box 3. Fill in Name of Contractor
      Box 8. Fill in Title of ECP
      Box 9. If applicable enter number and date of CCBD to be superseded
      Box 11. Fill in CI
      Box 12. Fill in CI Title
      Box 15. Fill in Contract Number
      Box 18. Fill in Cost of ECP
      Box 23. Fill in Remarks. If there is classified documentation related to the ECP
      action, then document that fact here
      Box 24. Should list Program Contracts Officer office
      designation
      Concurrence Record Review “OFFICE AND NAME” boxes to ensure correct
      names and office symbols are represented
After ECP has been Approved, Approved with Comments, or Disapproved:
      Box 26. Mark correct disposition decision block
      Box 25. Obtain CCB Chair signature
