BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                 (AFNWC) INSTRUCTION 63-109
CENTER
                                                                             9 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                       Acquisition

                                                                                SUSTAINMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFNWC/ENS                                                          Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                               (Dr. Yolanda King)
                                                                                        Pages: 12


This sustainment instruction establishes policies and procedures for conducting sustainment for
all programs managed by Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC). This instruction
establishes and documents guidelines, processes, stakeholders, roles and responsibilities of
sustainment activities in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Material Command Instruction
(AFMCI) 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), October 2009. This instruction applies to all programs
within all AFNWC organizations except for the 377th Air Base Wing. This instruction does not
apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. This instruction does not apply to Air
National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition                Schedule                  (RDS)               located                 at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This is the initial publication of
this instruction. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

1. Applicability
   1.1. Scope. This document establishes the guidelines, policies and procedures for AFNWC
   and subordinate organization personnel who approve, develop, implement, manage, or
   review sustainment for systems, subsystems, end-items and services (referred to as programs
 2                                                       AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011


     throughout this document) procured under AF Instruction (AFI) 63-101, Acquisition and
     Sustainment Life Cycle Management.
     1.2. Precedence. In accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
     paragraph 2.3, statutory law, Federal, Department of Defense (DoD), Joint Staff, United
     States AF (USAF), Undersecretary of AF for Acquisitions (SAF/AQ), and Air Force Material
     Command (AFMC) guidance, instructions, and directives take precedence over this
     instruction.
     1.3. Additional Guidance. Further guidance may be found in AFI 63-103, Joint Air Force
     – National Nuclear Security Administration (AF-NNSA) Life Cycle Management, AFPAM
     63-128, Acquisition & Sustainment Life Cycle Guidance. Office of Secretary of Defense OSD
     System Engineering Plan (SEP) Preparation Guide, AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems
     Engineering
2. Work Products.
     2.1. Preliminary Work Product. The following work product is generated prior to and is
     required for the sustainment process (which includes life cycle management support). All
     documents are under the control of the applicable approval authority and are maintained by
     the program office:
        2.1.1. Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP). The LCMP will be maintained during all
        sustainment activities and updated as the support strategy changes and evolves, to include
        demilitarization activities. As a minimum, each AFNWC Program Office will review
        and certify LCMP currency or update the LCMP on an annual basis. The LCMP will be
        prepared IAW AFPAM 63-128. Additional content guidance for the LCMP may be
        found in the Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG). A SEP may be used in lieu of an
        LCMP. For legacy programs without a SEP or LCMP, an approved appropriate
        equivalent program document or set of documents shall be identified, managed and
        updated in the same manner as described herein (refer to AFI 63-101, paragraph 3.39
        for content requirements). If the program does not have an LCMP, or has a previously
        approved Single Acquisition Management Plan (SAMP), Product Support Management
        Plan (PSMP), Integrated Logistics Support Plan (ILSP), or other document which define
        life cycle management strategy, the manager of the program will develop a plan to
        migrate to an LCMP as appropriate. The LCMP must be approved IAW AFI 63-101 and
        AFPAM 63-128.
     2.2. Intermediate and Output Work Products. The following illustrative list of
     documentation may exist as standalone documents or part of higher level documents (e.g.,
     LCMP or SEP) and may be generated or updated to support and document sustainment
     activities, processes, management and implementation, as required:
        2.2.1. Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) Documentation (or Depot Maintenance
        Activation Plan (DMAP), if a DSOR has not been implemented)
        2.2.2. ILSP
        2.2.3. LCMP
        2.2.4. PSMP
        2.2.5. SAMP
AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  3


       2.2.6. SEP
       2.2.7. Transfer Support Plan (TSP), as appropriate
       2.2.8. Unique Identification (UID) Plan, and
   2.2.9. Depot Maintenance Inter-service Support Agreement (DMISA), as updated by the
   Memorandum of Agreement between the Air Force Global Logistics Support Center and the
   Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center for Nuclear Weapons Related Material Positive
   Inventory Control and Supply Chain Management Roles and Responsibility.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   3.1. AFNWC. Sustainment shall be accomplished by coordinating efforts between
   development, planning, engineering, financial management, contracting, testing, logistics,
   and program management functional areas within the center and program offices.
       3.1.1. The AFNWC Commander (AFNWC/CC) is responsible for all sustainment
       activities and shall ensure that subordinate sustainment organizations have the logistic
       support agreements, resources, capacity and capability to support the operations,
       maintenance, repair, and disposal of the system or product to meet war fighter needs.
       AFNWC/CC is responsible for all aspects of continued operational safety, suitability and
       effectiveness, to include the areas of OSS&E.
       3.1.2. The AFNWC staff, as appropriate, shall:
          3.1.2.1. Support sustainment activities and processes
          3.1.2.2. Review and coordinate migration plans
          3.1.2.3. Ensure appropriate sustainment support operations and maintenance costs are
          identified; and
          3.1.2.4. Maintain, coordinate, and disseminate sustainment policy and best practices.
   3.2. Program Offices and Subordinate Organizations. Subordinate organizations and
   program offices shall establish, implement and maintain sustainment activities for
   appropriate programs and operations. Per AFPAM 63-128 and DAG, core sustainment
   processes and interfaces shall be documented. Details not covered by this instruction may be
   added by local instructions
       3.2.1. The program office shall establish and maintain budgets for sustainment activities
       using input from associated support organizations. Program offices shall plan for the
       support of system operations, maintenance, repair, and disposal. Program offices shall
       establish and maintain sustainment activities identified in paragraph 2.2 in appropriate
       approved documentation.
   3.3. Program Manager (PM). The PM shall identify and document core sustainment
   processes and interfaces. The PM may assign responsibility, authority and accountability for
   performing and documenting sustainment processes, developing work products, and
   providing the sustainment services of the process to the war fighter. The PM may define the
   membership of supporting integrated product teams (IPTs). The PM shall document the
   assignment, responsibilities, and expectations.
4                                                         AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011


       3.3.1. If the sustainment activity being considered or implemented changes organic or
       contractor depot workload assignments, the PM will activate the DSOR process. Final
       approval for the workload changes must be received from Headquarters, Air Force
       Material Command (HQ AFMC). Additionally, changes in depot repair activities must
       be incorporated into the LCMP, SEP, or appropriate equivalent document.
       3.3.2. The PM will review, update, change and, as appropriate, receive approval for
       LCMPs, sustainment portion of the SEP, or appropriate sustainment documentation. The
       PM will use the LCMP template as identified in AFPAM 63-128. The PM will post
       approved LCMPs on the AF Knowledge Now (AFKN) Portal: LCMP Community of
       Practice                                                                          at
       https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/community/views/home.aspx?Filter=OO-AQ-AF-
       51
       3.3.3. The PM will ensure the LCMP will, at a minimum, define a migration plan
       concept. The PM will develop, coordinate and maintain a weapon specific Migration
       Plan IAW AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment, Distribution,
       Accounting, and Termination. A Migration Plan is due when retirement of the weapon
       system is scheduled to occur in the Future Years Defense Program, unless requested
       sooner. When it is determined that a Migration Plan is required, the LCMP will reference
       the approved Migration Plan. Migration plans will be approved by AF Program
       Executive Officer for Strategic Systems (AFPEO/SS), when required.
       3.3.4. When an LCMP is not appropriate, the PM shall ensure that all relevant technical
       planning is documented in a SEP IAW AFI 63-1201. Specific guidance requirements
       may be found in AFI 63-1201 paragraph 1.1.3.1.1. and paragraph 2.10.
       3.3.5. The PM shall establish a Program Protection Plan consistent with AFI 63-101
       paragraphs 2.29.38 through 2.29.38. The PM shall implement a program protection
       program from inception throughout the life of the system to ensure that critical
       technology and Critical Program Information (CPI), including Controlled Unclassified
       Information (CUI), are protected against deliberate and unintended compromise or
       disclosure IAW DoD 5200.1-M, Acquisition Systems Protection Program, Department of
       Defense Instruction (DODI) 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection
       within the Department of Defense, and AFPAM 63-1701, Program Protection Planning.
    3.4. Chief Engineer (CE). The CE shall ensure that sustainment activities, resources, and
    schedule are included in the program LCMP (or appropriate program sustainment document).
    The CE shall work with the appropriate IPTs to review the activities, status, and results of
    sustainment processes with the PM (and higher management as necessary), and resolve any
    identified problems. The CE shall provide lessons learned and best practices for AFNWC
    use. The CE shall monitor the sustainment process, ensuring:
       3.4.1. The process is performed as planned
       3.4.2. The process adheres to its description
       3.4.3. The process yields the desired outcomes/products by an evaluation of work
       products against applicable expectations and standards, and
       3.4.4. Issues are identified and necessary corrective actions are taken.
AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    5


4. Process.
   4.1. System Logistical Support. The PM shall establish and maintain plans that document
   the life cycle strategies necessary to satisfy statutory and regulatory requirements for
   programs or modifications acquired under DODI 5000.2-R, Mandatory Procedures for
   Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) and Major Automated Information System
   (MAIS) Acquisition Programs, The LCMP streamlines, consolidates, and makes visible to
   senior leadership all aspects of the program. The plan shall document and guide all aspects of
   logistics support of the product, to include initial and life-cycle resources requirements
   (generally at Milestone B) for performing operations and support through demilitarization.
   The plan will be used as the basis for program transfer planning and materiel (hardware,
   software, and services) fielding decisions. The plan shall integrate all aspects of acquisition
   and sustainment throughout the life cycle. Procedures implemented to manage failure modes
   that impact product operations shall be documented. See AFPAM 63-128 for LCMP template
   and detailed guidance. The program office may utilize appropriate pre-existing, alternative,
   additional documentation; or generate and maintain the following documentation as required:
       4.1.1. DMAP
       4.1.2. ILSP
       4.1.3. LCMP
       4.1.4. PSMP
       4.1.5. SAMP, and
       4.1.6. UID Plan.
   4.2. Plan for Changeover into Operations. As systems ready for initial operational
   employment or as fielded systems are updated, the program office shall establish and
   implement plans for delivering and deploying acquired products into operational use and
   support. These plans shall define the objectives and scope of the transition. These plans
   shall identify the support organizations, their responsibilities, resource requirements, and
   criteria for transitioning from the development to the sustainment life cycle phase. These
   plans shall establish and execute the related changes in authority and responsibility and will
   include the definition of the transition activities, schedule, installations of products to be
   delivered, warranty and data rights provisions. The following IPT membership, activities,
   and responsibilities for support shall be defined in a Program Transition Support Plan, as
   appropriate:
       4.2.1. Acquisition Strategy IPT
       4.2.2. Contracting Strategy for Hardware Purchases (if required)
       4.2.3. Contracting Strategy for Installation of Hardware (if required)
       4.2.4. Contracting Strategy for Production of Systems
       4.2.5. Delegation of System Acceptance to Defense Contract Management Agency
       (DCMA)
       4.2.6. Transfer Strategy IPT, and
       4.2.7. Transportation Plans and Policies.
6                                                         AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011


    4.3. TSP. If a TSP is required, all system/program transfers shall be conducted IAW a TSP
    that is prepared by the losing PM in collaboration with the gaining organization. All affected
    Program Executive Officers/Designated Acquisition Officers and center commanders
    overseeing the program designated for transfer shall be signatories on the TSP. The AFMC
    Commander (AFMC/CC) shall be the final signatory on the TSP prior to forwarding the plan
    to the Service Acquisition Executive for approval. The PM shall target completion of the
    TSP no later than three years prior to the target transfer date. Once the TSP is approved, the
    losing PM shall update the program sustainment plan and any other detailed supporting
    plans/documents (e.g., systems engineering plan, test and evaluation master plan, etc.) as
    necessary to reflect the actions, timelines, and responsibilities specified in the TSP. The TSP
    will be maintained until the program transfer is completed, or a determination is made to
    terminate the proposed program transfer.
       4.3.1. Consult the System/Program Transfer Guide chapter in AFPAM 63-128 for
       additional guidance and information related to the system/program transfer process. This
       pamphlet provides detailed planning criteria and considerations that PMs can use to
       develop, coordinate, and implement TSPs.
       4.3.2. The PM shall provide TSP status to AFMC and the gaining logistics organization
       as requested and shall coordinate changes impacting the transfer date TSP with the MDA
       and the gaining logistics organization, and notify AFMC of approved changes as detailed
       in AFPAM 63-128.
       4.3.3. Where commodity support may be utilized, a Memorandum of Understanding
       (MOU) may be required to document specific aspects of responsibility, or a
       Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) for a specific product.
    4.4. Disposal and Demilitarization. The PM shall ensure the overall logistics plan includes
    disposal and demilitarization planning. The PM shall document disposal methodology for
    any existing products to be replaced, as well as eventual disposal of the new product. The
    disposal and demilitarization plans shall consider and document disposal of systems involved
    in mishaps (those beyond economical repair) and any obsolescent parts which can no longer
    be used in support of the system. The PM shall execute (as required) the plan for
    decommissioning and disposal of the product. The program office shall identify and monitor
    requirements for system disposal and migration to long term storage. The PM shall be
    responsible for complying with all regulatory guidance and laws during decommissioning
    and disposal.
    4.5. System Repair and Modification. The PM shall establish and maintain processes and
    procedures for repair, overhaul, or modification, ensuring product technical documentation
    for repair, overhaul, or modification and associated training for appropriate personnel is
    complete and verified. The PM shall ensure that the repair strategy, plans, and processes are
    continuously updated. The following planning factors shall be taken into consideration and
    updated as required:
       4.5.1. Drawings and procedures for repair and modifications
       4.5.2. Operating Instructions
       4.5.3. Technical Orders
AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     7


     4.5.4. Training for users and maintenance personnel, and
     4.5.5. User’s Manuals.
  4.6. Ensure Sustainment Transition Readiness. The PM shall ensure readiness to undergo
  transition to operations and support. The PM shall identify and monitor contract
  requirements for support products and services, conduct provisioning conferences, and
  perform associated planning to support sustainment. The PM shall identify and monitor
  requirements for initial spares, support equipment, facilities and facility modifications. The
  PM shall establish and maintain criteria and agreements for transition to operations and
  support. The PM shall monitor and ensure that qualified parts and materials suppliers
  continue to exist. The PM shall ensure that preparations for transition to the sustainment
  phase are complete and documented.
  4.7. Establish Repair and Sustainment Requirements. The PM shall identify and define
  the required facilities, manpower, tooling and test equipment for repair, overhaul or
  modification. The PM shall define the requirements for support equipment, facilities and
  facility modifications, and identify the manpower (quantity and type) and personnel
  qualifications (education, training, skills and experience) required to sustain the product.
  4.8. Operational Effectiveness. The PM is responsible for maintaining all aspects of
  OSS&E. OSS&E is an overarching life cycle process framework; not limited to formal
  acquisition programs or to sustaining engineering activities.
  4.9. Establish and Maintain OSS&E Baseline(s). Per AFMCI 63-1201, the PM shall
  establish, maintain and document OSS&E baseline(s) in an OSS&E Baseline Document
  (OBD) prior to or during operational use with stakeholder coordination. AFMCI 63-1201
  identifies policy and guidance to address processes and technical data, including
  specifications and standards, for ensuring preservation of baseline OSS&E characteristics of
  systems and end items. These processes and standards may be tailored to individual
  programs in the AF product lines, as well as to Logistics Centers for maintenance and
  sustainment issues. All AFNWC fielded and supported systems and end-items shall have an
  OSS&E baseline that is:
     4.9.1. Current and coordinated with the using command
     4.9.2. Approved by the PM
     4.9.3. Documents     system/end-item    configuration,   risks,   safety,   suitability   and
     effectiveness; and
     4.9.4. Used by the PM and contains the performance based logistics baseline.
     4.9.5. The PM shall develop mechanisms to ensure conformity to the OBD, e.g., health
     monitoring and testing. The PM shall document conformity with respect to the
     appropriate baseline measures. In cases where results do not compare favorably, action
     shall be taken to analyze and correct deficiencies. All procedures for coordination of
     OSS&E assurance among related products shall be documented.
  4.10. Identify and Monitor Critical Safety Items. The PM shall establish and maintain a
  disciplined process for identifying, mitigating, and monitoring of critical safety items. This
  process shall include identification of established technical authorities, quality assurance
  processes, and qualified manufacturers. The process for identification and management of
8                                                          AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011


    critical safety items shall be IAW the program’s implementation of Military Standard (MIL-
    STD) 882D, Standard Practice for System Safety.
    4.11. Identify and Mitigate Hazards. The PM shall establish and maintain a hazards
    tracking database IAW MIL-STD-882D. All high/serious hazards shall be mitigated or
    accepted by the appropriate authority. A process for handling accidents involving the
    product shall be established and maintained. The PM shall establish and maintain a process
    for handling accidents and system mishaps IAW AFI 91-202 USAF Mishap Prevention
    Program and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2 Safety Programs.
    4.12. Identify and Monitor Operations and Maintenance Data. The program office shall
    establish mechanisms for collecting, reviewing, and acting upon data related to product
    operations and support (e.g., defects, flight hours, anomalies). Reliability, maintainability and
    supportability data shall be monitored, as well as other data for Integrated Logistics Support
    (ILS), to identify failure mechanisms, rates and repairs.
       4.12.1. On an annual basis, the program office and associated support agencies and
       organizations shall review appropriate production, retrofit, repair status, metrics, and
       ongoing failure investigations with war fighters and stakeholders. Local policy may
       increase the review frequency.
       4.12.2. On an annual basis, the program office and associated support agencies and
       organizations shall review system performance and special topics of interest with the war
       fighter and other stakeholders. Local policy may increase the review frequency while
       maintaining compliance with AFI 21-118, Improving Air and Space Equipment
       Reliability and Maintainability.
    4.13. Deficiency Reporting. The program office shall have a mechanism for identifying
    and tracking non-compliance and non-performance deficiencies. The program office shall
    have the responsibility for resolving Deficiency Reports. All system/end-item verification
    and validation activities, deficiencies shall be documented, tracked, and resolved IAW T.O.
    00-35D-54 Deficiency Reporting Investigation and Resolution (DRI&R) system and AFMAN
    91-221, Weapon Safety Investigations and Reports, as appropriate.
5. Forms Management.
    5.1. Prescribed Forms. There are no prescribed forms
    5.2. Adopted Forms.
         AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                              GARRETT HARENCAK
                                              Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander
AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 16-402, Aerospace Vehicle Programming, Assignment, Distribution, Accounting, and
Termination, 1 December 2009
AFI 21-118, Improving Air and Space Equipment Reliability and Maintainability, 2 October
2003
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 11 June 2009
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 63-103, Joint Air Force – National Nuclear Security Administration (AF-NNSA) Life Cycle
Management, 24 September 2008
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFI 91-202, USAF Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998
AFMAN 91-221, Weapon Safety Investigations and Reports, 8 November 2010
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), 14 October 2009
AFPAM 63-128, Guide to Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management. 5 October 2009.
AFPAM 63-1701, Program Protection Planning, 27 March 2003
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG), Version 1.6, 24 July 2006, (https://dag.dau.mil)
DoD 5200.1-M, Acquisition Systems Protection Program,16 March 1994
DODI 5000.2-R Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) and
Major Automated Information System (MAIS) Acquisition Programs, October 2002
DODI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection within the Department of
Defense, 16 July 2008
OSD System Engineering Plan (SEP) Preparation Guide, Version 2.01, April 2008
MIL-STD-882D, Standard Practice for System Safety
T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating Resolution (DRI&R) System, 1
May 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
 10                                                AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011


AFMCI—Air Force Material Command Instruction
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPEO/SS—Air Force Program Executive Officer for Strategic Systems
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWC/CC—Commander, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
ANG—Air National Guard
CC—Commander
CE—Chief Engineer
CPI—Critical Program Information
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DAG—Defense Acquisition Guide
DMAP—Depot Maintenance Activation Plan
DMISA—Depot Maintenance Inter-service Support Agreement
DoD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRI&R—Deficiency Reporting Investigation and Resolution
DSOR—Depot Source of Repair
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
ILS—Integrated Logistics Support
ILSP—Integrated Logistics Support Plan
IPT—Integrated Product Team
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
LCSE—Life Cycle Systems Engineering
MAIS—Major Automated Information System
MDAPs—Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs
MIL—STD—Military Standard
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                 11


OBD—OSS&E Baseline Document
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
PM—Program Manager
PSMP—Product Support Management Plan
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF/AQ—Office of the Undersecretary of the Air Force for Acquisitions
SAMP—Single Acquisition Management Plan
SEP—Systems Engineering Plan
TSP—Transfer Support Plan
UID—Unique Identification
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms and Definition
Action Point—The action point is the deficiency reporting focal point between the support point
and the submitting organization.
Chief Engineer—The System PM’s chief technical authority responsible for implementing the
program’s OSS&E and systems engineering technical processes.
Commodity—A group or range of items which possess similar characteristics, have similar
applications, or are susceptible to similar supply management methods.
DMISA—Depot Maintenance Inter-service Support Agreement, is governed by the Joint Depot
Maintenance (JDM) Program regulation, OPNAV INST 4790.14A, AMC-R 750-10, AFI 21-
133(I), MCO P4790.10B, DLAD 4151.16, Logistics, Joint Depot Maintenance policies of DODD
4151.18, Maintenance of Military Material, and DODI 5000.2. The DMISA is a formal
agreement similar to a contract whereby one Military Service (the Agent) agrees to provide depot
maintenance support for another Service (the Principal). It may also be used when a Service is
the Agent and another federal department agency or element thereof is the Principal. Typically,
DMISAs are established to cover depot maintenance and related support functions for weapon
systems, equipment end items, systems, subsystems, components, or commodity groups.
End item—Equipment that can be used by itself to perform a military function. The final
production product, assembled or completed, and ready for issue/deployment.
Life Cycle Management Plan—The integrated acquisition and sustainment strategy for the life
of the system. The LCMP streamlines, consolidates, and makes visible to senior leadership all
aspects of the program.
Lead Engineer—Supports the Chief Engineer with responsibility for implementing systems
engineering technical processes for commodities, sub-systems, or end items. The Lead Engineer
 12                                                       AFNWCI63-109 9 FEBRUARY 2011


responsible for implementing OSS&E and systems engineering technical processes for sub-
systems or end items.
Operational Effectiveness—The overall degree of mission accomplishment of a system or end
item used by representative personnel in the environment planned or expected for operational
employment of the system or end item which considers organization, doctrine, tactics,
survivability, vulnerability and threat.
Operational Safety—The condition of having acceptable risk caused by a system, end item, or
subsystem when employing that system, end item, or subsystem in an operational environment.
This requires the identification of hazards, assessment of risk, determination of mitigating
measures, and acceptance of residual risk.
Operational Suitability—The degree to which a system or end item can be placed satisfactorily
in field use, with consideration given to availability, compatibility, transportability,
interoperability, reliability, safety, human factors, documentation and training requirements
among others.
OSS&E Baseline Document—The OBD describes the collection of information that provides
the essential characteristics and information that must be known to safely and effectively operate,
upgrade, maintain and sustain a specific system or end item. Generally it references the location
of other documents that support the OBD.
Product Group—A set of products that use similar or same production processes, have similar
physical characteristics, or share customer segments, distribution channels, pricing methods, etc.
Systems Engineering—The set of scientific, technical, and managerial efforts needed to
conceive, evolve requirements, develop, verify capabilities, deploy, support, sustain, and dispose
of a robust product, platform, system, or integrated System-of-Systems/Family-of-Systems
capability to meet user needs across the life cycle. (From AFI 63-1201).
Systems Engineering Plan—A living document in which periodic updates capture the
program’s current status and evolving SE implementation and its relationship with the overall
program management effort.
Subsystem—A functional grouping of components that combine to perform a major function
within an element such as electrical power, attitude control, and propulsion.
Sustainment—The provision of logistics and personnel services required to maintain and
prolong operations until successful mission accomplishment.
System—A specific grouping of subsystems, commodities and/or components designed and
integrated to perform a military function.
Transition Support Plan—All system/program transfers shall be conducted IAW this
document. It is prepared by the losing PM in collaboration with their counterparts at the gaining
organization. It shall be maintained until the program transfer is completed, or a determination is
made to terminate the proposed program transfer.
