BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPON CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                       INSTRUCTION 63-105
CENTER
                                                                                12 APRIL 2011

                                                                                     Acquisition

                                                                        PROJECT PLANNING



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication and forms are available digitally on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFNWC/ENS                                                        Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                             (Dr. Yolanda King)
                                                                                      Pages: 14


This Project Planning Instruction provides guidance for establishing and maintaining plans that
define project activities for all programs managed by Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
(AFNWC), except for the 377th Air Base Wing. Specific intent is to decrease the negative
occurrences of cost, schedule, or performance rework for acquisition and sustainment programs
across the AFNWC enterprise. In accordance with Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
(AFMCI) 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), this Instruction applies to AFNWC programs by
aligning technical activities with the acquisition strategy, and is followed by planning of those
technical activities in ever-increasing levels of detail. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. This publication does not apply to the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition      Schedule      (RDS),     located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rms.cfm. This is the initial publication of this
Instruction. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Acronyms.

1. Overview.
   1.1. This Project Planning (PP) Instruction establishes policies and procedures for
   conducting PP for all programs managed by AFNWC. It identifies specific roles and
 2                                                              AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011


     responsibilities of the key players in the PP process, for projects and programs administered
     by the AFNWC. Organizations responsible for implementing the PP processes (as specified
     from higher-level instructions/directives), as well as their responsibilities, are identified in
     this Instruction. In accordance with AFI 33-360_KIRTLANDAFBSUP paragraph 2.3, if
     any guidance in this Instruction conflicts with guidance issued by a higher-level unit, the
     higher-level publication shall take precedence.
     1.2. PP is defined as the coordination of efforts amongst all relevant stakeholders, which
     typically include engineering, financial management, contracting, test, logistics, and program
     management functional areas within the acquisition community. PP starts by aligning the
     technical activities with the acquisition strategy, and is followed by continued planning of the
     associated activities in ever-increasing levels of detail.
2. Scope. This Instruction serves to identify specific roles and responsibilities for AFNWC
subordinate organizations entrusted to carry out the PP activities. The activities identified in this
Instruction address both “established” and “non-established” (pre-Milestone B) programs
managed by the AFNWC. As such, key responsibilities change from one organization to another
(e.g., the Program/Project Manager) throughout the acquisition life cycle. The PP process
presented in this Instruction is intended to codify the Air Force System Engineering Assessment
Model (SEAM) best practices into policy; identify specific roles and responsibilities of the
organizations entrusted with the responsibilities to carry out the PP process; and provide
clarification beyond the guidance presented in AFMCI 63-1201.
3. Roles & Responsibilities. The following responsibilities and authorities are identified as
necessary for the successful accomplishment of AFNWC PP, in accordance with published Air
Force acquisition management practices.
     3.1. AFNWC. PP shall be accomplished by coordinating efforts amongst the AFNWC
     directorates for Engineering (AFNWC/EN), Financial Management (AFNWC/FM),
     Contracting (AFNWC/PK), Test (AFNWC/ENT), Logistics (AFNWC/LG), and Intelligence
     and Capability Integration (AFNWC/XR). Subordinate offices within the AFNWC (e.g.,
     Directorates, Divisions) conducting PP activities that do not have these functional activities
     inherent to their normal operations will obtain assistance from any of the other AFNWC
     directorates, as necessary.
     3.2. AFNWC Program/Project Manager (PM).
        3.2.1. The Program Manager will be the primary decision authority for programs during
        the PP process. Until a program becomes an Established Program (i.e., post-Milestone
        B), AFNWC/XR will ensure the necessary acquisition manpower is provided to support
        the User in the administration of PP, and, with close coordination with the User, serves as
        the Project Manager.
        3.2.2. The PM shall request resources needed to support PP process, develop the work
        products, and provide the necessary services of the process, as needed. Resources will
        include adequate funding, appropriate physical facilities, and skilled personnel with
        appropriate tools.
        3.2.3. The PM shall assign responsibility and authority for performing the process,
        developing work products, and providing the services of the process. In assigning
        accountability, the PM will ensure the achievement of specified results throughout the
AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011                                                                       3


       life of the program. The PM will assign responsibility using detailed job descriptions
       and/or project documents, and ensure designated personnel have documented authority to
       perform the assigned responsibilities.
       3.2.4. The PM (or appointed designee) shall monitor and control the PP process,
       ensuring that cost, schedule, performance, and risk parameters are met.
       3.2.5. The PM will also identify a Process Point of Contact for this process, whose
       responsibility is to review this PP process annually and track recommended changes. The
       POC will also ensure that training is performed in accordance with the training section of
       this process.
   3.3. Chief Engineer (CE).
       3.3.1. The project’s CE shall establish and maintain plans for performing the PP process.
       The CE shall review the activities, status and results of the PP process with the PM (and
       higher level management as necessary), and resolve any identified problems. Subsequent
       to reviewing the PP process, the CE will coordinate with the Process POC and provide
       recommendations to the PM regarding policy, process and resources to facilitate
       improvement. The CE will continue to monitor activities to ensure compliance with this
       process.
       3.3.2. Until a program becomes an Established Program (i.e., post-Milestone B),
       AFNWC/XR will identify the activities, resources, and schedule required to accomplish
       the above-specified activities.
   3.4. The User. The User is defined here as Air Force Global Strike Command, who is the
   primary user of the systems developed by AFNWC and will be indirectly or directly involved
   in most, if not all, aspects of PP. Other Users may include United States Air Forces Europe,
   Air Armament Center and Air Combat Command. The User will provide requirements and
   support to AFNWC during the PP process.
4. Process. The documented process, as part of this Instruction, provides the basis for planning,
performing and managing the activities, work products, and services associated with the PP
process. Figure 1 is a general representation of the specific PP steps necessary for the successful
execution of program planning.
 4                                                             AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011


Figure 1.1. AFNWC Project Planning Process




     4.1. Planning Scope of Technical Effort.
        4.1.1. During program planning, the PM, with specific input from the CE as appropriate,
        shall establish and maintain estimates of planning factors. The following areas must be
        considered and tailored with regard to the specific type of program being planned, i.e.,
        study contract, production contract, sustainment contract, etc.
        4.1.2. As part of planning the scope of the technical effort, the PM, with specific input
        from the CE as appropriate, shall define the project life cycle phases, milestones, and key
        decision points. Include in the planning, the entire known life cycle from user needs
        through initial and subsequent upgrades. Develop entry and exit criteria for each project
        milestone or key decision point.
        4.1.3. Establishment of Planning Factors. During program planning, the PM, in close
        coordination with the CE, shall document the “planning factors” for the program. For the
        purposes of program planning, “planning factors” include all areas that ultimately can
        affect program planning in regard to cost, performance, or schedule. A variety of sources
        for requirements must be considered. Such sources include, but may not be limited to the
        User’s Initial Capabilities Document, the User’s Capability Development Document, the
        Concept of Operations, etc.
AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011                                                                        5


     4.1.4. The program team should reference DoD Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the
     Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008, Enclosure 4, Table 4, (Regulatory
     Contract Reporting Requirements) for applicable acquisition requirements.
     4.1.5. Estimate Program Scope. The PM shall establish and maintain the scope of the
     work products and tasks that describe the project cost and schedule. Define the attributes,
     e.g., weight, size, lines of code, reliability, security, resource requirements, and signature,
     that scope each product-component and task that are of concern to the project. Estimates
     of the attributes of the work products and tasks are then used to bind the budget and
     schedule. Integrated Baseline Reviews shall be conducted, whereby the work product
     and task attributes are defined and reviewed.
     4.1.6. Establishment of Work Breakdown Structure (WBS).
         4.1.6.1. Once the planning factors for the program have been established, the PM
         shall establish a WBS to organize the effort. The WBS will be developed using
         guidance from the Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG), paragraph 4.5.4.2.,
         (Work Breakdown Structure.)
         4.1.6.2. Creation of a top-level WBS will assist the Air Force and the Prime
         Contractor to establish the time and material required for each activity. Early
         estimates for the top-level WBS may be used for program planning purposes with the
         User to support budget planning activities, etc. The PM shall compare early estimates
         to previous program efforts or similar programs.
     4.1.7. Estimate Program Cost and Schedule.
         4.1.7.1. The PM, in coordination with his financial management specialist and the
         CE, shall establish, validate, and maintain estimates for cost and schedule. Said cost
         and schedule estimates of the work products shall require independent review (i.e.,
         sufficiency review) of the estimates by individuals external to the project to ensure
         that the project estimation is validated.
         4.1.7.2. Once the hours to accomplish program activities have been established, the
         CE shall document personnel resources via a staffing plan that is factored into the
         program schedule. Once the staffing plan and schedule have been established, a
         major portion of the program cost estimate can be generated. Prior to contract award,
         the WBS may be further subdivided as required for increased fidelity. By following
         these steps, the program cost and schedule estimates are established and maintained.
         4.1.7.3. The CE shall establish estimates for all non-contractor activities, such as
         program office support, Advisory & Assistance Services requirements, test range
         costs, test platform costs, etc.
  4.2. Development of Acquisition Strategy. The acquisition strategy will be developed in
  conjunction with the acquisition team and the relevant stakeholders. The PM will develop
  Acquisition Program Baselines (APB), Technology Development Strategies, and Acquisition
  Strategies using the DAG as a reference. In addition to cost and schedule estimates for the
  program, the following items must also be integrated into the acquisition strategy for
  accomplishing the technical aspects of the program.
6                                                         AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011


    4.2.1. Schedule Development. During program planning, the PM shall establish an
    overall program schedule which encompasses pre-contract award items as well as
    contractor events. Refer to DAG section 2.2.4. (Top Level Integrated Schedule) for
    guidance.
    4.2.2. Systems Engineering Plan (SEP).
       4.2.2.1. The CE shall establish and maintain engineering plans to accomplish the
       project and capture the integrated systems engineering efforts. These plans shall
       describe the project’s requirements and constraints, approach to technical staffing and
       organization, baseline management, and reviews. Planning activities shall also ensure
       major project risks are duly considered.
       4.2.2.2. All OSD oversight programs (Acquisition Category (ACAT) ID, IAC, IAM,
       and special interest) shall have a SEP. All other programs (e.g., non-ACAT, ACAT
       IC, II & III), shall have their common system engineering strategies documented in
       an Organizational Systems Engineering Plan, to include, if necessary, associated
       system engineering process Operating Instructions, and/or a Life Cycle Management
       Plan (LCMP), for program unique system engineering strategies. Refer to DAG
       section 4.5.1. (Systems Engineering Plan) for guidance.
    4.2.3. Integrated Master Plan and Integrated Master Schedule.
       4.2.3.1. The PM shall establish and maintain an Integrated Master Plan (IMP) and
       Integrated Master Schedule (IMS). In creating the IMP, the PM shall develop an
       event-driven plan that describes the events, significant accomplishments, and
       accomplishment criteria needed to complete the project tasks described in the WBS.
       Refer to DAG section 2.2.4. (Top-Level Integrated Schedule), section 4.5.2.
       (Integrated Master Plan) and 4.5.3. (Integrated Master Schedule) for guidance.
    4.2.4. Program Baselines. The PM shall document the cost, schedule, and performance
    baselines for the program. Cost and schedule baselines will be used throughout the
    program as benchmark measures of execution. The schedule baseline should consist of
    key program milestones, such as Developmental Test and Evaluation start, Operational
    Test and Evaluation start, Production Readiness Review, and Required Assets Available
    review. Refer to DAG Chapter 2. (Acquisition Program Baselines, Tech Development
    Strategies, and Acquisition Strategies) for guidance.
    4.2.5. Risk Management. The PM shall establish a plan for risk management activities
    in accordance with appropriate AFNWC Risk Management guidance. Top program risks
    shall be documented along with risk mitigation plans, to include funding, schedule, and
    resources required for risk mitigation. Refer to DAG section 8.4.4.1. (Risk Management
    in Systems Engineering) for guidance.
    4.2.6. Configuration Management. The CE shall establish a plan for the management of
    appropriate technical program data in accordance with applicable AFNWC configuration
    management policies. The CE shall consider how technical data, to include informal
    data, as well as formal project data and plans, will be shared with all relevant
    stakeholders. Refer to DAG section 4.2.3.1.6. (Configuration Management) for
    guidance.
AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011                                                                        7


     4.2.7. Required Resources. The PM shall assign responsibility for acquisition and
     sustainment management, support, and product enhancement. The PM shall define the
     roles and responsibilities of the user, acquirer, suppliers, testers and enablers for the life-
     cycle of the product. Further, the PM shall ensure that relevant stakeholders are involved
     early in the acquisition planning processes by explicitly identifying organizational
     responsibility for support and enhancements. The CE shall plan for necessary resources,
     including personnel knowledge and skills, to perform the project tasks. The CE shall not
     only plan for personnel resources (e.g., acquirer, suppliers or others), but also for tools,
     infrastructure (including integration and test facilities) and services required during the
     life of the project. Refer to DAG section 2.2.11. (Resource Management) for guidance.
     4.2.8. Review Acquisition Strategy with Stakeholders. The PM shall review the
     acquisition strategy with relevant stakeholders on a periodic basis as it is being developed
     and finalized. In addition, the PM shall plan the involvement of identified stakeholders
     from other projects or communities to ensure the delivered product can perform as
     required, in its intended environment, when it has to interoperate with other products.
     4.2.9. Logistics Planning. During program planning, the PM shall review (and document
     any changes to) the applicable logistics and support items, such as (but not limited to)
     manpower, maintenance support concepts, repair concepts, spares, supply concepts,
     storage and transportation requirements, etc. Refer to DAG Chapter 5 (Life Cycle
     Logistics) for guidance. As part of logistics planning, the PM must necessarily plan for
     product Reliability, Availability, and Maintainability (RAM). As such, the PM, in
     consultation with the CE, shall define such activities as reliability modeling, failure
     modes effects and criticality analyses, accelerated life testing, and reliability
     demonstration testing needed to achieve and demonstrate the product RAM requirements.
     4.2.10. Security Planning. During program planning, the PM, assisted by the CE, shall
     accomplish a security review of the program to document Critical Program Information,
     whether technology insertion plans include items on the Military Critical Technology
     List, and whether other technical or programmatic considerations affect security
     planning, e.g., Foreign Military Sales or Anti-Tamper (AT) requirements. Refer to DAG
     section 8.5.1.2. (System Security Engineering Planning) for guidance.
     4.2.11. Solicitation Package. The CE shall establish the technical aspects of a
     solicitation package that include all technical requirements and planning factors
     necessary for the contractor to understand the contract scope and prepare a detailed
     proposal. During the review of the Prime Contractor’s response to the solicitation
     package, the CE shall perform an assessment to ensure all planning factors and technical
     requirements of the acquisition have been addressed.
     4.2.12. Data Requirements. For all acquisitions having a total estimated contract cost
     over $5M, a Data Requirements Review Board (DRRB) will be an integral part of the
     Review-Discuss-Concur (RDC) contracting process. The PM shall establish all data
     requirements during the pre-RDC discussions. The acquisition Procuring Contracting
     Officer will serve as the chair of the DRRB.
     4.2.13. Manufacturing Readiness Level Assessment. If the program is production in
     nature, The CE shall review the Manufacturing Readiness Levels (MRLs) for the system,
     and all associated sub-assemblies and components, and document the findings. MRL
8                                                             AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011


       levels are defined by the DoD acquisition community as the ability to harness the
       capabilities of the industrial base to achieve an operational warfighting capability that
       satisfies mission needs in the quantity, cost and quality needed by the warfighter to carry
       out assigned missions. Refer to DAG section 2.3.9. (Industrial Capability and
       Manufacturing Readiness) for guidance.
       4.2.14. Establish and Maintain the Technology Development Strategy.
           4.2.14.1. The CE shall identify potential technology constraints and develop an
           approach for overcoming each constraint using an appropriate mitigation approach
           and/or technology insertion at the appropriate time in the life cycle. Provide
           mechanisms for identifying technology alternatives. Plan activities and establish
           criteria for assessing, validating, and transitioning emerging technologies. The CE
           shall specify whether new technologies are to be incorporated into technical planning
           for the program. If there are new technologies required, the PM should consider
           documenting the plan for technology insertion via a Technology Development
           Strategy. Refer to DAG section 2.2. (Pre-Systems Acquisition: Technology
           Development Strategy) for guidance. New technologies should be managed via in
           accordance with appropriate AFNWC Risk Management guidance.
           4.2.14.2. Additionally, if the program is developmental in nature, the CE shall review
           the Technology Readiness Levels (TRL) for the system and document the results.
           Programs must achieve and demonstrate TRL Level 6 before major defense
           acquisition programs enter the System Development and Demonstration phase.
       4.2.15. Review All Plans to Ensure Integration and Consistency. The PM shall review
       all plans to understand commitments and ensure the technical plans and are integrated
       and consistent, and to ensure that a common understanding of the scope, objectives, roles
       and relationships, authority, responsibility, accountability, and control for all project
       technical activities is clear to all relevant stakeholders.
    4.3. Documentation of Acquisition Strategy.
       4.3.1. Acquisition Plan (AP) or Life Cycle Management Plan. The PM shall generate a
       new AP (if required), LCMP (if required), or update the existing AP or LCMP (if
       needed). Refer to DAG section 2.3.15. (Life Cycle Sustainment Planning) for guidance.
       4.3.2. Acquisition Program Baseline.      Once the acquisition strategy has been
       documented, the PM shall document the major aspects of the program with regard to cost,
       schedule, performance and any other technical planning factors, in an APB, if required,
       as overseen by the Program Executive Officer. If the APB is required, it shall be updated
       whenever there are changes to the documented program baseline thresholds.
       4.3.3. Acquisition Strategy & Program Sufficiency Review. The PM shall ensure the
       technical plans and overall acquisition strategies are integrated and consistent. The
       acquisition strategy, which should address all areas as defined and called out in this
       process, will be briefed during the Program Sufficiency Review.
       4.3.4. Resources
           4.3.4.1. The CE shall review the acquisition strategy and document all required
           resources.   Required resources (test ranges, test platforms, test schedules,
AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011                                                                   9


        Government Furnished Property), funding (test assets) and schedules (test asset build
        readiness) should be verified for availability with all available stakeholders. The
        intent is to strive to reconcile the technical plans to reflect available and estimated
        resources. The PM shall de-scope the effort to match available resources, e.g.,
        personnel, facilities, stakeholders, schedule, funding, when inadequate to accomplish
        the technical effort. If this is not feasible, the PM shall identify and address the
        consequent risks.
        4.3.4.2. The PM shall obtain commitment from relevant stakeholders responsible for
        performing and supporting execution, coordinating and obtaining approval from these
        stakeholders on major plans. The program office shall identify needed support and
        negotiate commitments during plan development, documenting commitments to
        ensure a consistent mutual understanding, as well as for tracking and maintenance.
        Refer to DAG section 2.2.11. (Resource Management) and DAG section 3.5.
        (Manpower Estimates) for guidance.
     4.3.5. Test & Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP). The PM, in coordination with the CE,
     shall create a program TEMP or update the existing TEMP prior to any contract award
     containing technical review milestones such as a Preliminary Design Review (PDR)
     and/or Critical Design Review (CDR). Historically, PDR and CDR are post-Milestone B
     events, but this may not be the case for future acquisition planning. Refer to DAG
     section 9.6.2. (Test & Evaluation Master Plan) for guidance.
     4.3.6. Programmatic Environmental Safety & Health Evaluation (PESHE). The PM
     shall create a program PESHE (or update the existing PESHE) prior to any contract
     award containing technical review milestones such as the PDR and CDR. Historical
     guidance inferred that PDR and CDR were post Milestone B events, which may not be
     the case for future acquisition planning. Refer to DAG section 4.4.7.1. (PESHE) for
     guidance.
     4.3.7. System Safety Plan. The CE shall perform a safety analysis to assess whether the
     system poses or contains hazards. If it is determined that hazards exist, the PM shall
     develop a System Safety Plan (or update an existing plan) to document hazards, the
     program’s safety processes, and mitigation plans. Refer to MIL-STD-882D, DoD
     Standard Practice for System Safety, 10 February 2000, for guidance.
     4.3.8. Security. The PM shall generate a new Program Protection Plan (PPP), Security
     Classification Guide (SCG), and Anti-Tamper Plan, if required, or update the existing
     PPP, SCG and AT Plan, if needed. Refer to DAG section 8.4.6.5. (Security
     Classification Guide), section 8.5.1. (System Security Engineering) and section 8.5.3.
     (Anti-Tamper) for guidance.
     4.3.9. Cost Sufficiency Review. Once the program cost and schedule estimates have
     been established, the PM should establish a Program Office Estimate (POE). The POE
     must be established via bottoms-up estimate, comparison to similar efforts, engineering
     judgment, or other methods as appropriate. The POE should be validated through the
     Cost Sufficiency Review process and maintained throughout the life of the program.
     Refer to DAG section 3.4 (Cost Estimation for Major Defense Acquisition Programs) for
     guidance.
 10                                                         AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011


        4.3.10. Expectation Management Agreement (EMA). Once the acquisition strategy has
        been documented, the PM shall document the major aspects of the program with regard
        to cost, schedule, performance and any other major considerations, in an EMA
        coordinated between the Prime Contractor (if required), and the User. The EMA shall be
        updated and re-coordinated whenever there are changes to the documented baselines and
        requirements therein. Typically, the EMA is reviewed annually or prior to program
        milestones.
        4.3.11. Mandatory Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) Certification.              MDA
        Certification is required for ACAT Ix programs prior to Milestone B, as mandated by the
        Weapon System Acquisition Reform Act of 2009. Refer to DAG Enclosure 4, Table 2-1.
        (Statutory Requirements Applicable to MDAPs and MAIS) for guidance. A sample
        template for the required MDA certification memorandum statement is shown in
        Attachment 2.

5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

5.1. Adopted Forms
      AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            EVERETT H. THOMAS
                                            Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011                                                                  11


                                       Attachment 1
                   GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND ACRONYMS

References
Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG), 12 December 2009, (https://dag.dau.mil)
Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) System Engineering Plan (SEP) Preparation Guide,
Version 2.01, April 2008
AFI 33-360 (Kirtland AFB Supplement 1), Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LSCE), 14 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AF Systems Engineering Assessment Model (SEAM) Management Guide, Version 1, 1 August
2008
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
MIL-STD-882D, DoD Standard Practice for System Safety, 10 February 2000

Acronyms and Abbreviations
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWC/EN—Directorate for Engineering
AFNWC/ENT—Directorate for Test
AFNWC/FM—Directorate for Financial Management
AFNWC/LG—Directorate for Logistics
AFNWC/PK—Directorate for Contracting
AFNWC/XR—Directorate for Intelligence and Capability Integration
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management
ANG—Air National Guard
AP—Acquisition Plan
APB—Acquisition Program Baseline
AT—Anti-Tamper
CDR—Critical Design Review
 12                                                       AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011


CE—Chief Engineer
DoD—Department of Defense
DRRB—Data Requirements Review Board
EMA—Expectation Management Agreement
IMP—Integrated Master Plan
IMS—Integrated Master Schedule
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
LCSE—Life Cycle Systems Engineering
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MRL—Manufacturing Readiness Level
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PESHE—Programmatic Environmental Safety & Health Evaluation
PM—Program Manager (Project Manager)
POE—Program Office Estimate
PP—Project Planning
PPP—Program Protection Plan
RAM—Reliability, Availability & Maintainability
RDC—Review Discuss Concur
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SEAM—Systems Engineering Assessment Model
SCG—Security Classification Guide
SEP—System Engineering Plan
TEMP—Test & Evaluation Master Plan
TRL—Technology Readiness Level
WBS—Work Breakdown Structure

Terms and Definitions
ACAT IAC—A major automated information system acquisition program for which the MDA is
the DoD Component’s Acquisition Executive.
ACAT IAM—A major automated information system acquisition program for which the MDA
is the Chief Information Officer of the DoD.
AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011                                                            13


ACAT IC—A major defense acquisition program for which the MDA is the DoD Component’s
Acquisition Executive.
ACAT ID—A major defense acquisition program for which the MDA is the Undersecretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics.
ACAT II—A defense acquisition program that does not meet the criteria for an ACAT I
program, but does meet the criteria for a Major System.
ACAT III— A defense acquisition program that does not meet the criteria for an ACAT I, or
ACAT IA, or an ACAT II program, and the MDA is designated by the DoD Component’s
Acquisition Executive and shall be at the lowest appropriate level.
 14                                                            AFNWCI63-105 12 APRIL 2011


                                          Attachment 2
                           MANDATORY MDA CERTIFICATION

The following template is to be used for the Required Statement for Milestone Decision Authority
Certification Memorandum Prior to Milestone B or Key Decision Point B Approval (if required). It
is to be completed by the MDA without modification.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Program Certification

As required by the Weapon System Acquisition Reform Act of 2009, I certify for the (name of
program) that:

1) The technology in the program has been demonstrated in a relevant environment;

2) The program demonstrates a high likelihood of accomplishing its intended mission;

3) The program is affordable when considering the per unit cost and the total acquisition cost in the
context of the total resources available during the period covered by the future-years defense
program submitted during the fiscal year in which the certification is made;

4) The Department of Defense (DoD) has completed an analysis of alternatives with respect to the
program;

5) The program is affordable when considering the ability of the DoD to accomplish the program's
mission using alternative systems;

6) The Joint Requirements Oversight Council has accomplished its duties with respect to the
program pursuant to section 18l(b) of title 10, United States Code, including an analysis of the
operational requirements for the program; and,

7) The program complies with all relevant policies, regulations, and directives of the DoD.
