BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                 (AFNWC) INSTRUCTION 63-113
CENTER
                                                                              7 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                        Acquisition

                                                               COMPREHENSIVE COST AND
                                                            REQUIREMENTS (CCAR) SYSTEM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AFNWC/FMP                                                          Certified by: AFNWC/FM
                                                                             (Mr. Jose R. Aragon)
                                                                                        Pages: 15




This AFNWC Instruction (AFNWCI) establishes guidance and procedures governing all actions
pertaining to the use of CCaR by AFNWC and AFNWC subordinate units. An Under Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (USD AT&L) memorandum, dated May
2005, recognized Web CCaR as the preferred requirements management tool for the Air Force,
and a Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) memorandum dated June 2005
identified CCaR as the preferred tool for requirements management within the Command. Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 3 Aug 11,
mandates that all investment dollars be budgeted and executed in Web CCaR. This instruction
applies to all Department of Defense (DoD) personnel assigned to and all contractor personnel
supporting AFNWC. In the event of conflict between provisions in this instruction and higher -
level AFMC or United States Air Force (USAF) guidance, higher headquarters (HHQ) policy
will take precedence. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command units. This
publication does not apply to the Air National Guard. This publication does not apply to the Civil
Air Patrol. Ensure that all records created as a result of this process are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm./. See Attachment 1 for Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.
 2                                                         AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013




1. Applicability and Scope. This instruction establishes consistent and uniform CCaR
responsibilities throughout AFNWC. It establishes the guidelines and procedures for AFNWC
and subordinate organization personnel, who approve, implement, manage, or review CCaR
activities and products.
2. Background/Overview. CCaR is a program management tool. As the AFNWC system of
record for requirements validation and tracking, the CCaR database provides life-cycle
information on each requirement and an archiving capability for historical purposes. CCaR is
used to document, manage and report all AFNWC requirements. CCaR users shall strive to
ensure that the system always contains timely and accurate information.
3. Primary Purposes of CCaR.
     3.1. AFNWC organizations and their designated Program/Project Managers (PMs) utilize
     CCaR to do the following:
        3.1.1. Capture cost, schedule, and performance data. Data in CCaR constitutes formal
        recognition of a program’s existence within the AFNWC portfolio (IAW AFI63-101).
        3.1.2. Manage program requirements.
        3.1.3. Report programmatic information.
        3.1.4. Facilitate and track all financial execution of appropriated funds.
     3.2. CCaR data for programs on the Acquisition Master List (AML) interfaces with the
     System Metric and Reporting Tool (SMART) and Executive CCaR systems, providing real-
     time visibility to higher level leadership.
4. Roles and Responsibilities. CCAR roles at AFNWC are defined at the directorate level and
therefore not addressed in this instruction. Directorates may adhere to the AF CCaR Guidebook,
or they may exercise flexibility in assigning specific responsibilities to specific roles. In any
case, each organization must accomplish the following:
     4.1. Utilize CCaR as their overarching program and financial management tool.
     4.2. Ensure all users obtain CCaR training and maintain a CCaR account.
     4.3. Provide CCaR administrative support that resolves CCaR-specific user issues and
     coordinates system improvements.
     4.4. Determine overall program requirements and ensure they are captured in CCaR.
        4.4.1. Assign individuals as Officers with Primary Responsibility (OPRs) who create,
        manage, and update program requirements in CCaR.
        4.4.2. Maintain a record of all CCaR assignments and delegations.
        4.4.3. Ensure appropriate individuals in addition to OPRs have access to CCaR records
        by adding them to ―Points of Contact‖ field as ―Backup-OPRs.‖
        4.4.4. Designate replacement Primary OPRs for all CCaR records when current Primary
        OPRs are out-processing, ensuring transfer of accountability is in place.
     4.5. Establish CCaR record and funding document approval flows, ensuring the following:
AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                3


      4.5.1. That proper source(s), appropriation(s), fiscal year(s) (FYs), and Budget Program
      Activity Code(s) (BPACs) are selected;
      4.5.2. That they are in accordance with HHQ financial guidance, statutes, laws, and
      regulations with respect to funds propriety, bona fide need, and Anti-Deficiency Act
      (ADA);
      4.5.3. That there is a valid, accurate, and documented funding estimate for each
      requirement that covers the entire period of performance (PoP);
      4.5.4. That attachments provide comprehensive documentation to support audits or
      inspection reviews;
      4.5.5. That records conform to standards and guidance provided in Figure 1 and the AF
      CCaR Guidebook.
   4.6. Allocate/distribute approved budget (APPR) and authorized budget (AUTH) in the
   CCaR Budget Authority Editor (BAE) at the individual CCaR record level.
   4.7. Generate all funding documents and other required documentation utilizing the CCaR
   interface with the Automated Business Services System (ABSS)—with the exception of
   Form 206s and 181s, which are generated using the Job Order ProductionMaster System
   (JOPMS).
   4.8. Establish and maintain realistic execution forecasts and Continuing Resolution
   Authority (CRA) plans as outlined below in 5.7. Forecasting and 5.7.5. CRA Forecasting.
   4.9. Coordinate New Start Validation (NSV) Forms (AFI 63-101, Attachment 3), ensuring
   planned work performed falls within the scope of the President’s Budget (PB) or has been
   properly coordinated with Congress as a New Start.
   4.10. Build lines of accounting (LOAs) in the Air Force Base Level General Accounting and
   Finance System as needed, and submit target load sheets to load authorized funding against
   those LOAs (see below, 5.6. Target Loading).
   4.11. Ensure timely and accurate CCaR/Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS)
   financial execution reconciliation of assigned records.
   4.12. Utilize CCaR to create BMR charts and other CCaR reports/tools, as required for
   meetings, reviews, and data calls.
5. Procedures.
   5.1. Requirements Capture. The CCaR process tracks program requirements from cradle
   to grave. Capturing and updating requirements in individual CCaR records is critical.
      5.1.1. Requirements are the operational and technical elements necessary to execute the
      effort successfully in an unconstrained environment. A CCaR requirement is defined as a
      discrete element of cost necessary for an organization’s or program’s success.
      5.1.2. A requirement must be expressed in dollars in order to exist in CCaR.
      5.1.3. Requirements are captured in CCaR as soon as they are known. Records are
      updated as details are defined.
4                                                         AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013


       5.1.4. All approved AFNWC CCaR records, by definition, contain requirements that
       have been vetted via the CCaR record coordination process. Organizations within
       AFNWC may have additional processes in place to vet and approve requirements prior to
       entering them in CCaR. Those processes do not circumvent the need for CCaR
       coordination and approval.
       5.1.5. Requirements approval does not constitute funding approval.
       5.1.6. The CCaR record is used as the requirements description document to support the
       request and authorization to incur a government liability (i.e., to execute funds).
       5.1.7. CCaR records must meet the minimum standards outlined in Figure 1.
    5.2. Coordination Cycle. All CCaR records must go through a coordination cycle for
    review and approval. This cycle is the means by which AFNWC requirements are approved.
       5.2.1. Alternative cycles may be tailored to organizations’ specific needs. In the absence
       of an approved alternative, organizations will utilize the coordination cycle detailed in the
       AF CCaR Guidebook.
       5.2.2. All coordinators/approvers share a responsibility to maintain, and improve, the
       overall integrity of the CCaR database by applying the standards outlined in Figure 1 and
       the AF CCaR Guidebook.
       5.2.3. Once the final authority coordinates, the requirement is officially valid and the
       representative record is assigned a CCaR number.
    5.3. Funds Allocation. Once a requirement is approved, either APPR and AUTH may be
    allocated against it.
       5.3.1. Unfunded requirements (UFRs). UFRs are generated when the APPR budget
       allocated is less than the requirement.
       5.3.2. The method by which an organization determines how requirements are reviewed,
       prioritized, phased, and funded is outside the scope of this instruction. However, CCaR
       data is, whenever possible, a direct input to the budget decision-making process. The
       resulting budget decisions are direct inputs back into CCaR, whether an organization
       utilizes a Baseline Control Board, Acquisition Change Board, Resource Management
       Board, or any other mechanism.
       5.3.3. The ―1537‖ is the specific CCaR report used to capture and communicate
       budgetary status and decisions. It provides constrained or unconstrained budget
       information across the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP), and can be broken out at
       the CCaR record level or rolled up to a level appropriate for the decisions being made.
    5.4. Budget Structure. AFNWC utilizes a master and sub budget structure to maintain
    funds control and ensure that funds execution in CCaR matches the execution in the Air
    Force accounting system as reported by DFAS.
       5.4.1. Master Budgets. AFNWC/FM establishes and loads funds to CCaR master
       budgets at the BPAC level.
          5.4.1.1. The naming convention for investment funds master budgets is Program
          Element Code (PEC)_Appropriation_BPAC. E.g.: 11125F_3600_B657007
AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 5


        5.4.1.2. The naming convention for expense (Operations & Maintenance (O&M))
        funds master budgets is PEC_Appropriation. E.g.: 78070F_3400
        5.4.1.3. No investment funds are executed out of master budgets. Funds only remain
        at the master level until they can be transferred to a sub budget for execution.
        5.4.1.4. O&M funds are executed at the master (stand-alone) budget level as well as
        at the sub budget level, depending upon the program.
        5.4.1.5. There is a generic master budget set up for each appropriation to capture
        unfunded mission support requirements. These budgets contain zero APPR and
        AUTH; they exist so that new, not yet approved/funded shared mission support (MS)
        CCaR records have a budget to link to in order to establish their requirements. As
        soon as funding is approved for these records, AFNWC/FM links them to funded MS
        sub budgets.
     5.4.2. Sub Budgets. AFNWC/FM establishes and loads funds to CCaR sub budgets at
     the program/project level, by location, and to distinguish between program and shared
     MS costs.
        5.4.2.1. The naming convention for investment sub budgets is BPAC_Project/
        Program_Location_ Directorate (if applicable)_MS identification (if applicable). E.g.:
        B654807_CBRN_NWC_NCD_MS
        5.4.2.2. Distributed Budgets. If a project is executed at an operating location and/or
        in a CCaR database other than AFNWC at Kirtland AFB, AFNWC/FM will send
        funds to that project via the CCaR distributed budget function.
            5.4.2.2.1. Each set of sub budgets for a given program/project has a
            corresponding Control Serial Number (CSN) that maintains program/project
            identity in the AF accounting system.
            5.4.2.2.2. Organizations receiving distributed budgets must utilize LOAs
            containing the CSN that identifies the project they are executing.
        5.4.2.3. AFNWC/FM utilizes MS sub budgets to ensure that the costs of specific MS
        requirements are tied to specific programs/projects while the overall cost is shared
        evenly across the portfolio.
            5.4.2.3.1. For planning purposes, a given percentage of a program’s/project’s
            budget in each FY is withheld in a MS sub budget. In the year of execution, actual
            funds needed for approved MS requirements are executed out of the MS sub
            budget and the remainder, if any, is returned to the program office by transferring
            it to the program sub budget at portfolio leadership discretion.
            5.4.2.3.2. The Investment Financial Working Group (iFWG) and Investment
            Resource Management Board (iRMB) are the decision-making bodies that
            interface with CCaR for investment-funded MS costs.
            5.4.2.3.3. The Financial Working Group (FWG) and Resource Management
            Board (RMB) are the decision-making bodies that interface with CCaR for O&M-
            funded MS costs.
6                                                          AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013


           5.4.2.4. When the funding in a given BPAC is split between two or more
           organizations within AFNWC, and when the funding allocations between those
           organizations are not made implicit by the PB, said organizations must either work
           out a mutual agreement or seek adjudication through their respective leaderships.
           5.4.2.5. All decisions regarding funding allocations between sub budgets must be
           communicated to AFNWC/FM, who will in turn allocate and distribute APPR and
           AUTH as necessary.
       5.4.3. Composite Budgets. Master and sub budgets are combined in CCaR to create
       composite budgets for the purpose of reporting roll-up data in reviews and reports.
       AFNWC/FM maintains a comprehensive set of composite budgets utilizing a standard
       naming convention. Users shall select existing budgets rather than create new ones.
    5.5. Higher Headquarters (HHQ) Withholds. AFNWC never receives funds that are
    withheld at the HHQ level. Until final FY distribution, AFNWC programs must account for,
    and have a plan to execute, the full known value of their budgets. A separate ―placeholder‖
    CCaR record is used for this purpose.
       5.5.1. HHQ Placeholder Record. A CCaR record is built, either by AFNWC/FM or the
       program office, which captures the percentage of the program’s budget anticipated to be
       withheld at the HHQ level.
           5.5.1.1. HHQ placeholder records reside in the program sub budget, not the MS sub
           budget, because they represent funds that would be executed by the program if they
           were not withheld at the HHQ level.
           5.5.1.2. After final distribution, the HHQ placeholder CCaR record’s RQMT and
           APPR for that FY are zeroed out, reducing the overall program/project value to match
           the reductions made at HHQ.
           5.5.1.3. Organizations adjust their overall APPR to match the AUTH when they do
           not expect any more funding in a given FY. The amount reduced is recorded in the
           BAE and used to reconcile the final APPR/AUTH with the original PB. The HHQ
           placeholder CCaR is the primary means to record those adjustments.
    5.6. Target Loading. CCaR interfaces with the Air Force accounting systems. Funding
    allocations done in CCaR do not affect individual LOAs until a target load is done.
       5.6.1. LOAs may be out of balance at the Program Summary Record (PSR) level, so long
       as the funds loaded in CCaR match the funds loaded in the Air Force accounting systems
       at the Fund Summary Record (FSR) level. Target loads do not need to be done every time
       funds are reallocated between a given program’s CCaR records (e.g., when an OPR
       requests that travel funds be shifted to supplies).
       5.6.2. CCaR does require that all LOAs within a given FSR be in balance down to the
       PSR level when submitting a target load sheet. There are a number of occasions when a
       target load sheet is submitted and therefore the submitter must balance every LOA:
           5.6.2.1. Initial and subsequent distributions
           5.6.2.2. After HHQ funds realignments
           5.6.2.3. At end of year
AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  7


        5.6.2.4. Under Continuing Resolution Authority (CRA)
        5.6.2.5. When establishing new LOAs
     5.6.3. Submitters may balance LOAs additionally at their discretion, such as at end of
     month.
  5.7. Forecasting. CCaR forecasting phases commitments, obligations, and expenditures,
  collectively known as program execution, over future periods and events.
     5.7.1. The Commitment forecast field is used to capture CRA plans (see section 5.7.5).
     5.7.2. Obligation forecasts are required for all appropriations.
     5.7.3. Expenditure forecasts are required for RDT&E (3600) funds only.
     5.7.4. Forecast Versions. For each kind of forecast, there are three different versions:
     suggested, current, and baseline.
        5.7.4.1. The suggested plan may be used at an organization’s discretion but is not
        required.
        5.7.4.2. The current plan captures the most up-to-date data of when obligation and
        expenditure events will occur.
        5.7.4.3. The current plan is balanced to the approved budget and flows to BMR
        charts and other CCaR data outputs, to include SMART and Executive CCaR
        interfaces.
        5.7.4.4. The current plan is fluid and normally changes throughout the life of the
        effort. It is updated on a monthly basis or when real life changes occur.
        5.7.4.5. The baseline plan is reviewed and approved by an organization at the start of
        the FY. Once locked, the baseline plan normally does not change throughout the year
        except to reflect significant program changes, to include Congressional adds or cuts.
     5.7.5. CRA Forecasting. Organizations record their CRA forecasts in the commitment
     plan field.
        5.7.5.1. A CRA forecast is not the same thing as an obligation forecast.
            5.7.5.1.1. A CRA forecast represents the minimum dollar amount needed to keep
            a given effort going through the duration of the CRA increment timeframe. An
            obligation forecast reflects the maximum dollar amounts that would be obligated
            under a best case distribution.
            5.7.5.1.2. A CRA forecast reflects a hard need-by date, by which funds must be
            in hand in order to execute and prevent work stoppages or slowdowns. An
            obligation forecast represents a realistic projection of when a funding execution
            event will post in DFAS, which could be weeks after the funds were needed in
            hand to effect a contract action.
            5.7.5.1.3. A CRA forecast reflects a constrained dollar amount (often 80% of
            either the current or prior year budget, whichever is lower), and therefore will not
            balance to the APPR as the obligation forecast will.
8                                                        AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013


           5.7.5.2. AFNWC/FM uses the CRA forecasts entered in the commitment plan field to
           formulate recommendations to portfolio leadership regarding the best distribution of
           CRA funds.
           5.7.5.3. CRA forecasts entered in the commitment plan field are intended for
           AFNWC internal use only. However, AFWNC/FM and/or AFPEO/SS may compare
           these forecasts to the obligation plans in order to formulate impact statements relayed
           to higher headquarters.
    5.8. Funding Documents. The CCaR Funding Document Request Form directs the creation
    of a funding document, which leads to the execution of funds attached to a CCaR record. Its
    primary purpose is to ensure that personnel preparing funding documents are doing so under
    clear, written direction.
       5.8.1. Document Creation. Funding documents/forms are created in CCaR at the
       direction of the OPR, to include the following:
           5.8.1.1. AF Form 185, Project Order
           5.8.1.2. AF Form 4009, Government Purchase Card - Fund Cite Authorization
           5.8.1.3. AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD)
           5.8.1.4. AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA)
           5.8.1.5. AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
           5.8.1.6. AF Form 9L, Letter of Change
           5.8.1.7. AFMC Form 36, Purchase Request (PR)
           5.8.1.8. AFMC Form 277, Reimbursable Order
           5.8.1.9. DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR)
           5.8.1.10. DD Form 448-2, MIPR Acceptance
       5.8.2. Document Submission/Certification. The document preparer electronically
       submits commitment documents in CCaR. The CCaR system interfaces with the
       Accounting and Finance System via ABSS approval routing and funds certification
       process.
           5.8.2.1. Only CCaR users who have ABSS accounts are able to release funding
           documents for certification via CCaR.
           5.8.2.2. Required supporting documentation (e.g., MIPR checklist items) must be
           attached to the funding document in CCaR prior to release. The documentation then
           flows to ABSS along with the funding document itself.
           5.8.2.3. Once the document is fully approved through the ABSS coordination cycle,
           CCaR identifies the document as CERTIFIED-ABSS and calculates the amount as an
           official financial commitment for the corresponding appropriation.
    5.9. Reconciliation. Reconciliation is accomplished through the Reconciliation Module
    and/or Contracts Module.
AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   9


       5.9.1. It is a vital part of CCaR to ensure transactions between CCaR and DFAS are
       balanced. Otherwise, the CCaR records will show either more or less money was spent
       than authorized. The goal of reconciliation is to ensure integrity within all financial
       systems.
       5.9.2. The responsibility for reconciliation can be assigned to, or shared by, various
       personnel at the discretion of each directorate, to include OPRs, budget or financial
       analysts, and the CCaR Administrator.
   5.10. Deletion.
       5.10.1. A CCaR may be deleted if the record meets the following criteria:
          5.10.1.1. It does not contain any execution data,
          5.10.1.2. It does not contain any forecasts, and
          5.10.1.3. It does not contain any approved funding.
       5.10.2. Once a CCaR record is deleted, it cannot be recovered.
   5.11. Archival. A CCaR record may be archived, thereby ending the OPR’s support
   responsibilities, if the following are true:
       5.11.1. The execution of all funding in each FY budgeted is complete
       5.11.2. The record is not in-process for a coordination cycle as in-process copies must be
       unreleased before records may be archived
       5.11.3. The requirement has been assigned a dedicated funding status for all FYs
6. Process Metrics. Figure 1 shows a rubric by which individual CCaR records are reviewed
and scored. A record shall be graded ―sufficient‖ in all areas to be approved. The ―approaching
sufficient‖ score is intended for informational guidance only.
 10                                                                                     AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013


Figure 1. CCaR Record Rubric
CCaR Record Rubric (Characteristics of a Sufficient CCaR Record)
                   Title CCaR title conforms to the following naming convention: Organization Program Project Commodity Contractor
                         Description. One space between each element – no commas or underscores.

              Custom Fields Custom fields selected as appropriate.
           Points of Contact Sufficient backup OPRs selected.
                Description The description includes the following, as appropriate: 1) Narrative description outlining the scope of the work to
                             be performed. 2) Technical parameters (i.e. weight, volume, power, etc.) 3) Who will perform the work. 4)
                             Justification for type of funding (color of money -- for example, 3600 RDT&E, 3020 Missile Procurement, 3400
                             O&M, etc.) needed to complete the effort. 5) Acquisition plan/strategy. Those items make up the "general
                             description." Changes to the description over time shall be outlined in dated/initialed "update" entries at the top of
                             the description field.

  Basis of Estimate (BOE) The BOE provides a detailed record of the methodology, procedures and data resulting in the development or
                          update of a requirement estimate. The required level of detail in each BOE is flexible and will vary depending on
                          purpose of estimate and amount of requirement. As appropriate, the BOE section of each sufficient record shall
                          contain the following types of information: 1) Ground rules & Assumptions - Technical and programmatic
                          conditions, BOE ground rules, constraints, and assumptions used in developing the estimate. 2) Methodology -
                          A brief overview of the primary methodology used to develop the BOE, such as analogy, engineering, or
                          parametric approaches. BOEs can also be derived from contractor-submitted Rough Order of Magnitude
                          (ROM) or proposals. 3) Calculations - Sufficient information must be given in this section to allow replication of
                          the BOE by someone unfamiliar with the program. If there are multiple appropriations funding the effort, the
                          estimate should be broken out by the respective appropriations. An excel spreadsheet and/or other
                          documentation can be attached to show the estimate calculations broken down by appropriation and the following
                          categories, as applicable: Labor Hours & Rates, Material & subcontract costs, Profit/fee, and Fiscal year
                          phasing. 4) Spreadsheet - CCaRs allows you to directly imbed an Excel spreadsheet into the BOE section by
                          either creating it directly in CCaR or by copying and pasting an existing Excel spreadsheet. 5) Confidence level -
                          Indicate relative confidence in the BOE. For example, if the effort has already been negotiated, confidence should
                          be high. If the BOE is for an effort that won't happen for five years, and it is based on a government best guess,
                          the confidence would be very low. The BOE does not exist in a vacuum. The information in the BOE should
                          complement the information in the description, budget/FY phasing, attachments and the obligation/expenditure
                          forecasts. Changes to the description over time shall be outlined in dated/initialed "update" entries at the top of the
                          description field.




         Budget/FY phasing Current and out year requirements (at minimum through FYDP) loaded to correct budgets.
      Obligation/Expediture Obligation & Expenditure forecasts are in place for all active years, balanced to approved budgets. Forecasts are
                   forecast 1) based on realistic projection of DFAS actuals, 2) take into account contracting officer workload and timelines,
                            3) initially assume no CRA (baseline forecasts), and 4) are reconciled at least monthly with actuals (current
                            forecasts).

                Attachments Documents that support information given in the Description, BOE, and Rqmt Source tabs must be specifically
                            referenced, attached, and clearly labeled.
                     Impact The Impact Statement is a statement of the adverse impact to the organization and/or system end-users if the
                            CCaR requirement is NOT performed. This information will be used to defend against projected budget cuts. It
                            should be realistic and specific. Statements like, "Mission will fail," are not appropriate unless absolutely true.


7. Products and Records Produced.
      7.1. Reports. CCaR has a number of reports used for data collection, tracking, and analysis.
      Reports are based on several categories, including multiple FY reports, financial execution
      reports, funding document related reports, and coordination reports. Most reports may be
      sorted and filtered and contain options for exporting. Although many reports contain similar
      data, their formats may differ. This allows for a targeted emphasis to meet the reporting
      needs for multiple audiences.
AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              11


  7.2. BMR Charts. The BMR tool in CCaR creates a variety of briefing charts that are
  exported directly to PowerPoint and used in financial and programmatic reviews. Standard
  practice forbids the manual manipulation of data on these charts. A thorough explanation of
  BMR charts and all other CCaR outputs is available in the AF CCaR Guidebook.
  7.3. Decision Support. Participants in the decision support process utilize execution data,
  forecasts, and the 1537 to formulate and recommend to their leadership courses of action
  across the spectrum of AFNWC program and financial management activity.
  7.4. Data Repository. The data available through the abovementioned reports enables
  authorized CCaR users to respond quickly and effectively to audits, data calls, POM drills,
  PEM inquiries, HHQ taskings and SOCCERs. CCaR strengthens AFNWC’s ability to
  promote cost efficiencies and defend itself against budget reductions and other threats in
  today’s fiscally constrained environment.
  7.5. SMART and Executive CCaR. Programs/projects on the AML send CCaR execution
  data to SMART and Executive CCaR as outlined in the AF CCaR Guidebook. Standard
  AFNWC practice is to review and send end of month data by the fifth business day of the
  following month.




                                          GARRETT HARENCAK
                                          Major General, USAF
                                          Commander
 12                                                    AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management
Air Force CCaR Guidebook, Version 1.1
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records
Adopted Forms
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 9L, Letter of Change
AF Form 185, Project Order
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD)
AF Form 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA)
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4009, Government Purchase Card - Fund Cite Authorization
DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR)
DD Form 448-2, MIPR Acceptance
AFMC Form 36, Purchase Request (PR)
AFMC Form 277, Reimbursable Order

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABSS—Automated Business Services System
ADA—Anti-Deficiency Act
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AML—Acquisition Master List
APPR—Approved Budget
AUTH—Authorized Budget
BA—Budget Authority (also Budget Analyst, Budget Allotment)
BMR—Business Management Review Charts
BOE—Basis of Estimate
BPAC—Budget Program Activity Code
CCaR—Comprehensive Cost and Requirement (System)
AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                              13


CRA—Continuing Resolution Authority
CSN—Control Serial Number
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Services
DoD—Department of Defense
FCA—Fund Cite Authorization (also AF Form 616)
FWG—Financial Working Group
FY—Fiscal Year
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
FSR—Fund Summary Record
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
Ifwg——Investment Financial Working Group
iRMB—Investment Resource Management Board
LOA—Line of Accounting
MIPR—Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (also DD Form 448)
MORD—Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document (also AF Form 406)
MS—Mission Support
NSV—New Start Validation
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Officer of Primary Responsibility
PB—President’s Budget
PEC—Program Element Code
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PoP—Period of Performance
PR—Purchase Request (also AFMC Form 36) (sometimes refers to AF Form 9)
PSR—Program Summary Record
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
RMB—Resource Management Board
ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude
RQMT—Requirement
SMART—System Metric and Reporting Tool
UFR—Unfunded Requirement
USAF—United States Air Force
 14                                                      AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013


Terms
1537— Chart generated from CCaR that displays a program’s constrained or unconstrained
requirements across the FYDP.
Approved budget (APPR)— Anticipated funding for the requirement for all FYs—reflects the
PB, updated for any Congressional changes or reductions, portfolio realignments, and HHQ
withholds. O&M approved budget is referred to as annual authority.
Audit Log:—A list of all historical actions taken on a CCaR Record, including who performed
them and when.
Authorized funding (AUTH)— Funding appropriated by Congress, apportioned by DoD, and
allocated by MajCom to AFNWC for execution against requirements in active FYs. AUTH has
been released on a Budget Authorization document and loaded into the Air Force accounting
system. O&M authorized funding is also called quarterly authority.
Basis of Estimate— An explanation of how the OPR determined the cost of delivering the
CCaR requirement, including the history of how that cost has evolved, if applicable.
Budget, Constrained— The constrained budget is a reflection of how a program plans to
operate within the APPR that has been allocated to it.
Budget, Required (RQMT)— A dollarized expression of a requirement, specific to the CCaR
system. See below for the definition of Requirement as it pertains to CCaR.
Budget, Unconstrained— The unconstrained budget indicates how a program would allocate all
the APPR it needs to perform its mission.
CCaR Record— A numbered package of information within the CCaR system consisting of all
pertinent information, financial and otherwise, associated with a discrete program requirement.
Continuing Resolution Authority (CRA)— Appropriation legislation used by the United States
Congress in a joint resolution to fund government agencies if a formal appropriations bill has not
been signed into law by the end of the Congressional FY.
Custom Fields— The Custom Fields section provides organizations with the opportunity to
create up to 20 Custom Fields, allowing them to stratify the database to obtain special reports.
These fields are created and maintained by the Web CCaR Administrator.
Description— A detailed narrative of the specific activities (scope) that the CCaR record will
encompass.
Forecasts— Often referred to as ―spend plans,‖ there are three different kinds of forecasts in
CCaR (commitment, obligation, and expenditure), and each has three different versions
(suggested, current, and baseline).
Funding Document Request Form— A CCaR form prepared by the OPR that requests a
funding document, which in turn leads to the commitment of funds.
Future Years Defense Program (FYDP)— Program and financial plan for the DoD as
approved by the Secretary of Defense, consisting of two budget years (prior and current) and
four future years.
AFNWCI63-113 7 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 15


Impact Statement— The adverse impact to the mission, organization, and/or system end-users
if the CCaR requirement is not fully funded.
Investment Funding— Multi-year funds utilized by the government to acquire assets, as
opposed to annual funds used for O&M expense activities.
New Start Validation— A form used to assert that the program/requirement is approved in the
President’s Budget or has already been properly coordinated with Congress and is therefore not a
New Start.
Officer of Primary Responsibility (OPR)— Individual responsible for creating, maintaining,
and overseeing a CCaR record from cradle to grave. In the case of acquisition programs/projects,
the PM or individual who will act behalf of the PM with respect to the effort captured in the
CCaR record.
Requirement— An item or service requiring an outlay of government funds that, when
validated, developed, and delivered, meets a specific need of an organization’s mission.
Requirements are valued in dollars within the CCaR database.
Requirement Source— Defines where the requirement captured by the CCaR record originated.
System Program Manager (SPM)— Individual with the authority to determine how funds
belonging to a given organization are spent in support of the PB.
Target Chasing— The practice of continually, and unnecessarily, balancing funds at a detailed
level in the Air Force accounting system to match their allocations in CCaR.
Working, In—Process, and Approved- Versions of a CCaR record, all three of which may
exist simultaneously. The working is a draft copy. The in-process copy is pending approval. The
approved copy contains data that can be accessed in BMR Charts and other CCaR reports.
