BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER AIR                 AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER                                   INSTRUCTION63-102


                                                                       17 FEBRUARY 2011


                                                                                 Acquisition

                                                                     DECISION ANALYSIS

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFNWC/ENS                                                     Certified by: AFNWC/EN
                                                                          (Dr. Yolanda King)
                                                                                    Pages: 9


This Decision Analysis (DA) Instruction establishes policies and procedures for conducting DA
for all programs managed by Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC). This Instruction
also documents process stakeholders and responsibilities. It implements Air Force Materiel
Command Instruction (AFMCI) 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and
Effectiveness (OSS&E) and Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE). This Instruction applies to
all programs within all AFNWC organizations except for the 377th Air Base Wing. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. This publication does
not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

1. Overview. This Instruction establishes policies and procedures for conducting DA for all
programs managed by AFNWC.
 2                                                        AFNWCI63-102 17 FEBRUARY 2011


2. Stakeholders and Responsibilities.
     2.1. AFNWC. DA shall be accomplished by coordinating efforts between engineering,
     financial management (FM), contracting (PK), testing, logistics (LG), and other program
     management functional areas, as appropriate, within the applicable program office.
     2.2. Program Manager (PM). The PM will be responsible for the execution of the DA
     process for programs under his/her purview.
        2.2.1. The PM may delegate responsibility and authority for performing the process,
        developing work products, and providing the services of the DA process. In assigning
        accountability, the PM will ensure the achievement of specified results throughout the
        life of the program. The PM will assign responsibility using detailed job descriptions
        and/or project documents, and ensure designated personnel have documented authority to
        perform the assigned responsibilities.
        2.2.2. The PM shall ensure required training for members of the project team who both
        perform DA and support it.
        2.2.3. PM responsibilities are typically not formally assigned prior to Milestone A. For
        early capability development efforts, such as science and technology (S&T) and concept
        studies, the term "program" refers to the specific activity; a designated project or
        capability manager performs the SE tasks identified herein as PM and Chief/Lead
        Engineer responsibilities.
        2.2.4. Throughout this document the term "Program Manager" is used for consistency
        with DoD policy and documentation. Air Force organizations may use "System Program
        Manager" (SPM) as an equivalent to the DoDD 5000.1 "PM" term.
     2.3. Chief Engineer (CE). The CE will establish and maintain plans for performing the DA
     process. The plan, as a minimum, will describe the activities, resources, and schedule
     required to accomplish this process.
        2.3.1. The CE shall monitor and control the DA process, ensuring:
            2.3.1.1. The process is performed as planned;
            2.3.1.2. The process adheres to its description;
            2.3.1.3. The process yields the desired outcomes/products according to an objective
            evaluation of work products against the applicable standards;
            2.3.1.4. Issues are identified and necessary corrective action is taken.
        2.3.2. The CE shall review the activities, status and results of the DA process with the
        PM and higher level management as necessary, and resolve any identified problems.
        Following process reviews, the CE will coordinate with the process Point of Contact
        (POC) and provide recommendations to the PM regarding policy, process and resources
        to facilitate improvement.
        2.3.3. The CE will designate a DA POC.
        2.3.4. In the case of pre-milestone B programs, the project/lead engineer may fulfill the
        responsibilities of the CE.
AFNWCI63-102 17 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  3


   2.4. Process POC. The DA POC for this process will review this process annually and track
   recommended changes.
   2.5. WarFighter. United States Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM), United States
   European Command (EUCOM) and Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC) are the
   primary users of the systems developed by AFNWC. As customers, they will be involved in
   any major DA where overall cost, performance, or schedule changes may result from the DA
   process. Additionally, USSTRATCOM, EUCOM and AFGSC may provide inputs to the
   program office to assist during the process.
3. Process Scope. This section provides the scope for planning, performing and managing the
activities, work products, and services associated with the DA process. The process is entered at
any point when a significant decision needs to be considered.
   3.1. Entry Criteria for DA Process. Acquisition functions/activities where significant
   decisions analyses apply include but are not limited to:
       3.1.1. Requirements analysis/management to achieve balance between the various
       impacts, capabilities, concepts, requirements, costs, schedule and performance baselines;
       3.1.2. During product design to consider the utility and robustness of alternative product
       architecture or component selection (i.e.; a trade studies);
       3.1.3. For risk management when selecting among alternative approaches to managing
       potential consequences;
       3.1.4. When a decision or non-decision may adversely affect the program’s ability to
       achieve stated or implied commitments;
       3.1.5. When sub-ordinate organization’s local criteria for such decision is impacted.
   3.2. Process Steps (see Figure 3.1)
4                                  AFNWCI63-102 17 FEBRUARY 2011


Figure 3.1. PROCESS FLOW DIAGRAM
AFNWCI63-102 17 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                   5



     3.2.1. Establish Guideline(s). Establish and maintain guidelines to determine which
     issues need to go through a formal DA evaluation process.
        3.2.1.1. Establish and maintain guidelines to determine which issues are subject to a
        formal evaluation process.
        3.2.1.2. Include threshold and authority definitions in the guidelines relative to
        controlling resolution of issues that are subject to a formal evaluation process.
        3.2.1.3. Ensure guidance explicitly delineates how to choice between the trivial and
        the truly important/significant decisions.
        3.2.1.4. Guidelines should be tailored to the particular project, circumstances and
        relevant technical issues.
        3.2.1.5. Attachment 2 will be used to determine which issues are subject to a formal
        evaluation process.
     3.2.2. Establish Alternative Evaluation Criteria. Establish and maintain the criteria
     for evaluating alternatives, the relative ranking of these criteria, and the selective
     evaluation method(s).
        3.2.2.1. Consider solution costs, risks, technology limitations, and impact on
        established baselines and/or operational functions in the criteria. Map criteria to
        requirements, operational scenarios, and/or business cases.
        3.2.2.2. Include rationale, range, and scale of values, and coordinate with appropriate
        stakeholders.
        3.2.2.3. Consider regular use of decision-making criteria for less significant
        decisions.
        3.2.2.4. Define associated levels to applicable to decision-making criteria (i.e. project
        level, issue level, etc).
        3.2.2.5. Define the decision making method(s) that best focuses on the issue(s).
        Include consideration of impact on cost, schedule, performance, and risk in method
        selection. Multiple methods may apply.
        3.2.2.6. Methods to choose from include, but are not limited to: Cost Study/Cost
        Model, Simulation/Prototype, Manufacturing Study, Engineering/Benchmark/Trade
        Study, Business Opportunity Study, Extrapolation based on experience or study, User
        Review and Comment, Testing, Data Comparison, Feature Comparison, Decision
        Tool (e.g., tool for Monte Carlo simulation for distribution of uncertainty in choices),
        Modeling Tool, and others.
     3.2.3. Coordinate Guideline and Criteria with Stakeholders. Stakeholders and
     project management should concur with selected methods.
     3.2.4. Identify Alternative Solutions. Identify alternative solutions to address issues.
        3.2.4.1. Document the alternative solutions and include rationale for including or
        rejecting any alternatives for consideration.
 6                                                      AFNWCI63-102 17 FEBRUARY 2011


           3.2.4.2. Solicit inputs from stakeholders with diverse skills and backgrounds to
           identify and address assumptions, constraints, and biases.
           3.2.4.3. Consider human system integration, usability, safety, survivability and
           reduce of life cycle costs alternative solution identification.
        3.2.5. Evaluate Solutions. Evaluate alternative solutions using the established
        guidelines, criteria and methods.
           3.2.5.1. Document scoring and conclusion(s), using selected evaluation methods and
           established criteria.
           3.2.5.2. Document unknowns or assumptions made about the solution, including
           observations that support or disprove those assumptions.
           3.2.5.3. Identify, evaluate, and document new alternatives along with rationale in
           cases where all current alternatives prove unsatisfactory. Identify changes to
           evaluation criteria. Use iterative analysis as necessary.
        3.2.6. Select Solution(s). Select the solution(s) from the alternatives and document
        decisions based on the evaluation.
           3.2.6.1. Document the recommended solution(s), data, associated risks, and rationale
           for selection.
           3.2.6.2. Document and present any dissenting opinions.
           3.2.6.3. Review results of evaluation with stakeholders and project management for
           concurrence. Document the final decision with associated rationale and risks.
           3.2.6.4. Monitor, track and correct progress of solutions as appropriate.
4. Prescribed and Adopted Forms:
     4.1. Prescribed Forms: None
     4.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             EVERETT H. THOMAS
                                             Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
AFNWCI63-102 17 FEBRUARY 2011                                                              7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMCI 63-1201 Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LSCE), 14 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CE—Chief Engineer
DA—Decision Analysis
EAC—Estimate at Completion
EUCOM—European Command
FM—Financial Management
FY—Fiscal Year
KPP—Key Performance Parameter
LCSE—Life Cycle Systems Engineering
LG—Logistics
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
PCE—Program Chief Engineer
PEO—Program Executive Office
PK—Contracting
PM—Program Manager
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 8                                                     AFNWCI63-102 17 FEBRUARY 2011


SDD—System Development & Demonstration
SPM—System Program Manager
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command

Terms
Decision Analysis— A formal process used to analyze possible decisions by identifying
alternatives against established criteria.
Estimate at Completion (EAC)— Estimated costs to complete all work from a point in time to
the end of a program.
System Development & Demonstration (SDD)— A phase of the acquisition lifecycle which
encompasses Milestone B through Milestone C, in which the system is developed and its
capabilities are demonstrated.
System Program Manager (SPM)—In accordance with DODD 5000.01, the SPM is the Air
Force designated individual with responsibility for and authority to accomplish system objectives
for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user‘s operational needs. SPM
assignments are based upon the APML, SPML, and AFPD 10-9 (Lead Command Designation
and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems) designated weapon systems. For systems in
acquisition, the SPM is accountable for credible cost, schedule, performance, and materiel
readiness to the MDA. ACAT I, ACAT IA, and ACAT II SPMs will be chartered by the SAE
and the PEO. Delegated ACAT II and III SPM shall be chartered by the PEO or DAO. For
systems in sustainment, the SPM is accountable for credible cost, schedule, performance, and
materiel readiness to the AFMC/CC, AFSPC/CC, or designee.
Program Manager (PM)—The DODD 5000.01 designated individual with responsibility for
and authority to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to
meet the user’s operational needs. PM for sub-systems shall support overall system objectives as
required by the SPM. The PM for acquisition programs shall be accountable for credible cost,
schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the MDA. ACAT I, ACAT IA, and ACAT II
PM shall be chartered by the SAE and the PEO. Delegated ACAT II and III PM shall be
chartered by the PEO or DAO. The PM for sustainment programs shall be accountable for
credible cost, schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the AFMC/CC or designee.
Project Manager—A designated individual with responsibility for and authority to accomplish
project objectives for development, production, and/or sustainment of a subsystem to meet the
user‘s operation needs in support of Program Manager(s) (PM).
AFNWCI63-102 17 FEBRUARY 2011                                                     9


                                      Attachment 2
                                     DA GUIDELINES

Table A2.1. DA GUIDELINES

                                      DA Guidelines
                                                                          Decision
  Category                       Criteria                Threshold
                                                                         Authority
                                                                       Program Chief
              Single Work Package or Task EAC Exceeds
                                                           >25%           Engineer
              Planned
                                                                           (PCE)
              Total Program or Multiple Work Package
                                                           >10%            PM
    Cost      EAC Exceeds Planned
              Unit Cost Increase SDD or Pre-SDD            >10%             PM
                                                                         Program
              Unit Cost Increase (Production)              >10%         Executive
                                                                       Office (PEO)
              Critical Path Schedule Growth                Any              PM
  Schedule
              Single Activity Schedule Growth             >10%             PCE
                                                        Any Major
              Product Architecture                                         PCE
                                                        Reallocation
                                                         < 10% of
              Desired Performance Parameter               Design           PCE
                                                          Margin
  Technical   Support Strategy                             Any             PEO
                                                         Within 10%
              Key Performance Parameter (KPP)           of Remaining       PM
                                                          Threshold
              KPP                                          Breach          PEO
              Since Fiscal Year (FY) Dollars / Color    > 10% Below
                                                                           PM
              Available                                     Plan
                                                        > 10% Below
              Planned Obligations                                          PM
                                                           Target
                                                        > 25% Below
Programmatic Planned Expenditures                                          PM
                                                           Target
              Risk Mitigation                            Low, Med          PM
              Risk Mitigation                               High           PEO
              Contract Award                             > 1Q Delay        PEO
              Expectation Management Agreement             Breach          PEO
