BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS CENTER
AIR FORCE NUCLEAR WEAPONS                                     INSTRUCTION 61-101
CENTER
                                                                               10 JULY 2014

                                                        Scientific Research and Development

                                                       TECHNOLOGY RESOURCING AND
                                                       DEVELOPMENT (TRAD) PROCESS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AFNWC/XZ                                                       Certified by: AFNWC/XZ
                                                                      (Mr. Michael Martinez)
                                                                                    Pages: 26




This Instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 61-101, Management of Science and
Technology, 14 Mar 2013 and Air Force Material Command Instruction (AFMCI) 61-101, Small
Business Innovative Research (SBIR) Program and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR)
Program, 14 Jul 2000. This instruction establishes the processes and procedures for
identification and prioritization of Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC) technology
needs for submission into Air Force (AF) Science and Technology (S&T) funding programs and
for collaboration with Major Commands (MAJCOMs) on requirements maturation. This
instruction applies to all AFNWC military and civilian members managing processes or projects
with capability gaps requiring new technology, overseeing technology development, or
implementing the resulting solutions. This instruction applies to all AFNWC organizations and
programs with the exception of the 377th Air Base Wing. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or Air National Guard (ANG) Units. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate chain of
command. This publication may not be further supplemented or further implemented/extended.
Requests for waivers must be submitted to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval.
 2                                                                                            AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014




        1.     Purpose: .................................................................................................................    2
Figure 1.      Technology Resourcing and Development (TRAD) Process ................................                                         3
        2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................              4
        3.     Process Activities. ..................................................................................................        5
Table 1.       CML Schedule .......................................................................................................          6
Figure 2.      AFNWC Technology Resourcing and Development (TRAD) Process .................                                                  7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              12

Attachment 2—TECHNOLOGY NEED FORM DESCRIPTION                                                                                               15

Attachment 3—LETTER OF COMMITMENT                                                                                                           21

Attachment 4—TECHNOLOGY NEED PRIORITIZATION CRITERIA                                                                                        22

Attachment 5—TRAD RESOURCE DESCRIPTIONS                                                                                                     25


1. Purpose: The technology resourcing and development (TRAD) process provides the method
AFNWC will use to identify and prioritize its technology needs (TNs) which will then be used
by AFNWC to give a single, consolidated position on technology resourcing and development
for such things as, but not limited to MAJCOM Service Core Function (SCF) Capability
Collaboration Team (CCT) TN identification/prioritization activities, discussions with industry
and academia, and Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) interchanges. Valid technology
solutions are to be implemented by the sponsoring organization. The sponsor will champion
implementing the technology into an AFNWC mission in a cost effective manner with managed
risk. While this process is primarily focused on the mission executed by AFNWC organizations,
it will also be an avenue for other organizations that have new technical requirements that impact
processes related to the AFNWC mission, e.g., National Nuclear Security Administration
(NNSA) Laboratories.
     1.1. Vision: This process will provide a recognized, strategic methodology incorporating a
     systems engineering approach to identify, track, resource, and develop technology solutions
     to meet identified capability gaps and technology needs within the nuclear enterprise.
     1.2. Process Description: The TRAD process for AFNWC is shown in Figure 1.1. below.
     This process provides the methods AFNWC will use when a MAJCOM has capability gaps
     that may require a new technology development/insertion as a means to close that particular
     capability gap. A capability gap occurs when a MAJCOM or AFNWC supporting
     organization identifies requirements that cannot be satisfied with current or projected
     capability solutions. The capability gap may require further technical actions to obtain a
     solution. Capability gaps are identified in a top-down manner by both AFNWC program
     offices as well as other functional Directorate to identify future technology gaps in the
     mission. Gaps can also be identified in a bottom-up approach by units executing the current
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                                        3


   mission and in response to new technology developments by outside entities. As defined in
   the Joint Capabilities Integration Development System (JCIDS) Process, the solution space
   for a given gap should consider solutions involving any combination of Doctrine,
   Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel and Facilities
   (DOTMLPF). While gap sponsors should be considering solutions across DOTMLPF, this
   instruction applies to organizations requiring a materiel solution. Analysis of these capability
   gaps will result in some needs being candidates for gap closure by new technology
   development/insertion. Paragraph 2. describes the roles and responsibilities of each of the
   AFNWC participating organizations. Paragraph 3. describes the process of maturing an
   individual TN and the reporting/metric mechanisms to ensure the process is transparent,
   repeatable and effective.

Figure 1. Technology Resourcing and Development (TRAD) Process




      1.2.1. The Intelligence, Program Development & Integration Directorate (AFNWC/XZ)
      will lead the TRAD process within AFNWC and act as the primary interface between
      AFNWC and external agencies to include the Air Force Core Function Leads (CFLs), Air
      Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) and AFRL. TRAD is a subset of the
      overall AFNWC Capability Development (CaDe) process. AFNWC/XZ will organize
      the AFNWC Directorates into a Team/Group/Board structure to identify, prioritize and
      submit TNs to the appropriate resource. Each Directorate will be asked to designate an
      Action Officer (AO) team member to participate in the TRAD Team activities throughout
      the year, as well as, a GS-15/O-6 to participate in the AFNWC Group/Board processes
      for approval of AFNWC technology needs. The Group and the Board are composed of
      representatives from all affected AFNWC Directorates and the Air Force Program
      Executive Officer for Strategic Systems (AFPEO/SS), and chaired by AFNWC/XZ and
      the AFNWC Commander (AFNWC/CC), respectively.
      1.2.2. The basis for the TRAD process will be an annual call for TNs replacing the
      current call for each individual resource. AFNWC/XZ, through this Instruction, and via
      formal tasker will solicit TNs from AFNWC Directorates. In turn, the Directorates will
      submit their identified and prioritized TNs in the template format shown in Attachment
 4                                                               AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


        2. The intent is for this annual data call to be the single TN query, with the ability to
        input out-of-cycle TNs as they arise.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Commander, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center (AFNWC/CC) (or designee) will:
        2.1.1. Chair the AFNWC Board process and approve AFNWC TNs submitted by the
        AFNWC Group to the Board.
        2.1.2. Advocate AFNWC TNs to AF senior leadership, as required.
     2.2. Air Force Program Executive Officer for Strategic Systems (AFPEO/SS) is invited
     to:
        2.2.1. Participate in the AFNWC Board process.
        2.2.2. Appoint an AO to act as a TRAD and CaDe point of contact and participate in the
        AFNWC-level TRAD identification, analysis and matching process.
        2.2.3. Participate in the AFNWC Group/Board processes by providing an O-6/GS-15
        representative.
     2.3. Intelligence, Program Development & Integration Directorate (AFNWC/XZ) will:
        2.3.1. Act as the AFNWC lead Directorate for the TRAD and CaDe processes (except as
        noted in Paragraph 2.4.10 – Sustainment Technology Process (STP) is AFNWC
        Engineering and Technical Management Directorate (AFNWC/EN) lead).
        2.3.2. Organize, schedule and facilitate the Team, Group and Board processes for all
        TRAD and CaDe required activities, including schedule coordination with Directorate
        and senior leadership. Chair the Group meetings.
        2.3.3. Lead the TN analysis, matching and development processes to meet the input
        schedules required by each identified funding source.
        2.3.4. Maintain the AFNWC Center Master Lists (CML).
        2.3.5. Develop, maintain and report on timeliness and quality metrics for the TRAD
        process.
        2.3.6. Provide timely feedback to AFNWC Directorates on the status of their TNs –
        where the TNs fall on the CML, when the TNs were submitted for resource calls and
        were the TNs matched to resources.
        2.3.7. Provide AFNWC membership with expected manpower and schedule
        requirements to support TRAD technology need and project evaluation activities.
     2.4. Other AFNWC Directorates (includes, but not limited to, AFNWC/EN, Logistics
     Directorate (AFNWC/LG), the Nuclear Capabilities Directorate (AFNWC/NC) and the
     Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Directorate (AFNWC/NI) will:
        2.4.1. Appoint a Directorate AO to act as a TRAD and CaDe point of contact and
        participate in the AFNWC-level TRAD identification, analysis and matching process.
        2.4.2. Establish a process to identify and prioritize TNs within each Directorate.
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                                     5


       2.4.3. Submit Directorate TNs and associated project leads in the AFNWC/XZ-provided
       template format to meet the annual data calls. Submit out-of-cycle TNs, as required,
       using the same Directorate identification and prioritization process.
       2.4.4. Participate in the AFNWC Group/Board processes by providing an O-6/GS-15
       representative.
       2.4.5. Provide subject matter experts (SMEs), on an as needed basis as Directorate
       resources allow. SME support will be required throughout the year to support various
       CFL CCT activities in developing and prioritizing capability gaps for their Core Function
       Support Plans (CFSPs). SME support will also be required to evaluate proposals relative
       to AFNWC TNs as part of getting TN projects on contract, as required. This support may
       require significant support for short periods of time (days/week). SME taskings should
       be made through the appropriate Directorate leadership.
       2.4.6. Approve and sign a Letter of Commitment for each TN proposed for analysis,
       matching to funding sources and prioritization.
       2.4.7. Manage TNs successfully matched and funded. This may include assigning a
       program manager, engineer or other functional support depending on the nature of the
       project.
       2.4.8. Develop a technology transition plan for successfully funded TNs to explain how
       the TN will be developed such that it can be transitioned into a user required program.
       This plan should discuss technology readiness level improvements, inclusion in program
       sustainment plans and the budget submissions to achieve the transition.
       2.4.9. Provide status on Directorate managed TN projects to the AFNWC Group/Board
       process, on a quarterly basis, or as directed by AFNWC/XZ. This status should include
       cost, schedule and technical performance of the TN project.
   2.4.10. AFNWC/EN is the AFNWC POC for the STP program as directed by AFMC.
   AFNWC/EN will coordinate with AFNWC/XZ to review submitted TNs eligible for STP
   consideration. AFNWC/EN will be responsible for the final STP submittal while considering
   the AFNWC CML priorities and informing the AFNWC Team, Group and Board structures.
   2.5. AFNWC Plans and Programs Directorate will: Participate in the TRAD and CaDe
   processes to ensure visibility into programs that may require inclusion into Program
   Objective Memorandum (POM) consideration/preparation for eventual transition.
3. Process Activities. This section defines the method for developing a material solution to
meet a unique technical need within AFNWC including: (1) identify, verify and match the need
to possible resource providers, (2) prioritize and submit the needs to individual resource calls
throughout the year through the use of a CML and (3) develop, track progress and transition
technology need projects to an AFNWC program of record. Table 3.1. provides a schedule for
the process. Figure 3.1. AFNWC TRAD Process depicts the technology need process flow.
 6                                          AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


Table 1. CML Schedule
           Task               Reference             Time Frame

      Yearly Data Call        Para 3.1.1.          Early September
 Directorates Submit TNs to   Para 3.1.4.           Mid-October
        AFNWC/XZ
        CaDe Group            Para 3.2.2.          Early November
    Validates/Prioritizes
  CML to Group for Review     Para 3.2.2.          Mid-November
CML Approved by AFNWC/CC      Para 3.2.2.            December
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                            7


Figure 2. AFNWC Technology Resourcing and Development (TRAD) Process




   3.1. Identify, Verify and Match Technology Needs to Resources: A TN is identified
   when a new technology materiel solution is required to close a capability gap within
8                                                             AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


    AFNWC. NOTE: the need date for the materiel solution should not be within two years of
    TN submission due to the amount of lead time needed for technology development. For the
    purpose of this instruction, the AFNWC organization responsible for executing a portion of
    the mission with an identified capability gap is identified as the sponsoring Directorate.
       3.1.1. TN Identification. Once a year AFNWC/XZ will provide a data call tasker to the
       Directorates reminding them to submit TNs for inclusion in the CML. Each Directorate
       will fill out the “short” version of the TN template to allow Directorate technical
       leadership to determine which TNs should be submitted to the AFNWC
       Team/Group/Board process. TNs submitted at any other time will be prioritized and
       matched to funding sources as described in Paragraph
       3.1.2. TNs are submitted by going to an AFNWC/XZ SharePoint site and filling out the
       “TN Proposal Form.” The specific Sharepoint address will be provided in the annual
       tasker. A description of the fields in the TN form is in Attachment 2.
       3.1.3. Initial TN Review. Directorate AOs will review TNs from their Directorate to
       ensure the TN is appropriate for the process. If the TN is appropriate, the submitter will
       be directed to complete the full submission. Otherwise, the AO will provide feedback as
       to why the proposal was not appropriate for the process.
       3.1.4. Submit TN to Directorate. Once the Directorate AO has deemed the TN to be
       appropriate for the process, the submitter will submit the topic using the “TN Submittal
       Form” also found on the AFNWC/XZ Sharepoint site mentioned in paragraph 3.1.1. The
       submission form provides enough information for the Directorates to validate/prioritize
       the TN. This additional detail is also required to submit the proposed TN to available
       resources throughout the yearly technology cycle. This fully completed TN submission
       will be used for Directorate prioritization and AFNWC Team/Group/Board
       validation/prioritization.
       3.1.5. Directorate TN Validation and Prioritization. Each Directorate will develop a
       process for validation of the TN and a prioritization of all TNs. At a minimum the
       process shall review the Directorate’s new submissions for completeness, validate the TN
       meets a Directorate technology gap, and provide a 1-n prioritization of all Directorate
       TNs.
       3.1.6. Submit TNs to AFNWC/XZ. Directorates shall submit a topic submission for
       each TN to AFNWC/XZ in response to the formal data call tasker. Directorates are also
       allowed to submit TNs more frequently, i.e., out of cycle, however out of cycle TNs may
       take longer to validate, prioritize and incorporate into the CML. Each Directorate is also
       required to provide a Sponsor Agreement at Attachment 3 for each TN stating they will
       be responsible for the long term management of any TN projects funded as a result of
       matching the TN to a viable project to satisfy the TN, and will identify a project officer
       by name.
       3.1.7. Verify Documented TNs are Complete and Valid. AFNWC/XZ will then
       assemble the Directorate Team members to review all the TNs submitted during the
       annual call to verify each TN is complete (contains all the required template information)
       and valid (meets the selection criteria for resource matching as shown in Attachment 4).
       Any submitted TNs that are not complete or do not meet the selection criteria will be
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                                          9


     returned to the submitting Directorate with feedback on what needs to be remedied for
     the TN to be considered in the AFNWC process.
     3.1.8. Match TNs to the Appropriate Resource(s). AFNWC/XZ will then match each
     TN to all prospective resources utilizing the selection criteria for each resource.
  3.2. Prioritize, Approve and Submit TNs. The purpose of this activity is to integrate
  Directorate TNs into a single CML representing the technology needs of the AFNWC.
  Additionally, the Team/Group/Board will produce a priority list for each resource based on
  the CML and which TNs are competing for each resource. Prior to the SCF CFSP writing
  conferences, the CML will be produced as an approved list to provide CCT members
  guidance on the center’s priorities.
     3.2.1. Initial TN Prioritization. AFNWC/XZ will assemble the CaDe Team and use the
     selection criteria to draft the 1-n CML. The output of this step of the process will be
     reviewed by the CaDe Group in preparation for presentation to the Board for approval.
     The Team will also generate a resource priority list for each of the available resources
     based on the CML to be considered by the Group. Prior to each CaDe Group quarterly
     meeting, the CaDe Team will meet to prioritize any new TNs with the existing TNs for
     each upcoming resource call using the selection criteria as a guide. The initial
     prioritization by the Team will serve as the recommended prioritization to be coordinated
     with the CaDe Group. The Board will adjudicate any out of cycle priority issues if they
     cannot be resolved by the Group.
     3.2.2. Approve Overall CML. AFNWC/XZ will organize the Group and Board
     meetings to review the candidate TNs. As part of the CaDe Group meeting, the Group
     will validate new technology needs and provide a 1-n prioritization of all TNs (new and
     old). This prioritization will be used as an initial priority for individual resource calls, and
     the prioritization will be the basis of the CML produced the first quarter of the fiscal year.
     The Group will also provide the resource specific priority lists along with the CML for
     Board consideration. The AFNWC/CC, or his/her designee, will approve the CML and
     other resource specific priority lists. The CML and resource specific priority lists will
     serve as the established AFNWC position (point of reference) for portraying the center's
     tech needs to external agencies. Specifically, AFNWC/XZ will provide the CML to the
     SCF CCT for insuring center tech needs are appropriately captured by SCF tech need
     identification and prioritization.
     3.2.3. Prepare TN Submittals. AFNWC/XZ will prepare TN submittals based on
     previous resource matching and coordination with the CaDe Group and the applicable
     SCF CCT. The submission list will be based on the SCF CCT TN prioritization and the
     specific needs of the resource call (i.e., number of topics allowed, etc.). Any CFL-
     generated and out-of-cycle AFNWC-generated TNs will be highlighted for the Group.
     3.2.4. Submit TNs for Each Resource Call. As individual resource calls are tasked to
     the AFNWC, AFNWC/XZ will submit the list of approved TNs as the AFNWC
     submission. A short synopsis of each resource and its characteristics is shown in
     Attachment 5.
10                                                           AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


  3.3. Develop, track and transition funded TN Projects: AFNWC/XZ will be the
  AFNWC notification Point of Contact (POC) for all TNs matched to a resource – funding,
  personnel, or other resource.
     3.3.1. Notification. If TNs are matched, AFNWC/XZ will notify the affected
     Directorate sponsor of this TN project for further action. If a match does not occur for a
     particular resource, AFNWC/XZ will also notify the affected Directorate and provide
     whatever feedback is available as to why the TN was not funded by a potential resource –
     not prioritized high enough at MAJCOM, or other reason. The TN will remain on the
     CML to compete in other resource matches as the year progresses, and can be modified
     or removed by the sponsoring Directorate in the subsequent annual TN call.
     3.3.2. Update CML. When TNs are matched to a resourced project or completed,
     AFNWC/XZ will also update the TN database identifying this TN project as being
     successfully matched or completed. Changes will be included in the CML during the
     next revision cycle.
     3.3.3. Project Management. Once a sponsoring Directorate is notified that one of their
     TNs has been matched to a resource, that Directorate must assume project management
     responsibilities for ensuring the effort is placed on contract, as required. The sponsoring
     Directorate will initiate coordination of financial and acquisition support requirements
     upon successful resource matching of their TN’s to ensure timely financial and
     acquisition planning. Involvement from the submitting Directorate is imperative to
     ensure the highest quality results from TN solutions.
     3.3.4. Project Periodic Reporting. The sponsoring Directorate should be prepared to
     brief the cost, schedule and performance status of their TN projects during quarterly
     AFNWC Team/Group/Board meetings. AFNWC/XZ will provide a short slide format
     for this purpose. This reporting will continue on a quarterly basis until the effort is
     complete or has transitioned to a program of record.
     3.3.5. Project Completion and Transition. For the purposes of the TRAD process as
     defined in this instruction, the project shall be considered complete when the period of
     performance has ended and/or the resources have been exhausted. While some of the
     methods identified in CaDe, Rapid Innovation Fund (RIF) and Demonstration/Validation
     (DEM/VAL) are associated with technology transition, full technology transfer to a
     program of record is outside of the scope and metrics associated with this TRAD
     Instruction.
     3.3.6. Completion Notification. The sponsoring Directorate shall provide written
     notification when their TN project is complete with an effective date to AFNWC/XZ.
     This notification should also include the future planned activity, like transition to a
     program of record, and contact information for a Directorate point of contact if questions
     arise. Completion notification will be briefed to the AFNWC Group/Board.
     3.3.7. Update CML. AFNWC/XZ will update the CML to show completion of any
     projects.
  3.4. Provide TN/Project Status and Collect/Report Metrics: As the lead Directorate for
  the TRAD process, AFNWC/XZ must provide feedback on the status of all TNs, the
  matching and approval process, and the results of the submittal process. Additionally
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                               11


  AFNWC/XZ will collect metrics to determine how the AFNWC process is able to attain
  resources for TN projects.
     3.4.1. Status Reporting. AFNWC/XZ will provide a status report to AFNWC
     Directorates at various points within the TRAD process flow as shown previously in
     Figure 2.1. Status will be provided when the CML is approved at the conclusion of the
     matching and prioritization portions of the TRAD process. Status will also be provided
     when the results of each resource matching cycle has been completed. Lastly,
     AFNWC/XZ will provide an updated CML whenever the CML is changed as a result of
     annual data calls, resource matches, or project completions. AFNWC/XZ will notify the
     Financial Management Directorate (AFNWC/FM), the Contracting Directorate
     (AFNWC/PZ) and the Small Business Office (AFNWC/SB) of the approved CML.
     3.4.2. Metrics. AFNWX/XZ will collect and report the following metrics to the
     Directorates and Team/Group/Board membership to include, but not necessarily be
     limited to the following:
        3.4.2.1. The number of TN submittals for each annual call and the number and
        percentage change from one year to the next for both the Directorates and the
        AFNWC overall.
        3.4.2.2. The number and percentage of TN submittals approved and the number and
        percentage change from one year to the next for both the Directorates and the
        AFNWC overall.
        3.4.2.3. The number and percentage of resourced TN projects and the number and
        percentage change from one year to the next for both the Directorates and the
        AFNWC overall.
        3.4.2.4. The number and percentage of completed TN projects and the number and
        percentage from one year to the next for both the Directorates and the AFNWC
        overall.
        3.4.2.5. The number and percentage of short term (under 5 yrs), medium term (5-10
        yrs) and long term (over 10 yrs) technical needs by Directorate and the AFNWC
        overall.




                                        SANDRA E. FINAN, Major General, USAF
                                        Commander
 12                                                       AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI61-101, Management of Science and Technology, 14 Mar 2013
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFMCI61-101, Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) Program and Small Business
Technology Transfer (STTR) Program, 14 Jul 2000
Prescribed Forms
There are no forms prescribed by this publication
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFNWC/CC—Commander
AFNWC/EN—Engineering and Technical Management Directorate
AFNWC/FM—Financial Management Directorate
AFNWC/LG—Logistics Directorate
AFNWC/NC—Nuclear Capabilities Directorate
AFNWC/NI—Intercontinental Ballistic Missile Directorate
AFNWC/PZ—Contracting Directorate
AFNWC/XP—Plans and Programs Directorate
AFNWC/SB—Small Business Office
AFNWC/XZ—Intelligence, Program Development & Integration Directorate
AFPEO/SS—Air Force Program Element Officer for Strategic Systems
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                           13


AFSPS—Air Force Strategic Planning System
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Action Officer
CaDe—Capability Development
CCT—Capability Collaboration Team
CFL—Core Function Lead
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CFSP—Core Function Support Plan
CML—Center Master List
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DEM/VAL—Demonstration/Validation
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel
and Facilities
IAW—In Accordance With
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration Development System
MAJCOMs—Major Commands
NNSA—National Nuclear Security Administration
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIF—Rapid Innovation Fund
SBIR—Small Business Innovative Research
S&T—Science and Technology
SCF—Service Core Function
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SME—Subject Matter Expert
STP—Sustainment Technology Process
STTR—Small Business Technology Transfer
TN—Technology Need
TRAD—Technology Resourcing and Development
 14                                                           AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


Terms
Capability Collaboration Team— Established by CFLIs and comprised of subject matter
experts from MAJCOM/CFLIs, Centers, and AFRL. CCTs work collaboratively to fully
understand MAJCOM/CFLI-documented capability needs that may require a materiel solution
and determine if S&T is required for any associated technology needs. The CCTs also
collaboratively formulate potential S&T solutions (e.g., technology development, risk reduction,
or maturation projects) to address the S&T needs previously identified. Once established, CFLIs
may utilize CCTs to identify materiel concepts and produce capability development roadmaps
outlining the timeframe for requirements development, Developmental Planning, S&T, and
acquisition activities.
Capability Development— novel approach to the identification, prioritization, validation of
current and future CFLI-MAJCOM capability gaps through the integration of multiple
standardized processes (e.g., SBIR, Industry Research & Development (IR&D), CFLI Applied
Technology Council (ATC), RIF, CFSPs, CCTs, AF S&T process, DP).
Center Master List— AFNWC prioritized list of technology needs based on AFNWC
Directorate inputs and CCT activities. The CML is coordinated through the CaDe team, Group,
Board process and approved by the AFNWC/CC for use as the single AFNWC priority position
for technology needs.
Core Function Lead/Core Function Lead Integrator— SECAF/CSAF-designated
leader/MAJCOM who serves as the principal integrators for their assigned SCFs and the
corresponding Air Force CFMPs. CFLIs guide SCF process and SCF-related appropriation
priorities by orchestrating the development of SCF in collaboration with key stakeholders across
the Air Force, including MAJCOMs, the Air Reserve Components, and functional authorities.
Core Function Support Plan— Developed by CFLIs, in collaboration with all key stakeholders
across the Air Force, including MAJCOMs, the Air Reserve Components, and functional
authorities, CFMPs align strategy, operating concepts, and capability development by SCF, to
provide 30-year constructs for enhancing Global Vigilance, Global Reach, and Global Power
across the range of military operations.
Service Core Function— SCFs delineate the appropriate and assigned core duties, missions,
and tasks of the Air Force as an organization, responsibility for each of which is assigned to a
CFLI. SCFs express the ways in which the Air Force is particularly and appropriately suited to
contribute to national security. SCFs are an integral aspect of the Air Force Strategic Planning
System (AFSPS), and provide the framework for Air Force organizing, training, and equipping
efforts.
Technology Resourcing and Development— the AFNWC process to identify and resource
technology needs. TRAD identified technology needs are vetted through the CaDe Team,
Group, Board process to prioritize and garner AFNWC/CC approval. Led by AFNWC/XZ,
TRAD ensures technology needs are identified, approved and coordinated with CFLI CCT
activities.
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                                              15


                                                Attachment 2
                           TECHNOLOGY NEED FORM DESCRIPTION

Table A2.1. Technology Need Form Description
                                                                                                Process
Short Name       Description                Limitations
                                                                                                Feeder

Project Title    The project title should   10 words                                            All
                 describe the main
                 idea/need behind the
                 topic submission

Topic ACAT       Provide the ACAT           Level I, Level II, Level III                        SBIR
Level            Level of the program
                 the need will feed. If
                 not directly linked to a
                 program choose an
                 ACAT level for a
                 related program it could
                 support.

ACAT             Provide the name of the    For a listing of Level II, III ACAT Programs, see   SBIR
Program          program for which an       "https://www.my.af.mil/smart/SMART_APP/Workspace.
                 ACAT level was             aspx"
                 provide.

Linkage to       Identify (if applicable)
SCF CFSP         to a CFSP technology
                 need. If not applicable
                 to a current CFSP tech
                 need, describe why the
                 technology need should
                 be placed into a SCF
                 CFSP.

Submitter Info   Organization                                                                   All

                 Name

                 Phone

                 Email

                 Address



Category                                    Unassigned, Basic Research, Applied Research,       SBIR
                                            Advanced Technology/ Development, Demonstration /
 16                                                                      AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


                                            Validation

DoD Key Tech                                Air Platforms, Battlespace Environments, Biomedical,      SBIR
                                            Chemical/Biological Defense, Electronics and Electronic
                                            Warfare, Ground and Sea Vehicles, Human Systems,
                                            Information Systems Technology, Materials / Processes,
                                            Nuclear Technology, Sensors, Space Platforms,
                                            Unassigned, Weapons

Is this topic   Please consider, when       Yes/No                                                    SBIR
considered a    appropriate, to include a
Manufacturing   manufacturing
topic?          component in the topic
                description, as stated in
                Executive Order 13329.
                Please select YES if
                your topic has a
                manufacturing
                component in the topic
                description.
                Manufacturing topics
                are reported annually to
                Congress.

Is this topic   Section 1203 (e) of the     Yes/No                                                    SBIR
considered an   Energy Independence
Energy topic?   and Security Act of
                2007 maintains that
                Federal departments
                and agencies give high
                priority to small
                businesses that
                participate in or
                conduct energy
                efficiency or renewable
                energy system R&D
                projects and report
                them annually to
                Congress. Please select
                YES if your topic has
                an energy efficiency or
                renewable energy
                component in the topic
                description.

Identify                                                                                              SBIR
MAJCOM that
would benefit                                                                                         CaDe
from a
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                                                  17


successful
technology
development
and transition.

Identify the      Please select the          Agile Combat Support, Air Superiority, Building        SBIR
primary           Service Core Function      Partnerships, Command &amp; Control, Cyberspace
Service Core      associated with this       Superiority, Global Integrated ISR, Global Precision   CaDe
Function for      topic. All AF              Attack, Nuclear Deterrence Operations, Personnel
this topic:       SBIR/STTR topics           Recovery, Rapid Global Mobility, Space Superiority,
                  must contribute, in        Special Operations
                  some manner, to one of
                  the 12 Service Core
                  Function areas. Select
                  the one that will likely
                  realize the most
                  significant benefits
                  from the technology.
                  Relevance to the
                  Service Core Function
                  and acquisition or
                  sustainment program
                  tech needs is preferred
                  and fosters tech
                  transition.

Objective         The "Objective"            50 words / 250 characters                              SBIR
                  statement should clearly
                  state the desired
                  outcome of a successful
                  technology
                  development effort to
                  TRL 6.

Description       - Describe the             350 – 550 words                                        SBIR
                  capability deficiency,
                  problem, or technical
                  challenge so a stranger
                  to the Air Force
                  environment will
                  understand it.

                  - State the parameters
                  within which any
                  technology solution
                  must operate.

                  - State the type of
                  technology you believe
 18                                                                   AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


            should be explored
            (material, sensor,
            process, etc.).

            - Would government
            furnished
            information/equipment
            be required to address
            the topic?

            - Clearly state
            expectations, in
            quantifiable terms, for
            solving the technology
            need.

            NOTE: Do not mention
            specific weapon
            systems when
            describing the proposed
            topic. Instead, use
            something like, "next
            generation fighters,"
            emerging
            countermeasures," or
            some other suitable,
            non-specific
            description.

Phase I     Clearly state expected      400 characters                                  SBIR
            deliverables from the
            Phase I effort. It helps
            to start deliverable
            statements with verbs,
            such as 'evaluate',
            'assess', 'generate'.

Phase II    Clearly state expected      500 characters (approximately 150 words)        SBIR
            deliverables from the
            Phase II effort. It helps
            to start deliverable
            statements with verbs,
            such as 'build', 'test',
            and 'integrate'.

Phase III   Each SBIR topic             In less than 300 characters (75 words)          SBIR
            MUST include a
            description of one or
            more potential Phase III
            military or commercial
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                  19


               application(s).

               Note: The AF
               SBIR/STTR Program
               acknowledges that topic
               authors are usually not
               experts in the
               commercial
               marketplace and that
               this paragraph on Phase
               III applications may
               represent no more than
               the opinion of the topic
               author. Any thoughtful
               and reasonable mention
               of possible Phase III
               applications will satisfy
               this requirement.

References:    List at least two (2) but   Distro A, Unclassified   SBIR
               no more than five (5)
               distribution A              Minimum 2, Max 5
               (releasable to the
               public) references.

Limited        References that point to    Any reference.           CaDe
Distribution   technology need or
References     provide additional
               details beyond
               distribution A.

Keywords       3-5 words describing                                 SBIR
               need.

Technology     Standard DoD                                         CaDe
Readiness      Technology Readiness
Levels         Level for the current
               technology for the
               submitted topic.

Capability     Provide a capability                                 CaDe ML
Development    development roadmap
Roadmap        if available, otherwise
               contact AFNWC/XZ
               for further guidance.

Technology     Provide date when will                               CaDe ML
Need Date      the technology be
               needed. To be used to
               determine method of
 20                                         AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


                addressing need.

Joint Service   Is the topic being
Commonality     addressed by other
                Services? If yes,
                describe how the need
                is being addressed by
                the other service.
                Provide technical POC
                for other service in
                “Technical POC” field.

Technical POC   (Optional) Are there
                individuals outside of
                the center (AFRL
                Directorate, AFOSR,
                AFTC, AFSC, etc.)
                who should be
                involved?

RIF             Select the appropriate                        RIF
Applicability   focus areas for the
                submitted topic. If topic
                does not fall within a
                focus area select Not
                Applicable. To be used
                for applicability for
                RIF.

Project Lead    Provide a POC for who                         All
                will manage day to day
                execution of effort.

Criticality     What is the impact if                         All
                unresolved? This type
                of information will help
                with prioritization.
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                                     21


                                         Attachment 3
                               LETTER OF COMMITMENT

A3.1. General Instructions. The sponsor will submit a letter of intent stating their organization
will plan for implementation funding, will provide necessary infrastructure, training, etc., to
implement the technical solution, if it is successfully developed. The sponsor will prepare the
letter in MSWord (Times New Roman, 12 pt font) using a simple format shown in Figure A3.1.

Figure A3.1. Sample Letter of Commitment
 22                                                             AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


                                          Attachment 4
                  TECHNOLOGY NEED PRIORITIZATION CRITERIA

A4.1. Below are tables of what criteria will be used to score each TN. A higher score will
correspond to a higher priority in both the CML and the appropriate resource list (weighted
criteria based on the resource funding priorities). These scoring criteria will be used by the
CaDe Team for the initial priority to be presented to the CaDe Group and Board. At that point,
professional judgment, enterprise needs, and commander’s input will also be used to consider
which TNs will be prioritized highest.

Table A4.1. Center Master List (CML), AF Science and Technology (S&T), Rapid
Innovation Fund (RIF) and Independent Research and Development (IR&D)
Criteria               Possible Answer Score

Alignment with           No, Yes, Yes       No (1 pt), Yes 3 pts), Yes, more than one CFSP (5 pts)
CFLI CFSP gap(s)         addressed in
                         more than one
                             CFSP
CFLI CFSP Gap            Bottom third,      Bottom third (1 pt), middle third (3 pts), top third (5
Priority                middle third, top   pts)
                             third
AFNWC Directorate       Bottom half, top    Bottom half (1 pt), top half (3 pts)
Priority                      half
Technology                1-2, 3-4, 5+      1-2 (1 pt), 3-4 (3 pts), 5+ (5 pts)
Readiness Level

Tied to Program of      No, Yes (future     No (1 pt), Yes (future program) (3 pts), Yes (current
Record                  program), Yes       program) (5 pts)
                           (current
                          program)
Small Business             No, Yes          No (1 pt), Yes (3 pts)
Applicable
Possible Totals                             Minimum (7 pts), Maximum (31 pts)
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                                   23



Table A4.2. Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology
Transfer (STTR)
Criteria            Possible         Score
                    Answer
Alignment with       No, Yes, Yes    No (1 pt), Yes 3 (pts), Yes, more than one CFSP (5
CFLI CFSP gap(s)     addressed in    pts)
(Weight 1.0)         more than one
                         CFSP
CFLI CFSP Gap        Bottom third,   Bottom third (1 pt), middle third (3 pts), top third
Priority (Weight     middle third,   (5 pts)
1.0)                   top third
AFNWC                Bottom half,    Bottom half (1 pt), top half (3 pts)
Directorate             top half
Priority (Weight
1.0)
Tied to Program     No, Yes (future No (1 pt), Yes (future program) (3 pts), Yes
of Record (Weight   program), Yes (current program) (5 pts)
1.25)                  (current
                      program)

Dual Use             Well defined    (5 pts) Well defined, clear commercial applications
Applicability        through no      that would require no additional study to
(Weight 2.0)          potential      implement.
                                     (4 pts) High potential for commercial applications
                                     but would require some additional effort and/or
                                     resources.
                                     (3 pts) Moderate potential for commercial
                                     applications but would require substantial effort
                                     and/or resources.
                                     (2 pts) Low potential for commercial applications
                                     and would require significant effort and/or
                                     resources.
                                     (1 pt) No potential for commercial applications.
Ability to be       Easily through   (5 pts) Completed easily by a small business.
completed by           difficult     (4 pts) Slightly difficult for small business to
small business                       complete.
(Weight 1.75)                        (3 pts) Moderately difficult for small business to
                                     complete.
                                     (2 pts) Very difficult for small business to
                                     complete.
                                     (1 pt) Cannot be completed by a small business
 24                                                        AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


Military Utility      Definite      (5 pts) Definite applicability in other military
(Weight 1.25)       through low     branches and AF beyond the requesting AF entity.
                      potential     (4 pts) High potential for applicability in other
                                    military branches and AF beyond the requesting
                                    AF entity.
                                    (3 pts) Moderate potential for applicability in other
                                    military branches and AF beyond the requesting
                                    AF entity.
                                    (2 pts) Low potential for applicability in other
                                    military branches and AF beyond the requesting
                                    AF entity.
                                    (1 pt) Has not potential for applicability in other
                                    military branches and AF beyond the requesting
                                    AF entity.
Ability to be      Easily through   (5 pts) Effort can easily be accomplished with
complete within      cannot be      budget provided by SBIR funding.
SBIR budget          completed      (4 pts) Effort will be slightly difficult to complete
(Weight 1.5)       within budget    without outside funding or need for enhancement.
                                    (3 pts) Effort will be Moderately difficult to
                                    complete without outside funding or need for
                                    enhancement.
                                    (2 pts) Effort will be Very difficult to complete
                                    without outside funding or need for enhancement.
                                    (1 pt) Effort cannot be completed without
                                    additional outside funding or need for
                                    enhancement/extension.

Possible Totals                     Minimum (10.75 pts), Maximum (51.75 pts)
AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014                                                                   25


                                        Attachment 5
                           TRAD RESOURCE DESCRIPTIONS

A5.1. The current funding source pool includes:
   A5.1.1. AF S&T – Nuclear Deterrent Operations (NDO) and other Core Functions.
   A5.1.2. Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR).
      A5.1.2.1. Stimulates technological innovation within small business.
      A5.1.2.2. Uses small business to meet Federal R&D needs.
      A5.1.2.3. Fosters participation by minority and disadvantaged firms in technological
      innovation.
      A5.1.2.4. Process.
          A5.1.2.4.1. Phase I - $150K / 9 months.
          A5.1.2.4.2. Phase II - $750K / 2 years.
          A5.1.2.4.3. Phase II - Commercialization service/industry funded.
   A5.1.3. Industry Research and Development (IR&D).
      A5.1.3.1. Encourages industry to explore new technologies with potential application to
      DoD systems.
      A5.1.3.2. IR&D projects are not performed under contract, but are performed to leverage
      existing industry efforts.
      A5.1.3.3. Allows contractors to claim a portion of their development costs as part of
      overhead in “cost plus” contracts.
   A5.1.4. Rapid Innovation Funding (RIF).
      A5.1.4.1. Facilitates rapid insertion of innovative technologies          into   military
      systems/programs that meet critical national security needs.
      A5.1.4.2. Resolves operational challenges or critical         national   security needs
      characterized by the defense component requirements.
      A5.1.4.3. Primarily for validation and transition of technologies developed by small
      businesses (including IR&D and SBIR).
      A5.1.4.4. Administered by the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Assistant
      Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (ASD R&E) and Office of Small
      Business Programs (OSBP).
A5.1.5. Sustainment Technology Process (STP).

      A5.1.5.1. AFMC/A4 managed program.
      A5.1.5.2. “Depot-centric” technology solutions.
      A5.1.5.3. Adapt commercial off-the-shelf products (TRLs > 6) for short to mid-term
      mitigation solutions.
26                                                      AFNWCI61-101 10 JULY 2014


     A5.1.5.4. Develop S&T candidates (TRLs < 6) areas for long-term root cause solution
     candidates to feed into the AFMC Applied Technology Council.
