BY ORDER OF THE                                AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                  HEALTH STANDARD 48-20

                                                                                30 JUNE 2006
                                                                         355 FIGHTER WING
                                                                                 Supplement
                                                                            23 JANUARY 2012

                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                  OCCUPATIONAL NOISE AND HEARING
                                                          CONSERVATION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/SGO                                                              Certified by: AF/SGO
                                                                        (Maj Gen Bruce Green)
Supersedes:   AFOSH Standard 161-20, 5                                                Pages: 69
              Oct 1991
                                           (355FW)
OPR: 355 AMDS/SGPB                                                  Certified by: 355 MDG/CC
                                                                            (Col Gordon Peters)
                                                                                       Pages:3


This standard (std.) implements policy and updates responsibilities and procedures for
administering the Air Force (AF) Hearing Conservation Program (HCP) to prevent occupational
illness and injuries under Federal and Department of Defense (DoD) references. Major
Commands (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Units (DRU), and Field Operating Agencies (FOA)
may supplement this standard when additional or more stringent safety and health criteria are
required. (NOTE: Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) will collectively be
referred to as the Air Reserve Component (ARC). They are also both considered MAJCOMS).
Refer to Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety,
Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH) Standards, for instructions on processing supplements or
variances. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected
by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records
prescribed in this publication are Title 37 United States Code, Section 301a and Executive Order
9397, NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR FEDERAL ACCOUNTS RELATING TO INDIVIDUAL
PERSONS, November 22, 1943. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement.
 2                                      AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


System of records notice F044 AF SGE Medical Record System (December 9, 2003, 68 FR
68609) applies. This is authorized by 10 U.S.C., Chapter 55, Medical and Dental Care, 10
U.S.C., Sec 8013, Power and Duties of the Secretary of the Air Force, and Executive Order
9397. Report conflicts in guidance between this standard, Federal standards, or other Air Force
directives through MAJCOM, DRU, or FOA channels to Headquarters (HQ) AFMOA/SGPP,
110 Luke Avenue, Suite 405, Bolling AFB DC 20032 on AF Form 673, Recommendation for
Changes of Publication. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed
processes in accordance with the Records Disposition Schedule (will convert to AFMAN 33-322,
Volume 4) found at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

All AF Active Duty, Reserve, and National Guard military and civilian personnel are covered by
this standard. This includes all appropriated fund, non-appropriated fund (NAF), seasonal, and
temporary personnel. Foreign national employees are also included unless exempt by other
agreements. Contractors must comply with state and Federal noise standards and are exempt
from compliance with this standard. Contract personnel should not be enrolled in the AF Hearing
Conservation Program (HCP) unless HCP services are included in the contract. HCP services
will not normally be included in contracts. This standard does not apply to community noise
situations and provides a reference on how community noise (including base housing) is
addressed by the Air Force.

This standard meets or exceeds requirements of Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) 29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 1910.95, Occupational Noise Exposure, Code of
Federal Regulations, Title 5, Volume 1, Part 339, Medical Qualification Determinations, and
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6055.12, Hearing Conservation Program, except for
military unique situations. It also includes material from International Standards Organization
(ISO) 1999.2, Acoustics-Determination of Occupational Noise Exposure and Estimation of Noise
Induced Impairment.

Trade names of commercial products are used in this standard for illustration purposes only.
Mention of these products does not constitute endorsement or recommendation for use by the
United States Air Force (USAF). Referenced American National Standards Institute’s (ANSI)
standards may be obtained for a fee from ANSI at http://webstore.ansi.org.

(355FW) AFOSHSTD48-20, Occupational Noise and Hearing Conservation Program, is
supplemented as follows: It establishes the Davis-Monthan Air Force Base responsibilities and
procedures to prevent the adverse effects of flightline hazardous noise. This supplement
prescribes policies and responsibilities for all military and civilian personnel assigned to Davis-
Monthan AFB and the Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (AMARG). This
instruction does not apply to contractor personnel. During mission essential, contingency, or
emergency operations, commanders may waive the provisions of this instruction; however, when
commanders waive procedures, they must ensure all supervisors exercise caution, make certain
all subordinate personnel are aware of hazardous noise conditions, and take actions to protect the
health of personnel. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Contact supporting records
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                      3


managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised. AFOSH Std. 48-19, The Hazardous Noise Program, has
been incorporated into this standard. Public Health (PH) conducts occupational audiometric
evaluations. PH will refer abnormal audiograms to the appropriate Primary Care Manager (PCM)
for evaluation and will manage the follow-up testing program through patient disposition.
(NOTE: Air Reserve Component medical care does not include the use of PCMs, and any
references to the term PCM as used in this instruction will refer to physicians assigned to the
ARC medical unit. Additionally, an HQ USAF/SGO memo, 25 April 2005, reversed a previous
initiative where each Primary Care Management/Element team manages occupational health
responsibilities of the enrollees. Instead the memo directs that Flight Medicine (FM) will again
resume the responsibility for occupational health and occupational medical exams for most Air
Force installations. Thus, references to PCM or PCE in this standard will apply mainly to FM.)
Standard Threshold Shift (STS) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
hearing loss recording/reporting criteria have been changed to comply with current OSHA
guidance, 29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 1904, Occupational Injury and Illness
Recording and Reporting Requirements. AFOSH Std. 48-19 Chapter 3, Requirements, and
Chapter 4, Hazardous Noise Surveillance, have been combined into one new Chapter 3, and
relevant information from AFOSH Std. 48-19 Chapter 5, Hazardous Noise Control, has been
included in Chapter 6 of this document. Other additions from the Hazardous Noise Program
include consolidation of the Responsibilities and Hearing Protection Sections into their
respective sections of this standard. The new changes in determining a STS (AF will no longer
use the single frequency 15 decibel (dB) change in determining STS) in hearing for better
(negative) or worse (positive) have been added. The implementation of an ―Occupational Health
Consultant‖ should assist Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) and PH to educate PCM teams on
all applicable aspects of occupational medicine, including review of problem audiograms.
Changes in the test environment requirements are established. The availability for an evaluation
of hearing protective devices (HPD) that are not managed by the Defense Supply Center
Philadelphia and do not have a National Stock Number (NSN) is covered. Guidance on the
proper use of the Fitness and Risk Evaluation is also included. The Hearing Conservation Data
Registry (HCDR) no longer exists, however traditional HCDR functions have been assumed by
the Air Force Institute of Operational Health, Safety and Health Division (AFIOH/RSH).
 4                                                 AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


      1.   Overview ................................................................................................................    5
      2.   RESPONSIBILITIES/PROCEDURES .................................................................                                5
      2.   (355FW) RESPONSIBILITIES/PROCEDURES ..................................................                                       5
Table 1.   Referral Criteria .....................................................................................................     20
      3.   HAZARDOUS NOISE SURVEILLANCE REQUIREMENTS: ..........................                                                       22
Table 2.   Health Protection Criteria ......................................................................................           23
Table 3.   Limiting Values for Unprotected Noise Exposures* .............................................                              23
Table 4.   Quality of Person-to-Person Voice Communication* ...........................................                                28
Table 5.   Noise Levels for Offices* ......................................................................................            29
Table 6.   Noise Levels for Work Spaces* .............................................................................                 29
Table 7.   Noise Levels for Group Meetings, Study, Rest and Relaxation* ..........................                                     29
      4.   PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT STANDARDS ..............................................                                            33
      5.   HEARING PROTECTION ....................................................................................                     35
      6.   NOISE CONTROL ................................................................................................              39
      7.   FITNESS AND RISK EVALUATIONS: ..............................................................                                40
      8.   FORMS PRESCRIBED: ........................................................................................                  42
      9.   FORMS ADOPTED: .............................................................................................                43

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         44

Attachment 2—IMPULSE NOISE                                                                                                             54

Attachment 3—AUTHORIZED HEARING CONSERVATION DIAGNOSTIC CENTERS
             (HCDC)                                                                                                                    62

Attachment 4—SAMPLE REFERRAL LETTER                                                                                                    63

Attachment 5—EARPLUG SEATING DEVICE AND CARRYING CASE POSTER                                                                           64

Attachment 6—GENERAL INFORMATION POSTER                                                                                                65

Attachment 7—FOAM EARPLUG INSTRUCTION POSTER                                                                                           66

Attachment 8—NOISE MUFFS: GENERAL INFORMATION POSTER                                                                                   67

Attachment 9—AUDIOMETRIC INSTRUCTIONS POSTER                                                                                           68

Attachment 10—OWCP HEARING LOSS MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS AS PARAPHRASED
             FROM DOL OWCP HEARING LOSS SECTION INSTRUCTIONS        69
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                        5


1. Overview
   1.1. The USAF Hearing Conservation Program (HCP) is a component of the AFOSH
   Program designed to protect workers from the harmful effects of hazardous noise. This
   requires identifying all areas where workers are exposed to hazardous noise and reducing
   exposure through engineering or administrative controls, personal protective equipment
   (PPE), or worker placement. (Also refer to AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated
   Occupational Safety Standard).
   1.2. The Aerospace Medicine Squadron/ Air Reserve Component (ARC) Medical Unit
   Commander is the manager for the occupational health program. Hearing conservation issues
   will be considered through the Occupational Health Working Group (OHWG) just as any
   other occupational exposure, except that an audiologist, if assigned, should participate in the
   OHWG. BE/PH personnel provide advice/consultation to the OHWG. The BE staff conducts
   workplace evaluations to identify workers potentially exposed to harmful noise levels. The
   PH staff conducts the audiometric testing program, fits Hearing Protection Devices (HPDs)
   at initial audiograms and provides counseling on audiometric results, monitors audiometric
   compliance, and tracks compliance of follow-up tests and ensures referrals are made to the
   appropriate PCM team and/or regional audiology/hearing conservation referral center. PH
   personnel evaluate HPD fit upon detection of a Standard Threshold Shift (STS), and notify
   workers with a STS, and their supervisors, within 21 days of determination. PH personnel
   will provide the base Safety Office information concerning OSHA reportable hearing loss as
   codified in 29 CFR 1904.10, Occupational Injury and Illness Recording and Reporting. ARC
   variations involve other hearing conservation certified medical Air Force Specialty Codes in
   accomplishing audiometric evaluations. The Occupational Health Consultant is a physician,
   usually a Flight Surgeon, that serves as consultant to PCM teams for operational health
   concerns, including review of problem audiograms, to determine if further testing is required
   before disposition, coordinates or conducts Fitness and Risk Evaluations and conduct PCM
   training on the HCP. An audiologist can serve as a consultant for audiology/hearing
   conservation review/disposition concerns.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES/PROCEDURES
2. (355FW)RESPONSIBILITIES/PROCEDURES
   2.1. Surgeon General Aerospace Medicine Policy and Operations Division (HQ
   USAF/SGOP) will :
      2.1.1. Provide policy guidance and coordination on hearing conservation matters in the
      AF.
      2.1.2. Serve as the principal AF point of contact with Federal and DoD regulatory
      agencies controlling occupational exposure to hazardous noise.
      2.1.3. Identify USAF Hearing Conservation Diagnostic Centers (HCDC) and Hearing
      Conservation Centers (HCC) used for the evaluation of personnel with hearing loss in
      support of the HCP. See Attachment 3 for a list of authorized HCDC/HCCs.
      2.1.4. Ensure operations involving occupational exposure to hazardous noise establish
      and maintain HCPs in compliance with Federal and DoD requirements. Such programs
      shall encompass the minimum requirements in DODI 6055.12.
6                                      AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


       2.1.5. Designate an audiologist and a provider (preferably an Otologist,
       Otolaryngologist, Occupational Medicine Physician, Aerospace Medicine Specialist
       (AFSC 48AX or Flight Surgeon) to provide consultative services for MAJCOMs, DRUs,
       and FOAs on the HCP.
    2.2. Headquarters (HQ) Air Force Safety Center(AFSC) Operational Safety (SEGO)
    will: establish policy for safety programs associated with hazardous noise exposure.
    2.3. Major Commands (MAJCOM), ARC, Direct Reporting Units (DRU), and Field
    Operating Agencies (FOA) will:
       2.3.1. Resource and provide policy guidance to assist installations with meeting the HCP
       requirements in DODI 6055.12 and this AFOSH Standard.
       2.3.2. Designate a representative to oversee the command or equivalent HCP.
       2.3.3. MAJCOMS will staff and equip the HCDC/HCCs to provide the following:
          2.3.3.1. The HCDC and HCC audiologist will provide regional Hearing Conservation
          (HC) referral support (current HCDC/HCC listing maintained by the Safety and
          Health Division at the Air Force Institute of Operational Health (AFIOH/RSH).
          Testing capabilities will include, at a minimum, pure tone air and bone conduction
          threshold testing, the full range of speech audiometry, immittance audiometry,
          auditory evoked potentials, and otoacoustic emissions. HCDC minimum staffing will
          consist of an otolaryngologist, audiologist, and support personnel. HCC minimum
          staffing will consist of an audiologist and support personnel.
          2.3.3.2. Ensure all audiologists assigned have attended a clinical orientation at the
          Audiology and Speech Pathology Clinic, Wilford Hall Medical Center; and the
          Hearing Conservation Technician Course.
    2.4. Air Force Materiel Command Office of the Command Surgeon, Aerospace
    Operations Division (HQ AFMC/SGP) will:
       2.4.1. Serve as the principal coordinator on occupational noise studies conducted during
       weapons systems development.
       2.4.2. Review AFMC Programmatic Environmental, Safety and Health Evaluations
       (PESHE) and ensure hazardous noise is addressed and controlled to prevent hearing loss
       and adverse affects.
    2.5. Air Force Institute for Operational Health (AFIOH), Health and Safety
    Division (RSH) will:
       2.5.1. Provide consultative services to measure, evaluate, and recommend controls and
       solutions for occupational noise concerns within the AF. Operational noise concerns
       include, but are not limited to speech interference and communication limitations.
       2.5.2. Have specialized noise-measuring equipment necessary to monitor and record
       various types of noise of biological significance or which might interfere with successful
       conduct of AF operations.
       2.5.3. Interpret and provide MAJCOM and base-specific reports communicating
       interpretation of results, as requested.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                    7


     2.5.4. Evaluate any unique or unusual noise problems at the request of the MAJCOM.
     2.5.5. Maintain an information repository on noise characteristics of noise producing
     equipment typically found in AF industrial workplaces.
     2.5.6. Provide HC consultation and HC reports to Air Staff/MAJCOM/installations upon
     request. Appoint an audiologist as the AF Hearing Conservation Program Manager (AF
     HCPM).
     2.5.7. Report annually through HQ AFMC/SGP to HQ USAF/SGOP, and the Air Force
     Safety Center (AFSC/SEG) on the incidence of permanent threshold shift (PTS) per
     DoDI 6055.1, E3.11.3.4.
     2.5.8. Evaluates AF HCP effectiveness, annually, based on the prevalence of STSs
     during the annual audiograms, and on the percent of identified personnel receiving annual
     audiograms.
     2.5.9. Evaluate and report recommendations for corrective action to installation level
     HCP managers and to the MAJCOMs (SGP) when Department of Defense Occupational
     and Environmental Health Readiness System (DOEHRS) Data Registry (DR) program
     indicators exceed acceptable parameters.
  2.6. United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM) will:
     2.6.1. Conduct formal Council for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing Conservation
     (CAOHC)-approved training, for DoD personnel (military and civilian) who perform
     audiograms.
     2.6.2. Provide and track AF certification numbers to students within 10 days of
     completion of CAOHC training.
     2.6.3. Conduct training for PH Officers and skill-level appropriate 4E0X1 course
     material that addresses components of HCP administration/management. Provide
     CAOHC hands-on and didactic DOEHRS-HC training for 4E0X1 personnel for the HCP.
     2.6.4. Conduct training for providers on audiogram review, audiogram consultation,
     referrals, and Fitness and Risk Evaluations.
     2.6.5. Conduct training for BE that addresses collection and interpretation of hazardous
     noise data and personal noise exposure data as outlined by Federal, DoD and AF
     standards.
     2.6.6. Provide and track AF HC certification numbers of personnel who are trained IAW
     the CAOHC. NOTE: AF personnel who receive CAOHC approved training at civilian
     agencies must register certification information with the AF HCPM and receive an AF
     certification number prior to conducting audiometric testing.
     2.6.7. Provides HC orientation training for newly assigned AF audiologists.
  2.7. Wing Commanders will:
     2.7.1. Run an integrated installation hazardous noise protection program, which includes
     noise control by operational means, building design, and land use planning.
8                                      AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


       2.7.2. Assure the MTF or ARC Medical Unit Commander is informed of each new
       operation, job, or process before the start of regular operations.
       2.7.3. Ensure work areas identified as hazardous noise areas are clearly marked.
       2.7.4. Ensure proper corrective action is taken for noise related Risk Assessment Codes
       (RACs).
       2.7.5. Ensure the use of HPDs and other noise control methods; encourages the use of
       HPDs for installation recreation facilities with hazardous noise sources (auto hobby,
       skeet, etc.).
       2.7.6. Ensure HCP is an annual standing agenda item for the ESOH Council. Program
       effectiveness will be evaluated; information to be briefed may include the number of
       shops and personnel on the program, number of STS and PTS, percent requiring follow-
       up, etc.
    2.8. Squadron Commanders and Workplace Supervisors will:
       2.8.1. Protect the hearing of assigned personnel by ensuring protective engineering
       controls, administrative controls, and personal protective equipment are used correctly by
       all workers; ensure workplace complies with all OSHA, DoD and AF HCP requirements.
       2.8.2. Identify potentially hazardous noise areas (as identified by BE) with signs located
       at their entrances or boundaries.
       2.8.3. In consultation with BE, ensure each tool or piece of equipment producing noise
       levels greater than or equal to 85 dBA, including vehicles, shall be conspicuously
       marked, where feasible, to alert personnel of the potential hazard. The exception shall be
       when an entire space is designated a "hazardous noise area," and the equipment is
       stationary. Exteriors of military combatant equipment are excluded from this
       requirement. Professional judgment and discretion shall be exercised when labeling tools
       and equipment.
       2.8.4. Use signs and decals describing (words or with other visual symbols) the potential
       hazard and the protective measures taken shall be used to designate "hazardous noise
       areas" and "equipment"; e.g., "Danger," "Hazardous Noise," "Hearing Protection
       Required When in Operation." All symbols and decals shall, as a minimum, comply with
       29 CFR 1910.145.
       2.8.5. Inform the BE Flight/ Element, or BE/PH Staff at ARC bases, if workplace
       equipment, or practices and procedures involving potentially hazardous noise exposure
       changes so they may evaluate noise exposure levels.
       2.8.6. Use engineering controls as the primary means of eliminating personnel exposure
       to potentially hazardous noise. All practical design approaches to reduce noise levels to
       below hazardous levels by engineering principles shall be explored. Priorities for noise
       control resources shall be assigned based on the applicable risk assessment code (RAC).
       Where engineering controls are undertaken, the design objective shall be to reduce
       steady-state levels to below 85 dBA, regardless of personnel exposure time, and to reduce
       impulse noise levels to below 140 dB peak sound pressure level (SPL). Engineering
       controls shall be applied to "military-unique workplaces," within the constraints of
       maintaining combat readiness.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                      9


     2.8.7. Ensure new equipment being considered for purchase has the lowest sound
     emission levels that are technologically and economically possible and compatible with
     performance and environmental requirements. 42 U.S.C. 4914, Public Health and
     Welfare, Noise Control, Development of Low-Noise Emission Products, applies.
     2.8.8. Include appropriate acoustics in specifications for all new facilities, equipment,
     and substantial modification projects. The objective shall be to ensure, if possible, a
     steady-state level less than 85 dBA at all personnel locations during normal operations.
     2.8.9. Ensure compliance and availability of HPDs for workers exposed to hazardous
     noise. Instruct personnel on HCP and care/hygiene of their HPDs (see paragraph 5.15.1
     for more details)
     2.8.10. Ensure workers with an occupational exposure to hazardous noise complete an
     initial/reference audiogram and receive HCP training within 30 days from the date of the
     workers’ initial exposure to hazardous noise.
     2.8.11. Conduct initial and annual workplace-specific hearing conservation training on
     shop or unit hazardous noise exposures and equipment. Document all training on the
     worker’s AF Form 55, Record of Training, or equivalent. Training must cover:
        2.8.11.1. The effects of noise on hearing and the purpose of hearing protection.
        2.8.11.2. The advantages, disadvantages, and attenuation of various hearing
        protectors.
        2.8.11.3. Mandatory requirement of assigned protective              equipment,     and
        administrative actions that may follow for failure to wear.
        2.8.11.4. The purpose of audiometric testing and an explanation of test procedures.
        2.8.11.5. Hearing loss may lead to disqualification from current duties, if hearing is
        critical to job performance.
        2.8.11.6. Notify each employee of their BE noise exposure monitoring results.
     2.8.12. Ensure personnel on the HCP are made available for examination and attend
     scheduled medical appointments. Personnel scheduled for a noise-free audiogram (NFA)
     will remain noise free from occupational hazardous noise sources for at least 14 hours
     prior to testing.
     2.8.13. Encourage the use of hearing protection off duty when exposed to hazardous
     noise.
     2.8.14. Post a copy of 29 CFR 1910.95, Occupational Noise Exposure, in the workplace
     so that it is available to employees.
     2.8.15. Assist with filling out AF Form 1754, Job Capability and Safety Analysis.
     2.8.16. In accordance with OSHA regulation 29 CFR 1910.95 (e), notify each employee
     exposed at or above an 8-hour Time Weighted Average (TWA) of 85 dBA of the results
     of the noise monitoring performed by BE.
10                                   AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


     2.8.17. Notify each worker of hazardous noise sources in the workplace, provide
     information to BE about work practices and procedures involving potential exposure to
     hazardous noise to allow proper surveys and evaluations of the workplace.
     2.8.18. Maintain accurate rosters of personnel occupationally exposed to hazardous
     noise. Provide updates to medics at least semi-annually or upon request. Ensure that all
     newly assigned and departing personnel are scheduled for and receive required
     audiograms.
  2.9. Directors of Base Personnel (Military and Civilian) will:
     2.9.1. Evaluate and reassign personnel, based on medical supervisory and Ground Safety
     recommendations to a suitable workplace. Include those awaiting reasonable
     accommodations in, denied placement in, or removed from, hazardous noise-related jobs.
     2.9.2. Ensure workers receive a pre-placement hearing test/medical clearance, before
     being hired or transferred into a position that includes hazardous noise duties.
     2.9.3. Upon request from HCPM or PCM, prepare an AF Form 1754 with minimum,
     essential tasks that a worker must perform to qualify for or be retained in a position to
     allow the PCM to conduct a worker’s Fitness and Risk Evaluation.
     2.9.4. Review and evaluate, with local HCPM, civilian hearing loss claims submitted to
     the Department of Labor Office of Workers’ Compensation Program (OWCP) for the
     purpose of determining if a claim should be controverted.
     2.9.5. Report annually to the HCPM and the Environment Safety and Occupational
     Health (ESOH) Council, the number of civilian claims filed for noise-induced hearing
     loss and the cost of the award.
     2.9.6. Civilian Personnel office will forward a copy of any hearing loss claims to
     Hearing Conservation Program Manager (HCPM).
  2.10. Wing and/or Base GroundSafety will:
     2.10.1. Report OSHA Reportable hearing losses on the OSHA Form 300, Reportable
     Injury/Illness Log, or electronic equivalent.
     2.10.2. Perform Fitness and Risk Evaluations by conducting the Job Safety Analysis, AF
     Form 1754 Part 4.
     2.10.3. Report noncompliance with HCP to the supervisor. Identify newly added noise
     hazard work tasks or areas noted during periodic safety inspections to BE.
  2.11. MTF and ARC Medical Unit Commander will:
     2.11.1. Ensure a comprehensive HCP is available.
     2.11.2. Appoint the Chief, Aerospace Medicine to be the Hearing Conservation Program
     Manager (HCPM). Many of the functions may be designated to an audiologist,
     occupational medicine physician, or senior flight surgeon.
     2.11.3. Ensure that personnel (civilian and military) performing audiograms have
     CAOHC certification and an AF certification number issued by the AF or other DoD
     component.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                    11


  2.12. Hearing Conservation Program Manager (HCPM) will:
     2.12.1. Ensure procedures are established to identify, schedule, and monitor all personnel
     on the HCP.
     2.12.2. Ensure only audiometers meeting the standards of the ANSI S3.6-1996,
     Specification for Audiometers, are used in the HCP.
     2.12.3. Review HCP for adequacy/appropriateness to protect workers from hazardous
     noise. Include adequacy of education, audiogram completion rates, and adverse hearing
     loss trends in relationship to workplaces/Air Force Specialty Codes/HPD usage, etc.
     Note: the OHWG is the proper forum to evaluate program and address concerns.
     2.12.4. Trend and analyze hearing loss compensation data and DOEHRS-HC reports;
     attend and provide consultation on the HCP for the OHWG.
     2.12.5. Conduct hearing related Fitness and Risk evaluations IAW para 7.6.2 and send
     copies of Fitness and Risk evaluations performed to MAJCOM, DRU, or FOA SG for
     review by the designated hearing conservation consultant.
     2.12.6. Analyze claims submitted for hearing loss under the Department of Labor’s
     OWCP. Assess the claim and advise the injury compensation specialist if the claim
     should be disputed.
     2.12.7. Ensure the most current version of DOEHRS-HC (or current HC software
     application) is used, and technicians are adequately trained on the program.
  2.13. Occupational Health Consultant will:
     2.13.1. Review ―problem audiograms‖ (reference para 2.15.7.4.1) and determine if
     further evaluation is needed per OSHA requirements (29 CFR 1910.95). If follow up care
     is needed, request HCDC/HCC consultations or medical referrals for personnel who fall
     into the referral criteria at Table 2.1.
     2.13.2. Ensure medical recommendations restricting hazardous noise exposure are based
     upon:
        2.13.2.1. Failure of the worker to meet medical standards as defined in AFI 48-123,
        Medical Examination and Standards, Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-2108, Enlisted
        Classification, AFMAN 36-2105, Officer Classification, and 5 CFR 339 for job
        placement.
        2.13.2.2. Inability of the worker to perform the essential functions of the job.
        2.13.2.3. Probability of the worker endangering themselves or others if allowed to
        work in a noise hazard environment. Consider the Operational Risk Management
        (ORM), AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, matrix for assistance in the
        decision making process.
     2.13.3. Ensure recommendations are made for reasonable accommodations that allow a
     hearing impaired worker to perform duties in a noise hazard environment without undue
     risk to personal safety and health or the safety of others (See chapter 7 on Fitness and
     Risk Evaluations).
12                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


     2.13.4. Ensure workers who are qualified for duty in hazardous noise areas, or processes,
     are able to capably perform essential job tasks and do not pose a safety risk to themselves
     or others.
     2.13.5. Attend and provide consultation to the OHWG on HCP matters.
  2.14. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) will:
     2.14.1. Perform noise surveys and dosimetry to quantify noise hazards as described in
     Chapter 3. Work with PMEL personnel to ensure calibrations and certifications are
     performed according to ANSI S14-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters.
     2.14.2. Complete the Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure Data (OEHED)
     or the equivalent workplace exposure data summary for the OHWG, including the 8-hour
     TWA and required HPDs.
     2.14.3. Provide shop supervisors the results of their area’s noise surveys. This
     information should include hazard and required controls (Engineering, administrative,
     and/or HPD.) This can be in the form of the certified PPE list.
     2.14.4. Assess the adequacy of all controls used to reduce noise exposures including
     hearing protectors per Chapter 5, and evaluate industrial work areas where adverse
     hearing loss trends are noted.
     2.14.5. Assist with the Fitness and Risk Evaluations upon request of provider.
     2.14.6. Review facility and operations plans for new or modified facilities to ensure
     noise exposure control is appropriately considered.
     2.14.7. In conjunction with the shop supervisor, assess the feasibility of engineering
     controls for hazardous noise equipment/areas.
     2.14.8. BE will collect accurate rosters of personnel exposed to hazardous noise during
     shop visits IAW AFMAN 48-146, Occupational and Environmental Health Program and
     Information Management. BE will share rosters with PH.
     2.14.9. Conduct work place assessments to support occupational illness/injury
     investigations and claims for hearing loss.
  2.15. Public Health (PH) will:
     2.15.1. PCM/E and PH will track and monitor occupational exam compliance of workers
     on the HCP.
     2.15.2. Track personnel on the HCP in conjunction with shop supervisors with the
     current occupational health computer software.
     2.15.3. Perform audiometric testing using the DOEHRS-HC Software.
     2.15.4. Enroll personnel identified by supervisors as occupationally exposed to
     hazardous noise, (by BE survey and recommended by OHWG), into a testing program
     that includes pre-placement, periodic (at least annually), and termination audiograms.
     2.15.5. Conduct audiometric testing in accordance with the following:
         2.15.5.1. Be performed by a licensed or certified audiologist, otolaryngologist,
         physician; or by a technician certified by the Council for Accreditation in
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                  13


        Occupational Hearing Conservation (CAOHC) or who has completed equivalent
        training. Standard instructions shall be given to individuals before testing (see
        Attachment 9).
        2.15.5.2. Be conducted in a BEE certified testing environment with background
        octave band sound pressure levels (SPLs) not greater than the following:
                  For 500 Hertz ( Hz), 27 dB.
                  For 1000 Hz, 29 dB.
                  For 2000 Hz, 34 dB.
                  For 4000 Hz, 39 dB.
                  For 8000 Hz, 41 dB.
        The test environment shall be resurveyed annually using equipment conforming at
        least to the Type 1 requirements of the latest approved ANSI Standards S1.4A to
        S1.4-1983 and the order 3 extended range requirements of the latest approved ANSI
        Standard S1.11-1993.
        2.15.5.3. Include pure tone, air conduction, and hearing threshold examinations of
        each ear at the test frequencies of 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, and 6000 Hertz (Hz).
        2.15.5.4. Be performed on audiometers calibrated to the specifications of the latest
        approved ANSI Standard S3.6-1996. Audiometers must receive annual electro-
        acoustic calibration.
        2.15.5.5. Be conducted on audiometers that have received a functional and biological
        operation check before each day's use. For specifications see 29 CFR 1910.95
        (h)(5)(i).
     2.15.6. Conduct audiometric monitoring for reference and/or pre-placement audiograms
     (DD Form 2215, Reference Audiogram) according to the following:
        2.15.6.1. Military personnel, during training or prior to initial assignment to duty
        where audiograms are required, shall receive a reference audiogram. Use every effort
        to conduct a reference audiogram on civilian workers before assignment to duties
        involving hazardous noise. A reference audiogram shall not be conducted more than
        30 days from the date of the worker's initial exposure to hazardous noise. The first
        valid hearing test administered is the reference audiogram and the worker shall be
        informed to avoid high levels of occupational or non-occupational noise exposure
        during a 15-hour period preceding the examination. Hearing protectors shall not be
        used to meet the noise-free requirement.
        2.15.6.2. An Audiometric Case History (AF Form 1753, Hearing Conservation
        Examination - Section I) shall be completed on all reference audiograms. If worse
        than H-1 hearing levels are noted, or if personnel answer ―yes‖ to asterisked
        questions, then a clinical examination is required, and the remainder of AF Form
        1753 must be completed.
14                                  AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


        2.15.6.3. Workers terminated from the HCP who subsequently return to hazardous
        noise duties should have a current audiogram compared to their original reference
        audiogram. If the current results do not indicate a STS, the original DD Form 2215
        will serve as the reference audiogram. If an STS is present, use the new audiogram to
        establish a reference.
     2.15.7. Complete annual audiograms and document them on DD Form 2216, Hearing
     Conservation Data, in accordance with the following:
        2.15.7.1. Personnel exposed to hazardous noise levels exceeding the standard in para
        3.1, shall receive annual audiograms. Examine the fit and condition of pre-formed
        and custom earplugs at the time of the annual audiogram.
        2.15.7.2. A Standard Threshold Shift (STS) shall include a change in hearing
        threshold relative to the current baseline audiogram of an average of 10 decibels (dB)
        or more at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz, in either ear. Age corrections will not be
        applied.
        2.15.7.3. When an individual's audiogram shows an STS relative to the reference
        audiogram in either ear the following must be accomplished:
           2.15.7.3.1. If a negative STS, improved hearing threshold from reference
           audiogram, is noted, one 14-hour NFA is required. That may be administered the
           same day as the periodic test. The results may be used to create a re-established
           reference audiogram, to reflect the improvement in pure tone acuity.
           2.15.7.3.2. If a positive STS, decrease in hearing threshold from reference
           audiogram, is noted, a 14-hour NFA must be administered. Follow-up testing
           must be done within 30 days of the annual audiogram. If the follow-up tests are
           performed more than 30 days after the annual audiogram, then the annual
           audiogram must be considered a PTS, regardless of the results of the follow-up
           tests.
               2.15.7.3.2.1. If the results of the first follow-up NFA do not indicate a STS, a
               second follow-up test is not required, and the shift is considered a temporary
               threshold shift (TTS). If there is a STS on the 14-hour NFA, a second 14-hour
               NFA will be performed. The second 14-hour NFA may be performed
               immediately.
               2.15.7.3.2.2. If a STS is noted on the second NFA, then the STS should be
               considered a permanent threshold shift (PTS).
               2.15.7.3.2.3. Ensure provider performs an ear inspection, prior to the NFA, to
               determine if cerumen removal or other treatment is necessary to obtain an
               accurate audiogram. AF Hearing Conservationists are sufficiently trained to
               perform otoscopic examination.
        2.15.7.4. All patients with a PTS or problem audiogram will be referred back to a
        provider or to an audiologist. They determine what further follow-up is required.
        Table 2.1 provides referral criteria to determine the need for an AF HCDC/HCC
        evaluation. A physician shall make any determination that the noise-induced STS is
        not work-related or has not been aggravated by occupational noise exposure.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                      15


            2.15.7.4.1. Problem audiograms are audiograms that show large differences in
            hearing thresholds between the two ears, audiograms that show unusual hearing
            loss configurations that are atypical of noise induced hearing loss, and audiograms
            with thresholds that are not repeatable.
            2.15.7.4.2. The worker is required to complete Section I of the AF Form 1753,
            prior to medical referral for PTS.
            2.15.7.4.3. The audiologist, otolaryngologist, or physician shall review problem
            audiograms and shall determine whether there is a need for further evaluation. At
            a minimum they shall have access to:
               2.15.7.4.3.1. A copy of the requirements for hearing conservation.
               2.15.7.4.3.2. The baseline audiogram and most recent audiogram of the
               employee evaluated.
               2.15.7.4.3.3. Measurements of background sound pressure levels in the
               audiometric test room.
               2.15.7.4.3.4. Records of audiometer calibrations as required.
        2.15.7.5. When an audiologist or physician confirms the PTS, the individual shall be
        notified in writing within 21 days of such determination, and the condition entered in
        the individual's medical record. The individual shall be refitted with hearing
        protection, instructed in its care and use, and encouraged to wear the hearing
        protection. Supervisors shall be notified, in writing, that the worker has experienced a
        decrease in hearing. The notification letter shall not contain additional details without
        prior written permission by the worker. The supervisor shall also be advised that any
        discussion of a worker's hearing abilities with non-authorized personnel is strictly
        prohibited.
        2.15.7.6. A new reference audiogram shall replace the original reference audiogram
        when the medical evaluation confirms the STS noted during the annual and follow-up
        audiograms is permanent. The original reference audiogram shall be retained in the
        patient's medical record on a DD Form 2215. A revised reference audiogram should
        also be established when the hearing threshold demonstrated on the annual and
        follow-up audiograms indicate significant improvement over the existing reference
        audiogram. For a positive STS, the reviewing audiologist or physician shall choose
        one of the following options for reestablishing the reference audiogram:
            2.15.7.6.1. Use the results of the most recent follow-up test.
            2.15.7.6.2. Use the results of the audiology referral (if all pertinent examiner and
            audiometer information are available for the DD Form 2215).
            2.15.7.6.3. Conduct a separate hearing test and DD Form 2215 and use it as a
            reference.
     2.15.8. Complete a termination audiogram when a worker enrolled in the HCP is about
     to stop working in designated hazardous noise areas. Personnel moving to other DoD jobs
     involving hazardous noise exposure need not be given a termination audiogram unless
16                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


     they change the DoD Component. An audiogram conducted within 12 months can be
     considered a termination audiogram.
     2.15.9. Report permanent STS results of workers with hearing threshold shifts meeting
     or exceeding 25 dB average at the same frequencies to Base Ground Safety office for
     inclusion on the OSHA 300 log or electronic equivalent. NOTE: When an OSHA-
     recordable hearing loss occurs from an instantaneous event (e.g., acoustic trauma from a
     one-time blast over pressure) the hearing loss shall be recorded as an "injury according to
     OSHA-recommended guidelines." National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
     (NIOSH) age corrections shall NOT be used for calculating an OSHA recordable hearing
     loss. That loss shall only be reported once unless an additional OSHA-recordable loss of
     hearing is incurred.
     2.15.10. Track patients referred to HCDC/HCCs in conjunction with provider to ensure
     findings and recommendations are reviewed and appropriate action taken.
     2.15.11. Ensure that appropriate audiometric DOEHRS-HC data is forwarded to the
     DOEHRS-DR, at least once a month.
     2.15.12. Perform trend analysis for HCP outcome measures (i.e. test compliance,
     temporary threshold shift (TTS) and PTS rates). Use data to determine management
     actions to improve the HCP.
     2.15.13. Ensure appropriate hearing protection is properly fitted to personnel exposed to
     hazardous noise. Document the date, type of HPD fitted, brand and noise attenuation
     provided, ensuring that the resultant noise level is below 85 dBA. (See para 5.13 for
     method to determine HPD attenuation). If resultant noise level is greater than 85 dBA,
     recommend that the worker wear double hearing protection, and record the member’s
     signature on an SF 600 or other suitable document and place the original form in the
     member’s medical record; provide a copy to the member so the supervisor can document
     training on the AF Form 55 or its electronic equivalent in the workplace.
     2.15.14. Annually brief the Occupational Health Working Group (OHWG) and ESOH
     Council on the HCP to include unit compliance rates and unit STS/TTS/PTS rates.
     2.15.15. Conduct illness investigations related to reportable occupational hearing loss.
     2.15.16. Semi-annually or when changes in operational requirements dictate, provide
     update to AFIOH/RSH with current contact information to include HCP Point-of-Contact
     (POC), mailing address, phone number and e-mail address.
     2.15.17. Forward all completed HCP medical forms to the appropriate medical record
     authority for inclusion in the member’s permanent outpatient medical record.
     2.15.18. PH will conduct and document HCP training on a suitable document such as an
     SF 600 to notify supervisor at every initial and reference audiogram. Additionally, PH
     should provide informal training at each audiogram re-emphasizing the importance of
     hearing protection. This is a ―teachable moment‖.
  2.16. Primary Care Manager (Flight Medicine for most bases) or ARC physician will:
     2.16.1. Consult with the Occupational Health Consultant on all problem audiograms and
     occupational hearing related referrals.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                      17


     2.16.2. Develop knowledge of related OSHA/DoD/AFOSH guidance to ensure
     appropriate audiometric follow-up and disposition occurs (as detailed in this standard).
     2.16.3. Perform worker medical evaluations and make clinical recommendations.
     2.16.4. PCM/E and PH will track and monitor occupational exam compliance of workers
     on the HCP.
     2.16.5. Determine if workers possess the minimum physical abilities needed to perform
     essential duties and responsibilities without undue risk to themselves or others.
     2.16.6. Establish reference and periodic (annual and close scrutiny) evaluations to detect
     signs and symptoms of noise induced hearing loss at an early stage to prevent
     progression. HCPM is the point of contact.
     2.16.7. Initiate Fitness and Risk Evaluations for personnel who exceed the H-1 profile
     and work in a hazardous noise area, and make a medical recommendation. Determine the
     extent of Fitness and Risk Evaluation.
     2.16.8. Determine whether shift is related to Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) condition.
     Advise worker of the condition and either treat or refer for treatment. If a physician
     determines the shift is not occupationally related (i.e. middle ear infection) the Medical
     Treatment Facility (MTF) is not responsible for the referral or treatment costs for civilian
     employees.
     2.16.9. When indicated review, complete, and sign AF Form l753, Hearing Conservation
     Examination.
     2.16.10. A provider will complete Section II of the AF Form 1753, before a baseline
     audiogram is re-established. An examination of the ears will be performed on patients
     with a PTS, those undergoing a Fitness and Risk Evaluation for hearing, and those getting
     a reference audiogram with worse than H-1 hearing levels or asymmetric hearing as
     defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, (greater than or equal to 25
     dB difference between ears at any two consecutive frequencies). The results will be
     recorded on Section II. The provider should note:
             Condition of the external auditory canals and tympanic membranes.
             Presence of middle ear disease and Eustachian tube function.
             Any condition that may interfere with the wear of HPD (permanently or
              temporarily).
             Any abnormality that might adversely affect the audiogram results.
     2.16.11. Determine appropriate additional referral criteria as needed.
     2.16.12. Comply with Department of Labor Office of Workers" Compensation Programs
     (OWCP) Hearing Loss Medical Requirements (see Attachment 10) when completing
     physician and audiologist reports. Reports shall be supplemented by any recommendation
     for hearing aids, hearing protection, further referral, or an interpretation of test results
     with site-of-lesion and a noise exposure history.
     2.16.13. Use the American Conference on Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH)
     Threshold Limit Value® Committee’s recommendation and restrict pregnant women
18                                   AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


     after 20 weeks gestation from discharging firearms with larger than a .22 caliber round or
     noise exposure greater than 115 dBC TWA and peak 155 dBC to protect fetus’ hearing.
     2.16.14. Track patients referred to HCDC/HCCs in conjunction with PH to ensure
     findings and recommendations are reviewed and appropriate action taken.
  2.17. Hearing Conservation Diagnostic Centers (HCDC) and Hearing Conservation
  Centers (HCC).
     2.17.1. HCC will provide diagnostic care in support of the HCP. HCDC offer complete
     audiologic services and provide direct clinical support for referrals. Evaluations by
     certified military or state licensed civilian audiologists are permitted. An AF HCDC
     provides consultation and overview of referrals. An AF audiologist provides guidance so
     management and disposition of patients meet current AF standards. Guidance can be via
     ―standing order‖ or record review. Record reviews can be accomplished by fax.
     Authorized HCDC/HCC are listed in Attachment 3.
     2.17.2. Referral Criteria:
        2.17.2.1. Medical providers may validate a PTS, but the Occupational Health
        Consultant or audiologist may be consulted to review problem audiograms to
        determine if further evaluation is required before re-establishing a reference
        audiogram.
        2.17.2.2. Medical providers use Table 2.1 to determine HCDC, HCC, or licensed
        civilian audiology consultation as part of the Fitness and Risk Evaluation.
        2.17.2.3. Aircrew members who fail to meet the requirements for continued flight
        duty should be evaluated as specified in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
        Standards.
     2.17.3. Processing Patient Referrals:
        2.17.3.1. Providers complete the DOEHRS-HC generated SF 600e, DOEHRS-HC
        Hearing Loss Referral indicating reason for referral and request for care, and send
        patient to the appropriate administrative MTF function to schedule referral
        appointment.
        2.17.3.2. MTF scheduler arranges appointment, travel orders, and notifies the patient,
        the patient’s supervisor, PH, and the referring provider of the date, time, and location
        of the appointment.
        2.17.3.3. The patient’s medical record and referral information must be available to
        the HCDC/ HCC, or consultant at the time of the examination.
        2.17.3.4. Civilian employees referred to a HCDC/HCC will be reimbursed IAW Joint
        Travel Regulation, Volume II, paragraph 4 regarding travel and per diem allowances.
        In cases where a civilian worker requests an audiologic evaluation for other than an
        occupationally related condition, i.e. hearing aid assessment, the employee will pay
        for the evaluation and any associated travel costs.
        2.17.3.5. Efforts should be made to refer patients to AF HCDC/HCC for evaluation.
        In cases where travel restrictions or finances prohibit referral to an AF HCDC/HCC,
        refer patient to a licensed and/or certified civilian audiologist. Providers may consult
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                19


        with AF/SG Consultant for Audiology and Speech Pathology on military or civilian
        audiology service selections and results interpretation. An AF audiologist should
        review/consult on all audiometric evaluations performed by non-AF audiologists. A
        letter (See Attachment 4) may be attached to the DOEHRS-HC SF Form 600e, or the
        AF Form 1672, Hearing Conservation Diagnostic/Center Referral, when patients
        are sent to non-AF audiologists.
     2.17.4. Reporting Results of the Referral Examination:
        2.17.4.1. The HCDC/HCC audiologist or licensed/ certified civilian audiology
        consultant will provide to the referring provider a completed DOEHRS-HC generated
        SF 600e, DOEHRS-HC Hearing Loss Referral or AF Form 1672, a completed AF
        Form 1489, Audiological Evaluation Results, or equivalent, and patient disposition
        including reference audiogram re-establishment, return to duty or restrictions, and
        follow up required.
 20                                     AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


Table 1. Referral Criteria

                   CONDITION                             RECOMMENDED ACTION
On pre-placement, have a hearing profile exceeding       Fitness and Risk Evaluation*
H-1 (see AFI 48-123)
May not, for medical reasons, be able to perform the     Fitness and Risk Evaluation*
job capably or safely in a noise hazard environment.
Have a PTS following 2nd Noise Free evaluation.            Referral to HCDC/HCC
(Audiologists and physicians are permitted by
OSHA regulations to reestablish reference
audiograms without HCDC/HCC referrals)
Are unable to wear standard hearing protective           Referral to HCDC/HCC
devices.
Complain of inability to correctly hear or understand    Referral to HCDC/HCC
routine spoken communications, auditory cues, and
signals.
Need special hearing skills and complain of hearing      Referral to HCDC/HCC
problems. (For example: Morse or voice intercept
operators, air traffic controllers, etc.)
Are unable to test using standard procedures or          Referral to HCDC/HCC
equipment.
Have a 40 dB or greater difference between ears at       Referral to HCDC/HCC
any frequency. (Requires masked audiogram).
Have asymmetric hearing loss greater than or equal Referral to HCDC/HCC (Once referral
to 25 dB difference between ears at any two is completed annual f/u is not required
consecutive frequencies.                                   if asymmetry is stable)
Exhibits behavior resulting in invalid or unreliable     Referral to HCDC/HCC
test results suggesting an exaggerated hearing loss or
a problem unrelated to a known physical illness or
disease
Meet other referral criteria as determined by the        Referral to HCDC/HCC
consulting audiologist or program manager.

*Fitness and Risk Evaluation may include referral to HCDC/HCC
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                     21



  2.18. Occupational Health Working Group (OHWG) will:
     2.18.1. Ensure personnel that have occupational hazardous noise exposure that exceed
     levels as identified in Chapter 3 are monitored in the HCP.
     2.18.2. Review the incidence of STS, TTS, PTS, and audiometric exam compliance rate
     to identify high-risk occupations and areas to determine if further interventions are
     necessary.
     2.18.3. Review approved civilian hearing loss claims filed at the installation and
     determine appropriate actions (e.g. focused education, increased audiometric monitoring,
     coordination) with Safety for increased compliance monitoring, or other actions deemed
     necessary.
     2.18.4. Document HCP decisions and recommendations in the OHWG minutes.
  2.19. Employees with Hazardous Noise Exposure will:
     2.19.1. Comply with all hazardous noise control measures including the proper use of
     hearing protection devices (HPD) and advise others in the workplace to wear HPD when
     exposed to hazardous noise. Personnel working in or entering designated "hazardous
     noise areas" shall always carry HPD. When noise sources are operating, personnel shall
     wear their HPD regardless of exposure time.
     2.19.2. Wear HPDs off duty when operating hazardous noise producing equipment or
     tools, especially if exposure includes firearms.
     2.19.3. Report for appointments to receive occupational health medical exams, and take
     the HPDs they use to their appointment.
     2.19.4. Wear HPD when exposed to gunfire or artillery fire in test or training situations,
     during any duties involving direct flight line noise exposures, and any other activities in
     hazardous noise areas.
     2.19.5. Report new or changes in operating procedures that affect workplace hazardous
     noise exposure to the supervisor and participate in noise exposure surveys and
     evaluations by wearing monitoring equipment as requested by BE.
     2.19.6. Report to supervisor or medical personnel conditions that place themselves or
     others at risk for accident because of communication difficulty or the inability to hear
     warning signals.
     2.19.7. As directed by the HCPM, receive an annual audiometric evaluation for inclusion
     in the HCP.
     2.19.8. (Added-355FW) Davis-Monthan AFB flightline has been identified as a
     hazardous noise area by the 355 Aerospace Medicine Squadron/Bioenvironmental
     Engineering Flight (BEF).
 22                                   AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


         2.19.8.1. (Added-355FW) The following hearing protection standards are effective
         immediately, every time personnel are on the flightline:Double hearing protection
         devices (ear plugs AND ear muffs/communication headsets) will be worn
         whenever:Personnel are within 100 feet of A-10, C-130, or HH-60 aircraft during all
         stages of engine run-up to include Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) operation up to
         maximum power. This is approximately 2 x A-10 Wingspan, 1 x C-130 Wingspan, 2
         x HH-60 Length, or 1 x Sunshade width. For F-16 engine run-ups, the distance is
         250ft.As a minimum, a single hearing protection device (ear plugs OR ear muffs) will
         be worn on the flightline when aircraft are powered, taking off and/or landing, or
         whenever: Personnel are within 200 feet of A-10, C-130, or HH-60 or 350 feet of F-
         16 aircraft during all stages of engine run-up to include Auxiliary Power Unit (APU)
         operation up to maximum power. Personnel are within 25 feet of AGE classified as
         hazardous noise producing equipment. Certain types of AGE produce noise levels
         that require double hearing protection. BEF provides this data to the shop in their
         routine health risk assessment letter.
         2.19.8.2. (Added-355FW) When hearing protection devices are not feasible or
         could compromise the health and safety of personnel involved in certain activities
         (e.g. emergency response or security detail), time limitations and administrative
         controls must be followed.
         2.19.8.3. (Added-355FW) Flightline hearing protection is not required when driving
         or riding in a Government Owned Vehicle (GOV) or around unpowered aircraft.
         However, double hearing protection should still be carried in the event that operations
         change and personnel must work in hazardous noise conditions.
   2.20. Air Force      Research     Laboratory-      Human       Effectiveness    Directorate
   (AFRL/HE) will:
      2.20.1. Maintain an AF research and development capability to address science and
      technology needs and requirements in physical acoustics.
      2.20.2. Provide expert consultation to AF/SG on effects of physical acoustics,
      bioacoustics, hearing protection, and speech communication on AF operations.
      2.20.3. Recommend to AF/SG exposure criteria and language for AF instructions and
      guidelines.
3. HAZARDOUS NOISE SURVEILLANCE REQUIREMENTS: Hea1th protection criteria
are summarized in table 3.1. Specific details are outlined in separate paragraphs.
   3.1. Noise Exposure Limits-Hearing:
      3.1.1. Limits. The permissible exposure limit (PEL) for noise are intended to prevent
      damage to the hearing of exposed personnel. These noise exposure limits are sound levels
      and durations to which nearly all workers may be exposed without permanent adverse
      effect on their ability to hear and understand normal speech.
      3.1.2. Continuous or Intermittent Exposures. The duration of unprotected noise exposure
      per day shall not exceed the values specified in Table 3.2 for the levels indicated for
      continuous exposure. The Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) may publish
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                      23


       supplemental policy establishing separate audiogram requirements for AFRC
       members.

Table 2. Health Protection Criteria

Hearing Protection*            85 dBA, 8-hours or equivalent exposure times (See Table 3.2)
 Criterion level               85 dBA
 Exchange rate                 3dB
 Threshold level               80 dBA
 Maximum level                 115 dBA
 Impulse Noise                 No unprotected exposure above 140 dB (See Attachment 2)
 Whole Body Effects*           No octave or one-third octave band level above 145 dB for
                               frequencies from 1 Hz to 40 kHz
Ultrasound*                    See Para. 3.2.3
Exposure to Music
 Patrons**                     Leq.2h < 94 dBA
 Employees*                    Same as occupational standard
 Air Force Musicians*          Same as occupational standard

* Based on recommendations from The Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substance and
Physical Agents & Biological Exposure Indices published by the American Conference of
Governmental Industrial Hygienists; the current edition of this annual publication will be
applied.

**Per AFIOH/RSH, exposure level is based on an assumption of 2 hours per week exposure
using an 84 dBA criterion level.

Table 3. Limiting Values for Unprotected Noise Exposures*

  Sound Level           Time         Sound Level       Time        Sound level     Time
    (dBA)             (minutes)        (dBA)         (minutes)       (dBA}       (minutes)
   Over 115           Forbidden
      115                0.5              102           9.5            89           190
      114                0.6              101            12            88           240
      113                0.7              100            15            87           302
      112                0.9              99             19            86           381
      111                1.2              98             24            85           480
 24                                           AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


  Sound Level             Time          Sound Level         Time         Sound level       Time
    (dBA)               (minutes)         (dBA)           (minutes)        (dBA}         (minutes)
      110                  1.5               97               30                84         605
      109                  1.9               96               38               83**        762
      108                  2.4               95               48               82**        960
      107                  3.0               94               60               81**        1210
      106                  3.8               93               76               80**      24 Hours
      105                  4.7               92               95              Below 80   No limit
      104                  6.0               91              120
      103                  7.5               90              151

* The A-weighted sound level is used to assess hearing damage risk due to noise exposure; for
engineering noise control, other measures are required. The limiting duration of exposure at any
noise level equal to or less than 115 dBA can also be determined from the equation:

                                    Time, T (minutes) = 480 x 2 (85 - LA)/3

where, LA = A-weighted sound level

** Exposures of more than 12 hours should be followed by periods of equal length in quiet (less
than 72dBA)

If exposures to two or more levels occur in one day, their combined effect should not exceed an
8-hour equivalent continuous level, Leq, 480min, of 85 dB, given by the equation:




       where:
                Leq,T    = equivalent sound level for the time period T (T = 480 for 8 hr)
                Li       = sound level of each noise source above 80 dB(A)
                ti       = exposure period (minutes) for each noise source
                T        = total time period (minutes; 480 for 8 hr equivalent)
                n        = number of sources
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                        25


This is equivalent to summing the fractions of the actual time of exposure to the allowable time
of exposure. If this value exceeds one (1), the combined exposure should then be considered to
exceed the standard. This may also be expressed mathematically as:

                                       C1 + C2 + C3 +… + Cn > 1
                                       T1    T2    T3         Tn

The C values are the actual exposure times to a given level; the T values are the times allowed at
those levels by Table 3.2. All occupational noise exposures above the threshold level of 80 dBA
shall be used in the above equations. (OSHA 29 CFR 1910.95)

For work shifts other than 8-hour periods, the measured average noise exposure should be
adjusted to an 8-hour equivalent exposure level using:

                                    Leq,8hr = Leq,T + 10 log (T/8)

       where:
                Leq,8h r = equivalent sound level for an 8-hour period
                Leq,T   = measured sound level for the period T
                T       = length of the work shift in hours


       3.1.3. Impulse or Impact Exposures. Unprotected personnel shall not be exposed to
       impulse or impact noise exceeding 140 dB peak sound pressure level. Attachment 2
       contains detailed information applicable to this limit, as well as levels produced by
       certain weapons.
       3.1.4. Hazardous Noise Areas. A hazardous noise area with any exposure at or above 85
       dBA shall be clearly identified by signs located at entrances to, or the borders of, the
       area. Signs should be designed according to the guidelines in DoDI 6055.12, section 6.4,
       and will have the following message:
                                            CAUTION
                                  HAZARDOUS NOISE AREA
                            HEARING PROTECTION REQUIRED

AF Visual Aid (AFVA) 48-101 may be used for this purpose. Such wording as "When machines
are operating" or "Within 25 feet of operating band saw‖ may be added at the bottom of the
caution sign to accurately identify the noise hazard area. Whenever such modifications are
required, BE will specify the exact wording to be used. All personnel shall wear hearing
protection in a hazardous noise area when hazardous noise sources are operating, regardless of
exposure duration.
26                                   AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


  3.2. Noise Exposure Limits-Whole Body Effects.
     3.2.1. At certain high sound pressure levels, exposed persons may suffer adverse effects
     which do not involve the hearing organs. Whole body limits are designed to prevent these
     effects.
     3.2.2. No octave or one-third octave band level may exceed 145 dB for frequencies in
     the range of 1 Hz through 40 kHz, and the overall sound pressure level must be below
     150 dB (unweighted). There are no time limits for exposures below these levels.
     However, protecting hearing requires adherence to the hearing protection limits in
     paragraph 3.1 and the ultrasonic evaluation requirements in 3.2.3 to protect against non-
     auditory effects of noise; this applies regardless of any hearing protection used.
     3.2.3. The impact of workplace equipment or other workplace conditions causing
     ultrasonic noise exposures shall be evaluated. The limits specified in DoDI 6055.12 and
     the latest version of American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienist
     (ACGIH) Threshold Limit Values (TLV) for Chemical Substances and Physical Agents
     should be used. Note these limits are designed to protect hearing. They apply at the ear,
     and hearing protective devices can be used to meet these limits. Consultation with
     AFIOH/RSH may be required in measuring or evaluating ultrasonic noise.
     3.2.4. Pregnant Workers. Fetal noise is a controversial topic with fairly limited research
     on which to base exposure guidelines for pregnant women. A few studies suggest noise is
     a potential hazard; however, these studies provide insufficient evidence to establish firm
     fetal noise protection guidelines. There is evidence to suggest that noise exposure in
     excess of a C-weighted, 8-hour Leq,T of 115 dBC or a peak exposure of 155 dBC to the
     abdomen of pregnant workers, beyond the fifth month of pregnancy, may cause hearing
     loss in the fetus. The worker’s attending physician should work with BE to appropriately
     characterize the work environment and to recommend the sound levels that should be
     avoided. BE should quantify specific exposures, as requested by the attending physician,
     if not previously quantified during routine or special surveillance.
        3.2.4.1. Job rotation should be considered for pregnant workers who are exposed to
        hazardous noise after 20 weeks. Using job rotation for 20+ week pregnancies is
        highly recommended for workers having an ECL at or above 100 dB(A) unprotected
        exposure.
        3.2.4.2. Working in impulse or impact noise environments requiring hearing
        protection (e.g. firing ranges, EOD detonations, etc.) should be avoided by pregnant
        workers.
  3.3. Music Exposure Criteria. Exposure to recreational music may lead to hearing
  damage; two groups are typically affected: customers (recreational exposure) and the
  employees (occupational exposure).
     3.3.1. Employees. For employees who have occupational exposure to music, the noise
     exposure limits and other provisions in this standard apply as for any other group of
     occupationally exposed employees.
     3.3.2. Customers. Entertainment planners and customers need some understanding of the
     hazards associated with recreational exposure to loud music. Air Force occupational
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                       27


     noise exposure standards cannot be directly applied to recreational exposures. Assuming
     customer exposure to loud music is generally limited to 2-hours, once per week, the
     music level should not exceed an equivalent continuous level, Leq, of 94 dBA for any
     continuous 2-hour period at any customer location.
         3.3.2.1. The manager of each facility or activity where recreational exposure to loud
         music may occur should post or issue precautionary warnings. BE personnel may
         provide technical assistance in initial monitoring, interpreting results, and
         recommending controls.
         3.3.2.2. 94 dBA is a guideline and does not constitute a never to be exceeded sound
         level. The intent is to allow music to be entertaining within reasonable and safe limits.
  3.4. Noise Exposure Limits--Job Performance. Noise exposure limits in this section are
  provided to maintain effective job performance. These limits should be used as design
  recommendations in the construction of new facilities or to address concerns and correct
  problems arising from present conditions that interfere with accomplishing current tasks or
  operations.
     3.4.1. Quality of Person-to-Person Communication. The data shown at Table 3.3 provide
     ranges of sound levels and the corresponding routine communication capability for
     several situations. When evaluating speech interference near small arms areas, or other
     areas where hearing protection is worn, the attenuation of the hearing protection will be
     taken into account.
     3.4.2. Office and Work Space. Noise measurements made for comparing noise in an
     office with these criteria should be done with the office in normal operation, but with no
     one talking at the location where speech communication is being evaluated. Background
     noise with the office unoccupied should be lower by 5 to 10 dBA. Acceptable levels are
     at Tables 3.4 and 3.5.
     3.4.3. Group Meeting, Study, and Rest and Relaxation Areas. Noise measurements made
     to compare the noise environment in an area with these criteria should include internal
     and external background noise. Acceptable levels are at Table 3.6. NOTE: Expected
     voice represents the increase of voice level a speaker in a noisy field usually adopts. The
     communicating voice level is the voice level a speaker can produce over the range of
     sound levels shown when forced to communicate (achieve a 95 percent word score, with
     positive, instantaneous feedback).
 28                                     AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


Table 4. Quality of Person-to-Person Voice Communication*

                                        Voice Levels
  Noise Level      Normal          Raised            Shouting             Telephone Use
    (dBA)          Voice           Voice
      40 to 50   Satisfactory                                              Satisfactory
                  to 30 feet
      50 to 60   Satisfactory Satisfactory                                 Satisfactory
                  to 6 feet
      60 to 70   Satisfactory Satisfactory                            Satisfactory to slightly
                  to 3 feet    to 6 feet                                     difficult
   70 to 80*     Satisfactory Satisfactory                               Slightly difficult
                  to 1 foot    to 3 feet
   80* to 90                    Satisfactory     Slightly difficult          Difficult
                                 to 1 foot,
      90 to 95                    Slightly       Slightly difficult       Very Difficult
                                difficult to 2       to 3 feet
                                     feet
   Above 95                                      Slightly difficult       Unsatisfactory
                                                     to 1 foot

*Noise exposure limits may be exceeded by a combination of noise plus voice.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                           29


Table 5. Noise Levels for Offices*

  Range of                              Communication Environment
Levels (dBA)
   30 to 40     Very quiet office, telephone use satisfactory, suitable for large conferences.
   40 to 45      Quiet office, satisfactory for conferences at a 15 foot table; telephone use
                                   satisfactory; normal voice 10 to 30 feet.
   45 to 50    Satisfactory for conferences at a 6 to 8 foot table; telephone use satisfactory;
               normal voice 6 to 12 feet
   50 to 60    Satisfactory for conference at 4 to 5 foot table; telephone use occasionally
               slightly difficult; normal voice 3 to 6 feet; raised voice 6 to 12 feet.
   60 to 65    Unsatisfactory for conference of more than two or three people; telephone
               use slightly difficult; normal voice 1 to 2 feet; raised voice 3 to 6 feet.
  Above 65     Very noisy; office environment unsatisfactory; telephone use difficult.


Table 6. Noise Levels for Work Spaces*

  Range of                              Communication Environment
Levels (dBA)
   70 to 80      Person-to-person communication with raised voice satisfactory 1 to 2 feet;
                           slightly difficult 3 to 6 feet. Telephone use difficult.
   80 to 90    Person-to-person communication slightly difficult with raised voice 1 to 2
               feet; slightly difficult with shouting 3 to 6 feet. Telephone use very difficult.
  Above 90     Person-to-person communication extremely difficult. Telephone use
               unsatisfactory.


Table 7. Noise Levels for Group Meetings, Study, Rest and Relaxation*

  Range of                              Type of Space and Activities
Levels (dBA)
   34 to 45     Group gatherings to listen to speech and music; low background noise and
                              good hearing conditions required; sleeping.
   45 to 55    Areas where some concentration and relaxed communication may be
               desirable; reading rooms, sedentary relaxation; radio and television listening.
   55 to 65    Good communication conditions not essential; some distraction due to
               external noise can be permitted; internal noise generation due to other
               activities may be present.
 30                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012



* Based on recommendations outlined in ANSI S3.14-1977 (R1997), American National
Standard for Rating Noise with Respect to Speech Interference.
   3.5. Frequency of Surveys. Potential noise hazards shall be identified, evaluated, and
   controlled as an integral part of the surveys specified in AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine,
   AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Program, and AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program.
   Specifically, the health effects of noise shall be evaluated as part of routine and special
   surveillance, and when operations change or new operations start. Additionally, surveys are
   performed when specific requests address the potential for hazardous noise exposure or
   evaluation of other types of requests show there to be potential noise hazards (OSHA 29 CFR
   1910.95).
      3.5.1. An initial survey shall be conducted in all potentially hazardous noise areas. Work
      area/shop supervisors will notify BE within 3 days of any change in operations that
      results in increased noise levels and BE will conduct a new noise evaluation within 30
      days of this change IAW requirements of DoDI 6055.12.
      3.5.2. Initial, representative Leq,T noise level data shall be collected for similar exposure
      groups (SEG) established IAW AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program and
      AFMAN(I) 48-146, Occupational Health Information Management, for all AF
      employees (military and civilian) routinely working in hazardous noise areas; additional
      assessment will be accomplished within 30 days of any change in operations affecting
      noise levels. When the noise exposures for a particular SEG are highly variable or not
      clearly well above/below the PEL, L evaluations will be accomplished IAW AFI 48-145,
      Air Force Occupational Health Program, and AFMAN 48-146, Occupational Health
      Information Management, to adequately characterize the noise hazard.
   3.6. Noise Hazard Survey. A generalized process sequence, coupled with specified
   evaluation procedures, will be instituted to ensure a uniform approach to noise hazard
   surveillance. The objective is to determine whether or not noise exposures pose a significant
   risk to the workers’ hearing. There are four phases to the surveillance process: anticipation,
   recognition, evaluation, and control.
      3.6.1. Anticipation. BE shall assume all potential high noise sources represent a potential
      occupational exposure to hazardous noise.
      3.6.2. Recognition. The BEE shall become familiar with the processes being performed
      in the workplace through firsthand observation, interviews with shop personnel, review
      of existing surveillance data, epidemiological summaries completed by PH, and health
      record review notes. Potentially hazardous noise sources should be noted during this
      phase to identify the need for further consideration in the evaluation phase.
      3.6.3. Evaluation. Three types of noise surveys are conducted to evaluate the noise
      environment: the noise source survey, the worker exposure survey, and the hazardous
      noise area survey. Data collection shall be conducted when new processes are identified
      or existing data is no longer current. Measurements shall be made using equipment
      conforming to the appropriate ANSI standard in the references. All noise data used to
      characterize occupational exposures shall be entered into the current AF approved OEH-
      MIS. Only qualified personnel who are approved by a fully qualified BEE shall conduct
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                      31


     noise surveys. Qualification will be determined either by an assessment of formal
     education/training or by application of professional judgment.
        3.6.3.1. Noise Source Survey. This survey is used to classify whether a particular
        noise source output exceeds the criterion level of 85 dBA and could present a
        potential exposure hazard to workers. Sound level measurements shall be made using
        A-weighting with slow response. If the source is determined to be potentially
        hazardous and engineering controls are to be considered, an octave band analysis may
        be necessary; BE will determine the appropriateness of accomplishing octave band
        analysis. Historical data should be applied to sources of hazardous noise that have
        previously been well characterized, e.g., a generator for which the sound pressure
        levels have been adequately assessed. Hazardous noise sources will be labeled where
        possible with an AFVA 48-101, 48-103, 48-104, and/or 48-105 to warn operators of
        the need to wear hearing protection.
        3.6.3.2. Worker Exposure Survey. Where the potential to exceed the limits in
        paragraph 3.1 exists, worker exposures shall be evaluated by direct measurements
        with noise dosimeters, or indirectly with noise exposure calculations (3.1.2).
              3.6.3.2.1. TWA noise levels shall be determined for all AF workers routinely
              working in hazardous noise areas at least once and within 30 days of any change
              in operations affecting noise levels IAW DoDI 6055.12.
              3.6.3.2.2. In circumstances such as high worker mobility, significant variations in
              noise levels, or a significant component of impulse noise, representative personnel
              sampling shall be conducted. AFIOH/RSH can be contacted for impulse noise
              monitoring.
              3.6.3.2.3. When multiple worker days are used to determine the average daily
              equivalent continuous level (ECL) for an individual or group of individuals, the
              ECL can be used when formulating surveillance plans and shall be calculated
              according to the formula:




     where:
              ECL    = average daily equivalent continuous sound level
              Leq,Di = daily equivalent continuous sound level
              n      = number of work days monitored.


              3.6.3.2.4. Dosimeter Readings as a Dose. The following equation can be used to
              convert a dosimeter reading as a percent of the daily dose to the daily equivalent
32                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


              sound level.




     where:
              ECL    = average daily equivalent continuous sound level
              T      = time dosimeter was operated (hours)
              D      = dosimeter reading (dose percent)

              3.6.3.2.5. Worker noise exposure shall be computed and reported regardless of
              any attenuation provided by hearing protectors. However, workers should
              understand how hearing protection devices affect their exposure levels.
              3.6.3.2.6. The decision to place an individual on the HCP will be based on the
              likelihood of routine exposure exceeding 85 dBA as an 8-hour TWA. The
              following conditions should be considered when estimating exposure for an
              individual or group of individuals assigned to a Similar Exposure Group. These
              conditions are based on assumption of no routine exposure to hazardous noise in
              these environments:
                   Number of days spent in classroom training
                   Number of days spent in administrative tasks, medical appointments other
                    duties, etc.
                   Number of days detailed to wing support not related to primary duty
                   Number of days at formal training or temporary duty
        3.6.3.3. Hazardous Noise Area Survey. These surveys are used to define work areas
        where noise exposures are assumed hazardous based on routine operations. Hearing
        protection requirements for these areas should be made clear to all personnel that
        might enter these areas. These surveys can be used to define a work area enclosed by
        clear borders as a hazardous noise area or to identify a hazardous noise zone around a
        certain piece of equipment. When marking a hazardous noise zone around a piece of
        equipment, careful consideration must be given to noise production variables and the
        equipment’s mobility.
        3.6.3.4. Instrumentation used for these surveys must meet or exceed requirements for
        type 2 sound level meter as identified in ANSI Standard S1.4-1983 and its most
        recent revision. Instruments must have been subjected to a complete electro-acoustic
        calibration no more than 1 year before the survey. Acoustical calibration must be
        performed on the instruments before and after each day's measurements. The
        acoustical calibrator must be accurate to within plus or minus one dB, and must have
        been subjected to a complete electro-acoustic calibration no more than 1 year before
        the survey.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                       33


           3.6.3.5. When personal noise dosimeters are used for worker exposure
           measurements, they must integrate all sound levels from 80 dB to 130 dB. Dosimeters
           must meet or exceed specifications in the latest approved ANSI Standard S1.25,
           Specification for Personal Noise Dosimeters. AF components shall use a time-
           intensity exchange rate of 3 dB.
       3.6.4. A risk assessment code (RAC) shall be assigned to all potentially hazardous noise
       areas and operations, in accordance with DoD Instruction 6055.1.
       3.6.5. A current inventory of all potentially hazardous noise areas and operations shall be
       maintained to include, minimally, noise levels, RACs, and the types of control measures
       used.
       3.6.6. Secure/Classified Area. Noise dosimeters are authorized for use in Sensitive
       Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIFs), but local clearance will be obtained in
       advance through the facility Sensitive Compartmented Information Security Officer.
4. PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT STANDARDS
Certification of Hearing Conservationists:
   4.1. Personnel performing audiograms as part of the USAF HCP will be trained as Hearing
   Conservationists as established by the CAOHC. AF trained individuals may apply to
   CAOHC to receive Certification. CAOHC trained Hearing Conservationists, are not
   permitted to conduct audiometric testing outside of HCP requirements. It is recommended
   that AF personnel obtain CAOHC approved HC training at either USAFSAM or DoD
   component, as it includes training on the DOEHRS-HC software. Personnel who are
   CAOHC certified or receive training from a CAOHC approved civilian agency must contact
   the USAFSAM to receive an AF Certification number BEFORE performing audiometric
   testing. Personnel who are CAOHC trained by a DoD component will use the certification
   number issued by that Service.
   4.2. AF Hearing Conservationists can perform the following activities:
           Audiometric testing.
           Visual exam/otoscope of the ear to rule out conditions that interfere with
            audiogram.
           Taking a medical history.
           Screening audiograms for review by the Occupational Health Consultant.
            Care of the audiometer and ensuring daily and annual calibration.
            Educating, training, and counseling noise exposed personnel.
            Selecting and fitting appropriate hearing protective devices.
   4.3. CAOHC approved re-certification is required at 5-year intervals for individuals active in
   hearing conservation testing.
   4.4. AF Hearing Conservationists who perform audiograms must be responsible to an
   audiologist, otolaryngologist, or other physician, IAW OSHA 29 CFR 1910.95, (g)(3).
34                                     AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


  4.5. AF Certified Hearing Conservationists are not trained to provide audiograms for
  diagnostic evaluations, school screenings, or hearing tests outside the scope of the AF HCP.
  4.6. Audiometric Equipment Standards. Audiometric testing done in support of the HCP will
  be conducted with audiometers meeting the standards of ANSI S3.6-1996, Specification for
  Audiometers (or current ANSI standard). Audiometers must be DOEHRS HC compatible.
  4.7. Standardized HCP Audiometers. Routine pure tone air conduction testing is to be
  accomplished with standardized HCP audiometers. DOEHRS-HC is the authorized system
  for use in the HCP, and provides input into the DOD-wide Occupational Health databases.
  Data from diagnostic clinical audiometers used by HCDC/HCC can be input manually.
  Questions concerning the DOEHRS-HC system should be directed to the Chief, Health and
  Safety Division, AFIOH.
  4.8. Computer generated forms must be suitable for securing in the patient’s health record.
  4.9. Calibration and Testing. Hearing Conservationist will ensure all audiometers and sound
  rooms have been tested and calibrated before use in the HCP. The Biomedical Equipment
  Technician or equivalent will ensure all calibrations and certifications are performed
  according to ANSI S4.1-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters, and ANSI S3.1-1999,
  Criteria for Permissible Ambient Noise During Audiometric Testing for Ear Covered Test
  Conditions (or current ANSI standard).
  4.10. Daily Functional Check. A daily functional check is required before each day’s use
  (see AFPAM 48-133, Physical Examination Techniques). The examiner should listen to all
  frequencies at various intensity levels. This general check of the machine and its function
  will include listening for:
        Crackling sounds or changes in loudness while moving the cord.
        The presence of tones at all frequency settings.
        Presence of tones only in the appropriate headphone.
        Periods of silence while listening to the frequency and attenuation changes.
  4.11. Daily Calibration Check: Shall be performed every day that hearing tests are
  administered. An examiner who operates the audiometer must perform the calibration. The
  calibration test subject can be an electroacoustic ear or someone with known stable hearing
  levels, free of ENT problems, and not routinely exposed to hazardous noise. Record the daily
  calibration results on the DD Form 2217, Biological Audiometer Calibration Check.
  4.12. If a change in threshold of more than plus or minus 5 dB at any frequency (except
  6000 Hz), or more than plus or minus 10 dB at 6000 Hz occurs, repeat the calibration
  procedure. If the calibration standard is an electroacoustic ear, reset the headphones and
  repeat the procedure.
     4.12.1. If the calibration test fails a second time, test a person with known stable hearing
     thresholds.
     4.12.2. Out-of-calibration audiometers must not be used. They must be checked by
     Biomedical Medical Technicians and repaired or re-calibrated before being placed back
     in service.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                    35


  4.13. Document all activities on the DD Form 2217. A new DD 2217 must be established
  when the audiometer is re-calibrated.
  4.14. Annual Acoustic Calibration: Audiometers used in the HCP will be acoustically
  calibrated by Biomedical Equipment Technicians or appropriate provider of these services,
  annually, per 29 CFR 1910.95, Chapter XVII, Attachment E, Acoustic Calibration of
  Audiometers. The calibration date, taken from the hearing conservation forms, will be stored
  at the DOEHRS-DR for 30 years.
  4.15. Exhaustive Calibration: Performed by Biomedical Equipment Technician every 2 years
  according to sections 4.1 through 4.5 of ANSI S3.6-1996, Specification for Audiometers (or
  current ANSI standard). Test frequencies below 500 Hz and above 6000 Hz may be omitted
  from this calibration for those audiometers used in the HCP.
  4.16. Earphones. Only earphones meeting the requirements of ANSI Standard S3.6-1996, or
  current ANSI standard, will be used in the AF HCP. Earphones must ONLY be used with the
  audiometer they were calibrated. Insert earphones should not be used for HCDC/HCC
  evaluations as thresholds obtained are often different from those obtained with circumaural
  earphones. The audiologist should consider that since the annual testing is usually done with
  circumaural earphones the STS would likely be present again next year if insert earphones
  were used. If the STS is due to collapsing canals, it is recommended to prevent the collapse
  of the canal with circumaural earphones. If the STS has improved simply due to a better
  signal to noise ratio, the audiologist should verify the STS and recommend a re-established
  reference based on results that are realistically obtained in a normal HCP environment (e.g.,
  consider using F/U #2 or a diagnostic audiogram done with circumaural earphones).
5. HEARING PROTECTION
  5.1. The use of personal hearing protectors to limit noise exposure is an interim protective
  measure while engineering control measures are being explored. Such devices shall
  constitute a permanent measure only if the BE determines, in coordination with the
  workplace supervisor and the unit commander, that engineering controls are not
  technologically, economically, or operationally feasible.
  5.2. Personal hearing protectors are provided at no cost to all AF personnel who work in
  designated hazardous noise areas or operate noise-hazardous equipment. The worker’s
  organization shall pay for the personal hearing protectors (including custom molded hearing
  protection).
  5.3. The hearing protectors provided must be capable of attenuating worker noise exposure
  below a TWA of 85 dBA. If hearing protectors do not provide sufficient attenuation, further
  control of exposure shall be necessary.
  5.4. BE must approve HPDs for local use including local purchase items and HPDs for
  special applications. BE will verify the special need and ensure the device provides
  appropriate attenuation (see para. 5.13). Installation BE will notify MAJCOM BE and
  AFIOH/RSH if they have a special need. AFIOH/RSH will consolidate special needs and
  determine if an evaluation of a particular device is needed. If so, it will make a
  recommendation to the Air Staff to fund a project to conduct additional testing.
36                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


  5.5. Noise muffs with built-in radios designed for recreational listening will not be used with
  or as protectors. Hearing aids are not hearing protectors. Certain hearing aids may be used
  with over-the-ear hearing protectors after evaluation and approval by an audiologist or
  otolaryngologist. If approved, the worker should be placed on a close scrutiny evaluation to
  determine STS after occupational noise exposure.
  5.6. An earplug carrying case should be available, at no cost, for each set of pre-formed
  earplugs. This case can also be used for hand-formed earplugs.
  5.7. At-the-ear exposure is calculated by BE. BE will provide PH with a copy of the
  Certified Protective Equipment List which includes HPDs approved for SEG use, attenuation
  and for each workplace process, as described in this standard. Ear level exposure is
  recommended to be between 76 to 84 dBA/ 8 hour exposure. NOTE: Care must be taken to
  avoid over protection. Excessive attenuation may cause the worker distress resulting in non-
  compliance with wear of the HPDs.
  5.8. At the time of the annual audiogram Public Health should ensure personnel are fit with
  earplugs certified for use by BE. If a worker cannot be adequately fit with the earplugs
  recommended by the BE, PH or an audiologist will determine an action plan that ensures the
  worker is adequately protected from occupational hazardous noise.
  5.9. PH shall maintain a variety of earplugs and carrying cases. Individual units must
  purchase earmuffs, disposable plugs, and other hearing protection variations approved by BE,
  necessary to fully protect workers against hazardous noise.
  5.10. Active Noise Reduction (ANR) hearing protection is not appropriate for all
  industrial/military environments. Before employing ANR hearing protection, contact
  AFIOH/RSH, to assist in determining the appropriateness and feasibility of ANR
  applications.
  5.11. Communication headsets are appropriate in some environments. Contact the Health
  and Safety Division of AFIOH to assist in determining the appropriateness and feasibility of
  these applications.
  5.12. Types of Hearing Protective Devices (HPD):
     5.12.1. Insert Type Ear Plug. An insert earplug is designed to provide a seal with the ear
     canal. There are three types of insert ear plugs: premolded, formable, and custom ear
     plugs.
         5.12.1.1. Premolded Ear Plugs. Premolded earplugs are pliable devices of fixed
         proportions. Personnel fitting and dispensing earplugs will train users on proper
         insertion, wear, and hygiene. They are reusable, but may deteriorate and need
         replacement. (Attachment 6)
         5.12.1.2. Formable Ear Plugs. Formable earplugs come in one size. Some are made
         of material that after compression and insertion, expands to form a seal in the ear
         canal. When properly inserted, they provide noise attenuation values that are similar
         to those from correctly fitted premolded earplugs. Formable earplugs are usually
         considered disposable, and therefore are more expensive for long-term routine use.
         Individual units may procure approved formable earplugs. Each earplug must be held
         in place while it expands enough to remain firmly seated. These earplugs may be
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                    37


         washed and reused, but should be replaced after 5 uses or when they no longer form
         an airtight seal when properly inserted. (See Attachment 7)
         5.12.1.3. Custom Molded Ear Plugs. A small percentage of the AF population cannot
         be fitted with standard premolded or formable earplugs. Custom earplugs are made to
         fit the exact size and shape of the individual's ear canal. Individuals needing custom
         earplugs will be referred to Public Health or the HCPM. AF Band members are the
         only personnel authorized to obtain custom made musician's earplugs (consult an
         audiologist).
     5.12.2. Earmuffs. Earmuffs are devices worn around the ear (circumaural) to reduce the
     noise reaching the ear. Their effectiveness depends on a tight seal between the cushion
     and head. (See Attachment 8)
     5.12.3. Communication Earmuffs (Electroacoustic Devices). Personnel who must
     communicate in the presence of intense noise use these devices. They are fitted with
     earphones and, if needed, a noise-shielding microphone so voice communications can be
     achieved during various operations. Noise exposure limits may be exceeded by the
     combination of external noise plus voice.
     5.12.4. Combination Communications Earmuff and Earplug. When extremely high noise
     levels are present, and attenuation of communication earmuffs does not allow enough
     exposure time to complete the mission, earplugs can be worn in addition to the earmuffs.
     Custom molded earplugs can be made under the supervision of an audiologist. This
     combination of protection should provide a longer exposure time for mission completion.
     Information on modifications of earmuffs and fabrication of custom molded ear plugs can
     be obtained from AFIOH/RSH.
     5.12.5. Flight Helmets. Flight helmets used during ground or airborne operations provide
     varying degrees of protection from noise. The ear enclosures in these devices determine
     the degree of protection achieved. Generally, the amount of protection provided,
     primarily at frequencies below 1000 Hz, varies with the condition of the ear enclosures
     and the acoustic seal. Headset ear enclosures and ear cushions must be maintained in
     good repair.
  5.13. Limits of Hearing Protection Performance:
     5.13.1. The maximum possible sound attenuation provided by HPDs is limited by human
     body and bone conduction mechanisms. Even though a particular device may provide
     outstanding values of noise attenuation, the actual noise reduction may be less because
     the noise surrounding the head and body bypasses the hearing protector and is transmitted
     through tissue and bone pathways to the inner ear.
     5.13.2. The term "double hearing protection" for earplug and earmuff combinations is
     misleading. The attenuation provided from earplug and earmuff combination wear will be
     less than the sum of their individual attenuation values. Never add individual HPD
     attenuation values to derive a combination value. Add 3 dB to the highest NRR of the
     plug or muff to estimate combined protective rating if actual attenuation data for the
     combination is not available.
38                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


     5.13.3. Estimating Noise Attenuation for HPD.
         5.13.3.1. The noise attenuation provided by HPDs varies between wearers, even
         when the wearers are highly skilled at fitting the HPDs to their ears. Noise attenuation
         data reported by manufacturers are given as a mean and standard deviation
         attenuation for a highly trained human test panel. Attenuation values for HPDs use
         the reported mean minus two standard deviations. Testing method ANSI S12.6-1997
         is referenced. Consult with the device manufacturer for specific attenuation data. Also
         the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) maintains a
         database and website with HPD attenuation values and procedures on how to
         calculate at-the-ear sound levels.
         5.13.3.2. Octave Band Calculations. The preferred method to calculate HPD noise
         attenuation when the 8 hour TWA exceeds 94 dBA involves calculating attenuated
         sound levels at each octave band. Subtract two standard deviations from the
         manufacturer’s mean attenuation values for at-the-ear noise level calculation. The
         estimated at-the-ear sound levels at each octave band are then compared to the A-
         weighting scale, and added logarithmically for the total A-weighted sound pressure
         level.
         5.13.3.3. Noise Reduction Rating (NRR). The preferred method of estimating HPD
         noise attenuation when the 8 hour TWA is less than 94 dBA is by using the NRR. The
         NRR assumes equal noise levels in each octave band. Subtract 7dB from the NRR
         and subtract the adjusted NRR from the A-weighted sound pressure level for the
         noise source to determine the at-the-ear A-weighted sound pressure level.
  5.14. Fitting and Dispensing Earplugs:
     5.14.1. PH will accomplish initial earplug fitting. PH will fit and dispense pre-formed
     earplugs and/or foam plugs at the time of the audiometric evaluation.
     5.14.2. Each ear will be individually fit with earplugs (approximately 20 percent of the
     population requires a different sized earplug for each ear).
     5.14.3. Workers unable to be properly fit with pre-molded or foam HPD should be
     referred to the HCDC/HCC or a certified civilian audiologist for custom made earplugs at
     AF expense.
     5.14.4. Custom made devices may be appropriate for special circumstances. Service
     band members should be provided with pre-molded or custom molded musician’s
     earplugs. Only audiologists, otolaryngologists or trained technicians may make
     impressions of the ear canals required for fabrication of specialized earplugs.
     5.14.5. Workers may be fitted with pre-formed earplugs at the expense of the AF, but if
     workers request custom made devices as a personal preference, the unit is not obligated
     to pay for any additional examinations and the fabrication of specialized plugs.
     5.14.6. PH will examine the fit and condition of all HPD during annual audiograms, and
     whenever an effectiveness question exists (DoDI 6055.12 (6)(1)). The worker should
     demonstrate proper fitting technique at the time of the audiogram.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                      39


     5.14.7. PH trains personnel on the proper use and care of HPD at the time of audiometric
     testing. Personnel requiring earmuffs (in addition to earplugs) will be informed of this
     requirement and educated on the importance of using adequate protection
     5.14.8. Supervisors instruct users on proper use and care of HPDs in the workplace as
     part of the annual training program.
  5.15. Cleaning and Maintenance
     5.15.1. Reusable earplugs or formable devices should be washed in lukewarm water with
     hand soap, rinsed in clean water, and dried thoroughly. Wet or damp earplugs should not
     be worn or placed in their containers. Cleaning should be done as needed.
     5.15.2. Earmuff seals should be kept clean. The plastic or foam cushions may be cleaned
     in the same way as earplugs, but the inside of the muff should not get wet. When not in
     use, earmuffs should be placed in open air to allow moisture that may have been absorbed
     into the cups to evaporate. Earmuff seals should be replaced as needed.
     5.15.3. Anyone experiencing difficulty in wearing hearing protection (i.e. irritation of the
     ear canal(s) or pain) should immediately report this to their supervisor. The supervisor
     should remove the worker from exposure to hazardous noise and contact their Primary
     Care Manager (PCM) or PH.
6. NOISE CONTROL
  6.1. Hierarchy of Controls. Engineering controls are the first choice to reduce hazardous
  noise exposures. Due to cost and design limitations associated with some engineering control
  solutions, administrative controls and/or the use of personal protective equipment may be
  necessary.
  6.2. Engineering Procedures. Noise limit recommendations should be included as part of
  the acquisition process. If the required equipment is not available within specified noise
  output limits, alternate methods of noise control may be necessary. This may also be the case
  when noise levels associated with existing equipment cannot be controlled cost effectively
  through engineering solutions. Examples of engineering controls are provided below:
     6.2.1. Sound Absorbent Materials. Equipment with moving parts such as gears and cams
     can generate significant noise levels, especially in confined areas where noise can reflect
     and build-up. Sound absorbent materials can help reduce noise levels in the immediate
     area and in adjoining areas. Specific applications involving the type, amount,
     configuration, and placement of sound absorbent materials need to be determined based
     on an engineering evaluation.
     6.2.2. Noise Barriers/Enclosures. The use of barriers and enclosures may be effective to
     reduce noise levels depending on the characteristics of the noise source, the configuration
     and materials used for the noise barrier/enclosure, and the acoustics on both sides of the
     barrier/enclosure. Noise reduction from barriers/enclosures may vary considerably based
     on the construction layers and surface areas. Higher values of control may be expected
     from multi-layer barriers with greater surface areas. Well-designed partial barriers may
     provide more noise reduction than a single wall barrier.
40                                     AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


7. FITNESS AND RISK EVALUATIONS:
  7.1. Personnel who cannot perform essential job functions, and/or pose a safety risk to
  themselves or others, because of a medical condition, will be evaluated for fitness and risk.
  The fitness and risk evaluation may be requested by the medical provider or by line
  management. Personnel should be considered for a fitness and risk evaluation when they:
        Show a second PTS in the same ear
        Exceed the H-1 profile on pre-placement audiogram and enter a noise hazardous area
        Complain of not hearing/understanding spoken communications, auditory cues or
         signals
        Exhibit behavior resulting in invalid or unreliable audiograms (Failure to obtain
         accurate audiometric test data should result in a worker being removed from all
         hazardous noise environments due to an inability to accurately monitor hearing)
        Exhibit behaviors that call into direct question the ability to work in the assigned job
        Cannot be fit with standard HPDs.
  7.2. Flying personnel who meet the criteria above or exceed hearing standards for their
  flying class will be evaluated as directed in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
  Standards.
  7.3. For non-flying personnel, provider initiates the Fitness and Risk Evaluation in
  coordination with the HCPM. The provider must address in the Reason(s) For Request:
  clinical status and job safety. The practitioner may include a job capability assessment in the
  informed medical recommendation.
  7.4. Provider will perform a clinical examination. As a minimum, the routine clinical exam
  (AF Form 1753-Section II) will be performed. If other medical conditions impact the
  person’s ability to perform the job capably or safely, they will be addressed in the clinical
  examination.
  7.5. Clinical evaluation by either HCDC/HCC, or a licensed or certified civilian audiologist
  is required as a part of the fitness and risk evaluation when a worker has:
         A second PTS in the same ear;
         Suspected conductive pathology; or
         Invalid or unreliable audiometric test results.
  7.6. The Job Capability and Fitness Survey:
     7.6.1. Base Personnel Flight must prepare a list, using the AF Form 1754, Part 2, of the
     minimum essential tasks and auditory requirements a worker must have for job
     qualification.
     7.6.2. HCPM completes the Job Capability Survey, using the AF Form 1754, Part 3.
     HCPM interviews the worker, visits the workplace, and for each task identified by the
     appointing official makes a judgment if the worker will be able to capably perform the
     task.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                        41


     7.6.3. When requested by the medical provider, safety officials and the shop supervisor
     will analyze job safety, complete AF Form 1754, Part 4, and return the form to the
     medical provider. The Job Capability Survey (Part 3 - Medical) and the Job Safety
     Analysis (Part 4 – Safety) should be performed at the same time.
        7.6.3.1. The safety representative, with assistance from the shop supervisor, performs
        the safety analysis using the AF Form 1754, Part 4. Safety officials interview the
        worker, visit the workplace, and, for each task identified by the appointing official,
        make a judgment as to whether the worker will be able to perform the task without
        endangering themselves or others.
        7.6.3.2. The safety analysis should address, but is not limited to, the following
        conditions:
                 Does the worker perform tasks alone or in-groups?
                 If group tasks are required, are visual cues available?
                 Does the worker need to communicate to perform tasks?
                 Do potential hazard signals exist that the worker needs to hear (forklifts,
                  special machinery, announcements, etc.)?
                 Do the job tasks include confined space entry?
  7.7. Medical Determinations and Recommendations:
     7.7.1. The medical provider will only make a recommendation whether the worker will
     be able to capably perform the task. The appointing official/commander makes the final
     decision.
     7.7.2. To assist managers in making employment and placement decisions, medical
     recommendations will be one of the following:
        7.7.2.1. Worker meets medical requirements of the position.
        7.7.2.2. Worker meets medical requirements with an accommodation or restriction.
        (List recommended accommodations or restrictions and the expected therapeutic or
        risk avoiding benefit considering operational risk management decision-making
        process).
        7.7.2.3. Worker is not fit to perform essential tasks, will pose an undue risk to
        themselves or others, or fails to meet medical requirements for the job. The medical
        provider must include reasonable justification for recommendations.
     7.7.3. A determination of hearing profile might also be necessary (per AFI 48-123). AF
     Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report, and H-1 profile designation are not
     appropriate for civilian employees. Hearing profiles are not appropriate for decisions
     concerning disposition and/or disqualification. Individual worker determinations are
     made on a case-by-case basis as outlined by the Fitness for Duty Evaluation.
     7.7.4. The provider may assume a worker meets the minimum medical qualifications to
     perform a job in a hazardous noise environment if one of the following conditions is true:
 42                                     AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


          7.7.4.1. Worker has an H-1 profile, can wear standard HPDs, and does not report
          difficulty hearing and understanding routine spoken communications, auditory cues,
          or signals.
          7.7.4.2. Worker has undergone a previous fitness and risk evaluation, hearing
          thresholds have not changed significantly (no STS compared to most current
          reference), medical condition that might impact job performance in a hazardous noise
          job has remained stable; and the worker’s supervisor has not expressed any new
          concerns.
       7.7.5. The medical recommendation for placement or continuation in a noise-hazardous
       job will include the following statement on the AF Form 422 or locally derived return to
       duty memo, ―This worker meets medical standards to work as a [insert job title and
       occupation code] in [insert shop name and number]‖. If restrictions or accommodations
       are recommended, they should be listed on AF Form 422, or locally derived return to
       duty memo, along with the expected risk-reducing or therapeutic benefit.
       7.7.6. A disqualifying medical determination is warranted if:
          7.7.6.1. A medical condition prevents the worker from performing the essential
          functions of the job and no reasonable accommodation would enable the worker to
          perform the job.
          7.7.6.2. Allowing the worker to perform the job would endanger their safety, the
          safety of other workers, or the public.
          7.7.6.3. The worker fails to meet a valid medical standard or physical requirement for
          placement in the position.
          7.7.6.4. The worker determined to be medically disqualified because of reasons
          above must be individually evaluated.
       7.7.7. A summary of the Fitness and Risk Evaluation will be prepared, using an AF Form
       422, or locally derived return to duty memo, by the provider and will contain the
       following minimum information:
          7.7.7.1. Reason for the Fitness and Risk Evaluation.
          7.7.7.2. Clinical status (determination of whether a medical condition is temporary or
          permanent, and has reached maximum medical benefit).
          7.7.7.3. Safety assessment results.
          7.7.7.4. Recommendations for accommodations and (or) restrictions in the particular
          job.
       7.7.8. The completed AF Form 1754, will be forwarded to PH for filing in the medical
       record.
       7.7.9. Referral to an HCDC/HCC audiologist or licensed civilian audiology consultant is
       optional. However, if there is a need for audiologic consultation, a referral is appropriate.
8. FORMS PRESCRIBED: This AFOSH standard prescribes the use of the following forms:
      AF Form 1489, Audiological Evaluation Results
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                       43


     AF Form 1672, Hearing Conservation Diagnostic/Center Referral
     AF Form 1753, Hearing Conservation Examination
     AF Form 1754, Job Capability and Safety Analysis

9. FORMS ADOPTED: This AFOSH standard adopts the use of the following forms.
     AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
     AF Form 422, Physical Profile Serial Report
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009




                                        GEORGE PEACH TAYLOR, JR.,
                                        Lieutenant General, USAF, MC, CFS
                                        Surgeon General

                                        (355FW)

                                        JOHN A. CHERREY, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 355th Fighter Wing
 44                                   AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the
Military Health Services Systems (MHSS).
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations.
AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards.
AFI 48-145, Occupational Health Program
AFI 91-202, The USAF Mishap Prevention Program.
AFI 91-215, Operational Risk Management
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health (AFOSH) Program
AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standards
AFOSH 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, The Aerospace Medicine Program
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-2105, Officer Classification
AFMAN 36-2108, Enlisted Classification.
AFMAN 36-2622 V1, Personnel Data End User’s Manual.
Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 48-133, Physical Examination Techniques.
American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) TLVs and BEIs, Based
on the Documentation of the Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substances and Physical
Agents & Biological Exposure Indices, Latest Edition.
ANSI Standard S1.4A. Specification for Sound Level Meters.
ANSI Standard S1.11-1993, Specifications for Octave-Band and Fractional Octave-Band
Analog and Digital Filters, current edition
ANSI Standard S1.25, Specifications for Personal Noise Dosimeters
ANSI Standard S3.19-1974, American National Standard Method for the Measurement of Real-
Ear Protection of Hearing Protectors and Physical Attenuation of Ear Muffs.
ANSI Standard S3.1-1999, Criteria for Permissible Ambient Noise During Audiometric Testing.
ANSI Standard S3.6-1996, Specification for Audiometers.
ANSI Standard S4.1-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters.
ANSI S3.14-1977 (R1997), American National Standard for Rating Noise with Respect to
Speech Interference
ANSI Standard S12.6-1997, Methods for Measuring the Real-Ear Attenuation of Hearing
Protection.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                        45


ANSI Standard S4.1-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters.
ANSI Standard Z24.22-1957, Standard Method for the Measurement of the Real-Ear Attenuation
of Ear Protectors at Threshold.
Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 6055.12, DoD Hearing Conservation Program
DoD Instruction 6055.1, DoD Occupational Safety and Health (SOH) Program
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Report 550/9-74-004, Information on Levels of
Environmental Noise Requisite to protect Public Health and welfare with an Adequate Margin of
Safety.
International Standards Organization (ISO) 1999.2, Acoustics- Determination of Occupational
Noise Exposure and Estimation of Noise Induced Impairment.
Military Standard (MIL-STD)-1474B(MI), Noise Limits for Army Materiel
Military Standard (MIL-STD)-1474D, DoD Design Criteria Standard-Noise Limits, 12 February
1997.
Military Standard (MIL-STD)-1789(USAF), Sound Pressure Levels in Aircraft.
Military Standard- 882C-2, System Safety Program Requirements
Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 1904.10, Recording Criteria for Cases Involving
Occupational Hearing Loss, current edition.
Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 1910.95, Occupational Noise Exposure, current
edition
Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Subpart 1910.145, Specifications for Accident Prevention
Signs and Tags, current edition
Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 339, Medical Qualification Determinations, current
edition.
Title 42, United States Code, Section 4914, Development of Low-Noise-Emission Products,
current edition.
DoD Instruction 6055.5, Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health, May 6, 1969
DoD Directive 8910.1, Management and Control of Information Requirements, June 11, 1993

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACGIH—American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFIOH—Air Force Institute for Operational Health
AFMAN—Air Force manual
(355FW) AFMAN—Air Force Manual
 46                                 AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health
AFPAM—Air Force pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(Added-355FW) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AFVA—Air Force Visual Aid
AIHA—American Industrial Hygiene Association
(Added-355FW) AMARG—Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group
ANG—Air National Guard
ANR—active noise reduction
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
(Added-355FW) APU—Auxiliary Power Unit
ARC—Air Reserve Component
BE—Bioenvironmental engineering
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
(Added-355FW) BEF—. Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
BEI®—biological exposure indices from ACGIH
CAOHC—Council for Accreditation of Occupational Hearing Conservation
CFR—code of federal regulations
dB—decibel
dBA—decibels A-weighted (also written as dBA)
dBP—decibels peak
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense instruction
DOEHRS-DR—Defense        Occupational    Environmental   Health    Readiness   System–Data
Repository
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                         47


DOEHRS-HC—Defense Occupational Environmental Health Readiness System–Hearing
Conservation
DR—data registry
DRU—direct reporting unit
ECL—equivalent continuous exposure level
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
ENT—ear, nose, and throat, usually refers to an otolaryngologist
ESOH—environment, safety and occupational health
ESOH-MIS—Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Management Information System
FM—flight medicine
FOA—field operating agency
(Added-355FW) GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
HC—Hearing Conservation
HCC—hearing conservation center
HCDC—hearing conservation diagnostic center
HCDR—Hearing Conservation Data Registry
HPD—hearing protection device
HCP—Hearing Conservation Program
HCPM—Hearing Conservation Program Manager
HTL—hearing threshold level
HQ—headquarters
Hz—hertz
ISO—International Standards Organization
MAJCOM—major command
MEPS—Military Entrance and Processing Station
MERC—medical equipment repair center
MIL-STD—military standard
MHSS—Military Health Services Systems
MTF—medical treatment facilities
NAF—non-appropriated funds
NFA—noise-free audiogram
NIOSH—National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
NSN—national stock number
 48                                  AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


NRR—noise reduction rating
OEHED—Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure Data
OHC—occupational hearing conservationist
OHWG—Occupational Health Working Group
(Added-355FW) OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
OWCP—Department of Labor Office of Workers’ Compensation Program
PCA—permanent change of assignment
PCM—primary care manager
PCS—permanent change of station
PDO—publishing distribution office
PEL—permissible exposure limits
PESHE—Programmatic Environmental Safety and Health Evaluations
PH—public health
POC—point of contact
PPE—personal protective equipment
PPIP—Put Prevention Into Practice Program
PTA—pure tone average
PTS—permanent threshold shift
RAC—risk assessment code
(Added-355FW) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RDT&E—research, development, test, and evaluation
RMU—reserve medical unit
SCIF—sensitive compartmented information facilities
SEG—similar exposure groups
SEGO—Operational Safety
SG—Surgeon General
SGOP—Chief, Aerospace Operations
SGP—Aerospace Operations Division
SIL—speech interference level
SLM—sound level meters
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                       49


SPL—sound pressure level
SRT—speech reception threshold
STS—standard threshold shift (As defined by OSHA) or significant threshold shift
TLV®—threshold limit values from ACGIH
TTS—temporary threshold shift
TWA—time-weighted average
USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine

Terms
A-Duration (Pressure Wave Duration)—The time required for the pressure to rise to its
principle peak and return momentarily to ambient pressure. In the below sound pressure diagram,
the A-duration is the duration from point V to point W.




Air Force Certified Hearing Conservationists—Personnel that are trained IAW the Council
for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing Conservation and perform audiometric testing in
support of the Air Force’s Hearing Conservation Program.
Annual Audiogram—An audiogram performed at least annually (also called periodic
audiogram).
Appointing Official—Personnel officer or official authority to make management decisions
concerning hiring, placement, accommodation, and termination of employees.
Audiogram—The measurement of a worker’s hearing sensitivity expressed in decibels as a
function of frequency. Data are reported in graphic or numeric form.
Audiologist—A clinician, researcher, or consultant, specializing in the preservation, evaluation,
and rehabilitation of hearing.
B-Duration (Pressure Envelope Duration)—The duration of the primary portion of an impulse
noise, plus the duration of significant subsequent fluctuations. These durations are considered to
be the time interval during which the envelope of pressure fluctuations (positive and negative) is
within 20 dB of the principal peak pressure level. Significant subsequent fluctuations are those
whose summed duration is greater than 10 percent of the primary portion. The primary portion is
the period of time which is followed by a level which remains 20 dB below the peak pressure
 50                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


level for a. significant duration. In the sound pressure diagram below, the B-duration would be
from point V to point X plus point Y to point Z.




Close Scrutiny Audiogram—Frequently administered audiograms used to closely monitor a
worker or group. When, on whom, and how often to perform close scrutiny exams is determined
by the examining practitioner, or as directed by the OHWG.
Criterion Level—The sound level allowed for an 8 hour exposure, used as the basis for
measurement of a noise standard. For the Air Force the criterion level is 85 dBA.
Defense Occupational Environmental Health Readiness System-HC—An automated
audiometric system used by the military services for hearing conservation purposes.
Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Management Information System— The
AF’s overarching management system that incorporates environmental, safety, and occupational
health information systems including but not limited to: Command Core System, DOEHRS-
Industrial Hygiene, and the Automated Civil Engineering System-Environmental Management
(ACES-EM).
Defense Occupational and Environmental Health Readiness System-DR—DOEHRS-HC
data collection, retrieval and reporting site; used to submit, retrieve, and report DOEHRS-HC
data; location for downloading updated DOEHRS-HC lookup tables.
Examining Practitioner—A credentialed health care provider (physician, nurse practitioner,
physician assistant or audiologist) who performs occupational health examinations.
Exchange Rate (or doubling rate)—The time-intensity exchange rate for determining length-
intensity of equivalent exposure levels. The AF uses a 3-dB exchange rate. See Chapter 3,
Hazardous Noise Surveillance Requirements.
Fitness and Risk Evaluation—Evaluations performed by medical and safety professionals for
the purpose of determining a worker’s ability to perform specific job tasks (fitness) and the
likelihood of harm, either to the worker or others (risk), in relation to anticipated workplace
exposures and job demands. In the USAF HCP, fitness and risk evaluations are the processes
used to evaluate workers who, if placed at work in hazardous noise, may not be able to
adequately perform essential duties or may pose a health or safety risk to themselves or others.
H-1 Profile—Hearing Profile threshold criteria (H-1 through H-4) are defined in AFI 48-123,
Medical Examination and Standards. This criterion is used to identify workers for further
evaluation to determine if they are able to capably and safely perform their job in a hazardous
noise environment.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                      51


Hearing Conservation Center (HCC)—A center located at an Air Force Material Command
(AFMC) base that provides support for referrals under the USAF HCP. HCCs do not dispense
hearing aids. Authorized HCCs are listed in Attachment 3.
Hearing Conservation Diagnostic Center (HCDC)—An AF medical treatment facility staffed
by an audiologist, otolaryngologist (ENT physician), and support staff. An HCDC gives direct
clinical support to referrals under this standard and provides services to all other persons
authorized medical care by AFI 41-115. Authorized HCDCs are listed in Attachment 3.
Hearing Conservation Program Manager (HCPM)—Appointed by the MTF Commander or
ARC Unit Commander, the HCPM, usually a credentialed provider, is responsible to manage all
aspects of the HCP while ensuring OSHA/DoD/AFOSH compliance.
Hearing Conservationist—military or civilian member that is trained IAW Chapter 4.
Hearing Threshold Level (HTL)—The weakest sound intensity an individual can hear half the
time. A level corresponding to the decibel level reading on the audiometer when the individual
responds to at least 50 percent of the presentations.
Impulse or Impact Noise—A short burst of acoustic energy consisting of either a single burst or
a series of bursts. The pressure-time history of a single burst includes a rapid rise to a peak
pressure followed by a somewhat lower decay of the pressure envelope to ambient pressure, both
occurring within 1 second. A series of impulses may last longer than 1 second. (See Attachment
2 ).
Military Unique Workplaces—DoD military and civilian operations and workplaces that are
unique to the national defense mission. This includes combat and operation, testing, and
maintenance of military-unique equipment and systems such as military weapons, military-
unique aircraft, military-unique ships, submarines, missiles, early warning systems, military
space systems, ordnance, and tactical vehicles. It also includes operations such as peacekeeping
missions; field maneuvers; combat training; naval operations; military flight and missile
operations; military-unique Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation activities; and actions
required under national defense contingency conditions.
Negative Threshold Shift (Improved Threshold Shift)—Same criteria as STS calculations
except negative shift represent improved hearing levels. When this occurs, at least one follow-up
test is required, and may be administered (immediately) the same day as the annual test. The
result of the follow-up test may be used to establish a new reference audiogram, if required.
Noise-Free Audiogram (NFA—)-An audiogram performed after a worker has not been exposed
to noise greater than 72 dBA or impulse noise greater than 120 dBP for a minimum specified
amount of time. (e.g., 14-hour NFA, requires a minimum of 14 hours noise-free prior to the test).
HPDs cannot be used to reach this noise-free status. All noise-free follow-up audiograms must
be completed within 30 days of the annual audiogram.
Occupational Health Consultant—A physician, usually a Flight Surgeon that serves as
consultant to PCM teams for operational health concerns, including review of problem
audiograms, to determine if further testing is required before disposition. An audiologist can
serve as a consultant for audiology/hearing conservation review/disposition concerns.
OSHA Reportable Hearing Loss—Work related positive threshold shifts, for the worse,
relative to the current reference audiogram of an average of 10 dB at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz, if
 52                                      AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


the average level of hearing is at least 25 dB above audiometric zero, in either ear. PH will
provide OSHA reportable hearing loss information to base safety for inclusion on the OSHA 300
Log or electronic equivalent. (Audiometric test results reflect the worker’s overall hearing ability
in comparison to audiometric zero. Therefore, using the worker’s current audiogram, you must
use the average hearing level at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz to determine whether or not the
worker’s total hearing level is 25 dB or more)




Otoscopic Examination—The act of viewing into the external auditory canal to the tympanic
membrane. This exam is accomplished with the use of an otoscope.
Peak Pressure Level—The maximum absolute level, in dB, achieved for any specified time
interval. (Peak pressure is the maximum absolute pressure, in Pascals, achieved.)
Permanent Threshold Shift (PTS)—Any STS found on monitoring audiometry which is still
present after a second 14-hour NFA is considered a PTS. A STS on an annual audiogram must be
considered a PTS if follow-up testing is not conducted in the specified time period.
Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL)—An 8-hour equivalent continuous A-weighted sound level
of 85 dBA as a daily average.
Positive Threshold Shift (Poorer hearing from the reference)—Same criteria as STS
calculations. Positive shift represent poorer hearing levels. When this occurs, two noise-free
follow-up tests are required. The two noise-free tests may be completed on the same day but
cannot completed on the same day as the annual audiogram. The result of the second follow-up
test may be used to re-establish the reference audiogram or make appropriate audiologic referral
for additional testing, if required.
Potential Hazardous Noise—Exposure to steady-state noise having an 8-hour TWA noise level
&gt; (greater than or equal to) 85 dBA, or exposure to impulse/impact noise levels greater than
140dB peak SPL, regardless of duration.
Potentially Hazardous Noise Area—Any area where workers are likely to receive a daily total
noise dose in excess of that calculated using enclosure 3, paragraph E3.1.2, or where impulse
noise levels exceed 140 dB peak SPL.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                         53


Pre-placement Audiogram—All persons entering employment in hazardous noise (greater than
or equal to an 8 hr. TWA of 85dBA, the OSHA limit) shall receive an audiogram prior to
beginning work. The results of the pre-employment audiogram, if meeting the requirements of a
reference audiogram, may be used as the reference audiogram.
Reference Audiogram—An audiogram used as a baseline to compare subsequent audiograms
against to determine if hearing loss has occurred. All persons entering employment in hazardous
noise (greater than or equal to an 8 hr. TWA of 85dBA, the OSHA limit) should receive a pre-
placement audiogram that should be used as the reference audiogram. Also called baseline
audiogram by OSHA.
Routine Noise Exposure—TWA noise levels determined by similar exposure group (SEG) for
all AF employees (military and civilian) working in hazardous noise areas at least once and
within 30 days of any change in operations affecting noise levels.
Sound Level (Noise Level)—The weighted sound pressure level measured by the use of a meter
with characteristics and weighting A. B. or C. as specified in ANSI Specification for Sound Level
Meters S1.4. The weighting must be indicated; otherwise the A-weighting is understood.
Sound Pressure Level—The sound pressure level of a sound, in dB, which is 20 times the
logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of this sound to the reference pressure of 20
microPascals (uPa) (20 microNewton/m2) (2 X 10-4 microbar).
Speech Interference Level (SIL)—The arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels, in dB,
of a noise in the four octave bands of center frequency 500, 1000, 2000, and 4000 Hertz.
Standard or Significant Threshold Shift (STS)—A change in hearing thresholds relative to the
reference audiogram of an average of 10 dB at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz, either ear, according to
CFR 1910.95. That is, if the sum of the shifts at 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz equals or exceeds 30
dB in either ear, a STS has occurred. Use of age corrections will NOT be applied when
determining STS.
Temporary Threshold Shift (TTS)—A temporary loss of hearing due to noise exposure. Any
positive STS that is not confirmed by the noise free follow-up test is considered to be a TTS,
unless there is a resolved medical condition.
Termination Audiogram—A hearing test administered when a worker discontinues
employment involving hazardous noise exposure. A Termination Audiogram should be
accomplished when a hazardous noise exposed worker, who has been included on the HCP,
separates or retires from military/ civil service. Individuals who are PCSing, PCAing, or will be
in an inactive flying position shall not receive a Termination Audiogram.
Threshold Level—A sound level below which exposures are not included in dose calculations
or measurements. For this standard, the threshold is 80 dBA.
 54                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


                                         Attachment 2
                                       IMPULSE NOISE

A2.1. Impulse noise measurements shall be made using calibrated sound level meters (SLMs)
that are as follows:
   A2.1.1. Have a peak hold circuit.
   A2.1.2. Have a rise time not exceeding 35 microseconds.
   A2.1.3. Are capable of measuring peak SPLs in excess of 140 dB peak SPL.
A2.2. If SLMs meeting the requirements of subparagraph A2.1 above, are not available, a
combination of calibrated instruments capable of indicating peak pressure level with a rise time
not exceeding 35 microseconds and capable of measuring peak SPLs in excess of 140 dB may be
used for impulse noise measurements.
A2.3. Impulse or Impact Exposure Limits. Unprotected exposures shall not exceed 140 dB peak
sound pressure level. Above 140 dB peak sound pressure level, the applicable impulse noise
limits are determined based on the expected number of exposures per day and the type of hearing
protection used. Table A2.1 identifies the required hearing protection curve, shown in Figure
A2.1, based on the type of protection and number of daily exposures. The limit for a given
protection requirement becomes more restrictive (a lower curve limits exposures) as the number
of impulses per day increases. Figure A2.1, shows the peak level versus B-duration curves,
which limit the allowable exposure based on the type of protection worn. Table A2.2 lists the
peak impulse levels produced at the ear by various weapons under non-reverberant conditions
(outdoors) for a single shot. These levels should not be used for reverberant conditions (such as
indoor firing ranges), and do not include the noise produced by other weapons firing near the
shooter. These conditions must be measured to determine the peak SPL and B-duration
A2.4. Impulse Noise Evaluations. There are two types of measurements to be used in evaluating
impulse or impact noise exposures screening measurements and detailed evaluations.
   A2.4.1. Screening Measurements. To determine if levels exceed 140 dB peak sound pressure
   level, a sound level meter having the capability to measure impu1se or impact noise may be
   used to determine the peak of the impulse. This measurement shall be documented on the DD
   Form 2214, Noise Survey, or loaded into the environment, safety and occupational health-
   management information system (ESOH-MIS). If measurement shows the levels exceed 140
   dB, the detailed evaluation shall be performed. Levels less than or equal to 140 dB may be
   evaluated to determine controls, however, no unprotected exposure is allowed for continuous
   noise levels above 115 dBA.
   A2.4.2. Detailed requirements.
       A2.4.2.1. Noise limits.
           A2.4.2.1.1. Criteria. Applicable impulse noise limits are identified by the expected
           number of daily exposures and the type of hearing protection required. Table A2.1
           identifies the required hearing protection for the respective impulse noise limits and
           expected number of daily exposures; the corresponding peak levels and B-duration
           values are shown in Figure A2.1.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                              55


             A2.4.2.1.2. Maximum. The initial requirement is that impulse noise shall not exceed
             the limits specified for limit W in order to meet the hearing conservation criterion for
             unprotected ears. Limits X, Y, or Z, for which hearing protection is mandatory, shall
             be selected only if it can be clearly documented that meeting limit W is beyond the
             state-of-the-art, the cost of reducing the noise level to that specified for limit W is
             prohibitive, or that system effectiveness will be seriously degraded by reducing the
             noise level to that specified for limit W. Limits X, Y, or Z shall be selected only with
             the approval of the procuring activity subject to reduction of the level to the lowest
             value consistent with the state-of-the-art and the cost and effectiveness factors noted
             above. Impulse noise levels above limit W (i.e., anything greater than 140 dB) require
             the use of hearing protectors for any number of exposures per day. AFIOH/RSH
             Consultants should be contacted to perform determination of peak SPL and B-
             duration values.

Table A2.1. Impulse Noise Daily Exposure Limits Maximum Permissible Number (N) of
Exposures/Day1



    Impulse Noise     No Protection       Either Plugs or         Both Plugs and         No Exposure
       Limit                                  Muffs                   Muffs               Allowed
         W          --------------------------Unlimited Exposure------------------------------
         X                  0                  1-2000               2001-40000              > 40000
         Y                  0                  1-100                 101-2000                > 2000
         Z                  0                    1-5                   6-100                 > 100


1
  A single exposure consists of either (a) a single impulse for non-repetitive systems (systems
producing not more than one impulse per second, e.g., rocket launchers fired from the shoulder),
or (b) a burst for repetitive systems (systems normally producing more than one impulse per
second). (MIL-STD-1474D)

The equation for calculating the allowable number of exposures per day is: (MIL-STD-1474D)
 56                                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


Table A2.2. Impulse Levels for Weapons.

Weapon (Ammunition Type)                                Single Fire Peak Level (dB)
M1 Rifle, Cal.(.30)                                                 161
M2 Machine Gun. Cal.(.50)                                           160
M4                                                                  158
M9 Pistol (9 mm)                                                    155
M15 Pistol, Cal. (.38)                                              155
M16 Rifle (.22 cal)                                                 153
M16 Rifle (5.65 mm)                                                 156
M-29 Mortar (81 mm)                                                 161
M67 Recoilless Rifle (90 mm)                                        188
M60 Machine Gun (7.62 mm)                                           155
M-203 Grenade Launcher (40 mm)                                      150
M240                                                                158
M249                                                                160
M870 Shotgun (12 Gauge)                                             155
M1911A1 Pistol (.45 cal)                                            158
MK-19 Grenade Launcher (40 mm)                                      142
XM148 Grenade Launcher (40 mm)                                      142
NOTE: Levels measured outdoors at shooter's ear with no other weapons firing. The B-
duration is dependent on reflections produced in operating environment and is determined for
each situation.
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                         57


Figure A2.1. Impulse Noise Limit Curves (MIL-STD-1474D)




   NOTE: (MIL-STD-1474D) 1. See Table A2.1 to select curve for use.
   2. For peak sound pressure levels falling between (but not outside) the labeled curves, the
   permitted number of exposures should be estimated conservatively based on the higher
   curve.
   3. Use of levels in excess of limit W requires hearing protection.


Example 1: Five students fire 25 rounds each in an M1 rifle class. The range is semi-enclosed.
The average B-duration is found to be 500 milliseconds, and the peak pressure level is 161 dB,
as shown in Table A2.2. This is the only class the instructors are teaching for the day. What
hearing protection is required?

1. Plot the peak pressure level versus the B-duration on Figure A2.1. In this case, the point
plotted is above the X curve but below the Y curve. Therefore, the Y curve is the impulse noise
limit.
 58                                     AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


2. To determine the number of exposures for the day, multiply 25 rounds per student by 5
students to get a maximum of 125 exposures.

3. In the left column of Table A2.1., titled ―Impulse Noise Limit,‖ find the Y row. Note that no
exposures are allowed without hearing protection, and only 100 exposures are allowed with
single protection, but up to 2000 exposures are allowed with both plugs and muffs. Therefore,
dual hearing protection is required.




                                           Figure A2.1
                        Table A2.1 Impulse Noise Daily Exposure Limits




Example 2: Eight students fire 800 rounds each in an M60 class, in bursts of 4 rounds each
(automatic mode). The average B-duration is found to be 14 milliseconds. The peak pressure
level from Table A2.2. is 155 dB. What hearing protection must instructors wear if this is their
only class of the day?
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                     59



1. Plot the peak pressure level versus B-duration on Figure A2.1. The point is above the W curve
but below the X curve, so the X curve is the noise limit.

2. To determine the number of exposures for the day, multiply 800 rounds per student by 8
students and then divide by 4 rounds per burst (4 rounds per exposure). 1600 exposures are
expected.

3. In the left column of Table A2.1., find the X row. No exposures are allowed without hearing
protection, but up to 2000 exposures are allowed with either plugs or muffs. Therefore, single
hearing protection is required.




                                          Figure A2.1
                       Table A2.1 Impulse Noise Daily Exposure Limits
 60                                     AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


Example 3: There are three students in an M60 class. For operational reasons, the students
cannot wear earmuffs, but they can wear earplugs. The average B-duration is found to be 14
milliseconds. The peak pressure level from Table A2.2. is 155 dB. If students fire four-round
bursts, how many rounds can they fire in a class with only earplugs?

1. Plot the peak pressure level versus B-duration on Figure A2.1. The point is above the W curve
but below the X curve, so the X curve is the noise limit.

2. Using Table A2.1. below, find the intersection of the X row and the column marked ―Either
Plugs or Muffs.‖ See that the number of exposures is not to exceed 2000.

3. Since the students are firing an average of 4 rounds per burst, the total number of rounds they
can fire is 4 times 2000, or 8000 rounds. Therefore, each student can safely fire 8000 divided by
3, or 2666 rounds.




                                           Figure A2.1
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                         61


                Table A2.1 Impulse Noise Daily Exposure Limits
    62                                 AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 3
         AUTHORIZED HEARING CONSERVATION DIAGNOSTIC CENTERS (HCDC)

          1st MDG/SGPSA, 45 Pine Street, Langley AFB, VA 23665-2080
          3 MDG/SGOSLA, 24800 Hospital Dr. Elmendorf AFB, AK 99506-3700
          6 MDG/SGOSL, 8415 Bayshore Blvd, MacDill AFB, FL 33621-1607
          10 MDG/SGOSL, 4102 Pinion Drive, USAF Academy, CO 80840-4000
          31 MDG/SGOR, Unit 6180 Box 245, Aviano AB, APO AE 09604
          48 MDG/SGOSL, Unit 5210 Box 230, RAF Lakenheath, APO AE 09464-0230
          52 MDG/SGOR, Unit 3690, Spangdahlem AB, APO AE 09123-3690
          55 MDG/SGOSL, 2501 Capehart Rd. Suite 1K47, Offutt AFB, NE 68133-2160
          59 MEDW/MMKRA, 2200 Bergquist Dr. Ste.1, Lackland AFB, TX 78236-5300
          60 MDG/SGCXA, 101 Bodin Circle, Travis AFB, CA 94535-1880
          81 MSGS/SGCQLA, 301 Fisher St., Room 1A132, Keesler AFB, MS 39534
          82 MDG/SGOSLA, 149 Hart Street, Ste.5, Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-3482
          86 MDS (LRMC), Attn: Audiology Clinic, CMR 402, APO AE 09180
          88 MDG/SGPOD, 4881 Sugar Maple Dr., Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-5529
          89 MDG/SGPFA, 1050 West Perimeter Rd., Andrews AFB, MD 20762-6600
          96 MSGS/SGCXL, 307 Boatner Rd., Eglin AFB, FL 32542-1282
          374th MDOS/SGOSL, Unit 5227 Bldg 4408, Yokota AB, APO, AP 96328-5227
          375 MDG/SGCQSL, 310 W. Losey Street Bldg 1530, Scott AFB, IL 62225-5252




                AUTHORIZED HEARING CONSERVATION CENTERS (HCC)


          72 AMDS/SGPMA, 3001 Staff Dr. Room D, Tinker AFB, OK 73145-5300
          74 AMDS/SGPOD, 2325 Fifth Street, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433-7021
          75 AMDS/SGPMA, 7238 6th Street, Hill AFB, UT 84056-5012
          78 AMDS/SGPFA, 655 7th Street Bldg. 207, Robins AFB, GA, 31098-2227
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                           63


                                          Attachment 4
                               SAMPLE REFERRAL LETTER

Hearing Conservation Program Manager
USAF Hearing Conservation Audiological Evaluation
Consultant’s Name
   1. (Patient’s Name) is referred for an audiological evaluation to assist in determining if
       allowing him/her to perform duties as a (job title) in a hazardous noise environment will
       pose risk to their personal health and safety or the health and safety of others. The
       reasons for this referral are indicated on the attached Hearing Conservation Diagnostic
       Center Referral. As part of your evaluation, please perform the following:
       a.    Pure tone air conduction test, under earphones, using pulsed tones for frequencies
            250 Hz through 8000 Hz (to include 3000 and 6000 Hz).
       b.   Pure tone bone conduction test, using pulsed tones for frequencies 500 through 4000
            Hz (to include 3000 Hz).
       c.   Word Recognition Testing, under earphones, using taped or CD lists presented at 70
            dBHL.
       d.   Immittance measures to include tympanometry, acoustic reflexes obtained for both
            ipsilateral and contralateral conditions. Acoustic reflex decay at 500-1000 Hz should
            be accomplished if clinically warranted. NOTE: All tests must be performed
            unaided and with equipment calibrated per the most current and applicable ANSI
            standards.
       e.   Otoacoustic Emissions testing is required for a Hearing Conservation referral.
   2. In addition to performing the above tests, please complete the Recommendations,
      Dispositions, and Results portion of the attached referral and provide us your written
      opinion on the following:
       a.   Can this worker be fitted with and wear standard personal hearing protection
            devices?
       b.   Will allowing this worker to perform this job while wearing hearing protection pose
            an increased risk to either personal safety or the safety of others?
       c.   Does this patient possess sufficient auditory acuity skills to perform necessary job
            tasks while wearing hearing protection?
       d.   Are other medical factors present that might affect this patient’s fitness and risk?
       e.   Should a new reference be established? If so, using what results.
       f.   Other consideration.
3. Please direct any questions you may have concerning this patient to (name and phone number
of referring practitioner).
                                                             MTF COMMANDER SIGNATURE
64                    AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012



                      Attachment 5
     EARPLUG SEATING DEVICE AND CARRYING CASE POSTER
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012        65


                            Attachment 6
                   GENERAL INFORMATION POSTER
66            AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


               Attachment 7
     FOAM EARPLUG INSTRUCTION POSTER
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012              67


                            Attachment 8
            NOISE MUFFS: GENERAL INFORMATION POSTER
68            AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012


               Attachment 9
     AUDIOMETRIC INSTRUCTIONS POSTER
AFOSHSTD48-20_355FWSUP_I 23 JANUARY 2012                                                       69


                                         Attachment 10
  OWCP HEARING LOSS MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS AS PARAPHRASED FROM
          DOL OWCP HEARING LOSS SECTION INSTRUCTIONS

A10.1. The report submitted must include the results of an otological (ENT) exam, conducted by
a physician, and the results of an audiological exam administered in a sound-treated booth.
A10.2. The report of the physician's ENT examination must include:
A10.3. The date and hour of examination;
A10.4. The date and hour of the claimant's last exposure to employment related noise;
A10.5. A detailed and relevant medical history;
A10.6. The physician's reasoned opinion concerning the etiology of any indicated hearing loss
and, specifically, its relationship to the claimant's occupational noise-exposure history;
A10.7. The physician's recommendations for treatment, including the need for a hearing aid;
and, the physician's original signature.
A10.8. The report of the audiological evaluation must include:
A10.9. An authenticated, legible, and dated audiogram consisting of pure tone air conduction
threshold from 250 to 8000 Hz, including 3000 Hz, and bone conduction thresholds from 250 to
4000 Hz, also including 3000 Hz;
A10.10. The results of speech reception threshold (SRT) and speech discrimination testing,
including stimuli and method of presentation (SRT and pure tone average (PTA) should agree
within 10 dB);
A10.11. The results of an impedance test battery, including tympanometry and stapedial reflex
threshold measurements;
A10.12. The standard and date of last electronic calibration, and the name of the person who
performed the calibration, (our procedures require that the date of last electronic calibration be
within 1 year of the date of examination) for each instrument used;
A10.13. A statement regarding the reliability of the audiological evaluation (if questionable,
administer additional tests so that reliable conventional audiometric responses will be obtained);
and, a statement indicating that the claimant was removed from any exposure to injurious noise
for at least 16 hours prior to your examination.
A10.14. Please forward both the ENT report and the audiological evaluation to this office. Bills
may only be paid when we have received the ENT report and the audiological evaluation.
