BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE                                   HEALTH STANDARD 48-137

                                                              KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                             6 AUGUST 2013
                                                          Certified Current 17 September 2013
                                                                          Aerospace Medicine

                                                 RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 377 AMDS/SGPB                                                Certified by: 377 AMDS/CC
                                                                   (Lt Col Robert M. Eninger)
                                                                                      Pages: 5
Supersedes: KIRTLANDAFBI48-107,
              30 June 2000


This publication supplements Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 48-
137, Respiratory Protection Program, dated 10 February 2005 and Interim Change 2, dated 7
April 2009. It applies to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units. This supplement applies to all Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB) units who are enrolled in
the KAFB Respiratory Protection Program (RPP). Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional's chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
See Attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting Information.


2.8. Supervisors will call 377 AMDS/SGPB Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (BE) at
COMM: 505-846-4259 (DSN 246-4259) as needed for information and guidance regarding
respiratory protection matters. In case of emergency after duty hours, a BE representative may
be reached through the base Command Post at COMM: 505-846-3777 (DSN 246-3777) or via
 2                            AFOSHSTD48-137_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 6 AUGUST 2013


the Kirtland Air Force Base (KAFB) pager system at COMM: 505-853-7243, pager 6084 (DSN
243-7243).
2.8.1. On KAFB, workplace supervisors will maintain a copy of this supplement and be familiar
with the installation specific supplement guidance.
2.8.4. Unless prior training arrangements have been made with BE, it is the supervisor’s
responsibility to ensure employee has received training prior to contacting BE for a fit-test.
Employee shall bring documentation of training with them to their fit-test appointment for
recording onto the Certificate of Respiratory Fit-Test. Shops using self-contained breathing
apparatuses (SCBAs) must coordinate annual training with 377 MSG/CEF on the use and
maintenance of SCBAs.
2.8.5. Within two weeks of receipt, shop supervisor shall ensure BE has notice of 90 day
breathing air results or directly forward electronic breathing air results to
377AMDS.SGPB@kirtland.af.mil ATTN: Respiratory Protection Program Manager.
2.8.6. Shop       supervisor  shall     forward     a     notice     of     appointment       to
377AMDS.SGPB@kirtland.af.mil ATTN: Respiratory Protection Program Manager. Upon
appointment, employee shall schedule training with BE by contacting the Installation Respiratory
Protection Manager at COMM: 505-846-4259 (DSN 246-4259) (reference paragraphs 2.12.6.6.
and 8.6. of this supplement).
2.8.7. BE shall conduct fit-tests within the scope of an organizations host-base support
agreement, upon verification of an approved workplace written respiratory protection program
and required medical evaluation. Contact BE at COMM: 505-846-4259 (DSN 246-4259) to
schedule a fit-test appointment at building 589. Supervisors requesting quantitative fit-testing
evaluations for new respirator models not in the BE inventory must provide BE with a respirator
in each size manufactured and all necessary adapters or have employees bring their respirator
with them to their fit-test appointment.
2.8.8. Supervisors shall instruct employee not to remove their respirator in contaminated areas,
rather to immediately leave the work area and report to their supervisor.
2.8.9. It is the supervisor’s responsibility to ensure employee has been medically cleared for
respirator wear prior to contacting BE to schedule a fit-test.
2.8.10. Employees can no longer rely on order threshold and other warning properties as the
primary determinant for service life of gas and vapor cartridges. A change schedule will be
included as part of the written program. When a change out schedule cannot be accomplished,
BE will recommend a worst-case change out schedule until data can be collected to establish an
accurate change out schedule.
2.8.11. Shop      supervisor     shall      forward      employee       roster   updates     to
377AMDS.SGPB@kirtland.af.mil ATTN: Respiratory Protection Program Manager.
Electronic transmittal of Personal Identifiable Information (PII) shall comply with the Privacy
Act of 1974.
2.9.2. Employees who wear tight-fitting full-facepiece respirators may not wear their military
issued gas mask corrective glasses or glasses with temple bars as this may interrupt the seal
between their face and the respirator mask. Employees who wear prescription lenses should
bring their unit purchased spectacle insert kit to the Optometry Clinic to have lenses made.
AFOSHSTD48-137_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 6 AUGUST 2013                                                   3


Contact lenses may harden when exposed to corrosive fumes, gases or vapors. Consult with BE
for more guidance when working with corrosive materials. Contact lenses shall not be worn
during chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and high yield explosives (CBRNE) events or
with the military gas mask
2.9.4. Employees shall immediately notify BE and their Physician or Other Licensed Health
Care Professional (PLHCP) in the event they experience difficulty while wearing their respirator.
2.9.6. Employees exceeding 13 months from their last fit-test date are not certified to wear a
respirator and will be removed from the KAFB Respiratory Protection Program. Supervisors
WILL NOT allow employees to perform duties that require the wear of respiratory protection.
Supervisors will be notified of decertification of employees and informed of corrective actions to
be taken to recertify employee.
2.9.7. Wearers of half-facepiece respirators shall bring any glasses, goggles, or other protective
equipment normally used while wearing a respirator so the fit-test can indicate if the equipment
interferes with the function of the respirator. Employees shall be refit-tested if additional
equipment is added to their protective equipment ensemble that could alter their respirator wear.
2.12.6.8. BE will notify shop supervisors of equipment recalls or defects identified in the
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) Respirator User Notices and
NIOSH National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory (NPPTL) Press Releases.
Supervisors shall take immediate action to remove defective or recalled equipment from their
shop inventory.
2.12.6.10. On KAFB, Logistics Base Supply does not issue respiratory protection. Workcenter
orders for respirators or respirator parts will be approved by BE based on suitability of the
devices for the specific work-center prior to requesting, ordering or issuing respirators.
Supervisors will ensure no suitable substitutes are issued. Employees will indicate on their
Certificate of Respirator Fit-Test if they have experienced any difficulty wearing a respirator.
BE will refer positive responses to Force Health Management (FM) and/or their PLHCP.
3.6.2. Workcenter supervisors must ensure International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card
(IMPAC) holders obtain BE approval prior to the purchase of respiratory protection and
associated equipment and supplies.
4.2.3. Escape-Only Respirators. If personnel believe emergency use respirators are required for
egress, the shop supervisor must contact BE. BE will review emergency/spill scenarios and
select the best egress respirator, if one is required.
4.2.3.4. Workplace supervisors will develop emergency egress procedures and training for
escape-only respirator use. Workplace written training program will be annually reviewed and
approved by BE.
9.3. Breathing Air Quality and Use and Testing of Breathing Air Containers. If uncertain, shop
supervisors shall consult with BE or reference T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed
and Liquid Breathing Air, for their system specific compressed breathing air monitoring
requirements. The compressor system shall be sampled before initial use, after replacement of
the compressor, purifier, or other major repairs, and once every 90 days.
 4                           AFOSHSTD48-137_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 6 AUGUST 2013



10.2.2. Contact BE at COMM: 505-846-4259 (DSN 246-4259) to schedule a quantitative fit-test
(QNFT) fit-test appointment at building 589. Due to 377 ABW Training Day requirements,
appointments are not taken the last Wednesday of each month, unless a short-notice deployment
necessitates a need.




                                          JOHN C. KUBINEC, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
AFOSHSTD48-137_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 6 AUGUST 2013                                            5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this publication
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFMC—Aerospace Medicine Squadron
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ATTN—Attention
BE—377 AMDS/SGPB Bioenvironmental Engineering
DSN—Defense Switched Network
FM—Family Medicine
IMPAC—International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card
KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
MSG/CEF—Fire Department
NIOSH—National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
NPPTL—The National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PII—Personal Identifiable Information
QNFT—Quantitative Fit Test

Terms
International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card (IMPAC)—A registered trademark
provided by U.S. Bank, a government charge card contractor, to identify its government VISA
charge card. Formerly, IMPAC was a generic term for GPCs.
Quantitative Fit Test (QNFT)—A test in which a challenge agent is administered outside the
face piece and the presence of the agent is detected and enumerated by analytical
instrumentation.
