BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
30TH SPACE WING                                            HEALTH STANDARD 48-137

                                                         30TH SPACE WING SUPPLEMENT
                                                                          29 JUNE 2011


                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                  RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 30 MDOS/SGOA                                                     Certified by: 30 MDG/CC
                                                                       (Col Janice D. Wallace)
                                                                                       Pages: 10

Superseded: AFOSHSTD48-137_
30SWSUP, 31 July 2008                                                                  Pages: 10



This supplement implements AFOSHSTD 48-137, 10 February 2005, incorporating Interim
Change 1, 15 August 2007 and Interim Change 2, 7 April 2009, and provides supplemental
criteria specific to Vandenberg Air Force Base (AFB). It applies to all Air Force military and
civilian personnel who are assigned the use of respiratory protective equipment while on
Vandenberg Air Force Base (VAFB). It must be used in conjunction with AFOSHSTD 48-137,
Respiratory Protection Program. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through Base Publishing
Managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                              AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates office symbols and office names as needed; updates paragraph and
attachment numbers to conform to IC changes in the parent publication. It clarifies the
appointment and job duties of an individual to be responsible for the use, maintenance,
inspection, and care of common use, emergency or escape respirators, as appropriate; removes a
confusing cross reference and clarifies the role of 30 SW/SEAL.
2.8.4.1. (Added) Coordinate with the unit respiratory protection program monitor and the
Protective Equipment Maintenance Operation (PEMO) to accomplish training of personnel who
use Emergency Life Support Apparatus (ELSA), Hooded Demand Valve (HDV), Self Contained
Atmospheric Protective Ensemble (SCAPE), and/or Self Contained Breathing Apparatus
(SCBA).
2.8.4.2. (Added) Comply with the program elements for ELSA/HDV (Attachment11) and/or
SCAPE (Attachment12) as appropriate.
2.8.6. Appoint an individual to be responsible for the use, maintenance, inspection, and care of
common use, emergency or escape respirators, as appropriate. A primary and at least one
alternate should be chosen and an appointment letter should be sent to BE stating such.
2.8.9.1. (Added) Will maintain copies of all Medical Determination Letters for personnel
required to use respiratory protection in the workplace; ensuring personnel are medically
qualified prior to fit testing, and use of approved respirators. Medical Determination Letters are
issued by Space/Missile Medicine (SMM).
2.8.13. (Added) Direct workers to the 30 MDG Optometry Clinic if corrective lenses are
needed while wearing a full-face respirator. Ensure the worker is provided with the necessary
system or kit for mounting the corrective lenses into the BE approved respirator. The systems or
kits are unique to each manufacturer’s equipment and must be ordered along with the worker’s
respirator.
2.8.14. (Added) Coordinate with the unit respiratory protection program monitor for obtaining
SCBA, if required for workplace operations, from the PEMO and ensure that SCBA are returned
to the PEMO for any maintenance work.
2.9.6.1. (Added) Be fit tested initially and annually by BE for tight fitting air purifying or air
supplied respirators, except for SCBA. SCBA will be fit-tested by PEMO.
2.9.6.2. (Added) Receive initial and annual refresher respirator training from their supervisor
except for SCBA, ELSA, HDV and/or SCAPE. Users of SCBA, ELSA/HDV and/or SCAPE
will receive initial and annual training from the PEMO. See paragraph 2.18. for additional
guidance on SCBA training and fit testing. PEMO will not conduct training or fit testing for
DoD employees on air-purifying respirators.
2.9.12. (Added) Comply with the elements of their written workplace specific respiratory
protection program. Users of ELSA/HDV see Attachment 11. Users of SCAPE see Attachment
12.
2.9.13. (Added) When required to wear SCBA and/or SCAPE, hand carry a copy of their
Medical Determination Letter to PEMO upon completion of the initial medical evaluation
questionnaire. See Attachment 12 for additional medical evaluation requirements for SCAPE.
AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011                                                              3


2.12.6.5. Ensure fit testing is conducted according to 29 CFR 1910.134. Conduct fit testing on
those individuals who have been medically cleared by a physician or licensed health care
provider. BE will maintain copies of all Medical Determination Letters for individuals on the
respiratory protection program. A copy of the Medical Determination Letter signed by a PLHCP
is required prior to fit testing. Fit testing will not be accomplished without written proof from a
PLHCP, ensuring the employee has accomplished a medical evaluation questionnaire and been
medically cleared to wear respiratory protection with or without restrictions. The medical
evaluation questionnaire is administered by SMM.
2.12.6.6.1. (Added) PEMO will provide life support and valet services to organizations in
support of hazardous operations IAW the contract with the PEMO shop, located in Building 871,
Arguello Blvd., South VAFB. This contract includes maintenance and user training for SCBA,
ELSA, HDV, and SCAPE. To schedule maintenance, training and/or fit testing for these types
of respirators, contact PEMO.
2.12.8. (Added) Will coordinate, as needed, with the Range Safety office (30 SW/SEAL and 30
SW/SEAP) to resolve questions of health and safety risks for users of ELSA/HDV, to include
appropriate quantities of devices assigned to each organization.
2.14.4. Notify BE of personnel who have been medically cleared by a physician or other
licensed health care professional to wear a respirator. SMM will issue the employee a Medical
Determination Letter after their initial medical evaluation and according to the guidelines stated
in paragraph 6.2.5., and conduct follow-up medical evaluations based on the guidance in
paragraphs 2.9.4 and 6.3. If a follow-up medical evaluation is required, a PLHCP from SMM
will issue a new Medical Determination Letter. A copy of this letter shall be filed and
disseminated according to paragraph 6.2.5.
2.18.1. In coordination with BE, provide training on the use and maintenance of self-contained
breathing apparatuses (SCBA). Installations will locally determine who provides these services,
BE or Fire and Emergency Services, or other functional area. 30 SW/CEF and BE maintain an
agreement that the Fire Department is authorized to perform initial and annual training and fit
testing of CEF personnel on its own SCBA. In addition, CEF is required to do the following:
2.18.1.1. (Added) Develop and maintain a written respiratory protection program that includes
fit-test and training requirements in accordance with the provisions in Chapter 3 and 29 CFR
1910.134(c).
2.18.1.2. (Added) Maintain a record of all fit-tests, e.g., the “PortaCount FitPlus” database, and
supply a copy of the fit-test reports to BE within five days of testing.
2.18.1.3. (Added) Report any fit-test abnormalities or problems to BE within three workdays.
2.18.1.4. (Added) Maintain a record of training performed within the last calendar year.
2.18.2. In coordination with BE, ensure required maintenance for regulating or admission
valves, regulators, and alarms for SCBA is performed by the respirator manufacturer or
appointed individuals who are trained and certified by the manufacturer to conduct such
maintenance. Installations will locally determine who provides these services, BE or Fire and
Emergency Services, or other functional area. 30 SW/CEF and BE maintain an agreement that
the Fire Department is certified and authorized to perform maintenance on its own SCBA, IAW
the manufacturer’s guidance. VAFB maintains a contract with PEMO to conduct maintenance,
 4                                                AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011


initial and annual training, and fit testing for all other DoD personnel requiring the use of SCBA.
The PEMO conducts training and fit testing for SCBA by appointment only.
2.20. (Added) Unit Respiratory Protection Program Monitors will:
2.20.1. (Added) Coordinate with workplace supervisors to ensure the organization complies
with the requirements for ELSA/HDV in accordance with Attachment 11.
2.20.2. (Added) Serve as the primary point of contact between their organization and the PEMO
facility for training and maintenance of ELSA/HDV. Request training for SCBA and SCAPE
upon notification by the unit’s supervisor of the requirement.
2.20.3. (Added) Ensure the organization complies with the requirements for ELSA/HDV in
Attachment 11 and/or SCAPE in Attachment 12, based on which devices are used in the
organization.
2.21. (Added) Range Safety: 30 SW/SEAL is responsible for generating safety requirements in
AFSPCMAN 91-710 associated with use of ELSA/HDV and SCAPE. 30 SW/SEAL will review
and approve procedures used by 30 SW personnel where the use of ELSA/HDV is required.
2.22. (Added) Aerospace Support Services Contract (ASSC) Program Office (30 RMS/RMO)
located at 816 13th St. Room 207, Bldg. 7000, VAFB CA 93437-5230, is the focal point for
organizations that are using ASSC assets. This office provides program management to the
ASSC Contractor and will assist users in addressing issues and concerns as they relate to
providing SCBA, ELSA/HDV or SCAPE.
2.23. (Added) Operations Control Center (OCC), located in Building 7525,10th and Utah St.,
VAFB CA 93437-5230, is the focal point for planning, scheduling, and coordinating
requirements for the PEMO facility. The OCC coordinates directly with the user to provide
PEMO life support and training on equipment.
4.2.3. Escape-Only Respirators. When selecting an escape-only respirator, careful consideration
shall be given to the escape conditions (i.e. distance to exit, obstacles, etc.), the potential for eye
irritation, the time required to don the respirator, the warning properties of the substances and the
operating environment. See Attachment 3 (Selection Options for Escape-Only Respirators) and
the “NIOSH Guide to Industrial Respiratory Protection. If HDV and/or ELSA will be utilized
as an escape only respirator, refer to Attachment 11 for additional requirements.
6.3.3. There are no annual or periodic requirements for medical reevaluations. Refer to 29 CFR
1910.134 (e)(7) for the minimum criteria for medical reevaluations. There are however,
requirements for annual medical reevaluations for anyone required to wear SCAPE. See
Attachment 12.
AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011                                                         5



9.3. Breathing Air Quality and Use and Testing of Breathing Air Containers. Breathing air
quality and use, testing, and breathing air containers shall comply with 29 CFR 1910.134(i).
Additionally, Air Force TO 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air
shall be applied, as required. Any workplace required to submit quarterly compressed breathing
air samples, will submit results to BE within five business days of receipt.




                                           RICHARD W. BOLTZ, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                         AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
NASA, Occupational Health Procedures NPR 1800.1, dated 30 January 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
OCC—Operations Control Center
ASSC—Aerospace Support Services Contract
DOD—Department of Defense
ELSA—Emergency Life Support Apparatus
HDV—Hooded Demand Valve
IAW—In Accordance With
MDG—Medical Group
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NPR—NASA Procedural Requirements
PEMO—Protective Equipment Maintenance Operation
SCAPE—Self Contained Atmospheric Protective Ensemble
SMM—Space Missile Medicine
USAF—United States Air Force
VAFB—Vandenberg Air Force Base
AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011                                                           7


                                   Attachment 11 (Added)
 EMERGENCY LIFE SUPPORT APPARATUS (ELSA); HOODED DEMAND VALVE
                            (HDV)

A11.1. Applicability. ELSA and/or HDV are intended for rapid and safe emergency egress
from a contaminated atmosphere, not for work in or entry into one. They are intended for
operations or activities associated with the space launch program. This means activities in some
way associated with hypergolic fuels, propellants, reaction products, as well as mishaps. They
are not intended to be used for escape from mishaps involving standard industrial hazardous
materials or escape from confined spaces. Contact BE and 30 SW/SEAL for questions regarding
applicability. The brand and models of ELSA and/or HDV issued on VAFB are not National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) approved for use during any type of
chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or high yield explosive (CBRN) event. NIOSH has a
separate certification/approval process for CBRN respirators used in industrial workplaces.
ELSA and/or HDV are not required to be fit tested and do not need to be covered by a written
respiratory protection program, with the exception of the program elements described in this
supplement. 30 SW organizations that allow or require distinguished visitors, TDY personnel, or
other guests to use ELSA or HDV are responsible for the health and safety of those individuals
and must comply with this supplement.
A11.2. Medical Evaluation. 30 SW personnel who use ELSA or HDV and who do not use any
other NIOSH-approved respirator in the workplace are not required to have medical evaluations
prior to using the device.
A11.3. Training. All 30 SW personnel and authorized visitors who use either of these devices
must attend a training class conducted by the PEMO prior to being issued or using the
equipment. This training shall meet the requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134 (k). Training
includes discussion of proper use, conditions that limit their use, and shall include the
opportunity to wear the respirator.
A11.4. Unit Respiratory Protection Program Monitor Responsibilities.
   A11.4.1. Provide a letter of authorization to the PEMO for issuance of ELSA/HDV. The
   letter must:
       A11.4.1.1. Contain a statement that the unit commander or equivalent is authorizing the
       respiratory protection program monitor to receive a specific number of ELSA/HDV.
       A11.4.1.2. Acknowledge that the unit respiratory protection program monitor will issue
       ELSA/HDV only to those individuals in the organization who have a valid training
       certification card.
       A11.4.1.3. Include the unit respiratory protection program monitor’s office phone
       number and cell phone number, if applicable.
       A11.4.1.4. Be signed by the unit commander or equivalent.
       A11.4.1.5. Be renewed at least annually.
8                                               AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011


    A11.4.2. Coordinate with the PEMO for issuance of ELSA/HDV. Allow for 3 - 5 working
    days advance notice when requesting multiple new or replacement devices. The organization
    is responsible for picking up the equipment.
    A11.4.3. Coordinate with the PEMO for training of personnel. Walk-ins for ELSA/HDV are
    acceptable at 07:30, Monday- Friday, up to 20 persons per day.
    A11.4.4. Coordinate with the OCC when ELSA/HDV training is needed for personnel at
    other times, such as shift workers or short notice visitors.
    A11.4.5. Provide overall management of all ELSA/HDV that are issued to the unit.
    Management includes the following actions:
       A11.4.5.1. Store the devices in a manner that protects them from damage and weather.
       This will ensure the integrity of the device and extend its shelf life. It is recommended
       that devices be stored in protective containers when they are required to be staged outside
       in the elements.
       A11.4.5.2. Inventory and track the location of devices to ensure none are misplaced or
       lost
       A11.4.5.3. Inspect monthly and document this with the name of the inspector,
       ELSA/HDV serial number, date of inspection, and outcome. This should be in the form
       of a tag affixed to the ELSA/HDV.
       A11.4.5.4. Return ELSA/HDV to the PEMO for inspection and testing at least annually.
       Performance of any repair or maintenance of ELSA/HDV is strictly limited to the PEMO.
       Units that exceed the annual test date must be removed from service.
       A11.4.5.5. Turn in devices to PEMO immediately following their use or when the device
       has been rejected during monthly inspection or the annual inspection is due.
       A11.4.5.6. Explain in writing to the ASSC Program Office and the OCC when a recalled
       ELSA/HDV have not been turned in for maintenance.
       A11.4.5.7. Contact 30 RMS/RMO and the OCC when ELSA and/or HDV have been lost
       or misplaced. This must be done in writing. Every effort should be made to locate the
       property before declaring them lost. The user organization may be required to replace the
       lost items. This will be determined by the 30 RMS/RMO.
       A11.4.5.8. Turn in to the PEMO any damaged devices for repair or salvage. If damage
       is determined by the 30 RMS/RMO to be caused by user neglect, the user may be
       required to replace the ELSA/HDV.
AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011                                                              9


                                    Attachment 12 (Added)
      SELF CONTAINED ATMOSPHERIC PROTECTIVE ENSEMBLE (SCAPE)

A12.1. Applicability. The use of SCAPE is limited to work activities associated with
hypergolic fuels. Work performed in SCAPE is done primarily by contractor personnel. Very
few 30 SW personnel are required to be SCAPE qualified. SCAPE is not currently approved by
NIOSH as a respirator. This instruction directs that supervisors of 30 SW personnel who work in
SCAPE must develop a workplace specific written respiratory protection program or operating
instruction. The program must address the appropriate respiratory protection program elements
in Chapter 3. If the same workers also use a NIOSH-approved respirator, they must be included
in the respiratory protection program for that respirator.
A12.2. Medical Evaluation.
   A12.2.1. 30 SW personnel who may use SCAPE must be medically evaluated by SMM on
   an annual basis. This requirement exceeds the requirements of Chapter 6 and is due to the
   unique and potentially stringent physical demands placed on personnel using SCAPE. The
   medical evaluation and follow up evaluation process will follow the requirements of Chapter
   6, and in addition, will consider the following:
   A12.2.2. General Considerations. The following considerations are based on NASA
   Occupational Health Procedures NPR 1800.1, dated 30 January 2007.
       A12.2.2.1. The SCAPE suit is a protective garment that under certain circumstances, can
       present a significant hazard to employees who are not in good physical condition or who
       have some medical or physical limitations.
       A12.2.2.2. Employees must be able to physically evacuate an area while in the SCAPE
       suit. Evacuation might entail ascent or descent of stairs or a ladder or even to run some
       distance and might require that the employee assist another adult in egress.
       A12.2.2.3. Employees must have no gross physical defect that would prevent normal
       mobility, performance of job, ability to evacuate an area, or to assist another to the point
       of supporting a major part of another adult's weight.
       A12.2.2.4. Employees must be able to see well enough with correction to perform their
       usual tasks and to be able to see well enough without correction to evacuate a position
       under adverse circumstances such as relative darkness.
       A12.2.2.5. Employees must have no chronic or active disease process that has a
       reasonable probability of resulting in an emergency evacuation of employees or their
       partners in the buddy system, or of adversely impacting the integrity of the operation.
       A12.2.2.6. The medical evaluation should identify employees who are theoretically in
       the high risk group for acute cardiopulmonary and vascular emergencies who might not
       have an otherwise disqualifying condition.
   A12.2.3. There are additional specific physical examination requirements for SCAPE duty
   qualification. See NASA Occupational Health Procedures NPR 1800.1, Section 3.2.4.2.s.(5),
   dated 30 January 2007. SMM will define and administer appropriate examinations.
 10                                          AFOSHSTD48-137_30SWSUP 29 JUNE 2011


   A12.2.4. Personnel must be medically cleared annually and provide a Medical
   Determination Letter signed by a PLHCP, to PEMO before training can be accomplished.
A12.3. Training.
   A12.3.1. SCAPE training at VAFB is performed by the PEMO. The PEMO will provide
   workers with written evidence of successful completion of the training.
   A12.3.2. The shop’s supervisor must document the training per the shop’s standard training
   documentation protocol. The supervisor must also ensure that the trainees provide a brief
   written description of the subjects covered in the training and a copy of the PEMO training
   certification to BE.
A12.4. Maintenance. The PEMO is solely responsible for care, inspection and maintenance of
SCAPE equipment.
