BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE                                 HEALTH STANDARD 48-137

                                                          GRAND FORKS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement

                                                                              26 AUGUST 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                  RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions for this publication.

OPR: 319 MDOS/SGOJ                                                   Certified by: 319 MDG/CC
Supersedes: GRANDFORKSAFBI48-                                    (Colonel Kathleen Concannon )
            105, 1 March 2001                                                          Pages: 18


AFOSHSTD 48-137, dated 10 February 2005 is supplemented as follows: This instruction
implements and establishes guidance, procedures, and responsibilities for conducting the
Respiratory Protection Program (RPP) at Grand Forks AFB. It applies to the 319th Wing, tenant
units, and specified contractors (by support agreement) on Grand Forks AFB who require
respiratory protection. It applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel stationed at
Grand Forks AFB. This instruction does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command or Air
National Guard units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional‟s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
supplement incorporates information specific to the 319 Air Base Wing to AFOSHSTD 48-137,
Respiratory Protection Program.
2.8.13. (Added) . Have direct responsibility for implementing this instruction in the workplace.
 2                         AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


2.8.14. (Added) . Maintain copies of AFOSH Std 48-137_IC2, 29 CFR 1910.134, this
instruction, and any OSHA substance specific standards that apply in their workplace for use in
implementing the RP Program.
2.8.15. (Added) . Create/maintain a shop-specific Respiratory Protection Program Operating
Instruction (RPPOI) using the template provided by Bioenvironmental Engineer (BE)
(Attachment 1). If there are any changes in the shop operations, the supervisor will inform BE of
these changes so BE can evaluate the process accordingly and the RPPOI can be updated and
approved.
2.8.16. (Added) . When applicable create/maintain a shop-specific filtering face piece device
written training plan (Attachment 2). Initial/annual training will be accomplished IAW training
template and documented on the individual‟s AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
2.8.17. (Added) . Ensure newly assigned personnel receive initial training and fit-testing from
BE prior to performing any shop activities that require the use of respiratory protection.
Supervisors will ensure new personnel report to BE to complete an medical Evaluation
Questionnaire (MEQ) during in-processing.
2.8.18. (Added) . Ensure workers are NOT issued a respirator until medically cleared,
successfully trained, and fitted.
2.8.19. (Added) . Ensure personnel who use any of the following equipment while wearing
respirators take the equipment with them to their fit test:
2.8.19.1. (Added) . Any required or optional head gear worn (hard hats or skull caps).
2.8.19.2. (Added) . Any eye protection or inserts.
2.8.19.3. (Added) . Any other gear that may affect the fit of the respirator.
2.8.20. (Added) . Provide periodic (annual and as changes occur) respiratory protection
training per on the contents of this instruction, and workplace specific written plan in addition to
the requirements outlined in 29 CFR1910.134. Support will be provided by BE as needed.
2.8.21. (Added) . Ensure supervisors who have the responsibility of overseeing work activities
which require the use of respirators receive initial Supervisor‟s Training by BE. Training is
required upon reassignment to another shop or PCS and will be conducted by appointment only.
Supervisor‟s training will be documented on the individual‟s AF Form 55; a certificate will be
received upon completion.
2.8.22. (Added) . Include Respiratory Protection (RP) information in the job safety training
outline as required by AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire
Prevention and Health Program.
2.8.23. (Added) . Schedule worker annual fit-testing at least 5 duty days in advance of worker
fit-testing expiration date.
2.8.24. (Added) . Notify BE of any changes that may adversely affect the wear of respirators
within 24 hours of notification by the employee.
2.8.25. (Added) . Provide a personnel roster quarterly to BE listing all workplace personnel
that will be wearing a respirator. This roster will include the worker‟s rank, first and last name.
AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011                                                 3


2.8.26. (Added) . Within 30 days of receiving notice, provide BE in writing a plan of action to
resolve any discrepancies identified during the annual workplace Respiratory Program Protection
(RPP) review. The workplace will again notify BE in writing when the discrepancies have been
resolved and closed.
2.8.27. (Added) . Issue only those items originally approved by BE (“Suitable Substitutes” are
NOT permitted without BE approval). If respirators are procured via local purchase, supervisors
will ensure respirators are approved for use by BE prior to purchase.
2.8.28. (Added) . Verify that used respirator cartridges/canisters/filters are disposed in
accordance with applicable federal, state, and local environmental regulations; contact 319
CES/CEV or BE for assistance.
2.8.29. (Added) . For respirator parts not requiring special disposal, all parts removed and
replaced in the course of routine maintenance (i.e. cartridges, valves) must be rendered
unserviceable before discarding. Valves must be ripped in half and cartridges crushed.
2.8.30. (Added) . All respirators will be turned in to BE when BE determines respirators are no
longer required.
2.9.10. (Added) . Know and follow the procedures in this operating instruction.
2.9.11. (Added) . Report to BE immediately upon arrival to base and complete an MEQ.
2.9.12. (Added) . Receive the appropriate training and fit test from BE prior to beginning any
operations that require the use of respirators.
2.9.13. (Added) . Report to their supervisor any change that may impact their ability to safely
wear RP (e.g. greater than 20 lbs weight change, dental or facial surgery, or heart or lung
disorders).
2.12.6.12.1. (Added) . 319 CES/CEF is the only organization authorized by BE to conduct
respirator fit-testing for those individuals assigned to this unit. BE may perform no-notice spot
checks to ensure compliance with the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) which describes
medical clearance, fit-testing, and training procedures.
2.12.6.15. (Added) . Be primary distributor of the MEQ for initial fit tests and also the Annual
Refresher Questionnaire (ARQ) for re-occurring fit tests.
2.12.6.16. (Added) . Provide FHM with the MEQ and copy of the workplace specific written
plan (including workload characterization summary) for review of all newly assigned personnel.
2.12.6.17. (Added) . BE will contact the shop supervisor to schedule a fit-test when the MEQ
attachment is returned by FHM, if member is qualified.
2.12.6.18. (Added) . Conduct initial fit testing and training concurrently. Annual fit-testing
will be performed by BE on an appointment basis every Tues from 0900-1100.
2.12.6.19. (Added) . Initial and annual training will be documented, by BE, on AF Form 2772,
Certificate of Respirator Fit Test (or DOEHRS equivalent), and a copy will be provided to the
worker to be given to the workplace supervisor and will then be documented on the worker‟s AF
Form 55.
2.12.6.20. (Added) . Review/Approve workplace specific written plan annually for each
workplace on the RP Program.
 4                         AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


2.13.1. (Added) . Update DD Form 2766, Adult Preventive and Chronic Care Flowsheet as
necessary to reflect changes made to the AF Form 2755, Similar Exposure Group Data Summary
and notifies FHM of individuals requiring further medical evaluations.
2.13.2. (Added) . Arrange for medical evaluations of respirator users as required by
AFOSHSTD 48-137 and OSHA standards.
2.13.3. (Added) . Update MEQ date in PIMR once received by FHM and Forward MEQ to
319th MDG Medical Records Section for proper inclusion in the employee‟s medical record.
2.15.4. (Added) . Ensure based on the shop‟s workplace specific written plan, the Physician or
other Licensed Health Care Professional (PLHCP) annotates on the Medical Evaluation
Questionnaire (MEQ) his/her professional opinion of the employee‟s ability to wear a respirator
and perform assigned duties, and returns ONLY Attachment 1 of the completed MEQ to BE
within 5 working days.
2.15.5. (Added) . Ensure Attachment 1 of the MEQ annotates whether the employee is
medically cleared, cleared with restrictions, or disqualified based on PLHCP‟s review. Written
recommendations will include only the information required in 29 CFR 1910.134(e)(6). The
PLHCP‟s recommendation will be documented on a separate form or letter not on or attached to
the MEQ.
2.15.6. (Added) . Notify BE, PH, worker and worker‟s supervisor in writing of medical
disqualification. A copy of the medical determination will be filed in the workers medical
record.
2.15.7. (Added) . Contact employees for follow-up evaluations.
2.18. Fire and Emergency Services will:
2.18.3. (Added) . Ensure personnel receive medical clearance for respirator use through BE and
the FHM Clinic before administering training.
2.18.4. (Added) . Provide BE with breathing air results quarterly, and upon re-testing due to
inadequate passing requirements according to T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed
and Liquid Breathing Air.
3.6.1.1. (Added) . Supervisors will process orders for respirators or respirator parts after BE
reviews and approves the suitability of the devices for the requesting work center.
9.2.2.2.1. (Added) . All respirators and breathing air system checks and inspections will be
documented in writing using AF Form 1071, Inspection / Maintenance Record.
9.2.3.5. (Added) . Only those personnel appropriately trained will conduct respirator repairs.
Repairs will be made according to the manufacturer‟s recommendations and or specifications.
9.2.3.6. (Added) Perform maintenance during routine inspections (i.e. before and after each use
of the respirator). If the respirator is not routinely worn (e.g. emergency response respirators),
inspections and required maintenance must be accomplished at least every 30 days, more often if
necessary to maintain the integrity of the respirator. Maintain in accordance with Appendix 5
and follow manufacturer guidance.
9.4.4. (Added) . All breathing air systems that utilize an oil-lubricated compressor shall be
checked every 90 days. Breathing air samples will be taken every 90 days and provided to BE for
AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011                                                 5


review. To ensure a continued high quality of air supply and to account for any distribution
system contaminant impact, a representative sample should be taken at distribution supply
points.
9.4.5. (Added) . As part of the acceptance testing, and prior to initial use, representative
sampling of the compressor air out put shall be performed to ensure it complies with the
requirements in AFOSHSTD 48-137.
9.4.6. (Added) . For all compressors, including portable types, the air intake shall be carefully
selected and monitored to ensure continued quality of air supply to the compressor. Systems will
be equipped as necessary with an inline solvent bed and filter to further assure breathing air
quality. Maintenance and replacement refurbishment of compressors and associated air
purifying or filter media shall be performed periodically, by trained personnel following
manufacturer‟s instructions.
9.4.7. (Added) . All breathing air systems that utilize an oil-lubricated compressor shall have
either a high temperature or Carbon Monoxide (CO) alarm. When in use the CO alarm will be
checked every 24 hours. Ensure T.O. 42B-1-22 requirements are being met along with
manufacturer recommended maintenance and field calibrations.
9.4.8. (Added) . For breathing air systems that utilize an oil-lubricated compressor, each shift
leader will visually check the breathing air compressor and CO alarm at the beginning of each
shift of use. Prior to each use, each compressed air user will bleed off any moisture or debris
which may have accumulated in the respirator hose and point of attachment piping between each
shift.
9.4.9. (Added) . Compressed breathing air systems that do not meet T.O. or other inspection
requirements or are suspected of being contaminated or failing to deliver air of adequate quality
shall be immediately taken out of service and repaired or replaced.
9.5.3.1. IMTs Prescribed. AF Form 2755, Similar Exposure Group Data Summary, DD Form
2766, Adult Preventive and Chronic Care Flowsheet.
10. (Added) CBRN Mask Quantiative Fit Testing (QNFT).
10.1.1.3. (Added) . When personnel require a M45 Land Warrior mask, the individual‟s unit
will be responsible for the purchase of the M45 mask. Once the individual is issued the M45
mask a fit test must be accomplished through BE. The UDM is responsible for tracking the
status of individuals‟ awaiting receipt of the M45 mask and scheduling follow-up testing with
BE.




                                            DONALD L. SHAFFER, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 319th Air Refueling Wing
 6                         AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


                                     Attachment 8 (Added)
     SHOP RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM WORKPLACE SPECIFIC
                          WRITTEN PLAN

Figure A8.1. (Added) Shop Respiratory Protection Program Workplace Specific Written
Plan
                   Replace underlined sections with shop specific information.
                               Delete this block when finished.

                 SHOP RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM
                    WORKPLACE-SPECIFIC WRITTEN PLAN
     OPR: Enter your RP Program Manager’s Name, Rank, and Phone Number Here

1. Introduction. PURPOSE: This Workplace Specific Written Plan is to familiarize all
section personnel with the procedures that must be followed to ensure that they are properly
protected from the specific workplace hazards that require the use of respiratory protection.
Following the guidance in this instruction should ensure that workers are medically qualified, fit-
tested, and trained on respirator use prior to performing tasks that require the use of respirators.
Annual fit-testing and training requirements are also discussed. Ultimately, this guidance should
protect the workers while ensuring compliance with both the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) and Air Force Respiratory Protection Program (RPP) requirements.

2. References.

2.1. 29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection

2.2. AFOSH Std 48-137_IC2, Respiratory Protection Program (Current)

2.3. GFAFB Supplement, 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program (Current)

2.4. Applicable OSHA Substance Specific standards

3. Responsibilities.

3.1. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE). Oversees the Grand Forks AFB respiratory protection
program. Evaluates workplace hazards and determines the need for respiratory protection based
on expected worker exposures and air sampling results. Ensures that the proper respirators are
used for the hazards associated with the designated tasks/operations. Conducts initial and annual
respirator fit-testing and training in accordance with AFOSH Standard 48-137_IC2. Periodically
visit work areas using respirators, and evaluates the effectiveness of the section‟s respiratory
protection program. Issues AF Forms 2772, “Certificate of Competency” to all qualified
respirator users.

3.2. SHOP Supervisor will:

3.2.1. Carry out all responsibilities listed in AFOSH Standard 48-137 and GFAFB Supplement
AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011                                                      7


48-137.

3.2.2. Coordinate with BE to ensure information in the appendices of this OI are kept current at
all times. A review will be conducted and changes will be made on an annual basis or as
changes occur.

3.2.3. Contact Bioenvironmental Engineering whenever workplace operations change to ensure
that appropriate evaluations are made when new chemicals are introduced, processes or
procedures are changed, or engineering controls are modified or added.

3.2.4. Notify BE of any problems or mishaps occurring while respirators are being used.
Including but not limited to consistencies between Technical Data and AFOSH STD 48-137.

3.2.5 Ensure newly assigned personnel complete a medical questionnaire (MEQ), which may be
obtained from BE respiratory protection manager located in bldg 109, be medically qualified, fit-
tested, and trained prior to beginning operations that require the use of respiratory protection.
The MEQ process will be accomplished IAW GFAFB Supplement 48-137 Industrial Respirator
Program.

3.2.6. Notify BE for any initial, annual or supervisor training needed.

3.2.7. List here how annual training will be conducted and tracked.

3.2.8. Maintain a Certificate of Respirator Fit Test on each person trained and fit-tested by the
BE office for respirator use. This will be maintained with AF Form 55 and reviewed quarterly.

3.2.9. Be trained on their responsibilities as shop supervisor by Bioenvironmental Engineering
on an initial basis. Supervisors will maintain a Certificate of Supervisor Training to be filed with
the AF Form 55. All training will be documented on the AF Form 55 and reviewed quarterly.

3.2.10. Include respiratory protection information in the job safety training outline required by
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention and Health
Program, and document initial and annual training on the AF Form 55.

3.2.11. Advise all respirator wearers that they may leave the area at any time for relief from
respirator use in the event of equipment malfunction, physical or psychological distress,
procedural or communication failure, significant deterioration of operating conditions or any
other conditions that might require such relief.

3.2.12. Identify here procedures for establishing quality control of respirator breathing air (if
applicable).

3.2.13. Appoint an individual to be responsible for the use, maintenance, inspection, and care of
common use, emergency or escape respirators, as appropriate.

3.2.14. Ensure that monthly respirator inspections are performed and documented on the AF
Form 1071. Assure that any identified discrepancies are corrected expeditiously.
 8                         AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


3.2.15. Ensure that members who have more than 1 day facial hair growth are clean shaven prior
to fit-testing or using tight fitting, positive pressure respirators, and negative pressure air
purifying respirators.

3.2.16. Ensure members do not use chewing tobacco, snuff, or gum while wearing a respirator.

3.3. SHOP Workers will:

3.3.1. Carry out all responsibilities listed in AFOSH Standard 48-137 and GFAFB Supplement,
48-137.

3.3.2. Use the respiratory protection provided according to the instructions and training
received. Wear only those respirators for which they have received fit-testing and training, and
only for the tasks specified in this OI (reference appendix 1).

3.3.3. Inspect, clean, and maintain any respirator issued to them for their individual use.
Document respirator inspections on the AF Form 1071, and identify problems/deficiencies to
their supervisor.

3.3.4. Guard against damage to the respirator, and maintain the integrity of the NIOSH
certification by not mixing parts from different manufacturers.

3.3.5. Immediately identify respirator problems or requirements to their supervisor and
Bioenvironmental Engineering as appropriate.

3.3.6. Be clean shaven prior to reporting for fit-testing and when wearing positive pressure tight-
fitting, positive pressure respirators.

4. Respirator Selection: Appendix 2 lists specific tasks approved by BE for respiratory
protection within this section. The appendix outlines a specific respirator, its accessories, other
required personal protective equipment, and expected physical workloads for each task. The use
of RP for tasks other then those outlined in the appendix is not authorized.

5. Respirator Issue. Coordinate all initial requisition documents through BE to ensure the
correct respirator and accessories are being ordered.

5.1. Personnel appointed to issuing/ordering/maintaining respirators must have completed a one
time Supervisor/Maintain/Issue/ Order Training conducted by BE.

5.2. No person may be issued any respirator until after being certified by BE to wear that
specific respirator.

5.3. Each wearer shall be provided with a respirator that is clean and in good operating
condition.

5.4. Enter shop specific issue procedures here. Order request for a new mask will be ordered by
an authorized delegate that has completed the “Supervisor/Maintenance/Issue/ Order” training.
BE must approve all AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, and AF Form 2005, Issue/turn-in
AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011                                                       9


Request and initial request for respiratory protection devices.

6. Usage. Before each use of an approved respirator, the wearer shall perform the following
procedures:

6.1 Visual Inspection.

6.1.1. Check all parts of the respirator for wear and/or defects. This is to include dry rot, and
warping in the seal.

6.1.2. Replace filters, cartridges, valves, and head straps as necessary.

6.2 Leakage Test.

6.2.1. Positive Pressure Test: Close the exhaust valve and exhale gently into the face piece. The
respirator and fit are considered satisfactory if a slight positive pressure builds up inside the face
piece without any evidence of outward leakage of air at the seals. For some respirators this
method will require removal of the exhaust valve cover.

6.2.2. Negative Pressure Test: Use hands to cover the inlet openings of the filter or cartridge.
BE sure not to apply too much pressure as to make a false fit; you want to identify if the mask
fits during normal use of the respirator. Inhale gently so that the face piece collapses slightly and
hold breath for 10 seconds. If the face piece remains in a slightly collapsed condition and no
inward leakage air is detected, the respirator and fit are considered satisfactory.

NOTE: Respirators that fail positive or negative pressure fit check WILL NOT BE WORN IN
HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTS.

7. Inspection and Maintenance. Shall be conducted in accordance with appendix 5 and 6 of
this OI.

8. Storage:

8.1 Storage.

8.1.1. Place respirator in plastic bag, and store in a clean, dry, cool, area away from
contaminants.

8.1.2. Do not store respirator with used cartridges. A separate bag is recommended to avoid
contamination of the interior portion of the face piece.

8.1.3. Respirators should not be hung by the straps or harness as a method of storage. This
causes stretching and warping of the straps.

8.1.4. Respirators should not be stored under heavy or under objects. Prolonged storage in this
manner will cause severe warping of the face piece and can dramatically affect the fit of the
respirator.
 10                        AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


8.1.5. Storage area should be free from any contaminants. Lockers or drawers are highly
recommended as an additional barrier.

9. Cartridge Replacement Schedule. The cartridge, filter, or canister of an air-purifying
respirator shall be changed in accordance to the tasks listed in Appendix 1.

10. Training and Fit Testing:

10.1. All personnel listed in Appendix 3 will receive annual training from BE using the lesson
plan in Appendix 4. Shop specific training will be conducted using this plan. All training will
be annotated on each individual‟s training record (AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
Record).

10.2. BE will conduct fit testing annually (if you have a more frequent fit testing requirement,
list the frequency and reference the standard that drives the frequency) and issue a „Respirator
Fit Letter‟ for each type of respirator worn. A copy of each letter must be attached to the
individual‟s AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.

10.3. Add your procedures for ensuring people stay current on training and fit testing here.

11. Emergency Procedures. All respirator wearers may leave the area, at any time, for
necessary relief from respirator use. In the event of equipment malfunction, physical or
psychological distress, procedural or communication failure, significant deterioration of
operating conditions, or any other conditions that might require relief, operations will stop until
the situation is corrected. If any emergencies occur that cannot be handled within the shop,
contact emergency services (ambulance, fire, security forces) by dialing 911 at the nearest phone.
Identify phone locations nearest to operations requiring RP. May be done as a diagram in an
appendix.




Workplace Supervisor Name                             Bioenvironmental Engineering
Representative (NCOIC or OIC)                         (Flight Chief)

Title                                                  Leave blank (delete this) reviewer will
stamp
AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011       11


Figure A8.2. (Added) Shop Approved Respirator Use.
 12                    AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


Figure A8.3. (Added) Workload Effort Characterization Shop
AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011           13


Figure A8.4. (Added) Shop Approved Respirator Wearers.
 14                        AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


Figure A8.5. (Added) Respirator Use Summary and Training.




Figure A8.6. (Added) Respiratory Protection Inspection Procedures.

1. All respiratory equipment (face pieces, airlines, compressors, tanks, etc.) shall be inspected
before and after each use to determine if it needs parts replaced or repaired, or should be
discarded. Respirators that do not meet applicable inspection criteria shall be immediately
removed from service and repaired or replaced.
2. Each respirator stored for emergency or rescue use shall be inspected at least every 30 days.
An AF Form 1071, Inspection/Maintenance Record, or equivalent, shall be maintained for at
least one year to document the inspections.
3. Verify all applicable components are available and check for deterioration, weathering, or
contamination:
3.1. Note whether or not respirator surfaces are clean.
AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011                                                     15


3.2. Check pliability and level of deterioration of rubber and elastomeric parts.
3.3. Check for tightness at all connections. Connections should be finger tight.
3.4. Note whether gaskets are distorted or missing.
3.5. Check filters/cartridges/canisters for dents, punctures, service life indicator, corrosion,
expiration date, protection limitations, and compliance with cartridge change schedule.
3.6. Check the face piece for:
3.6.2. Dirt, pliability, cracks, tears, or holes.
3.6.3. Check face shield for holes, cracks, breaks, gouges, abrasions, or distortions that would
interfere with vision or tightness.
3.6.4. Check inhalation/exhalation valves for holes, warping, cracks, and dirt.
3.6.5. Check inhalation/exhalation valve covers for bent, warped valves.
3.6.6. Check headbands and straps for breaks, tears, loss of elasticity, snaps, and proper
tightness.
3.6.7. Check the function of each tight fitting respirator by performing positive and negative
pressure checks.
3.7. Supplied air and SCBA systems must be fully inspected, using the manufacturer‟s
recommended checklist, at least every 30 days. Record inspection on an AF Form 1071, or
equivalent. Minimum inspection items include:
3.7.1. Ensure regulators, alarms, and other warning systems are calibrated and functioning
properly.
3.7.2. Ensure connecting tubes, harness assemblies, hoses, clamps, electrical components, etc
are in good working condition.
3.7.3. Each air cylinder shall be inspected to ensure it is fully charged according to
manufacturer‟s instructions, cylinder is not overdue for pressure testing, and air quality has been
checked.
3.7.4. Tank and line pressures are within proper range, and the quick disconnects are functioning
properly.
3.7.5. Breathing air lines are properly labeled, and incompatible with connections for pneumatic
tools and other gases.
3.7.6. Quality air checks are current, and sample results have been forwarded to BE.
3.7.7. Supervisor must notify BE any time operations change that may affect the quality of the
air near the compressor‟s intake.
 16                         AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


Figure A8.7. (Added) Respiratory protection Cleaning and Maintenance Procedures.


1. Remove filters, cartridges, or canisters.
2. Remove speaking diaphragms, demand and pressure-demand valve assemblies, hoses, and
exhalation valve cover.
3. Remove inhalation and exhalation valves.
4. Wash components in warm (43C [110F] maximum) water with a mild detergent or cleaner
recommended by the manufacturer and BE. A stiff bristle (not wire) brush, sponge or cloth may
be used to facilitate cleaning.
5. If the respirator is a community use respirator (shared by other workers), and the cleaner does
not contain a disinfecting agent, respirator components must be immersed for two minutes in:
5.1. Hypochlorite solution (50 ppm of chlorine) made by adding approximately one milliliter of
laundry bleach to one liter of water at 43C (110F); or
5.2. Other commercially available cleansers of equivalent disinfectant quality when used as
directed, but only if recommended or approved by the respirator manufacturer and BE.
6. Clean other respirator parts as recommended by the manufacturer. Replace worn parts as
needed.
7. Rinse components thoroughly in clean, warm (43C [110F] maximum) water. The
importance of thorough rinsing cannot be overemphasized. Detergents or disinfectants that dry
on face pieces may result in skin irritation or even dermatitis. In addition, some disinfectants
may cause deterioration of rubber or corrosion of metal parts if not completely removed.
8. Components should be air-dried (do not hang dry) or hand-dried with a clean lint-free cloth
(ensure respirator is thoroughly dry before reassembly or storage).
9. Reassemble face piece. If new cartridges or canisters are required, do NOT open their sealed
package until actual use of the respirator. Exception to the rule, when respirator is used as an
escape gas mask. If used cartridges and filters are still in working order, store them in a separate
bag from the respirator.
10. Test the respirator to ensure that all components work properly.
11. Place respirator in plastic bag, and store in a clean, dry, cool, area.
12. Respirators contaminated with organic phosphate pesticides should be decontaminated as
follows:
12.1. If contamination is light, normal cleaning procedures should provide satisfactory
decontamination.
12.2. Organic phosphate pesticides should be removed by an alkaline soap wash and 50%
isopropyl or ethyl alcohol rinse, followed by normal cleaning procedures
Note: Respirators must be cleaned after each use.
AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011                                                      17


                                     Attachment 9 (Added)
       FILTERING FACEPIECE DEVICE (FFPD) TRAINING PLAN TEMPLATE

Figure A9.1. Filtering Facepiece Device (FFPD) Training Plan Template.
Organization/Office Symbol:                                                 Date:

1. Objective. To ensure personnel will know when and how to use the (Mask Model
Number(s)) dust mask.
2. References:
2.1. 29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection
2.2. AFOSH Std 48-137_IC2, Respiratory Protection Program (Current)
2.3. GFAFB Supplement, 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program (Current)
2.4. Applicable OSHA Substance Specific standards
3. Method of Training: Classroom and hands-on.
4. Purpose of Training: Describe the task or operation that FFPDs are approved for use.
5. Proper Donning:
5.1. Cup the face-piece in your hand, with nose piece at your finger tips: Allowing the
headband to hang freely below your hand.
5.2. Position the face-piece under your chin with the nose piece up.
5.3. Pull the strap over your head, resting it high at the top back of your head. Pull the bottom
strap over your head and position it around the neck below the ears.
5.4. Place you fingertips from both hands and the top of the metal nose piece.
5.5. Mold the nose area to the shape of your nose by pushing inward while moving your
fingertips down both sides of the nose piece. Pinching the nose piece using one hand may cause
a bad fit and result in less effective respirator performance.
6. Limitations:
6.1 Filtering face-piece devices will NOT protect against gases, vapors, asbestos, or solvents
during paint spray operations.
6.2 Do NOT use when concentrations of contaminants are immediately dangerous of life or
health or are unknown.
6.3 Do NOT abuse or misuse this filtering face-piece device.
6.4 After use, discard mask in proper receptacle.
6.5 Filtering Face-Piece Devices can only be used for PERSONAL COMFORT and will not
protect against chemical or dust overexposure.
7. Summary: We have discussed when to use FFPDs and when not to, how often to don the
FFPD, and what environments not to use devices. Remember, when in doubt, do not enter
 18                      AFOSHSTD48-137_GRANDFORKSAFBSUP 26 AUGUST 2011


environment. Ask your supervisor.


                                          Approved/Disapproved




Workplace Supervisor Name                 Bioenvironmental Engineering
Representative (NCOIC or OIC)             (Flight Chief)
Title                                      Leave blank (delete this) reviewer will
stamp
