BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
47TH FLYING TRAINING WING                                  HEALTH STANDARD 48-137

                                                              LAUGHLIN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                             Supplement
                                                                                30 APRIL 2013

                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                  RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 47 MDOS/SGOJ                                                   Certified by: 47 MDOS/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Wendy J. Beal)
Supersedes:   LAUGHLINAFBI 48-137,                                                    Pages: 4
              23 May 2008


This supplement implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Occupational Safety and
Health Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, 10 February 2005. This publication
implements and establishes guidance, procedures, and responsibilities for conducting the
Respiratory Protection Program (RPP) at Laughlin Air Base. This supplement applies to all U.S.
Air Force military and civilian personnel on Laughlin AFB. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/ .

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and should be completely reviewed.          It has been
converted from a wing instruction to a supplement of the AFOSH STD.
2.8.13. (Added) Contact the BE Flight as needed for information and guidance regarding
respiratory protection. In case of emergency after duty hours, a Bioenvironmental Engineering
(BE) Flight representative may be reached through the Command Post.
 2                                AFOSHSTD48-137_LAUGHLINAFBSUP 30 APRIL 2013


2.8.14. (Added) Maintain a RPP binder that is readily available to all personnel in the
workplace. This binder must include, as a minimum, the following:
2.8.14.1. (Added) AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program.
2.8.14.2. (Added) This supplement (AFOSHSTD 48-137 LAFBSUP1).
2.8.14.3. (Added) OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory Protection.
2.8.14.4. (Added) Workplace specific RPP OI (approved by BE).
2.8.14.5. (Added) Training plans (specific to required use, voluntary use, escape and issuers, if
applicable).
2.8.14.6. (Added) All current BE survey letters that validate the use of respiratory protection
(if applicable).
2.8.14.7. (Added) Copies of breathing air sample results if compressed or liquid breathing air
is used (if applicable).
2.8.14.8. (Added) T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air,
(if applicable).
2.8.14.9. (Added) Certificate of each individual’s fit-test and medical clearance letter
(certificates may also be kept in the individual’s training folder). Medical records may not be
maintained in the RP binder.
2.8.15. (Added) Verify that used respirator cartridges/canisters/filters are disposed in
accordance with applicable federal, state, and local environmental regulations; contact47
CES/CEAN or BE for assistance.
2.8.16. (Added) For respirator parts not requiring special disposal, all parts removed and
replaced in the course of routine maintenance (i.e. cartridges, valves) must be rendered
unserviceable before discarding. Valves must be ripped in half and cartridges crushed.
2.8.17. (Added) Within 30 days of receiving notice, provide BE, in writing, a plan of action to
resolve any discrepancies identified during the annual workplace RPP review. The workplace
will again notify BE in writing when the discrepancies have been resolved and closed.
2.8.18. (Added) Direct workers to the 47th Medical Operations Squadron, Optometry Clinic
(47 MDOS/SGOO), if corrective lenses are needed while wearing a full-face respirator. Provide
the worker with the necessary system or kit for mounting the corrective lenses into the BE-
approved respirator. The system or kit is unique to each manufacturer’s equipment and must be
ordered along with the worker’s respirator from base supply. Workers must bring a current
prescription to the Optometry Clinic. The worker’s unit is responsible for the cost of respirator
corrective lenses.
2.9.10. (Added) Hand-carry the medical clearance letter from Flight Medicine to BE for their
fit test. BE will NOT fit test any personnel without first receiving medical clearance.
2.9.11. (Added) Hand-carry the medical clearance letter and the QNFT record to their
supervisor for maintenance in the RP binder.
AFOSHSTD48-137_LAUGHLINAFBSUP 30 APRIL 2013                                                        3


2.12.6.15. (Added) Provide assistance, as required, to procure respirators. BE will assist by
identifying specific replacement cartridges, model and part numbers, National Stock Number,
etc.
2.12.6.16. (Added) Maintain records of all personnel industrial hygiene QNFT records in the
approved ESOH-MIS (i.e., DOEHRS). If the hard copy record is lost, ESOH-MIS
documentation may be used as proof of QNFT completion. If a QNFT record cannot be located
(electronic or hard copy), BE personnel will administer a new fit test for the individual.
2.12.7. (Added) Conducts QNFT training for Fire Department personnel on the J-FIRE along
with the Joint Service General Purpose Mask, if needed.
2.14.5. (Added) Give the signed back page of the medical evaluation questionnaire (i.e., the
medical clearance letter) to the individual to hand carry to BE or place the medical clearance
letter in the BE mail box.
4.2.3.5. (Added) If personnel believe emergency-use respirators are required for egress, the
workplace supervisor must contact BE. BE will review emergency and/or spill scenarios and
select the best egress respirator, if one is required.
6.2.5.5. (Added) When the Physician or Other Licensed Health Care Professional recommends
against respirator use and the worker’s supervisor is notified, the worker’s supervisor will
formally notify BE. If the worker’s annual fit test becomes overdue during the period of
workplace limitations, the worker will not be counted against the workplace’s numbers. When
worker is cleared for respirator use, he/she must acquire a fit test from BE prior to RP use, if they
are overdue.
6.3.4.3.1. (Added) If the individual responds “yes” to the annual questions, BE will
discontinue the fit test and instruct them to proceed to Flight Medicine to fill out a respirator
medical evaluation questionnaire. The PLHCP will review the questionnaire and determine if
further evaluation is necessary. The individual must inform their supervisor of the situation.
9.3.1. (Added) Applicable workplace will provide BE with results of their Breathing Air
Quality tests within two weeks of receipt.
10.1.1.3. (Added) When personnel obtain the issued M45 mask, they must be fit tested on that
specific mask.
10.2.3. (Added) A Quantitative Fit Test (QNFT) will be re-accomplished if the wearer is
issued gas mask inserts after receiving their initial fit test.




                                              THOMAS E. MURPHY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
 4                              AFOSHSTD48-137_LAUGHLINAFBSUP 30 APRIL 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFOSH Standard 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program, 10 February 2005
T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and Liquid Breathing Air
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
OI—Operating Instruction
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
RPP—Respiratory Protection Program
QNFT- Quantitative Fit Test
