BY ORDER OF THE                                AIR FORCE OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                  HEALTH STANDARD 48-20

                                                                                  10 MAY 2013

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                   OCCUPATIONAL NOISE AND HEARING
                                                           CONSERVATION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AF/SG3P                                                       Certified by: HQ AF/SG3
                                                                    (Brig Gen Charles E. Potter)
Supersedes:   AFOSHSTD48-20,                                                          Pages: 61
              30 June 2006


This Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health (AFOSH)
Standard (Std) implements policy to meet or exceed the requirements of Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), 1910.95,
Occupational Noise Exposure; Title 5, CFR, Volume 1, Part 339, Medical Qualification
Determinations; and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6055.12, Hearing Conservation
Program, except for military unique situations. This standard administers the Air Force (AF)
Hearing Conservation Program (HCP) to prevent occupational illness and injuries under Federal
and Department of Defense (DoD) references. This AFOSH Std requires collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authorities to collect and
maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Title 10 United States Code (USC)
Chapter 55, Medical and Dental Care, 10 USC § 8013, Power and Duties of the Secretary of the
Air Force, and Executive Order 9397. Forms affected by the Privacy Act have an appropriate
Privacy Act statement. The applicable Privacy Act System of Records Notices (SORN) DHA
07, Military Health Information System, DHA 19, DoD Occupational Environmental Health
Readiness System-Industrial Hygiene, and F044 F SG E, Electronic Medical Records System
apply. SORN is available online at http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS). Major Commands (MAJCOM), Direct Reporting Units (DRU), and Field Operating
Agencies (FOA) may supplement this standard when additional or more stringent safety and
health criteria are required, but all supplements that directly implement this standard must be
routed to Air Force Medical Support Agency/Public Health and Preventive Medicine Branch
 2                                                                                       AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


(AFMSA/SG3PM) for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Requests for waivers must be submitted through
chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. The use of the name
or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

All AF Active Duty, Reserve, and National Guard military and civilian personnel are covered by
this standard. (Note: Air Reserve (AR) and Air National Guard (ANG) will collectively be
referred to as Air Reserve Component (ARC)). This includes all appropriated fund, non-
appropriated fund, seasonal, and temporary personnel. Foreign nationals employed by the
United States Air Force (USAF) under a direct or indirect hire arrangement are also included
unless exempt by other agreements. Foreign national military personnel assigned to the USAF
are included, unless other preventive measures and medical care are not provided by AF.
Contractors must comply with state and Federal noise standards and are exempt from compliance
with this standard. Contract personnel should not be enrolled in the AF HCP unless HCP
services are included in the contract. HCP services will not normally be included in contracts.
This standard does not apply to community noise situations.

Referenced American National Standards Institute’s (ANSI) standards may be obtained for a fee
from ANSI at http://webstore.ansi.org.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: IAW 29 CFR 1904.10 Public Health has 7 calendar days to report an OSHA reportable
STS in the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) once the PTS is confirmed by an
audiologist or overseeing provider (2.12.10); clarification of organizational roles and
responsibilities (Chapter 2); Occupational and Environmental Health Working Group Chair and
members will consider everyone who works at the base (including aircrew) who is exposed to
noise as identified in this standard will be monitored in the HCP; deletion of previous
AFOSHSTD 48-20 Chapter 8, Forms Prescribed, and Chapter 9, Forms Adopted, by moving
prescribed and adopted forms to Attachment 1; deletion of previous AFOSHSTD 48-20
Attachments 2, Impulse Noise, and 9, Audiometric Instructions Poster; and updated posters in
Attachments 5 through 7.

       1.     INTRODUCTION. ................................................................................................             3
       2.     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                           4
Table 1.      Referral Criteria. ....................................................................................................   23
       3.     HAZARDOUS NOISE SURVEILLANCE REQUIREMENTS: ..........................                                                     24
Table 2.      Health Protection Criteria. .....................................................................................         24
Table 3.      Limiting Values for Unprotected Noise Exposures*. ............................................                            25
Figure 1.     Duration of Exposure Calculation. ........................................................................                25
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                                                             3


Figure 2.     Calculating Equivalent Sound Level. ....................................................................                26
Figure 3.     Unity Calculation. ..................................................................................................   26
Figure 4.     Calculating 8-hour Equivalent Sound Level. .........................................................                    26
Table 4.      Exposure Guidelines for Upper Sonic and Ultrasound Noise*. .............................                                28
Table 5.      Quality of Person-to-Person Voice Communication*. ..........................................                            30
Table 6.      Noise Levels for Offices*. .....................................................................................        30
Table 7.      Noise Levels for Work Spaces*. ............................................................................             31
Table 8.      Noise Levels for Group Meetings, Study, Rest and Relaxation*. .........................                                 31
Figure 5.     Calculating Average Daily Equivalent Continuous Level. ....................................                             33
       4.     PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT STANDARDS. .............................................                                        34
       5.     HEARING PROTECTION. ...................................................................................                 36
       6.     NOISE CONTROL. ...............................................................................................          41
       7.     FITNESS AND RISK EVALUATIONS. ..............................................................                            42

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORAMTION                                                                        46

Attachment 2—AUTHORIZED HEARING CONSERVATIONDIAGNOSTIC CENTERS
             (HCDC)/ AUTHORIZED HEARING CONSERVATION CENTERS (HCC)
                                                                                                                                      55

Attachment 3—SAMPLE REFERRAL LETTER                                                                                                   56

Attachment 4—GENERAL INFORAMTION FOR EARPLUGS                                                                                         57

Attachment 5—EARPLUG SEATING DEVICE AND CARRYING CASE POSTER                                                                          58

Attachment 6—FOAM EARPLUG INSTRUCTION POSTER                                                                                          59

Attachment 7—NOISE MUFFS: GENERAL INFORMATION POSTER                                                                                  60

Attachment 8—OWCP HEARING LOSS MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS AS
             PARAPHRASED FROM DOL OWCP HEARING LOSS SECTION
             INSTRUCTIONS                                                                                                             61


1. INTRODUCTION.
   1.1. Purpose. The USAF HCP is a component of the AFOSH Program designed to reduce
   or eliminate hazardous noise exposure to workers and protect workers from the harmful
   effects of hazardous noise, while enhancing combat and operational capabilities. This
   process must occur across the full life cycle of acquisition, sustainment and support for
   weapons systems, munitions and other materiel systems. This requires identifying all areas
   where workers are exposed to hazardous noise and reducing exposure through engineering or
   administrative controls, or personal protective equipment (PPE). (Also, refer to AFI 91-203,
   Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction). The key to accomplishing these
4                                                              AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


    goals is an education program that explains the individual’s role in protecting their hearing to
    include dangerous noise exposures on and off duty and how to mitigate those threats.
    1.2. Overview:
       1.2.1. DoDI 6055.12 requires all DoD Components to implement a comprehensive
       program and written plan for hearing conservation. This AFOSH Std meets the intent
       and requirements of DoDI 6055.12 and reflects the unique functions, capabilities and
       procedures of the Air Force HCP. For Joint Bases, this standard is followed unless
       specific processes and provisions, meeting the intent and requirements of OSHA and
       DoDI 6055.12, are detailed in the Memorandum of Agreement.
       1.2.2. The Aerospace Medicine Squadron/ARC Medical Unit Commander manages the
       occupational health program. IAW AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health
       Program, hearing conservation issues will be considered through the Occupational and
       Environmental Health Working Group (OEHWG) just as any other occupational
       exposure.
           1.2.2.1. At collocated installations (i.e., host Active Duty installation with tenant AF
           Reserve units), HCP responsibilities conferred to the AF Reserve Medical Unit
           (RMU) Commander, Bioenvironmental Engineering and Public Health are a joint
           responsibility between the AF RMU Commander and the Active Duty Medical
           Treatment Facility (MTF) Commander. In accordance with DoDI 4000.19,
           Interservice and Intragovernmental Support, a support agreement between the AF
           RMU and MTF will describe HCP responsibilities assigned to each. The AF RMU
           Commander is responsible for assuring a comprehensive HCP is available to include
           program elements accomplished by the MTF. This does not apply to joint bases that
           have memorandums of agreement.
           1.2.2.2. At stand-alone ARC installations (i.e., no active duty host installation), HCP
           responsibilities conferred to the AF RMU Commander, Bioenvironmental
           Engineering and Public Health are a joint responsibility between the AF RMU
           Commander and the Mission Support Group (MSG) Commander. In accordance with
           DoDI 4000.19, a support agreement between the AF RMU and MSG will describe
           HCP responsibilities assigned to each. The AF RMU Commander is responsible for
           assuring a comprehensive HCP is available to include program elements
           accomplished by the MSG.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. Headquarters AF (HAF).
       2.1.1. AFMSA/SG3P will:
           2.1.1.1. Provide policy and coordination on hearing conservation matters in the AF.
           2.1.1.2. Serve as the principal AF point of contact with Federal and DoD regulatory
           agencies controlling occupational exposure to hazardous noise.
           2.1.1.3. In conjunction with the AF/SG Audiology Consultant, identify USAF
           Hearing Conservation Diagnostic Centers (HCDC) and Hearing Conservation Centers
           (HCC) used for the evaluation of personnel with hearing loss in support of the HCP.
           Reference attachment 2 for a list of authorized HCDC/HCCs. This list may change
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                    5


        because units with a large number of personnel (at least 4,000 military and/or civilian
        members) assigned to the HCP can be considered a HCC.
        2.1.1.4. Ensure operations involving occupational and combat-related exposure to
        hazardous noise establish and maintain HCPs in compliance with Federal and DoD
        requirements. Such programs shall encompass the minimum requirements in DoDI
        6055.12.
        2.1.1.5. Report HCP metrics to Air Force and DoD agencies, Working Groups, and
        Councils as requested (e.g., Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
        performance measures).
     2.1.2. Headquarters Air Force Safety Center (AFSEC) Ground Safety will coordinate
     with AFMSA/SG3P for safety requirements associated with hazardous noise exposure.
  2.2. AFMOA and MAJCOMs will:
     2.2.1. Provide policy execution to support installations in interpreting and implementing
     the HCP requirements in DoDI 6055.12 and this AFOSH Standard.
     2.2.2. Allocate funding to resource and equip installations to assist with meeting the
     HCP requirements.
     2.2.3. Designate a hearing conservation consultant (i.e., a regional HCDC/HCC or an
     Occupational Medicine clinic) to oversee the command HCP.
     2.2.4. MAJCOMs will utilize the Environment, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH)
     Council as the executive forum to oversee the performance of the HCP and advocate for
     resource requirements when necessary.
     2.2.5. MAJCOMs will allocate resources to staff and equip the HCDC/HCCs within their
     area of responsibility to provide the following:
        2.2.5.1. The HCDC and HCC audiologist will provide regional HC referral support .
        Testing capabilities will include, at minimum, diagnostic audiometer equipment
        sufficient to complete a full comprehensive hearing exam, a full range of immittance,
        electrophysiologic, and otoacoustic emissions equipment. HCDC/HCC minimum
        staffing will consist of an audiologist and support personnel.
        2.2.5.2. Ensure the gaining MTFs have funds to send all new Air Force audiologists
        to the Hearing Conservation Technician Course within one year of assignment to first
        duty station for active duty or within the first year of employment for civilian
        audiologists.
     2.2.6. Acquisitions Weapon Systems Program Offices within Air Force Material
     Command (AFMC) will send noise study data on system development and Programmatic
     Environmental, Safety and Health Evaluations (PESHE) to USAF School of Aerospace
     Medicine Occupational and Environmental Health Department (USAFSAM/OE).
  2.3. United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM) will:
     2.3.1. Provide consultative services to measure, evaluate, and recommend controls and
     solutions for occupational noise concerns within the AF. Occupational noise concerns
     include, but are not limited to, speech interference and communication limitations.
6                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


       2.3.1.1. Have specialized noise-measuring equipment necessary to monitor and
       record various types of noise either of biological significance or which might interfere
       with successful conduct of AF operations.
       2.3.1.2. Interpret and provide MAJCOM and base-specific reports communicating
       interpretation of results, as requested.
       2.3.1.3. Produce annual reports on the percentage of hazardous noise workplaces
       characterized and the index of unacceptable noise exposures, as outlined in DoDI
       6055.12, para. E3.12.a.
    2.3.2. Serve as the principal coordinator on occupational noise studies conducted during
    weapons systems development.
    2.3.3. Review PESHE from AFMC and ensure hazardous noise is addressed and
    controlled to prevent hearing loss and adverse effects.
    2.3.4. Evaluate any unique or unusual occupational noise problems at the request of the
    MAJCOM, DRU, FOA, or installation.
    2.3.5. Maintain an information repository on noise characteristics of noise producing
    equipment typically found in AF industrial workplaces. Contact the ESOH Service
    Center at website: https://hpws.afrl.af.mil/dhp/OE/ESOHSC/ for more information.
    2.3.6. Appoint an occupational medicine consultant who will provide consultation for the
    AF HCP.
    2.3.7. Appoint and maintain an AF HCP Office with at least one audiologist as the AF
    HCP manager (HCPM) and one supporting technician. The AF HCP office will provide
    the following services:
       2.3.7.1. Provide HC consultation and HC reports to Air Staff/MAJCOM/installations
       upon request.
       2.3.7.2. Report annually to AFMSA/SG3PM on the incidence of significant and
       permanent threshold shifts (STS and PTS, respectively) and compliance rate among
       Air Force workers enrolled in the HCP program, as outlined in DoDI 6055.12, para.
       E3.12.a.
       2.3.7.3. Evaluate AF HCP effectiveness based on the STS and PTS rates, audiogram
       compliance rates for all workers enrolled in the HCP program (including threshold
       shift follow-up rates), and other performance measures as defined by AFMSA, HAF,
       and DoDI 6055.12, E3. Interpret and provide HAF, MAJCOM and base-specific
       reports communicating interpretation of results on a routine basis or at least annually.
       2.3.7.4. Evaluate and report recommendations for corrective action to installation
       level HCPM and to the MAJCOMs (SGP) to improve data quality in the Department
       of Defense Occupational and Environmental Health Readiness System (DOEHRS)
       Data Registry (DR) program on a routine basis or at least annually.
       2.3.7.5. Serve as the primary representative to the DoD HC working group, the DoD
       DOEHRS-HC functional users group and the consultant for DOEHRS-HC and DR
       in the Air Force.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                  7


     2.3.8. Provide training to support the HCP.
        2.3.8.1. Conduct formal Council for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing
        Conservation (CAOHC)-approved training, for DoD personnel (military and civilian)
        who perform audiograms.
        2.3.8.2. Provide and track AF certification numbers to students within 10 days of
        completion of CAOHC training.
        2.3.8.3. Conduct training for Public Health (PH) Officers and skill-level appropriate
        4E0X1        course   material     that    addresses    components        of    HCP
        administration/management. Provide CAOHC hands-on and didactic DOEHRS-HC
        training for 4E0X1 personnel for the HCP.
        2.3.8.4. Conduct training for providers on audiogram            review,   audiogram
        consultation, referrals, and Fitness and Risk Evaluations.
        2.3.8.5. Conduct training for Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) technicians and
        officers that addresses identification, assessment, control and documentation (in
        DOEHRS-Industrial Hygiene (IH)) of hazardous noise exposures as outlined by
        Federal, DoD and AF standards.
        2.3.8.6. Provide and track AF HC certification numbers for personnel who are
        trained IAW the CAOHC. Note: AF personnel who receive CAOHC approved
        training at civilian agencies must register certification information with the AF
        HCPM and receive an AF certification number prior to conducting audiometric
        testing.
        2.3.8.7. Provide HC orientation training for newly assigned military and civilian AF
        audiologists, as needed. Doctor of Audiology students usually receive orientation at
        Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center during completion of the clinical training
        year, and fully qualified audiologists may receive a one-week orientation at Wilford
        Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center, as needed, at the expense of the individual’s unit.
     2.3.9. In conjunction with AFRL/RH, represent and vote for USAF on ANSI accredited
     standards committees on Acoustics, S1, Bioacoustics, S3, and Noise, S12.
  2.4. Air Force Research Laboratory-Human Effectiveness Directorate, Battlespace
  Acoustic Branch (AFRL/RHCB) will:
     2.4.1. Maintain an AF research and development capability to address science and
     technology needs and requirements in physical acoustics.
     2.4.2. Provide expert consultation to AF/SG and USAFSAM on effects of physical
     acoustics, bioacoustics, hearing protection, and speech communication on AF operations.
     Make attenuation specifications of any hearing protection device (HPD) that have been
     tested by the AF or by DoD Components, as available, readily available. Specifications
     should outline methods used and provide at least two standard deviations of data.
     2.4.3. Recommend to AF/SG exposure criteria and language for AFIs and guidelines.
     2.4.4. Advise and provide subject matter expertise to USAFSAM on noise measurement,
     noise assessment, hearing protection performance measurement, impulse noise
8                                                            AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


       measurement, impulse noise assessment, hearing protection technologies, voice
       communication performance and measurement techniques, and noise exposure criteria.
          2.4.4.1. Advise and provide noise data to USAFSAM, MAJCOMs, and AF/SG
          resulting from AFRL measurement of unique noise environments.
          2.4.4.2. Represent and vote for USAF on ANSI accredited standards committees on
          Acoustics, S1, Bioacoustics, S3, and Noise, S12.
    2.5. Wing Commanders will:
       2.5.1. In coordination with an Air Force Community noise program, run an integrated
       installation hazardous noise reduction and protection program, which includes noise
       control by operational means, building design, and land use planning.
       2.5.2. Ensure HCP is an annual (or more frequently as directed) standing agenda item for
       the ESOH Council. Program effectiveness will be evaluated; information to be briefed
       may include the program performance metrics, as outlined in DoDI 6055.12, E3.12.a. and
       Attachment 2 in AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council, the
       number of shops and personnel on the program, incidence rate of STS and PTS, percent
       of workers requiring follow-up, etc.
    2.6. Squadron Commanders and Workplace Supervisors will:
       2.6.1. Participate in the review of the workplace hazards as process owners to identify
       actions taken to mitigate hazardous noise (i.e., efforts to procure equipment, which does
       not generate hazardous noise, applying engineering and administrative controls) and
       ensure personnel are receiving pre-employment and annual medical exams.
       2.6.2. Use engineering controls as the primary means of eliminating exposure to
       potentially hazardous noise and protecting the hearing of assigned personnel (an
       individual’s daily noise dose does not exceed an 8-hour time weighted average (TWA)
       of 85 decibels A-weighted (dBA)). All practical design approaches to reduce noise levels
       to below hazardous levels by engineering principles shall be explored. Priorities for
       noise control resources shall be assigned based on the applicable RAC. Engineering
       controls shall be applied to "military-unique workplaces," within the constraints of
       maintaining combat readiness. However, noise dose can also be controlled by limiting
       time exposure, increasing distance from noise sources (in some cases), and ensuring all
       workers are correctly using adequate hearing protection; ensure workplace complies with
       all AF HCP, DoD, and OSHA requirements.
       2.6.3. Mark “hazardous noise areas” and “equipment” (as identified by BE) with signs
       and/or decals. For potentially hazardous noise areas, signs will be located at their
       entrances or boundaries, including pathways leading to hazardous noise areas.
          2.6.3.1. Signs and/or decals will describe (in words or with other visual symbols) the
          potential hazard and the required protective measures (e.g., “Danger”, “Hazardous
          Noise”, “Hearing Protection Required When in Operation”). As a minimum, all
          symbols and decals shall comply with 29 CFR 1910.145, Specifications for Accident
          Prevention Signs and Tags.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                       9


        2.6.3.2. An approved dBA rated supply of disposable HPDs shall be maintained and
        readily available to required users, along pathways leading to hazardous noise areas
        or equipment.
        2.6.3.3. In consultation with BE, ensure each tool or piece of equipment producing
        noise levels greater than or equal to 85 dBA, including vehicles, is conspicuously
        marked, where feasible, to alert personnel of the potential hazard. The exception
        shall be when an entire space is designated a "hazardous noise area," and the
        equipment is stationary. Exteriors of military combatant equipment are excluded
        from this requirement.
     2.6.4. Inform BE/PH staff if workplace equipment, or practices and procedures involving
     potentially hazardous noise change so they may evaluate noise exposure levels.
     2.6.5. Ensure new equipment being considered for purchase has the lowest sound
     emission levels that are technologically and economically possible and compatible with
     performance and environmental requirements. Title 42 USC Chapter 65, Sect. 4914,
     Public Health and Welfare, Noise Control, Development of Low-Noise Emission
     Products, applies.
     2.6.6. Include appropriate acoustics in specifications for all new facilities, equipment,
     and substantial modification projects. The objective shall be to ensure, if possible, a
     steady-state level less than 85 dBA at all personnel locations during normal operations.
     2.6.7. Ensure compliance and availability of approved HPDs for workers exposed to
     hazardous noise. Instruct personnel on the HCP and care/hygiene of their hearing
     protection devices and ensure their HPDs are properly maintained (reference section
     5.15. for more details).
     2.6.8. Ensure workers with an occupational exposure to hazardous noise complete an
     initial/reference audiogram and receive HCP training from PH prior to but not to exceed
     30 days from the date of the workers’ initial exposure to hazardous noise. In addition,
     workplace-specific hearing conservation training must be conducted as defined in
     paragraph 2.6.9.
     2.6.9. Conduct initial and annual workplace-specific hearing conservation training on
     shop or unit hazardous noise exposures and equipment. Consult PH for training
     materials. Document all training on the worker’s AF Form 55, Record of Training, or
     equivalent. Training must cover:
        2.6.9.1. The effects of noise on hearing, on and off duty sources of hazard noise, the
        purpose of hearing protection, and the proper use of hearing protection devices.
        Encourage the use of hearing protection off duty when exposed to hazardous noise.
        2.6.9.2. The advantages, disadvantages, and attenuation of various types of hearing
        protectors.
        2.6.9.3. Instructions on selection, use, proper wear, and care of hearing protectors.
        2.6.9.4. Counsel on the interaction between HPDs interfacing with other forms of
        PPE. Some kinds of PPE, such as eyewear, can create ill-fitting circumaural HPDs if
        fit of all PPE is not evaluated collectively (reference paragraph 5.13.4.).
10                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


        2.6.9.5. The purpose of audiometric testing.
        2.6.9.6. Hearing loss and how it may lead to disqualification from current duties if
        hearing is critical to job performance.
        2.6.9.7. Mandatory requirement of assigned protective equipment, and the
        administrative actions that may follow for failure to wear.
     2.6.10. Ensure personnel on the HCP are made available for examination and attend
     scheduled medical appointments. Personnel scheduled for a noise-free audiogram (NFA)
     will remain noise free from occupational hazardous noise sources for at least 14 hours
     prior to testing.
     2.6.11. Assure the MTF or ARC Medical Unit Commander is informed of each new
     operation, job, or process before the start of regular operations.
     2.6.12. Ensure all hazardous noise areas above the double protection requirement are
     assigned with Risk Assessment Codes (RAC) to assist commanders in tracking corrective
     actions and mitigating the source.
     2.6.13. Require the use of HPDs and other noise control methods, including the use of
     HPDs for installation recreation facilities with hazardous noise sources (auto hobby,
     skeet, etc.).
     2.6.14. Provide a copy of 29 CFR 1910.95 in the workplace so that it is available to
     employees.
     2.6.15. Assist with the Job Capability and Safety Analysis, AF Form 1754.
     2.6.16. In accordance with OSHA regulation 29 CFR 1910.95 (e), notify each employee
     exposed at or above an 8-hour TWA of 85 dBA of the results of the noise monitoring
     performed by BE.
     2.6.17. Notify each worker of hazardous noise sources in the workplace and provide
     information to BE about work practices and procedures involving potential exposure to
     hazardous noise to allow proper surveys and evaluations of the workplace.
     2.6.18. Update and provide a current roster of personnel occupationally exposed to
     hazardous noise to PH at least semi-annually or upon request. Ensure that all newly
     assigned and departing personnel receive all required audiograms (i.e., pre-placement and
     termination) in the scheduled timeframe.
  2.7. Employees with Hazardous Noise Exposure will:
     2.7.1. Comply with all hazardous noise control measures whether at work or at deployed
     location to reduce exposure to hazardous noise.
        2.7.1.1. Reduce exposure by including the proper use of hearing protectors and
        advise others in the workplace to wear HPD when exposed to hazardous noise.
        Personnel should wear HPDs off duty when operating hazardous noise producing
        equipment or tools, especially if exposure includes firearms.
            2.7.1.1.1. Personnel working in or entering designated "hazardous noise areas"
            shall always carry and use hearing protectors. This includes temporary or
            transient personnel (i.e., repair technicians), aircrew, and ground based controllers
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                     11


            entering hazardous noise areas.
            2.7.1.1.2. When noise sources are operating, personnel shall wear their hearing
            protection devices regardless of exposure time.
         2.7.1.2. Identify initiatives and inform supervisors/leadership of opportunities to
         reduce or eliminate hazardous noise in their work centers.
     2.7.2. Report for appointments to receive occupational health medical exams, and take
     the HPDs they use to their appointment, including any PPE that is worn in conjunction
     with HPDs, such as eyewear, that could affect the fit of HPDs.
     2.7.3. Wear hearing protectors when exposed to gunfire or artillery fire in test or training
     situations.
     2.7.4. Report new or changes in operating procedures that affect workplace hazardous
     noise exposure to the supervisor and participate in noise exposure surveys and
     evaluations by wearing monitoring equipment as requested by BE.
     2.7.5. Report to supervisor or medical personnel conditions that place themselves or
     others at risk for accident because of communication difficulty or the inability to hear
     warning signals.
     2.7.6. IAW OSHA and this standard, receive an annual audiometric evaluation.
     Employees should not continue to perform duties in hazardous noise if this requirement is
     not met.
  2.8. Directors of Base Personnel (Military and Civilian) will:
     2.8.1. Evaluate and reassign personnel, based on medical recommendations, to a suitable
     workplace. Include those awaiting reasonable accommodations in, denied placement in,
     or removed from, hazardous noise-related jobs.
     2.8.2. Ensure civilian workers receive a pre-placement hearing test/medical clearance
     before being hired or transferred into a position that includes hazardous noise duties.
     2.8.3. Upon request from the installation level HCPM or Primary Care Manager (PCM),
     prepare an AF Form 1754, with minimum, essential tasks that a worker must perform to
     qualify for or to retain a position to allow the PCM to conduct a worker’s Fitness and
     Risk Evaluation.
     2.8.4. Report the number of civilian claims filed for noise-induced hearing loss and the
     cost of the award to the ESOH Council.
     2.8.5. Civilian Personnel Office will provide the OEHWG and installation level HCPM
     information related to any hazardous noise illness or injury claims.
  2.9. Host Installation and/or Organizational Safety Staff will:
     2.9.1. Assist in performing Fitness and Risk Evaluations by conducting the Job Safety
     Analysis, AF Form 1754, Part 4.
     2.9.2. Report noncompliance with the HCP to the supervisor. Identify newly added
     hazardous noise work tasks or areas noted during periodic safety inspections to BE.
  2.10. MTF and ARC Medical Unit Commander will:
12                                                         AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


     2.10.1. Ensure a comprehensive HCP is available.
     2.10.2. Appoint the audiologist, occupational medicine physician or an experienced
     flight surgeon to be the installation level HCPM. For DOEHRS-HC/DR records
     management, a senior NCO can assume the HCPM access level role in the DOEHRS-HC
     software and on the Data Repository. At installations with a tenant AF Reserve unit, the
     support agreement should specify if both the MTF and AF RMU Commanders will
     appoint an installation level HCPM or the MTF appointee will support both.
     2.10.3. Ensure that personnel (civilian and military) performing audiograms have
     CAOHC certification and an AF certification number issued by the AF or other DoD
     component.
  2.11. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) will:
     2.11.1. Perform noise surveys and dosimetry to quantify noise hazards as described in
     Chapter 3. All results should be documented in DOEHRS-IH.
     2.11.2. Work with Precision Measurement Equipment Laboratory and/or Biomedical
     Engineering personnel to ensure calibration and certification of noise meters are
     performed according to ANSI S1.4-1983 (R2006), Specification for Sound Level Meters
     (or current ANSI standard).
     2.11.3. Complete the AF Form 2755, Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure
     Data, or the equivalent workplace exposure data summary for the OEHWG, including the
     8-hour TWA and required controls.
        2.11.3.1. Using the hierarchy of controls, ensure that resultant noise levels are below
        85 dBA. If resultant noise levels are greater than 85 dBA then engineering controls
        should be the first method of control considered, followed by administrative controls
        and PPE last (reference paragraph 5.13.3. for method to determine HPD attenuation).
        Where engineering controls are undertaken, the design objective shall be to reduce
        steady-state levels to below 85 dBA, regardless of personnel exposure time, and to
        reduce impulse noise levels to below 140 decibels (dB) peak sound pressure level
        (SPL).
        2.11.3.2. Calculate at-the-ear exposure (reference paragraph 5.7.).
     2.11.4. Provide PH and shop supervisors the results of noise surveys and dosimetry.
     This information should include hazard and required controls (i.e., engineering,
     administrative, and/or HPD). This can be in the form of the certified PPE list if no
     engineering controls are being used.
     2.11.5. Assess the adequacy of all controls used to reduce noise exposures including
     hearing protectors per Chapter 5, and evaluate industrial work areas where adverse
     hearing loss trends are noted.
     2.11.6. Assist with Fitness and Risk Evaluations upon request of provider.
     2.11.7. Review facility and operations plans for new or modified facilities to ensure
     noise exposure control is appropriately considered.
     2.11.8. In conjunction with the shop supervisor, assess the feasibility of engineering
     controls for hazardous noise equipment/areas.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                               13


     2.11.9. Conduct work place assessments to support occupational illness/injury
     investigations and claims for hearing loss.
     2.11.10. Annually certify the audiometric testing environment with a Type I precision
     SLM with attached octave band analyzer (reference Chapter 4) and establish that
     background octave band SPLs are not greater than the following:
         2.11.10.1. For 500 Hertz (Hz), 27 dB.
         2.11.10.2. For 1,000 Hz, 29 dB.
         2.11.10.3. For 2,000 Hz, 34 dB.
         2.11.10.4. For 4,000 Hz, 39 dB.
         2.11.10.5. For 8,000 Hz, 41 dB.
     2.11.11. When surveying the test environment use equipment conforming at least to the
     Type I requirements of the latest approved ANSI Standard S1.4-1983 (R2006) and the
     order 3 extended range requirements of the latest approved ANSI Standard S1.11-2004
     (R2009), Specifications for Octave-Band and Fractional Octave-Band Analog and
     Digital Filters.
  2.12. Public Health (PH) will:
     2.12.1. Track personnel on the HCP along with shop supervisors using the current
     occupational health computer software. This will include monitoring occupational exam
     compliance.
     2.12.2. Perform audiometric testing using the DOEHRS-HC Software. Air Force and
     Non-Air Force service members should be tested using the appropriate DD Form 2215,
     Reference Audiogram, and DD Form 2216, Hearing Conservation Data. Using the
     appropriate forms will avoid overuse of non-HC tests, which cannot be compared to a
     baseline in order to monitor hearing changes.
     2.12.3. Place personnel identified by supervisors that are occupationally exposed to
     hazardous noise (by BE survey and recommended by OEHWG) in a testing program that
     includes pre-placement, periodic (at least annually), and termination audiograms. For
     AFRC traditional reserve personnel assigned to workplaces, which would present them
     with occupational exposure to hazardous noise, an annual audiogram is not required
     unless they are exposed to hazardous noise for more than 30 days per year. This
     abeyance from audiometric testing shall not be viewed as a removal from the balance of
     the protective requirements of the HCP. Exposed reservists shall still be included in
     hearing conservation training, HPD issuance and fitting for work in hazardous noise
     environments, and other elements of an effective HCP.
     2.12.4. Prior to any testing, perform a lighted ear inspection (LEI) to determine if
     cerumen removal or other treatment is necessary to obtain an accurate audiogram.
     Hearing conservationists are appropriately trained to perform LEI at the Hearing
     Conservation course at USAFSAM.
     2.12.5. Conduct audiometric testing in accordance with the following:
14                                                        AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


        2.12.5.1. Technicians who conduct testing either will be certified by the CAOHC or
        an equivalent DoD training. Standard instructions shall be given to individuals before
        testing.
        2.12.5.2. Include pure tone, air conduction, and hearing threshold examinations of
        each ear at the test frequencies of 500, 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, and 6,000 Hz.
        2.12.5.3. Be performed on calibrated audiometers (reference Chapter 4 for
        audiometric equipment standards). Audiometers must receive annual electro-acoustic
        calibration by a biomedical equipment technician.
        2.12.5.4. Be conducted on audiometers that have received a functional and biological
        operation check before each day's use (reference Chapter 4). For specifications
        reference 29 CFR 1910.95 (h)(5)(i).
     2.12.6. Conduct audiometric monitoring for reference and/or pre-placement audiograms
     (DD Form 2215) according to the following:
        2.12.6.1. Military personnel exposed to hazardous noise shall receive a reference
        audiogram (DD 2215, reason 1 “reference established prior to initial duty in
        hazardous areas” ) as soon as possible after assignment to workplace, but prior to
        noise exposure (including noise exposure at secondary training). All civilian
        personnel being considered for employment in an occupational specialty or area that
        involves routine exposure to hazardous noise shall receive a reference audiogram
        (DD 2215) at no cost to the employee (5 CFR 339.303 & 339.304; 29 CFR 1910).
        The audiometric test used as a reference test must be administered prior to but as
        close as possible to the worker’s initial exposure to hazardous noise. It shall not be
        conducted more than 30 days from the date of the workers’ initial exposure to
        hazardous noise. The first valid hearing test administered is the reference audiogram
        and the worker must be informed to avoid high levels of occupational or non-
        occupational noise exposure during a 14-hour period preceding the examination.
        Hearing protectors shall not be used to meet the noise-free requirement.
        2.12.6.2. An Audiometric Case History (AF Form 1753, Hearing Conservation
        Examination, Section I) shall be completed on all reference audiograms. If worse
        than H-1 hearing levels are noted, or if personnel answer “yes” to asterisked
        questions, then a clinical examination is required, and the remainder of AF Form
        1753 must be completed.
        2.12.6.3. Workers terminated from the HCP who subsequently return to hazardous
        noise duties should have current audiogram compared to their original reference
        audiogram. If the current results do not indicate a STS, the original DD Form 2215
        will serve as the reference audiogram. If an STS is present, use the new audiogram to
        establish a reference.
     2.12.7. Complete annual audiograms and document them on DD Form 2216 in
     accordance with the following:
        2.12.7.1. Personnel exposed to hazardous noise levels exceeding the standard in
        Table 2, shall receive annual audiograms. Examine the fit of pre-formed and the fit
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                  15


       and condition of custom earplugs at the time of the annual audiogram by having the
       individual place the HPD in his/her ears as they would each day.
          2.12.7.1.1. PH will accomplish initial earplug fitting (reference paragraph 5.8.
          and 5.14.).
          2.12.7.1.2. For workers that cannot be adequately fitted with recommended HPD,
          consult an audiologist (reference paragraph 5.8 and 5.14).
       2.12.7.2. A STS shall include a change in hearing threshold relative to the current
       baseline audiogram of an average of 10 dB or more at 2,000, 3,000, and 4,000 Hz, in
       either ear. A single frequency 15 dB shift at 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, or 4,000 Hz is
       considered an early warning flag with no requirements for follow-up testing or
       referrals, but with a requirement to counsel the patient and check hearing protection.
       Age corrections will not be applied.
       2.12.7.3. When an individual's audiogram shows an STS relative to the reference
       audiogram in either ear the following must be accomplished:
          2.12.7.3.1. If a negative STS, improved hearing threshold from reference
          audiogram is noted, a follow-up test will be administered the same day as the
          periodic test. The results may be used to create a re-established reference
          audiogram to reflect the improvement in pure tone acuity.
          2.12.7.3.2. If a positive STS, decrease in hearing threshold from reference
          audiogram is noted, two noise-free follow-up tests are administered to confirm.
          The noise-free follow-up tests may be administered on the same day, but not on
          the same day as the periodic audiogram and those two follow-up tests must be
          preceded by at least a 14-hour NFA. If the results of the first follow-up NFA do
          not indicate a STS then reference 2.12.7.3.2.2. Follow-up testing must be done
          within 30 days of the annual audiogram. If no follow-up tests are performed
          within 30 days after the annual audiogram, then the annual audiogram should be
          considered a PTS until further evaluation. For ARC members, follow-up testing
          must be done within 60 days of the annual audiogram. If no follow-up tests are
          performed within 60 days after the annual audiogram, then the annual audiogram
          must be considered a PTS until further follow-up is completed.
              2.12.7.3.2.1. Ensure a provider or AF hearing conservationist performs LEI
              prior to the NFA.
              2.12.7.3.2.2. If the results of the first follow-up NFA do not indicate a STS, a
              second follow-up test is not required, and the shift is considered a temporary
              threshold shift (TTS). If there is a STS on the 14-hour NFA, a second 14-hour
              NFA will be performed. The second 14-hour NFA may be performed
              immediately.
              2.12.7.3.2.3. If a STS is noted on the second NFA, then the STS should be
              considered a PTS and patient referred to the physician or audiologist for
              confirmation.
       2.12.7.4. Refer all patients with a PTS or problem audiogram back to the
       Occupational Health Consultant or to an audiologist. They determine what further
16                                                      AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


     follow-up is required. Table 1. provides referral criteria to determine the need for an
     AF HCDC/HCC evaluation. An audiologist, an otolaryngologist, or other physician
     shall perform an evaluation to determine whether the STS is work-related or has been
     aggravated by occupational noise exposure.
        2.12.7.4.1. Problem audiograms are audiograms that show large differences in
        hearing thresholds between the two ears, audiograms that show unusual hearing
        loss configurations that are atypical of noise induced hearing loss, and audiograms
        with thresholds that are not repeatable. A HCDC/HCC audiologist can be
        consulted to review problem audiograms.
        2.12.7.4.2. The worker is required to complete Section I of the AF Form 1753
        prior to medical referral for PTS.
        2.12.7.4.3. When PH makes a referral, they shall send the following documents
        with the referral:
            2.12.7.4.3.1. A copy of the requirements for hearing conservation.
            2.12.7.4.3.2. Copies of all audiograms on record (retrieve using DOEHRS-
            HC and paper records, if necessary).
            2.12.7.4.3.3. Measurements of background sound pressure levels in the
            audiometric test room.
            2.12.7.4.3.4. Records of audiometer calibrations as required.
        2.12.7.4.4. Medical referrals for STS should be completed as quickly as possible
        upon completion of the follow-up testing process and are the responsibility of the
        medical facility, and will be completed within the designated referral timeframe.
     2.12.7.5. Notify an individual in writing within 21 days when an audiologist or a
     physician confirms the positive threshold shift is permanent, and document and code
     the condition in the Electronic Health Record per standards outlined in the Military
     Health System coding guidelines. The individual shall be refitted with hearing
     protection, instructed in its care and use, and strongly encouraged to wear the hearing
     protection. Workers shall also be informed, in writing, that their supervisors are
     notified that they have experienced a decrease in hearing. Supervisors shall be
     notified in writing within 10 days after individual notification that the worker has
     experienced a decrease in hearing. The notification shall not contain additional
     details without prior written authorization by the worker in accordance with DoDI
     6025.18, Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information in DoD Health Care
     Programs, and DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, (valid
     authorization consistent). The supervisor shall also be advised that any discussion of
     a worker’s hearing abilities with non-authorized personnel will be strictly prohibited.
     2.12.7.6. Replace the original reference audiogram with a new reference audiogram
     when the medical evaluation confirms the STS noted during the annual and follow-up
     audiograms is permanent. The original reference audiogram shall be retained in the
     patient's medical record on a DD Form 2215. A revised reference audiogram should
     also be established when the hearing threshold demonstrated on the annual and
     follow-up audiograms indicate significant improvement over the existing reference
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                     17


        audiogram. For a positive STS, the reviewing audiologist or physician shall choose
        one of the following options for re-establishing the reference audiogram:
            2.12.7.6.1. Use the results of the most recent follow-up test, as designated by
            audiologist or provider.
            2.12.7.6.2. Use the results of the audiology referral (if all pertinent examiner and
            audiometer information are available for the DD Form 2215). Diagnostic
            audiologic threshold results are to be inputted manually at the request of the
            audiologist or physician.
            2.12.7.6.3. Conduct a separate hearing test and DD Form 2215 and use it as a
            reference.
     2.12.8. Complete a termination audiogram when a worker enrolled in the HCP is about
     to stop working in a designated hazardous noise area. Personnel moving to other DoD
     jobs (i.e., PCSing, PCAing) involving hazardous noise exposure need not be given a
     termination audiogram unless they change DoD Components. An audiogram conducted
     within 12 months can be considered a termination audiogram. In addition, all military
     personnel exposed to hazardous noise will receive a termination audiogram prior to
     leaving military service. An STS on a termination audiogram will follow the same
     follow-up and referral procedures as an annual audiogram.
     2.12.9. Report OSHA reportable STS in AFSAS within 7 calendar days of confirmation
     of the PTS by the audiologist or overseeing provider IAW 29 CFR 1904.10., provided
     that the employee’s current average hearing level at the same frequencies in the same ear
     is 25 dB or greater (average change of 10 dB or more in either ear at 2,000, 3,000, and
     4,000 Hz compared to that ear’s baseline or revised baseline). When an OSHA-reportable
     hearing loss occurs from an instantaneous event (e.g., acoustic trauma from a one-time
     blast over pressure), the hearing loss shall be recorded as a work-related “injury”,
     according to OSHA-recommended guidelines, within 7 calendar days of confirmation of
     the PTS by the audiologist or overseeing provider. National Institute of Occupational
     Safety and Health (NIOSH) age corrections shall NOT be used for calculating an OSHA
     reportable hearing loss. That loss shall only be reported once unless an additional
     OSHA-reportable loss of hearing is incurred.
     2.12.10. Electronically track patients referred to HCDC/HCCs in conjunction with
     provider to ensure findings and recommendations are reviewed and appropriate action
     taken.
        2.12.10.1. For installations that refer to non-AF audiologists, referrals shall include
        comprehensive audiometric testing sufficient to determine type and degree of hearing
        loss, and possible causation to assist in determining work-relatedness. Audiology
        reports should include recommendations for hearing aids, hearing protection, further
        medical referral, and include noise exposure history, any known indicators to the
        cause of the hearing loss, and an interpretation of tests results to explain the type and
        degree of hearing loss. The clinical outcomes shall be documented and properly
        coded in the Electronic Health Record.
18                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


        2.12.10.2. All non-AF audiology reports will be sent securely and in compliance with
        applicable regulations via fax, or email to the regional HCDC/HCC for AF
        audiologist oversight.
     2.12.11. Perform pre-deployment audiograms. AF members may require pre- and post-
     deployment audiograms if they are deemed “at-risk” for hazardous noise exposure during
     the deployment period (refer to remarks in deployment tasking line or COCOM reporting
     instructions). Examples of higher risk deployments might include Joint missions such as
     stability operations, humanitarian or emergency response activities. Recommendations
     for follow-up and referrals will follow the same procedures as for the HCP audiograms.
        2.12.11.1. After the deployment period, AF members will complete a Post-
        Deployment (DD Form 2216) within 30 days of returning to permanent assignment.
        Recommendations and follow-up procedures for Post-Deployment audiograms (DD
        Form 2216) will follow the same procedures as annual HCP audiograms (DD Form
        2216). Note: ARC members who deploy for 30 days or more are entitled to post-
        deployment follow-up care for 180 days upon return to home station.
        2.12.11.2. Whenever feasible, hearing testing capabilities shall be established in
        theaters of operation.
     2.12.12. Ensure that appropriate audiometric DOEHRS-HC data is forwarded to the
     DOEHRS-DR, at the end of each testing day. Note: In the event of network issues,
     export the records to either a shared network or disc and upload to the DR website when
     available.
     2.12.13. Perform trend analysis for HCP outcome measures (i.e., test compliance, STS
     and PTS rates, overall and/or workplace-specific data). Use data to determine
     management actions to improve the HCP. Investigate and provide re-education to any
     shop not meeting standards.
     2.12.14. Ensure appropriate hearing protection is properly fitted to personnel exposed to
     hazardous noise during the annual audiogram, and whenever an effectiveness issue exists.
     Document the date, type of HPD fitted, brand, noise attenuation provided, and resultant
     noise level (request from BE). Record the member’s signature on an SF 600,
     Chronological Record of Medical Care, or other suitable document and place the original
     form in the member’s medical record; provide a copy to the member so the supervisor
     can document training on the AF Form 55 or its electronic equivalent in the workplace.
     2.12.15. Brief the OEHWG at least quarterly (or more frequently as directed) and
     annually brief (or more frequently as directed) the ESOH Council on the HCP to include
     unit compliance rates and unit-specific STS/TTS/PTS rates.
     2.12.16. Conduct illness investigations related to reportable occupational hearing loss.
     2.12.17. In consultation with OEHWG, conduct Fitness and Risk Evaluations.
     2.12.18. Provide a semi-annual, or upon request, update to USAFSAM Epidemiology
     Consultant Services Division (USAFSAM/PHR) with current contact information to
     include HCP Point-of-Contact, mailing address, phone number and e-mail address.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                   19


     2.12.19. Forward all completed HCP medical forms to the appropriate medical record
     authority for inclusion in the member’s permanent outpatient medical record. When
     feasible, HCP medical forms should be attached to the member’s electronic health record.
     2.12.20. Conduct and document HCP training on a suitable document such as an SF 600,
     or electronic file, to notify supervisor at every initial and reference audiogram. HCP
     training covers:
        2.12.20.1. The effects of noise on hearing and the fact that hearing loss may lead to
        disqualification from current duties.
        2.12.20.2. The proper selection, fit, use, and care of personal hearing protectors and
        be able to demonstrate a proper fitting technique.
        2.12.20.3. The purpose of audiometric testing and an explanation of the audiometric
        test procedures.
        2.12.20.4. The advantages, disadvantages, and attenuation of various hearing
        protectors.
     2.12.21. Track and monitor occupational exam compliance of workers on the HCP.
  2.13. Hearing Conservation Program Manager (HCPM) at the installation level will:
     2.13.1. Ensure procedures are established to identify, schedule, and monitor all personnel
     on the HCP.
     2.13.2. Ensure only audiometers meeting the standards of the ANSI S3.6-2010,
     Specification for Audiometers, or the most current version of this ANSI standard are used
     in the HCP.
     2.13.3. Review the HCP for adequacy/appropriateness to protect workers from hazardous
     noise. Include adequacy of education, audiogram completion rates, and adverse hearing
     loss trends in relationship to workplaces/Air Force Specialty Codes/HPD usage, etc.
     Note: the OEHWG is the proper forum to evaluate program and address concerns.
     2.13.4. Trend and analyze DOEHRS-DR reports; attend and provide consultation on the
     HCP for the OEHWG.
     2.13.5. Ensure the most current version of DOEHRS-HC (or current HC software
     application) is used, and technicians are adequately trained on the program.
     2.13.6. Ensure hearing related Fitness and Risk evaluations are conducted IAW Chapter
     7, and copies of Fitness and Risk evaluations are sent to the designated HCDC/HCC for
     quality assurance review by the hearing conservation consultant.
     2.13.7. Ensure an efficient referral tracking mechanism is in place for audiograms
     between providers in the MTF and any outside audiologist or agency.
  2.14. Occupational Health Consultant will:
     2.14.1. Review “problem audiograms” (reference paragraph 2.12.7.4.1.) and determine if
     further evaluation is needed per OSHA requirements (29 CFR 1910.95). A flight surgeon
     or AF audiologist can serve this function. If follow-up care is needed, then request
20                                                           AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


     HCDC/HCC consultations or medical referrals for personnel who fall into the referral
     criteria at Table 1.
     2.14.2. Ensure medical recommendations restricting hazardous noise exposure are based
     upon:
        2.14.2.1. Failure of the worker to meet medical standards as defined in AFI 48-123,
        Medical Examination and Standards, AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
        (Officer and Enlisted), and 5 CFR 339 for job placement.
        2.14.2.2. Inability of the worker to perform the essential functions of the job.
        2.14.2.3. Probability of the worker endangering himself or herself or others if
        allowed to work in a noise hazard environment, consider the Risk Management (AFI
        91-202) matrix for assistance in the decision making process.
     2.14.3. Ensure recommendations are made for reasonable accommodations that allow a
     hearing-impaired worker to perform duties in a noise hazard environment without undue
     risk to personal safety and health or the safety of others (reference chapter 7 on Fitness
     and Risk Evaluations).
     2.14.4. Ensure workers who are qualified for duty in hazardous noise areas, or processes,
     are capably able to perform essential job tasks that are not a safety hazard to themselves
     or others.
     2.14.5. Attend and provide consultation to the OEHWG on HCP matters.
  2.15. Flight Medicine or ARC physician will:
     2.15.1. Consult with the audiologist or Occupational Health Consultant on all problem
     audiograms and occupational hearing related referrals.
     2.15.2. Develop knowledge of related OSHA/DoD/AFOSH guidance to ensure
     appropriate audiometric follow-up and disposition occurs (as detailed in this standard).
     2.15.3. Perform worker medical evaluations and make clinical recommendations. A
     regional HCDC/HCC audiologist can be consulted for appropriate clinical
     recommendations.
     2.15.4. Determine if workers possess the minimum physical abilities needed to perform
     essential duties and responsibilities without undue risk to themselves or others.
     2.15.5. Establish reference and periodic (annual and close scrutiny) evaluations to detect
     signs and symptoms of noise induced hearing loss at an early stage to prevent
     progression. The installation level HCPM is the point of contact.
     2.15.6. In coordination with the installation level HCPM, initiate Fitness and Risk
     Evaluations for personnel who exceed the H-1 profile and work in a hazardous noise
     area, and make a medical recommendation. Determine the extent of Fitness and Risk
     Evaluation.
     2.15.7. Determine whether shift is related to Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) condition.
     Advise worker of the condition and either treat or refer for treatment. If an audiologist or
     physician determines the shift is not occupationally related (i.e., middle ear infection) the
     MTF is not responsible for the referral or treatment costs for civilian employees.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                     21


     2.15.8. When indicated review, complete, and sign AF Form l753.
     2.15.9. A provider will complete Section II of the AF Form 1753, before a baseline
     audiogram is re-established. An examination of the ears, to include a comprehensive
     audiologic evaluation as indicated, will be performed on patients with a PTS, undergoing
     a Fitness and Risk evaluation, getting a reference audiogram with worse than H-1 hearing
     levels, or asymmetric hearing as defined in AFI 48-123 (greater than or equal to 25 dB
     difference between ears at any two consecutive frequencies). The results will be recorded
     on Section II. The provider should note:
        2.15.9.1. Condition of the external auditory canals and tympanic membranes.
        2.15.9.2. Presence of middle ear disease and eustachian tube function.
        2.15.9.3. Any condition that may interfere with the wear of HPD (permanently or
        temporarily).
        2.15.9.4. Any abnormality that might adversely affect the audiogram results.
     2.15.10. Determine appropriate additional referral criteria as needed.
     2.15.11. Comply with Department of Labor Office of Workers’ Compensation Program
     (OWCP) Hearing Loss Medical Requirements (reference atch 8) when completing
     physician and audiologist reports.
     2.15.12. Use the American Conference on Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH)
     Threshold Limit Value Committee’s recommendation and restrict pregnant women after
     20 weeks gestation from discharging firearms with larger than a .22 caliber round or
     noise exposure greater than 115 decibels relative to the carrier (dBc) TWA and peak 155
     dBc to protect fetus’ hearing.
     2.15.13. Track patients referred to HCDC/HCCs in conjunction with PH to ensure
     findings and recommendations are reviewed and appropriate action taken. Electronic
     tracking methods are easy to follow, and help identify the patient at each stage of referral
     until disposition has been completed.
  2.16. Hearing Conservation Diagnostic Center (HCDC) and Hearing Conservation
  Center (HCC).
     2.16.1. HCDC consists of (an) audiologist(s) and support personnel, and provides a wide
     range of diagnostics and treatments in support of clinical referrals. Hearing conservation
     is an integral part of a HCDC’s duties. HCC consists of (an) audiologist(s) and support
     personnel, and provides diagnostic care in direct support of the HCP. Evaluations by
     certified military or state licensed civilian audiologists are permitted. All evaluations by
     non-AF audiologists will be reviewed by the regional AF HCDC/HCC. AF HCDC/HCC
     provides consultation and overview of referrals, so that management and disposition of
     patients meet current AF standards. Guidance can be via “standing order” or record
     review. Record reviews can be accomplished by fax, or encrypted email, if Health
     Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) compliant.                  Authorized
     HCDC/HCC locations are listed in Attachment 2.
     2.16.2. Referral Criteria:
22                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


        2.16.2.1. Medical providers may validate a PTS, but the Occupational Health
        Consultant or audiologist may be consulted to review problem audiograms to
        determine if further evaluation is required before re-establishing a reference
        audiogram. If medical provider determines no further evaluation is required, then
        proper documentation in the Electronic Health Record must be provided to explain
        why no further follow-up was required.
        2.16.2.2. Medical providers use Table 1. to determine HCDC, HCC, or licensed
        civilian audiology consultation as part of the Fitness and Risk Evaluation.
        2.16.2.3. Aircrew members who fail to meet the requirements for continued flight
        duty should be evaluated as specified in AFI 48-123.
     2.16.3. Processing Patient Referrals:
        2.16.3.1. Providers complete the DOEHRS-HC generated SF 600e, DOEHRS-HC
        Hearing Loss Referral, indicating reason for referral and request of care, and sends
        patient to the appropriate administrative MTF function to schedule referral
        appointment.
        2.16.3.2. MTF scheduler arranges appointment and travel orders, and notifies the
        patient, the patient’s supervisor, PH, and the referring provider of the date, time, and
        location of the appointment.
        2.16.3.3. The patient’s medical record and referral information must be available to
        the HCDC/ HCC or consultant at the time of the examination.
        2.16.3.4. When the local MTF does not have the capability to provide an examination
        (or a portion of the exam) for the civilian employee, the MTF may arrange to have the
        examination in the civilian sector (non-DoD) healthcare community after receiving
        authorization from the employee’s unit commander.                The employee’s unit
        commander must also authorize payment for the examination. Payment is made from
        the same appropriation that funds the employee’s salary IAW AFI 65-601v1, Budget
        Guidance and Procedures. In cases where a civilian worker requests an audiologic
        evaluation for other than an occupationally related condition, i.e. hearing aid
        assessment, the employee will pay for the evaluation at a civilian establishment and
        any associated costs (e.g., travel, etc.; reference paragraph 5.5).
        2.16.3.5. Patients will be referred to AF HCDC/HCC for evaluation. In cases where
        HCDC/HCC audiology availability, travel restrictions or finances prohibit referral to
        an AF HCDC/HCC, refer patient to a licensed and/or certified civilian audiologist.
        Providers may consult with the AF/SG Audiology Consultant on military or civilian
        audiology service selections and results interpretation. An AF audiologist is required
        to review/consult on all audiometric evaluations performed by non-AF audiologists.
        A letter (reference atch 3) will be attached to the DOEHRS-HC SF Form 600e or the
        AF Form 1672, Hearing Conservation Diagnostic/Center Referral, when patients are
        sent to non-AF audiologists.
     2.16.4. Reporting Results of the Referral Examination. The HCDC/HCC audiologist or
     licensed/certified civilian audiology consultant will provide to the referring provider a
     completed SF 600e or AF Form 1672, or an equivalent Audiologic Evaluation Form, and
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                        23


       patient disposition including reference audiogram re-establishment, return to duty or
       restrictions, and follow-up required.

Table 1. Referral Criteria.
                     CONDITION                              RECOMMENDED ACTION

On pre-placement, have a hearing profile exceeding H-       Referral to HCDC/HCC
1 (reference AFI 48-123).
For medical reasons may not be able to perform the job      Fitness and Risk Evaluation, after
capably or safely in a noise hazard environment.            referral to HCDC/HCC
Have a PTS following 2nd Noise Free evaluation.             Referral to HCDC/HCC
Audiologists and physicians are permitted by OSHA
regulations to reestablish reference audiograms without
HCDC/HCC referrals, with appropriate electronic
documentation of non-referral rationale.
Are unable to wear standard hearing protective devices.     Referral to HCDC/HCC
Complain of inability to correctly hear or understand       Referral to HCDC/HCC
routine spoken communications, auditory cues, and
signals.
Need special hearing skills and complain of hearing         Referral to HCDC/HCC
problems. (For example: Morse or voice-intercept
operators, air traffic controllers, etc.)
Are unable to test using standard procedures or             Referral to HCDC/HCC
equipment.
Have a 40 dB or greater difference between ears at any      Referral to HCDC/HCC
frequency. (Requires masked audiogram)
Have asymmetric hearing loss greater than or equal to       Referral to HCDC/HCC
20 dB difference when comparing left and right ears at
any two consecutive frequencies, or greater than or
equal to 15 dB at 3,000Hz.
Exhibits behavior resulting in invalid or unreliable test   Referral to HCDC/HCC, and Fitness
results suggesting an exaggerated hearing loss or a         and Risk Evaluation
problem unrelated to a known physical illness or
disease.
Meet other referral criteria as determined by the           Referral to HCDC/HCC
consulting audiologist or program manager.
   2.17. Occupational and Environmental Health Working Group (OEHWG) will:
       2.17.1. Ensure personnel (including aircrew) that have occupational hazardous noise
       exposures that exceed levels as identified in Chapter 3 are monitored in the HCP.
       2.17.2. Evaluate the effectiveness of the HCP by monitoring and reporting hazard
       assessment and outcome metrics. Additional metrics to assist in measuring program
       effectiveness will be determined by the OEWHG.
           2.17.2.1. Noise-related metrics for evaluation include the percentage of noise
           hazardous workplace characterizations completed, and an index of unacceptable noise
 24                                                           AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


            exposures. These metrics are defined in DoDI 6055.05, appendix to enclosure 3,
            paragraphs 2 and 4.
            2.17.2.2. Overall and workplace-specific incidence of STS, TTS, PTS, and
            audiometric exam compliance rate are outcome metrics to identify high-risk
            occupations and areas, and to determine if further intervention is necessary. Details
            of these metrics are outlined in DoDI 6055.12, appendix to enclosure 3.
        2.17.3. Review approved civilian hearing loss claims filed at the installation and
        determine appropriate actions (e.g., focused education, increased audiometric monitoring,
        and coordination) with Safety for increased compliance monitoring, or other actions
        deemed necessary.
        2.17.4. Document HCP decisions and recommendations in the OEHWG minutes.
3. HAZARDOUS NOISE SURVEILLANCE REQUIREMENTS: Health protection criteria
are summarized in Table 2. Specific details are outlined in separate paragraphs.
   3.1. Noise Exposure Limits-Hearing:
        3.1.1. Limits. The occupational and environmental exposure limit (OEEL) for noise is
        intended to prevent damage to the hearing of exposed personnel. These noise exposure
        limits are sound levels and durations to which nearly all workers may be exposed without
        permanent adverse effect on their ability to hear and understand normal speech.

Table 2. Health Protection Criteria.
 Hearing Protection*            85 dBA, 8-hours or equivalent exposure times (reference Table
                                3.)
      Criterion level           85 dBA
      Exchange rate             3 dB
      Threshold level           80 dBA
      Maximum level             115 dBA
      Impulse Noise             No unprotected exposures above 140 dB peak level
                                No octave or one-third octave band level above 145 dB for
 Whole Body Effects*
                                frequencies from 1 Hz to 40 kHz
 Ultrasound*                    Reference paragraph 3.2.3.
 Exposure to Music
   Patrons**                    Leq.2h < 94 dBA
   Employees*                   Same as occupational standard
   Air Force Musicians*         Same as occupational standard


 * Based on recommendations from the Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substance and
 Physical Agents & Biological Exposure Indices published by the American Conference of
 Governmental Industrial Hygienists; the current edition of this annual publication will be
 applied. Applies for on and off duty exposure.

 **Per USAFSAM/OE, exposure level is based on an assumption of 2 hours per week exposure
 using an 84-dBA criterion level.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                      25


      3.1.2. Continuous or Intermittent Exposures. The duration of unprotected noise exposure
      per day shall not exceed the values specified in Table 3 for the levels indicated for
      continuous exposure.

Table 3. Limiting Values for Unprotected Noise Exposures*.
                                        Sound
     Sound Level         Time                          Time        Sound level      Time
                                        Level
       (dBA)           (minutes)                     (minutes)       (dBA}        (minutes)
                                        (dBA)
      Over 115        Forbidden
         115               0.5            102              9.5           89           190
         114               0.6            101              12            88           240
         113               0.7            100              15            87           302
         112               0.9             99              19            86           381
         111               1.2             98              24            85           480
         110               1.5             97              30            84           605
         109               1.9             96              38           83**          762
         108               2.4             95              48           82**          960
         107               3.0             94              60           81**         1210
         106               3.8             93              76           80**       24 Hours
         105               4.7             92              95         Below 80      No limit
         104               6.0             91             120
         103               7.5             90             151
   * The A-weighted sound level is used to assess hearing damage risk due to noise
   exposure; for engineering noise control, other measures are required. The limiting
   duration of exposure at any noise level equal to or less than 115 dBA is determined from
   the equation:

Figure 1. Duration of Exposure Calculation.




          3.1.2.1. ** Exposures of more than 12 hours should be followed by periods of equal
          length in quiet (less than 72 dBA).
          3.1.2.2. If exposures to two or more levels occur in one day, their combined effect
          should not exceed an 8-hour equivalent continuous level, Leq, 480 min, of 85 dB,
          given by the equation:
 26                                                         AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


Figure 2. Calculating Equivalent Sound Level.




          3.1.2.3. This is equivalent to summing the fractions of the actual time of exposure to
          the allowable time of exposure. If this value exceeds one (1), the combined exposure
          should then be considered to exceed the standard. This may also be expressed
          mathematically as:

Figure 3. Unity Calculation.




          3.1.2.4. The C values are the actual exposure times to a given level; the T values are
          the times allowed at those levels by Table 3. All occupational noise exposures above
          the threshold level of 80 dBA shall be used in the above equations. (OSHA 29 CFR
          1910.95)
          3.1.2.5. For work shifts other than 8-hour periods, the measured average noise
          exposure should be adjusted to an 8-hour equivalent exposure level using Figure 4.

Figure 4. Calculating 8-hour Equivalent Sound Level.




      3.1.3. Impulse or Impact Exposures. Unprotected personnel shall not be exposed to
      impulse or impact noise exceeding 140 dB peak sound pressure level.
      3.1.4. Hazardous Noise Areas. A hazardous noise area with any exposure at or above 85
      dBA shall be clearly identified by signs located at entrances to, or the borders of, the
      area. Signs should be designed according to the guidelines in DoDI 6055.12, para.
      E3.5.c., and will have the following message:
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                  27


                                  CAUTION
                           HAZARDOUS NOISE AREA
                        HEARING PROTECTION REQUIRED
        3.1.4.1. AF Visual Aid (AFVA) 48-101 may be used for this purpose. Such
        wordings as "When machines are operating" or "Within 25 feet of operating band
        saw” may be added at the bottom of the caution sign to accurately identify the noise
        hazard area. Shop supervisors will consult BE whenever such modifications are
        required. All personnel shall wear hearing protection in a hazardous noise area when
        hazardous noise sources are operating, regardless of exposure duration.
  3.2. Noise Exposure Limits-Whole Body Effects.
     3.2.1. At certain high sound pressure levels, exposed persons may suffer adverse effects,
     which do not involve the hearing organs. Whole body limits are designed to prevent
     these effects.
     3.2.2. No octave or one-third octave band level may exceed 145 dB for frequencies in
     the range of 1 Hz through 40 kHz, and the overall sound pressure level must be below
     150 dB (unweighted). There are no time limits for exposures below these levels.
     However, protecting hearing requires adherence to the hearing protection limits in
     paragraph 3.1. in addition, the ultrasonic evaluation requirements in 3.2.3. to protect
     against non-auditory effects of noise; this applies regardless of any hearing protection
     used.
     3.2.3. The impact of workplace equipment or other workplace conditions causing
     ultrasonic noise exposures shall be evaluated. The limits specified in DoDI 6055.12 and
     the latest version of ACGIH Threshold Limit Values (TLV) for Chemical Substances and
     Physical Agents should be used. Note these limits are designed to protect hearing. They
     apply at the ear, and hearing protective devices can be used to meet these limits.
     Consultation with USAFSAM/OE may be required in measuring or evaluating ultrasonic
     noise.
 28                                                             AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


Table 4. Exposure Guidelines for Upper Sonic and Ultrasound Noise*.
                                  One-Third Octave-Band SPL (dB re: 20 micropascals (μPa))
      Mid-Frequency of Third             Ceiling Values                   8-Hour TWA
         Octave Band (kHz)
                   10                          105A                            88A
                                                   A
                   12.5                        105                             89A
                   16                          105A                            92A
                                                   A
                   20                          105                             94A
                   25                          110                             --
                   31.5                        115                             --
                   40                          115                             --
                   50                          115                             --
      *ACGIH, 2010 TLVs and BEIs. These recommended limits (set at the middle
      frequencies of the one-third octave bands from 10 kHz to 50 kHz) are designed to
      prevent possible hearing loss caused by the subharmonics of the set frequencies,
      rather than the ultrasonic sound itself. (Also, reference most current version of
      American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists for updates). Consultation
      with appropriate DoD Component technical centers may be required in measuring or
      evaluating equipment producing those levels.
      A
        Subjective annoyance and discomfort may occur in some individuals at levels
      between 75 and 105 dB for the frequencies from 10 kHz to 20 kHz especially if they
      are tonal in nature. Hearing protection or engineering controls may be needed to
      prevent subjective effects. Tonal sounds in frequencies below 10 kHz might also
      need to be reduced to 80 dB.

          3.2.4. Pregnant Workers. Fetal noise is a controversial topic with limited research on
          which to base exposure guidelines for pregnant women. A few studies suggest noise is a
          potential hazard; however, these studies provide insufficient evidence to establish firm
          fetal noise protection guidelines. There is evidence to suggest that noise exposure in
          excess of a C-weighted, 8-hour Leq,T of 115 dBc or a peak exposure of 155 dBc to the
          abdomen of pregnant workers, beyond the fifth month of pregnancy, may cause hearing
          loss in the fetus (reference paragraph 2.15.12.). The worker’s attending physician should
          work with BE to appropriately characterize the work environment and to recommend the
          sound levels that should be avoided. BE should quantify specific exposures, as requested
          by the attending physician, if not previously quantified during routine or special
          assessments. Job rotation or modification of job tasks should be considered to create the
          safest and healthiest environment for pregnant workers and their unborn children.
          However, concern for safety and health should not lead to inappropriate actions that may
          constitute discrimination against pregnant women in the workplace.
             3.2.4.1. Job rotation should be considered not mandated for pregnant workers who
             are exposed to hazardous noise after 20 weeks. Using job rotation for 20+ week
             pregnancies is highly recommended but not mandated for workers having an
             equivalent continuous level (ECL) at or above 100 dBA unprotected exposure.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                   29


         3.2.4.2. Working in impulse or impact noise environments requiring hearing
         protection (e.g., firing ranges, EOD detonations, etc.) should be avoided by pregnant
         workers.
     3.2.5. If ototoxic chemicals are present in hazardous noise areas, be aware the chemicals
     may act in an additive or synergistic mode to increase the risk of hearing loss.
  3.3. Music Exposure Criteria. Exposure to recreational music may lead to hearing
  damage; two groups are typically affected: customers (recreational exposure) and the
  employees (occupational exposure).
     3.3.1. Employees. For employees who have occupational exposure to music, the noise
     exposure limits and other provisions in this standard apply as for any other group of
     occupationally exposed employees.
     3.3.2. Customers. Entertainment planners and customers need some understanding of
     the hazards associated with recreational exposure to loud music. Air Force occupational
     noise exposure standards cannot be directly applied to recreational exposures. Assuming
     customer exposure to loud music is generally limited to 2-hours, once per week, the
     music level should not exceed an equivalent continuous level, Leq, of 94 dBA for any
     continuous 2-hour period at any customer location.
         3.3.2.1. The manager of each facility or activity where recreational exposure to loud
         music may occur should post or issue precautionary warnings. BE personnel may
         provide technical assistance in initial monitoring, interpreting results, and
         recommending controls.
         3.3.2.2. 94 dBA is a guideline and does not constitute a never to be exceeded sound
         level. The intent is to allow music to be entertaining within reasonable and safe
         limits.
  3.4. Noise Exposure Limits--Job Performance. Noise exposure limits in this section are
  provided to maintain effective job performance. These limits should be used as design
  recommendations in the construction of new facilities or to address concerns or correct
  problems arising from present conditions that interfere with accomplishing current tasks or
  operations.
     3.4.1. Quality of Person-to-Person Communication. The data shown at Table 5. provide
     ranges of sound levels and the corresponding routine communication capability for
     several situations. When evaluating speech interference near small arms areas, or other
     areas where hearing protection is worn, the attenuation of the hearing protection will be
     taken into account.
     3.4.2. Office and Work Space. Noise measurements made for comparing noise in an
     office with these criteria should be done with the office in normal operation, but with no
     one talking at the location where speech communication is being evaluated. Background
     noise with the office unoccupied should be lower by 5 to 10 dBA. Acceptable levels are
     at Tables 3.5. and 3.6.
     3.4.3. Group Meeting, Study, and Rest and Relaxation Areas. Noise measurements
     made to compare the noise environment in an area with these criteria should include
     internal and external background noise. Acceptable levels are at Table 8. Note:
 30                                                             AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


         Expected voice represents the increase of voice level a speaker in a noisy field usually
         adopts. The communicating voice level is the voice level a speaker can produce over the
         range of sound levels shown when forced to communicate (achieve a 95 percent word
         score, with positive, instantaneous feedback).

Table 5. Quality of Person-to-Person Voice Communication*.

                                           Voice Levels
      Noise Level       Normal         Raised           Shouting            Telephone Use
        (dBA)           Voice          Voice
       40 to 50      Satisfactory                                             Satisfactory
                      to 30 feet
        50 to 60     Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              Satisfactory
                       to 6 feet
        60 to 70     Satisfactory   Satisfactory                        Satisfactory to slightly
                       to 3 feet       to 6 feet                                difficult
       70 to 80*     Satisfactory   Satisfactory                           Slightly difficult
                       to 1 foot       to 3 feet
                                    Satisfactory        Slightly
       80* to 90                      to 1 foot,        difficult               Difficult
                                       Slightly       Slightly
        90 to 95                    difficult to 2  difficult to 3       Very Difficult
                                         feet            feet
                                                      Slightly
       Above 95                                     difficult to 1       Unsatisfactory
                                                         foot
      *Noise exposure limits may be exceeded by a combination of noise plus voice.

Table 6. Noise Levels for Offices*.

Range of Levels
                                             Communication Environment
(dBA)
       30 to 40      Very quiet office, telephone use satisfactory, suitable for large conferences.
       40 to 45      Quiet office, satisfactory for conferences at a 15 foot table; telephone use
                     satisfactory; normal voice 10 to 30 feet.
       45 to 50      Satisfactory for conferences at a 6 to 8 foot table; telephone use satisfactory;
                     normal voice 6 to 12 feet
       50 to 60      Satisfactory for conference at 4 to 5 foot table; telephone use occasionally
                     slightly difficult; normal voice 3 to 6 feet; raised voice 6 to 12 feet.

       60 to 65      Unsatisfactory for conference of more than two or three people; telephone
                     use slightly difficult; normal voice 1 to 2 feet; raised voice 3 to 6 feet.
      Above 65       Very noisy; office environment unsatisfactory; telephone use difficult.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                        31


Table 7. Noise Levels for Work Spaces*.

Range of Levels                            Communication Environment
(dBA)

    70 to 80        Person-to-person communication with raised voice satisfactory 1 to 2 feet;
                    slightly difficult 3 to 6 feet. Telephone use difficult.
                    Person-to-person communication slightly difficult with raised voice 1 to 2
    80 to 90        feet; slightly difficult with shouting 3 to 6 feet. Telephone use very
                    difficult.

   Above 90         Person-to-person communication extremely difficult. Telephone use
                    unsatisfactory.



Table 8. Noise Levels for Group Meetings, Study, Rest and Relaxation*.

       Range of                            Type of Space and Activities
     Levels (dBA)

       34 to 45       Group gatherings to listen to speech and music; low background
                      noise and good hearing conditions required; sleeping.
                      Areas where some concentration and relaxed communication may be
       45 to 55       desirable; reading rooms, sedentary relaxation; radio and television
                      listening.
                      Good communication conditions not essential; some distraction due
       55 to 65       to external noise can be permitted; internal noise generation due to
                      other activities may be present.

   * Based on recommendations outlined in ANSI S12.65-2006 (R2011), American
   National Standard for Rating Noise with Respect to Speech Interference.

   3.5. Frequency of Assessments. Potential noise hazards shall be identified, assessed, and
   controlled as an integral part of the assessments specified in AFPD 48-1, Aerospace
   Medicine Enterprise, AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Enterprise, and AFI 48-145.
   Specifically, the health effects of noise shall be evaluated as part of routine and special
   assessments, and when operations change or new operations start. Additionally, assessments
   are performed when specific requests address the potential for hazardous noise exposure or
   evaluation of other types of requests show there to be potential noise hazards (OSHA 29 CFR
   1910.95).
      3.5.1. An initial assessment shall be conducted in all potentially hazardous noise areas.
      Work area/shop supervisors will notify BE within 3 days of any change in operations that
      results in a change in noise levels and BE will conduct a new noise evaluation, preferably
      within 30 days.
32                                                           AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


     3.5.2. Initial, representative Leq,T noise level data shall be collected for similar exposure
     group (SEG) established IAW AFI 48-145 and AFMAN 48-146, Occupational and
     Environmental Health Program Management, for all AF employees (military and
     civilian) routinely working in hazardous noise areas; additional assessment should be
     accomplished within 30 days of any change in operations affecting noise levels. When
     the noise exposures for a particular SEG are highly variable or not clearly well
     above/below the OEEL, Leq,T evaluations will be accomplished IAW AFI 48-145 and
     AFMAN 48-146 to adequately characterize the noise hazard.
  3.6. Noise Hazard Survey. A generalized process sequence, coupled with specified
  evaluation procedures, will be instituted to ensure a uniform approach to noise hazard
  assessment. The objective is to determine whether noise exposures pose a significant risk to
  the workers’ hearing. There are three phases in the health risk assessment process:
  identification, analysis, and control.
     3.6.1. Identification. In this phase of health risk assessment the goal is to determine
     whether a potential or existing exposure poses a health threat to a specified population
     during a specified period and location. It is critical to understand the duties of the
     populations and sub-populations. BE shall become familiar with the processes being
     performed in the workplace through firsthand observation, interviews with shop
     personnel, review of existing assessment data, and epidemiological summaries completed
     by PH. Potentially hazardous noise sources should be noted during this phase to identify
     the need for further consideration in the analysis phase.
     3.6.2. Analysis. Three types of noise surveys are conducted to evaluate the noise
     environment: the noise source survey, the worker exposure survey, and the hazardous
     noise area survey. Data collection shall be conducted when new processes are identified
     or existing data is no longer current. Measurements shall be made using equipment
     conforming to the appropriate ANSI standard in the references. All noise data used to
     characterize occupational exposures shall be entered into DOEHRS-IH. Only qualified
     personnel who are approved by a fully qualified Bioenvironmental Engineer (BEE) shall
     conduct noise surveys;; qualification will be determined either by an assessment of
     formal education/training or by application of professional judgment.
         3.6.2.1. Noise Source Survey. This survey is used to classify whether a particular
         noise source output exceeds the criterion level of 85 dBA and could present a
         potential exposure hazard to workers. Sound level measurements shall be made using
         A-weighting with slow response. If the source is determined to be potentially
         hazardous, engineering controls will be considered before other control measures; an
         octave band analysis may be necessary. Historical data should be applied to sources
         of hazardous noise that have previously been well characterized, e.g., a generator for
         which the sound pressure levels are adequately assessed. Hazardous noise sources
         will be labeled where possible with an AFVA 48-101, 48-103, 48-104, and 48-150 to
         warn operators of the need to wear hearing protection..
         3.6.2.2. Worker Exposure Survey. Where the potential to exceed the limits in
         paragraph 3.1. exists, worker exposures shall be evaluated by direct measurements
         with noise dosimeters, or indirectly with noise exposure calculations (3.1.2).
             3.6.2.2.1. TWA noise levels shall be determined for all AF workers routinely
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                    33


             working in hazardous noise areas at least once and should be accomplished within
             30 days of any change in operations affecting noise levels.
             3.6.2.2.2. In circumstances such as high worker mobility, significant variations in
             noise levels, or a significant component of impulse noise, representative personnel
             sampling shall be conducted.
                 3.6.2.2.2.1. Impulsive noise cannot be accurately measured using traditional
                 sound level meters or dosimeters because special instrumentation is required.
                 3.6.2.2.2.2. Requests for additional information or impulse noise monitoring,
                 contact USAFSAM ESOH Service Center, 2510 Fifth Street, WPAFB OH
                 45433, 1-888-232-3764.
             3.6.2.2.3. When multiple worker days are used to determine the average daily
             ECL for an individual or group of individuals, the ECL can be used when
             formulating surveillance plans and shall be calculated according to the formula:

Figure 5. Calculating Average Daily Equivalent Continuous Level.




             3.6.2.2.4. Worker noise exposure shall be computed and reported regardless of
             any attenuation provided by hearing protectors. However, workers should
             understand how hearing protection devices effect their exposure levels.
             3.6.2.2.5. The decision to place an individual on the HCP will be based on the
             likelihood of routine exposure exceeding 85 dBA as an 8-hour TWA. The
             following conditions should be considered when estimating exposure for an
             individual or group of individuals assigned to a SEG. These conditions are based
             on the assumption of no routine exposure to hazardous noise in these
             environments:
                 3.6.2.2.5.1. Number of days spent in classroom training;
                 3.6.2.2.5.2. Number of days spent in administrative tasks, medical
                 appointments other duties, etc.;
                 3.6.2.2.5.3. Number of days detailed to wing support not related to primary
                 duty; or
                 3.6.2.2.5.4. Number of days at formal training or temporary duty.
          3.6.2.3. Hazardous Noise Area Survey. These surveys are used to define work areas
          where noise exposures are assumed hazardous based on routine operations. Hearing
          protection requirements for these areas should be made clear to all personnel that
          might enter these areas. These surveys can be used to define a work area enclosed by
34                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


         clear borders as a hazardous noise area or to identify a hazardous noise zone around a
         certain piece of equipment. When marking a hazardous noise zone around a piece of
         equipment, careful consideration must be given to noise production variables and the
         equipment’s mobility.
         3.6.2.4. Instrumentation used for these surveys must meet or exceed requirements for
         type 2 sound level meter as identified in ANSI Standard S1.4-1983 (R2006) and its
         most recent revision. Instruments must have been subjected to a complete electro-
         acoustic calibration no more than 1 year before the survey. Acoustical calibration
         must be performed on the instruments before and after each day's measurements. The
         acoustical calibrator must be accurate to within plus or minus one dB, and must have
         been subjected to a complete electro-acoustic calibration no more than 1 year before
         the survey.
         3.6.2.5. When personal noise dosimeters are used for worker exposure
         measurements, they must integrate all sound levels from 80 dB to 130 dB.
         Dosimeters must meet or exceed specifications in the latest approved ANSI Standard
         S1.25-1991 (R2007), Specification for Personal Noise Dosimeters. AF components
         shall use a time-intensity exchange rate of 3 dB.
     3.6.3. A RAC shall be assigned to all potentially hazardous noise areas and operations, in
     accordance with DoDI 6055.1, Safety and Occupational Health Program.
     3.6.4. A current inventory of all potentially hazardous noise areas and operations shall be
     maintained to include, minimally, noise levels, RACs, and the types of control measures
     used.
     3.6.5. Secure/Classified Area. Noise dosimeters are authorized for use in Sensitive
     Compartmented Information Facilities, but local clearance will be obtained in advance
     through the facility Sensitive Compartmented Information Security Officer.
4. PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT STANDARDS.
  4.1. Certification of Hearing Conservationists. Personnel performing audiograms as part
  of the USAF HCP will be trained as Hearing Conservationists as established by the CAOHC.
  AF trained individuals may apply to CAOHC to receive Certification. CAOHC trained
  Hearing Conservationists, are not permitted to conduct audiometric testing outside of HCP
  requirements. It is recommended that AF personnel obtain CAOHC approved HC training at
  either USAFSAM or DoD component, as it includes training on the DOEHRS-HC software.
  Personnel who are CAOHC certified or receive training from a CAOHC approved civilian
  agency must contact the USAFSAM to receive an AF Certification number BEFORE
  performing audiometric testing. Personnel who are CAOHC trained by a DoD component
  will use the certification number issued by that Service.
  4.2. AF Hearing Conservationists can perform the following activities:
     4.2.1. Audiometric testing.
     4.2.2. Visual exam/otoscopy of the ear to rule out conditions that interfere with
     audiogram.
     4.2.3. Taking an occupational medical history.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                       35


     4.2.4. Care of the audiometer and ensuring daily and annual calibration.
     4.2.5. Educating, training, and counseling noise exposed personnel.
     4.2.6. Selecting and fitting appropriate hearing protective devices.
  4.3. CAOHC approved re-certification is required at 5-year intervals for individuals active in
  hearing conservation testing.
  4.4. AF Hearing Conservationists who perform audiograms must be responsible to an
  audiologist, otolaryngologists, or other physician, OSHA 29 CFR 1910.95, (g)(3).
  4.5. AF Certified Hearing Conservationists are not trained to provide audiograms for
  diagnostic evaluations, school screenings, or hearing tests outside the scope of the AF HCP.
  4.6. Audiometric Equipment Standards. Audiometric testing done in support of the HCP
  will be conducted with audiometers meeting the standards of ANSI S3.6-2010 (or current
  ANSI standard). Audiometers must be DOEHRS compatible. Audiometric testing room
  requirements are reflected in ANSI S3.1-1999 (R2008), Maximum Permissible Ambient
  Noise Levels for Audiometric Test Rooms.
  4.7. Standardized HCP Audiometers. Routine pure tone air conduction testing is to be
  accomplished with standardized HCP audiometers. DOEHRS-HC is the authorized system
  for use in the HCP, and provides input into the DoD-wide Occupational Health databases.
  Data from diagnostic clinical audiometers used by HCDC/HCC can be input manually.
  Questions concerning the DOEHRS-HC system should be directed to the AF HCP Manager,
  USAFSAM/PHR.
  4.8. Computer generated forms must be suitable for securing in the patient’s health record.
  4.9. Calibration and Testing. Hearing Conservationist will ensure all audiometers and
  sound rooms have been tested and calibrated before use in the HCP. The Biomedical
  Equipment Technician or equivalent will ensure all calibrations and certifications are
  performed according to ANSI S1.4-1983 (R2006) and ANSI S3.1-1999 (R2008) or current
  ANSI standards.
  4.10. Daily Functional Check. A daily functional check is required before each day’s use.
  DOEHRS-HC software provides a functional check sequence. The examiner should listen to
  all frequencies at various intensity levels. This general check of the machine and its function
  will include listening for:
     4.10.1. Crackling sounds or changes in loudness while moving the cord.
     4.10.2. The presence of tones at all frequency settings.
     4.10.3. Presence of tones only in the appropriate headphone.
     4.10.4. Periods of silence while listening to the frequency and attenuation changes.
  4.11. Daily Calibration Check: Shall be performed every day that hearing tests are
  administered. DOEHRS-HC software provides a calibration check sequence. An examiner
  who operates the audiometer must perform the calibration. The calibration test subject can
  be an electroacoustic ear or someone with known stable hearing levels, free of ENT
  problems, and not routinely exposed to hazardous noise. Record the daily calibration results
  on the DD Form 2217, Biological Audiometer Calibration Check.
36                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


  4.12. If a change in threshold of more than plus or minus 5 dB at any frequency (except
  6,000 Hz), or more than plus or minus 10 dB at 6,000 Hz occurs, repeat the calibration
  procedure. If the calibration standard is an electroacoustic ear, reset the headphones and
  repeat the procedure. If the calibration test fails a second time, test a person with known
  stable hearing thresholds. Headphones are calibrated with a specific audiometer; do not mix
  and match headphones and audiometers that have not been calibrated together by Biomedical
  Technicians. Out-of-calibration audiometers must not be used, checked by Biomedical
  Technicians, and repaired or re-calibrated before being placed back in service.
  4.13. Document all activities on the DD Form 2217. A new DD 2217 must be established
  when the audiometer is re-calibrated.
  4.14. Annual Acoustic Calibration: Audiometers used in the HCP will be acoustically
  calibrated by Biomedical Equipment Technicians or appropriate provider of these services,
  annually, per 29 CFR 1910.95, Chapter XVII, Attachment E, Acoustic Calibration of
  Audiometers. The calibration date, taken from the hearing conservation forms, will be stored
  at the DOEHRS-DR for 30 years.
  4.15. Exhaustive Calibration: Performed by Biomedical Equipment Technician every 2
  years according to sections 4.1 through 4.5 of ANSI S3.6-2010 (or current ANSI standard).
  Test frequencies below 500 Hz and above 6,000 Hz may be omitted from this calibration for
  those audiometers used in the HCP.
  4.16. Earphones. Only earphones meeting the requirements of ANSI Standard S3.6-2010,
  or current ANSI standard, will be used in the AF HCP for screenings with DOEHRS-HC
  software. Earphones must ONLY be used with the audiometer they were calibrated.
  HCDC/HCC evaluations by audiologists only may use insert earphones that have been
  appropriately calibrated by Biomedical Equipment Technicians or equivalent civilian
  technicians. If the STS is due to collapsing canals, it is recommended to prevent the collapse
  of the canal by placing a disposable HPD behind the pinna when using circumaural
  earphones.
5. HEARING PROTECTION.
  5.1. The use of personal hearing protectors to limit noise exposure is an interim protective
  measure while engineering control measures are being explored, evaluated, and designed,
  etc. Such devices shall constitute a permanent measure only if the BE determines, in
  coordination with the workplace supervisor and the unit commander, that engineering
  controls are not technologically, economically, or operationally feasible. BE must document
  in DOEHRS-IH why engineering controls were not selected to control noise hazards IAW 29
  CFR 1910.95.
  5.2. Personal hearing protectors are provided at no cost to all AF personnel who work in
  designated hazardous noise areas or operate noise-hazardous equipment (i.e., individuals
  affected by this instruction). The workers organization shall pay for the personal hearing
  protectors (including custom molded hearing protection). If custom molded hearing
  protection is required as determined by the MTF, the MTF provides the initial set and the
  worker’s organization is responsible for replacements.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                   37


  5.3. The hearing protectors provided must be capable of attenuating worker noise exposure
  below a TWA of 85 dBA. If hearing protectors do not provide sufficient attenuation, further
  control of exposure shall be necessary.
  5.4. An earplug carrying case will be available by the owning organization (initial issue and
  replacement based on normal wear and tear), at no cost to the AF personnel who work in
  designated hazardous noise areas or operate noise-hazardous equipment, for each set of pre-
  formed earplugs. This case can also be used for hand-formed earplugs.
  5.5. BE must approve HPDs for local use including local purchase items and HPDs for
  special applications. BE will verify the special need and ensure the device provides
  appropriate attenuation (reference paragraph 5.13.). Installation BE will notify MAJCOM
  BE and USAFSAM/OE if they have a special need. USAFSAM/OE will consolidate special
  needs and determine if an evaluation of a particular device is needed. If so, it will make a
  recommendation to the Air Staff (AFMSA/SG3PB) to fund a project to conduct additional
  testing.
  5.6. Earmuffs and other HPD with input capacity, such as for music players or built-in radios
  designed for recreational listening will not be used with or as protectors. Any HPD with
  input capacity must be approved for use by AFRL to evaluate the device to confirm the level
  of output is not harmful, or limit to non-harmful levels. Consult installation BE or
  USAFSAM/OE, in assistance with 711 HPW/RHCB, for more information.
  5.7. Hearing aids are not hearing protectors. Certain hearing aids or surgically implanted
  devices may be used with over-the-ear hearing protectors after evaluation and approval by an
  audiologist or otolaryngologist. If approved, the worker should be closely scrutinized on
  evaluation to determine STS after occupational noise exposure.
  5.8. At-the-ear exposure is calculated by BE. BE will provide PH with a copy of the
  Certified Protective Equipment List which includes HPDs approved for SEG use and
  attenuation for each workplace process, as described in this standard. Ear level exposure is
  recommended to be between 76 to 84 dBA/8-hour exposure. Note: Care must be taken to
  avoid over protection. Excessive attenuation may cause the worker distress resulting in non-
  compliance with wearing the HPDs.
  5.9. At the time of the annual audiogram Public Health should ensure personnel are fit with
  earplugs certified for use by BE. If a worker cannot be adequately fit with the earplugs
  recommended by the BE, an audiologist will determine an action plan that ensures the
  worker is adequately protected from occupational hazardous noise.
  5.10. PH shall maintain a variety of earplugs, from at least 2 manufacturers and including at
  least 3 sizes, as well as carrying cases. Individual units must purchase earmuffs, disposable
  plugs, and other hearing protection variations approved by BE, necessary to protect workers
  fully against hazardous noise. An earplug carrying case (national stock number (NSN) 6515-
  01-100-1674, olive drab color; NSN 6515-01-533-6168, Navy blue color) will be provided at
  no cost to the worker (See para. 5.6.). The case may also be used for disposable earplugs.
  5.11. Active Noise Reduction (ANR) hearing protection may not be appropriate for all
  industrial/military environments. Before employing ANR hearing protection, contact
  USAFSAM/PHR and USAFSAM/OE, in assistance with 711 HPW/RHCB, to assist in
  determining the appropriateness and feasibility of ANR applications.
38                                                         AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


  5.12. Communication headsets are appropriate in some environments.     Contact
  USAFSAM/PHR and USAFSAM/OE, in assistance with 711 HPW/RHCB to assist in
  determining the appropriateness and feasibility of these applications.
  5.13. Types of Hearing Protective Devices:
     5.13.1. Insert Type Earplug. An insert earplug is designed to provide a seal with the ear
     canal. There are three types of insert earplugs: premolded, formable, and custom
     earplugs.
        5.13.1.1. Premolded Earplugs. Premolded earplugs are pliable devices of fixed
        proportions. Personnel fitting and dispensing earplugs will train users on proper
        insertion, wear, and hygiene. They are reusable, but may deteriorate and need
        replacement, and should be discarded if they become soiled. (Reference Attachment
        5)
        5.13.1.2. Formable Earplugs. Formable earplugs come in one size. Some are made
        of material that, after compression and insertion, expands to form a seal in the ear
        canal. When properly inserted, they provide noise attenuation values that are similar
        to those from correctly fitted premolded earplugs. Formable earplugs are usually
        considered disposable, and therefore are more expensive for long-term routine use.
        Individual units may procure approved formable earplugs. Each earplug must be held
        in place while it expands enough to remain firmly seated. These earplugs may be
        washed and reused, but should be replaced after five uses or when they no longer
        form an airtight seal when properly inserted. (Reference Attachment 6)
        5.13.1.3. Custom Molded Earplugs. A small percentage of the AF population cannot
        be fitted, as determined by the MTF, with standard premolded or formable earplugs.
        Custom earplugs are made to fit the exact size and shape of an individual's ear canal.
        Individuals needing custom earplugs will be referred by Public Health to a
        professionally trained HCDC/HCC or licensed civilian audiologist. The selected
        custom earplug should be reviewed by BE to confirm it meets the Noise Reduction
        Rating (NRR) requirements of that individual’s workplace. AF Band members are
        the only ones authorized to obtain custom-made musician's earplugs (consult an
        audiologist).
     5.13.2. Earmuffs. Earmuffs are devices worn around the ear (circumaural) to reduce the
     noise reaching the ear. Their effectiveness depends on a tight seal between the cushion
     and head. (Reference Attachment 7)
     5.13.3. Communication Earmuff's (Electroacoustic Devices). Personnel who must
     communicate in the presence of intense noise use these devices, as determined by PH and
     BE. They are fitted with earmuffs and, if needed, a noise-shielding microphone so voice
     communications can be achieved during various operations. Noise exposure limits may
     be exceeded by the combination of external noise plus voice.
     5.13.4. Combination Communications Earmuff and Earplug. When extremely high
     noise levels are present and attenuation of communication earmuffs does not allow
     enough exposure time to complete the mission, earplugs can be worn in addition to the
     earmuffs. Custom molded earplugs can be made under the supervision of an audiologist.
     This combination of protection should provide a longer allowable exposure time for
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                    39


     mission completion. Information on modifications of earmuffs and fabrication of custom
     molded earplugs can be obtained from USAFSAM/PHR and USAFSAM/OE.
     5.13.5. Flight Helmets. Flight helmets used during ground or airborne operations
     provide varying degrees of protection from noise. The ear enclosures in these devices
     determine the degree of protection achieved. Generally, the amount of protection
     provided, primarily at frequencies below 1,000 Hz, varies with the condition of the ear
     enclosures and the acoustic seal. Headset ear enclosures and ear cushions must be
     maintained in good repair.
  5.14. Limits of Hearing Protection Performance:
     5.14.1. The maximum possible sound attenuation provided by HPDs is limited by human
     body and bone conduction mechanisms. Even though a particular device may provide
     outstanding values of noise attenuation, the actual noise reduction may be less because
     the noise surrounding the head and body bypasses the hearing protector and is transmitted
     through tissue and bone pathways to the inner ear.
     5.14.2. The term "double hearing protection" for earplug and earmuff combinations is
     misleading. The attenuation provided from earplug and earmuff will be less than the sum
     of their individual attenuation values. Never add individual HPD attenuation values to
     derive a combination value. Add 3 dB to the highest NRR of the plug or muff to estimate
     combined protective rating if actual attenuation data for the combination is not available.
     5.14.3. Estimating Noise Attenuation for HPD.
        5.14.3.1. The noise attenuation provided by HPDs varies between wearers, even
        when the wearers are highly skilled at fitting the HPDs to their ears. Noise
        attenuation data reported by manufacturers are given as a mean and standard
        deviation attenuation for a highly trained human test panel. Attenuation values for
        HPDs use the reported mean minus two standard deviations. Consult with
        USAFSAM, AFRL, and/or NIOSH for independent attenuation data. If no
        attenuation data is available from these government sources, manufacturer’s data may
        be used until independent attenuation data is available from a government source. In
        addition, NIOSH maintains a database and website with HPD attenuation values and
        procedures on how to calculate at-the-ear sound levels. Mean minus two standard
        deviations attenuation values shall be used in the HCP to estimate the noise level at
        the ear.
        5.14.3.2. Octave Band Calculations. The preferred method to calculate HPD noise
        attenuation when the 8-hour TWA exceeds 94 dBA involves calculating attenuated
        sound levels at each octave band. Subtract two standard deviations from the
        manufacturer’s mean attenuation values for at-the-ear noise level calculation. The
        estimated at-the-ear sound levels at each octave band are then compared to the A-
        weighting scale, and added logarithmically for the total A-weighted sound pressure
        level.
        5.14.3.3. NRR. The preferred method of estimating HPD noise attenuation when the
        8-hour TWA is less than 94 dBA is by using the NRR. The NRR assumes equal
        noise levels in each octave band. IAW the Occupational Noise Standard subtract 7dB
        from the NRR and subtract the adjusted NRR from the A-weighted sound pressure
40                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


        level for the noise source to determine the at-the-ear A-weighted sound pressure
        level. Note: 7 dB correction factor is used to account for the de-emphasis of low-
        frequency energy inherent to the A-weighting scale.
     5.14.4. Wearing double hearing protection in various conditions. When earmuffs are not
     worn properly (i.e., airtight seal of the earmuff to the circumaural region surrounding the
     pinnae of the ear) the amount of protection provided by the earmuff is greatly reduced
     and it is impossible to determine how much protection the worker is receiving from the
     noise.
        5.14.4.1. If earmuffs cannot be worn due to other PPE being worn around the head
        (e.g., respirator with airline) then ear-inserted single hearing protection must be used
        . If single hearing protection does not provide enough protection to reduce the TWA
        8-hr exposure below 85 dBA then administrative controls, such as reduced time in the
        hazardous noise area, are needed (assuming use of engineering controls has already
        been evaluated and is not feasible). Shop supervisors will consult BE whenever such
        administrative controls are required.
        5.14.4.2. For other conditions where earmuffs can be worn but an airtight seal cannot
        be maintained (e.g., wearing of polar hood/balaclava for cold weather protection),
        then the sound attenuation provided by the earmuffs in combination with earplugs and
        the protective head gear shall be assumed to equal the attenuation provided by the
        earplugs alone. Administrative controls will be required to reduce the 8-hr TWA to
        below 85 dBA. Shop supervisors will consult BE whenever such administrative
        controls are required.
  5.15. Fitting and Dispensing Earplugs:
     5.15.1. PH will accomplish initial earplug fitting. PH will fit and dispense pre-formed
     earplugs and/or foam plugs at the time of the audiometric evaluation. At this time, PH
     should assess the conditions (e.g., cold weather) in which the HPDs will be worn to
     ensure proper wear for sufficient sound attenuation.
     5.15.2. Each ear will be individually fit with earplugs (approximately 20 percent of the
     population requires a different size of earplug for each ear).
     5.15.3. Workers unable to be properly fit with pre-molded or foam HPD should be
     referred to the HCDC/HCC or a certified civilian audiologist for custom made earplugs at
     AF expense.
     5.15.4. Custom made devices may be appropriate for special circumstances. Service
     band members should be provided with pre-molded or custom molded musician’s
     earplugs. Only audiologists, otolaryngologists, and medical providers professionally
     trained in custom earpiece fabrication may take impressions of the ear necessary to make
     the custom earplugs.
     5.15.5. Workers may be fitted with pre-formed earplugs as determined by PH at the
     expense of the AF. If workers request custom-made devices as a personal preference, the
     unit is not obligated to pay for any additional examinations and the fabrication of
     specialized plugs. However, if a unit chooses to purchase custom-made earplugs for their
     personnel, they must consult with BE, PH, and the occupational medicine consultant who
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                    41


     will provide oversight of the brand/type selection, fitting, and monitoring of the custom
     devices. The MTF will not provide resources to conduct the fitting of custom plugs for
     large numbers of personnel.
     5.15.6. PH will examine the fit and condition of all HPD during annual audiogram, and
     whenever an effectiveness question exists (DoDI 6055.12 (6)(1)). The worker should
     demonstrate proper fitting technique at the time of the audiogram (reference paragraph
     2.12.14).
     5.15.7. PH trains personnel on the proper use and care of HPD at the time of audiometric
     counseling. Personnel requiring earmuffs (in addition to earplugs) will be informed of
     this requirement and educated on the importance of using adequate protection.
     5.15.8. Supervisors will instruct users on proper use and care of HPDs in the workplace
     as part of the annual training program.
         5.15.8.1. Users will maintain HPDs appropriately as instructed.
         5.15.8.2. Users should immediately notify their supervisor when HPDs no longer
         appear functional or usable so the HPDs can be replaced.
  5.16. Cleaning and Maintenance.
     5.16.1. Reusable earplugs or formable devices should be washed in lukewarm water with
     hand soap, rinsed in clean water, and dried thoroughly. Wet or damp earplugs should not
     be worn or placed in their containers. Cleaning should be done as needed.
     5.16.2. Earmuff seals should be kept clean. The plastic or foam cushions may be cleaned
     in the same way as earplugs, but the inside of the muff should not get wet. When not in
     use, earmuffs should be placed in open air to allow moisture that may have been absorbed
     into the cups to evaporate. Earmuff seals should be replaced as needed.
     5.16.3. Anyone having difficulty in wearing hearing protection (i.e., irritation of the ear
     canal(s) or pain) should immediately report this to their supervisor. The supervisor
     should remove the worker from exposure to hazardous noise and contact their provider or
     PH.
6. NOISE CONTROL.
  6.1. Hierarchy of Controls. Engineering controls are the first choice to reduce hazardous
  noise exposures existing in the workplace. Due to cost and design limitations associated with
  some engineering control solutions, administrative controls and/or the use of personal
  protective equipment may be necessary.
  6.2. Engineering Procedures. Noise limit recommendations should be included as part of
  the acquisition process. If the required equipment is not available within specified noise
  output limits, alternate methods of noise control may be necessary. This may also be the case
  when noise levels associated with existing equipment cannot be controlled cost effectively
  through engineering solutions. Some examples of engineering controls are provided below.
  To obtain a more detailed description or other examples of sound reduction methods, consult
  the ESOH Service Center at website: https://hpws.afrl.af.mil/dhp/OE/ESOHSC.
     6.2.1. Sound Absorbent Materials. Equipment with moving parts such as gears and cams
     can generate significant noise levels, especially in confined areas where noise can reflect
42                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


     and build-up. Sound absorbent materials can help reduce noise levels in the immediate
     area and in adjoining areas. Specific applications involving the type, amount,
     configuration, and placement of sound absorbent materials need to be determined based
     on an engineering evaluation.
     6.2.2. Noise Barriers/Enclosures. The use of barriers and enclosures reduces noise by
     partially absorbing and reflecting it away from receivers.           Barriers/enclosures
     effectiveness to reduce noise levels depends on the noise source, the configuration and
     materials used for the noise barrier/enclosure, and acoustic shielding. For further
     information regarding use of barriers/enclosures to reduce noise, reference AFM19-10,
     Planning in the Noise Environment, section 5-2.1.
7. FITNESS AND RISK EVALUATIONS.
  7.1. Personnel who cannot perform essential job functions, and/or pose a safety risk to
  themselves or others, because of a medical condition, will be evaluated for fitness and risk.
  The fitness and risk evaluation may be requested by the medical provider or by line
  management. Personnel should be considered for a fitness and risk evaluation when they:
     7.1.1. Show a second PTS in either ear.
     7.1.2. Exceed the H-1 profile and work in a hazardous noise area.
     7.1.3. Complain of not hearing/understanding spoken communications, auditory cues or
     signals.
     7.1.4. Exhibit behavior resulting in invalid or unreliable audiograms (Failure to obtain
     accurate audiometric test data should result in a worker being removed from all
     hazardous noise environments due to an inability to accurately monitor hearing).
     7.1.5. Exhibit behaviors that call into direct question the ability to work in the assigned
     job.
     7.1.6. Cannot be fit with HPDs.
  7.2. Flying and other special operational duty personnel who meet the criteria above or
  exceed hearing standards for their flying class will be evaluated as directed in AFI 48-123.
  Note: A fitness and risk evaluation is performed as part of the waiver process for flying and
  other special operational duty personnel who exceed hearing standards IAW AFI 48-123. If
  there has not been a PTS since waiver approval, an additional fitness and risk evaluation is
  not warranted. However, if there has been a PTS since waiver approval, consult a flight
  surgeon for initiating a fitness and risk evaluation.
  7.3. For non-flying personnel, provider initiates the Fitness and Risk Evaluation in
  coordination with the installation level HCPM. The provider must address in the Reason(s)
  For Request: clinical status and job safety. The practitioner may include a job capability
  assessment in the informed medical recommendation.
  7.4. Provider will perform a clinical examination. As a minimum, the routine clinical exam
  (AF Form 1753, Section II) will be performed. If other medical conditions affect the
  person’s ability to perform the job capably or safely, they will be addressed in the clinical
  examination.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                     43


  7.5. Clinical evaluations by either HCDC/HCC or a licensed civilian audiologist are required
  as a part of the fitness and risk evaluation.
  7.6. The Job Capability and Fitness Survey:
     7.6.1. Base Personnel Flight must prepare a list, using the AF Form 1754, Part 2, of the
     minimum essential tasks and auditory requirements a worker must have for job
     qualification.
     7.6.2. Installation level HCPM completes the Job Capability Survey, using the AF Form
     1754, Part 3. Installation level HCPM interviews the worker, visits the workplace, and
     for each task identified by the appointing official makes a judgment if the worker will be
     able to capably perform the task.
     7.6.3. The shop supervisor, with assistance from Safety as needed, will perform the Job
     Safety Analyses (JSA), at the request of the medical provider. The Job Capability Survey
     and the Job Safety Analysis should be performed at the same time.
         7.6.3.1. The safety representative, with assistance from the shop supervisor,
         completes Part 4 of the AF Form 1754. In consultation with BE and PH, Safety
         officials interview the worker, visit the workplace, and for each task identified by the
         appointing official, make a judgment as to whether the worker should be able to
         reasonably perform the task without endangering themselves or others.
         7.6.3.2. The safety analysis should address, but is not limited to, the following
         conditions:
             7.6.3.2.1. Does the worker perform tasks alone or in-groups?
             7.6.3.2.2. If group tasks are required, are visual cues available?
             7.6.3.2.3. Does the worker need to communicate to perform tasks?
             7.6.3.2.4. Do potential hazard signals exist that the worker needs to hear
             (forklifts, special machinery, announcements, etc.)?
             7.6.3.2.5. Do the job tasks include confined space entry?
  7.7. Medical Determinations and Recommendations:
     7.7.1. The medical provider will only make a recommendation whether the worker will
     be able to capably perform the task. The appointing official/commander makes the final
     decision.
     7.7.2. To assist managers in making employment and placement decisions, medical
     recommendations will be one of the following:
         7.7.2.1. Worker meets medical requirements of the position.
         7.7.2.2. Worker meets medical requirements with an accommodation or restriction.
         (List recommended accommodations or restrictions and the expected therapeutic or
         risk avoiding benefit considering risk management decision-making process).
         7.7.2.3. Worker is not fit to perform essential tasks, will pose an undue risk to
         themselves or others, or fails to meet medical requirements for the job. The medical
         provider must include reasonable justification for recommendations.
44                                                         AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


     7.7.3. A determination of hearing profile might also be necessary (per AFI 48-123). AF
     Form 422 and H-1 profile designation are not appropriate for civilian employees.
     Hearing profiles are not appropriate for decisions concerning disposition and/or
     disqualification. Individual worker determinations are made on a case-by-case basis as
     outlined by the Fitness for Duty Evaluation.
     7.7.4. The provider may assume a worker meets the minimum medical qualifications to
     perform a job in a hazardous noise environment if one of the following conditions is true:
        7.7.4.1. Worker has an H-1 profile, can wear standard HPDs, and does not report
        difficulty hearing and understanding routine spoken communications, auditory cues,
        or signals.
        7.7.4.2. Worker has undergone a previous fitness and risk evaluation, hearing
        thresholds have not changed significantly (no STS compared to most current
        reference), medical condition that may affect job performance in a hazardous noise
        job has remained stable; and the worker’s supervisor has not expressed any new
        concerns.
     7.7.5. The medical recommendation for placement or continuation in a noise-hazardous
     job will include the following statement on the AF Form 422, Notification of Air Force
     Member’s Qualification Status, or locally derived return to duty memo, “This worker
     meets medical standards to work as a [insert job title and occupation code] in [insert
     shop name and number].” If restrictions or accommodations are recommended, they
     should be listed on AF Form 422, or locally derived return to duty memo, along with the
     expected risk-reducing or therapeutic benefit.
     7.7.6. A disqualifying medical determination is warranted if:
        7.7.6.1. A medical condition prevents the worker from performing the essential
        functions of the job and no reasonable accommodation would enable the worker to
        perform the job.
        7.7.6.2. Allowing the worker to perform the job would endanger their safety, the
        safety of other workers, or the public.
        7.7.6.3. The worker fails to meet a valid medical standard or physical requirement for
        placement in the position.
        7.7.6.4. The worker determined to be medically disqualified because of reasons
        above must be individually evaluated.
     7.7.7. A summary of the Fitness and Risk Evaluation will be prepared, using an AF Form
     422, or locally derived return to duty memo, by the provider and will contain the
     following minimum information:
        7.7.7.1. Reason for the Fitness and Risk Evaluation.
        7.7.7.2. Clinical status (determination of whether a medical condition is temporary or
        permanent, and has reached maximum medical benefit).
        7.7.7.3. Safety assessment results.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                      45


        7.7.7.4. Recommendations for accommodations and (or) restrictions in the particular
        job.
     7.7.8. The completed AF Form 1754 will be forwarded to PH for filing in the medical
     record.
     7.7.9. Referral to an HCDC/HCC audiologist or licensed civilian audiology consultant is
     optional. However, if there is a need for audiologic consultation, a referral is appropriate.




                                           THOMAS W. TRAVIS,Lieutenant General, USAF,
                                           MC, CFS
                                           Surgeon General
 46                                                          AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORAMTION

References
Title 5, CFR, Volume 1, Part 339, Medical Qualification Determinations, 1 January 2012
Title 29, CFR 1904.10, Recording and Reporting Occupational Injuries and Illness.
Title 29, CFR 1910.145, Specifications for Accident Prevention Signs and Tags.
Title 29, CFR 1910.95, Occupational Noise Exposure.
Title 10 United States Code Section 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, 3 January 2012
Title 42 United States Code Section 4914, Development of Low-Noise-Emission Products, 3
January 2012
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support, 9 August 1995
DoDI 6025.18, Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information in DoD Health Care
Programs, 2 December 2009
DoDI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH), 11 November 2008
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 August 1998
DoDI 6055.12, Hearing Conservation Program, 3 December 2010
DoDI 8910.01, Information Collection and Reporting, 6 March 2007
DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information Privacy Regulation, 24 January 2003
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 14 June 2010
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Enterprise, 19 October 2011
AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards, 24 September 2009
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, 15 September 2011
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012
AFI 90-801, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health Council, 25 March 2005
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 April 2000
AFI 91-202, The USAF Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
Std., 18 April 1994
AFMAN 19-10, Planning in the Noise Environment, 15 June 1978
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 36-2622 V5, Personnel Concept III (Civilian) End User’s Manual, 1 March 1997
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                 47


AFMAN 48-146, Occupational and Environmental Health Program Management, 9 October
2012
AFPAM 90-902, Operational Risk Management Guidelines and Tools, 14 December 2000
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFVA 48-101, Caution-Hazardous Noise Area-May Cause Hearing Loss-Hearing Protection
Required, 1 November 2006
AFVA 48-103, Caution-Hearing Protection Must Be Worn When This Equipment is in
Operation Label (Issued by Sheet, 12 Labels per Sheet), 1 November 2006
AFVA 48-104, Caution-Hearing Protection Must Be Worn When This Equipment is in
Operation Label (Issued by Sheet, 25 Labels per Sheet), 1 November 2006
AFVA 48-150, Caution-Hearing Protection Must Be Worn When This Equipment is in
Operation Label (3 ½ x 5), 1 February 2001
ANSI S1.4-1983 (R2006), Specification for Sound Level Meters.
ANSI S1.11-2004 (R2009), Octave-Band and Fractional Octave-Band Analog and Digital
Filters.
ANSI S1.25-1991 (R2007), American National Standard Specifications for Personal Noise
Dosimeters.
ANSI S3.1-1999 (R2008), Maximum Permissible Ambient Noise Levels for Audiometric Test
Rooms.
ANSI S3.6-2010 (or most current edition), Specification for Audiometers.
ANSI S4.1-1983 (R2006), Specification for Sound Level Meters.
ANSI S12.42-2010, Methods for the Measurement of Insertion Loss of Hearing Protection
Devices in Continuous or Impulsive Noise Using Microphone-in-Real-Ear or Acoustic Test
Fixture Procedures.
ANSI S12.65-2006 (R2011), American National Standard for Rating Noise with Respect to
Speech Interference.
Environmental Protection Agency Report 550/9-74-004, Information on Levels of Environmental
Noise Requisite to protect Public Health and welfare with an Adequate Margin of Safety.
American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) TLVs and BEIs, Based
on the Documentation of the Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substances and Physical
Agents & Biological Exposure Indices, Latest Edition.
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 1672, Hearing Conservation Diagnostic/Center Referral
AF Form 1753, Hearing Conservation Examination
DD Form 2215, Reference Audiogram
DD Form 2216, Hearing Conservation Data
DD Form 2217, Biological Audiometer Calibration Check
 48                                                        AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 422, Notification of Air Force Member’s Qualification Status
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1754, Job Capability and Safety Analysis
SF 600, Chronological Record of Medical Care
SF 600e, DOEHRS-HC Hearing Loss Referral

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACGIH—American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
AFPAM—Air Force pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
AFSAS—Air Force Safety Automated System
AFSEC—Air Force Safety Center
ANG—Air National Guard
ANR—Active Noise Reduction
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
AR—Air Reserve
ARC—Air Reserve Component
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
BEI—biological exposure indices (from ACGIH)
CAOHC—Council for Accreditation of Occupational Hearing Conservation
CFR—code of federal regulations
dB—decibel
dBA—decibels A-weighted
dBc—decibels relative to the carrier
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                       49


DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense instruction
DOEHRS—DR-Department of Defense Occupational Environmental Health Readiness System-
Data Repository
DOEHRS—HC-Department of Defense Occupational Environmental Health Readiness System-
Hearing Conservation
DOEHRS-IH—Department of Defense Occupational Environmental Health Readiness System-
Industrial Hygiene
DRU—direct reporting unit
ECL—equivalent continuous level
ENT—ear, nose, and throat, usually refers to an otolaryngologist
ESOH—Environment, Safety and Occupational Health
FOA—field operating agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HCC—hearing conservation center
HCDC—hearing conservation diagnostic center
HCP—Hearing Conservation Program
HCPM—Hearing Conservation Program Manager
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
HPD—hearing protection device
HQ—headquarters
Hz—hertz
JSA—Job Safety Analyses
LEI—lighted ear inspection
MAJCOM—major command
MTF—medical treatment facilities
NFA—noise-free audiogram
NIOSH—National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
NSN—national stock number
NRR—noise reduction rating
OEEL—Occupational and Environmental Exposure Limit
OEHWG—Occupational Environmental Health Working Group
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
 50                                                     AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


OWCP—Department of Labor Office of Workers’ Compensation Program
PCA—permanent change of assignments
PCS—permanent change of station
PDO—publishing distribution office
PESHE—Programmatic Environmental, Safety and Health Evaluations
PH—public health
PPE—personal protective equipment
PTS—permanent threshold shift
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RMU—Reserve Medical Unit
SEG—similar exposure group
SG—Surgeon General
SG3P—Chief, Aerospace Medicine Policy and Operations
SG3PB—Bioenvironmental Engineering Branch
SG3PM—Public Health and Preventive Medicine Branch
SORN—System of Records Notices
SPL—sound pressure level
Std—Standard
STS—significant threshold shift
TLV—threshold limit values (from ACGIH)
TTS—temporary threshold shift
TWA—time-weighted average
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
USAFSAM/OE—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine Occupational and
Environmental Health Department
USAFSAM/PHR—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine Epidemiology
Consult Services Division
USC—United States Code

Terms
Air Force Certified Hearing Conservationists—Personnel that are trained IAW the Council
for Accreditation in Occupational Hearing Conservation and perform audiometric testing in
support of the Air Force’s Hearing Conservation Program.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                      51


Annual Audiogram—An audiogram performed at least annually (also called periodic
audiogram).
Appointing Official—Personnel officer or official authority to make management decisions
concerning hiring, placement, accommodation, and termination of employees.
Audiogram—The measurement of a worker’s hearing sensitivity expressed in decibels as a
function of frequency. Data are reported in graphic or numeric form.
Audiologist—A clinician, researcher, or consultant, specializing in the preservation, evaluation,
and rehabilitation of hearing.
Close Scrutiny Audiogram—Frequently administered audiograms used to closely monitor a
worker or group. When, on whom, and how often to perform scrutiny exams is determined by
the examining practitioner, or as directed by the OEHWG.
Criterion Level—The sound level allowed for an 8-hour exposure, used as the basis for
measurement of a noise standard. For the Air Force the criterion level is 85 dBA.
Department of Defense Occupational and Environmental Health Readiness System DR—
DOEHRS-HC data collection, retrieval and reporting site; used to submit, retrieve, and report
DOEHRS-HC data; location for downloading updated DOEHRS-HC lookup tables.
Department of Defense Occupational Environmental Health Readiness System HC—An
automated audiometric system used by the military services for hearing conservation purposes.
Examining Practitioner—A credentialed health care provider (physician, nurse practitioner,
physician assistant or audiologist) who performs occupational health examinations.
Exchange Rate (or doubling rate)—The time-intensity exchange rate for determining length-
intensity of equivalent exposure levels. The AF uses a 3-dB exchange rate. Reference Chapter
3, Hazardous Noise Surveillance Requirements.
Fitness and Risk Evaluation—Evaluations performed by medical and safety professionals for
the purpose of determining a worker’s ability to perform specific job tasks (fitness) and the
likelihood of harm, either to the worker or others (risk), in relation to anticipated workplace
exposures and job demands. In the USAF HCP, fitness and risk evaluations are the processes
used to evaluate workers who, if placed at work in hazardous noise, may not be able to perform
essential duties adequately or may pose a health or safety risk to themselves or others.
H-1 Profile—Hearing Profile threshold criteria (H-1 through H-4) are defined in AFI 48-123.
This criterion is used to identify workers for further evaluation to determine if they are able to
capably and safely perform their job in a hazardous noise environment.
Hearing Conservation Center (HCC)—A center located at an AFMC base that provides
support for referrals under the USAF HCP. Authorized HCCs are listed in Attachment 2.
Hearing Conservation Diagnostic Center (HCDC)—An AF medical treatment facility staffed
by an audiologist, and support staff. An HCDC gives direct clinical support to referrals under
this standard and provides services to all other persons authorized medical care by AFI 41-115.
Authorized HCDCs are listed in Attachment 2.
Hearing Conservation Program Manager (HCPM)—Appointed by the MTF Commander or
ARC Unit Commander. The HCPM, usually a credentialed provider, is responsible to manage
 52                                                           AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


all aspects of the HCP while ensuring OSHA/DoD/AFOSH compliance. HCPM access in
DOEHRS-DR is often the senior NCO of PH, however.
Hearing Conservationist—military or civilian member that is trained IAW Chapter 4.
Impulse or Impact Noise— A short burst of acoustic energy consisting of either a single burst
or a series of bursts. The pressure-time history of a single burst includes a rapid rise to a peak
pressure followed by a somewhat lower decay of the pressure envelope to ambient pressure. A
series of impulses may last longer than 1 second.
Negative Threshold Shift (Improved Threshold Shift)—Same criteria as STS calculations
except negative shift represent improved hearing levels. When this occurs, at least one follow-up
test is required, and may be administered (immediately) the same day as the annual test. The
result of the follow-up test may be used to establish a new reference audiogram, if required.
Noise- Free Audiogram (NFA)—An audiogram performed after a worker has not been exposed
to noise greater than 72 dBA or impulse noise greater than 120 dB peak for a minimum specified
amount of time. (e.g., 14-hour NFA, requires a minimum of 14 hours noise-free prior to the
test). HPDs cannot be used to reach this noise-free status. All noise-free follow-up audiograms
must be completed within 30 days of the annual audiogram.
Occupational and Environmental Exposure Limit—The OEEL is the most appropriate limit
adopted from established recognized standards including, but not limited to, those in AFIs and
AFOSH Standards, the latest edition of the TLV® Booklet published annually by the American
Conference of Government Industrial Hygienists, 29 CFR 1910.1000 Tables Z-1, Z-2, and Z-3
and 40 CFR 141. OEELs are limits of exposure established to protect personnel from hazardous
OEH threat exposures. OEELs apply to OEH threat exposures for individuals and/or similarly
exposed groups of individuals.
Occupational Health Consultant—A physician, usually a Flight Surgeon that serves as
consultant to PCM teams for operational health concerns, including review of problem
audiograms, to determine if further testing is required before disposition. An audiologist can
serve as a consultant for audiology/hearing conservation review/disposition concerns.
OSHA Reportable Hearing Loss—Work-related STS (an average change of 10 dB or more in
either ear at 2,000, 3,000, and 4,000 Hz compared to that ear’s baseline or revised baseline)
provided that the worker’s current average hearing level at the same frequencies in the same ear
is 25 dB or greater. PH will provide OSHA reportable hearing loss to base safety for inclusion
on the OSHA 300 Log or equivalent. (Audiometric test results reflect the worker’s overall
hearing ability in comparison to audiometric zero. Therefore, using the worker’s current
audiogram, you must use the average hearing level at 2,000, 3,000, and 4,000 Hz to determine
whether or not the worker’s total hearing level is 25 dB or more)
Otoscopic Examination (lighted ear inspection)—The act of viewing into the external auditory
canal to the tympanic membrane. This exam is accomplished with the use of an otoscope.
Peak Pressure Level— The maximum absolute level, in dB, achieved for any specified time
interval. (Peak pressure is the maximum absolute pressure, in Pascals, achieved.)
Permanent Threshold Shift (PTS)—Any STS found on monitoring audiometry which is still
present after a second 14-hour NFA is considered a PTS. A STS on an annual audiogram is
considered a PTS if follow-up testing is not conducted in the specified time.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                        53


Positive Threshold Shift (Poorer hearing from the reference)—Same criteria as STS
calculations. Positive shift represents poorer hearing levels. When this occurs, two noise-free
follow-up tests are required. The two noise-free tests may be completed on the same day but
cannot be completed on the same day as the annual audiogram. The result of the second follow-
up test may be used to re-establish the reference audiogram or make appropriate audiologic
referral for additional testing, if required.
Potential Hazardous Noise—Exposure to steady-state noise having an 8-hour TWA noise level
> (greater than or equal to) 85 dBA, or exposure to impulse/impact noise levels greater than 140
dB peak SPL, regardless of duration.
Potentially Hazardous Noise Area—Any area where workers are likely to receive a daily total
noise dose in excess of that calculated using DoDI 6055.12, E3.3, or where impulse noise levels
exceed 140 dB peak SPL.
Pre—placement Audiogram-All persons entering employment in hazardous noise (greater than
or equal to an 8-hour TWA of 85 dBA, the OSHA limit) shall receive an audiogram prior to
beginning work. The results of the pre-employment audiogram, if meeting the requirements of a
reference audiogram, may be used as the reference audiogram.
Reference Audiogram—An audiogram used as a baseline to compare subsequent audiograms
against to determine if hearing loss has occurred. All persons entering employment in hazardous
noise (greater than or equal to an 8-hour TWA of 85 dBA, the OSHA limit) should receive a pre-
placement audiogram that should be used as the reference audiogram. Also called baseline
audiogram by OSHA.
Routine Noise Exposure—TWA noise levels determined by SEG for all AF employees
(military and civilian) working in hazardous noise areas at least once and within 30 days of any
change in operations affecting noise levels.
Sound Level (Noise Level)—The weighted sound pressure level measured by the use of a meter
with characteristics and weighting A. B. or C. as specified in ANSI S1.4-1983 (R2006). The
weighting must be indicated; otherwise the A-weighting is understood.
Sound Pressure Level—The sound pressure level of a sound, in dB, which is 20 times the
logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of this sound to the reference pressure of 20
microPascals (uPa) (20 microNewton/m2) (2 X 10-4 microbar).
Speech Interference Level—The arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels, in dB, of a
noise in the four octave bands of center frequency 500, 1,000, 2,000, and 4,000 Hertz.
Significant Threshold Shift (STS)—A change in hearing thresholds relative to the reference
audiogram of an average of 10 dB at 2,000, 3,000, and 4,000 Hz, either ear, according to CFR
1910.95. That is, if the sum of the shifts at 2,000, 3000, and 4,000 Hz equals or exceeds 30 dB
in either ear, a STS has occurred. Use of age corrections will NOT be applied when determining
STS. Note: standard threshold shift as defined by OSHA.
Temporary Threshold Shift (TTS)—A temporary loss of hearing due to noise exposure. Any
positive STS that is not confirmed by the noise free follow-up test is considered to be a TTS,
unless there is a resolved medical condition.
Termination Audiogram—A hearing test administered when a worker discontinues
employment involving hazardous noise exposure. A Termination Audiogram should be
 54                                                              AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


accomplished when a hazardous noise exposed worker, who has been included on the HCP,
separates or retires from military/civil service. Individuals who are PCSing, PCAing, or will be
in an inactive flying position shall not receive a Termination Audiogram.
Threshold Level:—A sound level below, which exposures are not included in dose calculations
or measurements. For this standard, the threshold is 80 dBA.

      If at any step a “no” is encountered, the process ends and the hearing change is
      not reportable.

            Step 1: Compared to the original baseline audiogram or last audiogram
              showing a reportable shift in hearing, is there an STS in either ear (age
              adjustments are not allowed)? If yes, continue to step 2.

            Step 2: Is the average hearing level on the current hearing test at 2,000, 3,000,
              and 4,000 Hz in the same ear greater than or equal to 25 dB HL (no age
              adjustments allowed1)? If yes, continue to step 3.

            Step 3: Is the STS confirmed upon 30-day retest (or was a retest not
              conducted)? If yes, continue to step 4.

            Step 4: Has a qualified health care professional determined that the shift in
              hearing is more likely than not work-related? If yes, continue to step 5.

            Step 5: Record the case within 7 days.

      From: Megerson, Susan. 2002. “OSHA’s Final Rule for Recording Occupational
      Hearing Loss,” CAOHC Update, available at
      http://www.caohc.org/updatearticles/fall02.pdf.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                           55


                                     Attachment 2
   AUTHORIZED HEARING CONSERVATIONDIAGNOSTIC CENTERS (HCDC)/
        AUTHORIZED HEARING CONSERVATION CENTERS (HCC)

A2.1. 779 MDG/AMDS, 1050 West Perimeter Rd., Joint Base Andrews, MD 20762
A2.2. MDG/SGOR, Unit 6180 Box 245, Aviano AB, APO AE 09604
A2.3. 96 MSGS/SGCXL, 307 Boatner Rd. Bldg 2825, Eglin AFB, FL 32542-1282
A2.4. 673 MDG/SGOSLA, 5955 Zeamer Ave, Elmendorf AFB, AK 99506-3700
A2.5. 75 AMDS/SGPQ, 7238 6th Street, Hill AFB, UT 84056-5012
A2.6. 81 MSGS/SGCQLA, 301 Fisher St., Room GE240, Keesler AFB, MS 39534
A2.7. 59 MDW/SG02OA, 2200 Bergquist Dr. Ste.1, Lackland AFB, TX 78236-9908
A2.8. 48 MSSQ/SGCUL, Unit 5210 Box 230, RAF Lakenheath, APO AE 09461-0230
A2.9. 633 MDG/SGPSA, 77 Nealy Ave, Langley AFB, VA 23665-2080
A2.10. 6 MDG/SGPQ, 3250 Zemke Ave., MacDill AFB, FL 33621-1607
A2.11. 99 MSGS/SGCX, 4700 N. Las Vegas Blvd., Nellis AFB, Las Vegas, NV 89191
A2.12. 55 MDG/SGOSL, 2501 Capehart Rd. Offutt AFB, NE 68133-2160
A2.13. 78 AMDS/SGPFA, 655 7th Street Bldg. 207, Robins AFB, GA, 31098-2227
A2.14. 82 AMDS/SGPA, 149 Hart Street, Ste.5, Sheppard AFB, TX 76311-3482
A2.15. 52 MDG/SGPM, Unit 3690 Bldg 61, Spangdahlem AB, APO AE 09123-3690
A2.16. 72 AMDS/SGPOA, 8941 Entrance Rd., Bldg 3334, Tinker AFB, OK 73145-5300
A2.17. 60 AMDS/SGPQ, 101 Bodin Circle, Travis AFB, CA 94535-1880
A2.18. 10 MDG/SGOSL, 4102 Pinion Drive, USAF Academy, CO 80840-4000
A2.19. 88 AMDS/SGPO, 2325 Fifth Street, Bldg 675 Area B, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
45433-7021
A2.20. 374 AMDS/SGPF, Unit 5227 Bldg 440, Yokota AB, APO, AP 96328-5227
A2.21. 86 MDS (Landstuhl Regional Medical Center), Attn: Audiology Clinic, CMR 402, APO
AE 09180
 56                                                            AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


                                          Attachment 3
                               SAMPLE REFERRAL LETTER

Hearing Conservation Program Manager
USAF Hearing Conservation Audiological Evaluation
Consultant’s Name

1. (Patient’s Name) is referred for an audiological evaluation to assist in determining if allowing
him/her to perform duties as a (job title) in a hazardous noise environment will pose risk to their
personal health and safety or the health and safety of others. The reasons for this referral are
indicated on the attached Hearing Conservation Diagnostic Center Referral. As part of your
evaluation, please perform the following:

        a. Pure tone air conduction test, under earphones or insert earphones, using pulsed tones
for frequencies 250 Hz through 8,000 Hz (to include 3,000 and 6,000 Hz).

        b. Pure tone bone conduction test, using pulsed tones for frequencies 500 through 4,000
Hz (to include 3,000 Hz).

       c. Word recognition testing, under earphones or insert earphones, using taped or CD lists
presented at appropriate suprathreshold levels.

        d. Immittance measures to include tympanometry, and acoustic reflexes obtained for both
ipsilateral and contralateral conditions. Acoustic reflex decay at 500-1,000 Hz should be
accomplished if clinically warranted. Note: All tests must be performed unaided and with
equipment calibrated per the most current and applicable ANSI standards.
        e. Otoacoustic Emissions testing is required for a Hearing Conservation referral.

2. In addition to performing the above tests, please provide a report including an interpretation
of test results to explain the type and degree of hearing loss as well as any recommendations or
referral.

3. Please direct any questions you may have concerning this patient to (name and phone number
of referring practitioner).




MTF COMMANDER SIGNATURE
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                              57


                                    Attachment 4
                    GENERAL INFORAMTION FOR EARPLUGS

Figure A4.1. Earplugs General Information.
 58                                                   AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


                                       Attachment 5
           EARPLUG SEATING DEVICE AND CARRYING CASE POSTER

Figure A5.1. Single-Flange Earplugs.




Figure A5.2. Triple-Flange Earplugs.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                             59


                                   Attachment 6
                    FOAM EARPLUG INSTRUCTION POSTER

Figure A6.1. Foam (Hand formed) Earplugs.
 60                                                AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013


                                    Attachment 7
                NOISE MUFFS: GENERAL INFORMATION POSTER

Figure A7.1. Noise Muffs General Information.
AFOSHSTD48-20 10 MAY 2013                                                                      61


                                          Attachment 8
  OWCP HEARING LOSS MEDICAL REQUIREMENTS AS PARAPHRASED FROM
                     DOL OWCP HEARING LOSS

A8.1. The report submitted must include the results of an otological (ENT) exam, conducted by
a physician, and the results of an audiological exam administered in a sound-treated booth.
A8.2. The report of the physician's ENT examination must include:
A8.3. The date and hour of examination;
A8.4. The date and hour of the claimant's last exposure to employment related noise;
A8.5. A detailed and relevant medical history;
A8.6. The physician's reasoned opinion concerning the etiology of any indicated hearing loss
and, specifically, its relationship to the claimant's occupational noise-exposure history;
A8.7. The physician's recommendations for treatment, including the need for a hearing aid; and,
the physician's original signature.
A8.8. The report of the audiological evaluation must include:
A8.9. An authenticated, legible, and dated audiogram consisting of pure tone air conduction
threshold from 250 to 8,000 Hz, including 3,000 Hz, and bone conduction thresholds from 250 to
4,000 Hz, also including 3,000 Hz;
A8.10. The results of speech reception threshold (SRT) and speech discrimination testing,
including stimuli and method of presentation (SRT and pure tone average (PTA) should agree
within ± 10 dB);
A8.11. The results of an impedance test battery, including tympanometry and stapedial reflex
threshold measurements;
A8.12. The standard and date of last electronic calibration, and the name of the person who
performed the calibration, (our procedures require that the date of last electronic calibration be
within 1 year of the date of examination) for each instrument used;
A8.13. A statement regarding the reliability of the audiological evaluation (if questionable,
administer additional tests so that reliable conventional audiometric responses will be obtained);
and, a statement indicating that the claimant was removed from any exposure to injuries noise for
at least 16 hours prior to your examination.
A8.14. Please forward both the ENT report and the audiological evaluation to this office. Bills
may only be paid when we have received the ENT report and the audiological evaluation.
