BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       AIR FORCE OPERATIONAL TEST AND
                                           EVALUATION CENTER INSTRUCTION 36-2201



                                                                          4 SEPTEMBER 2009

                                                                                      Personnel

                                             MANAGEMENT OF THE AFOTEC TRAINING
                                                                      PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFOTEC/A1T              Certified by: HQ AFOTEC/A1 (Lt Col Randee B. Kaiser)
Supersedes: AFOTECI 36-2201, 13 April 1999                                Pages: 16



This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-401, Employee Training and
Development and AFI 36-2201 vol 2, Air Force Training Program.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
publication requires collecting and maintaining information on civilians protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. Authorities to collect and maintain the records are by Title 5 U.S.C. 4118, Title 10
U.S.C. 8013, and Executive Order 9397. Forms affected by the Privacy Act have an appropriate
Privacy Act Statement. (SF 182 Authority ─ this information is being collected under the
authority of 5 U.S.C. § 4115, a provision of The Government Employees Training Act.) This
instruction also requires collecting and maintaining information on military personnel protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authorities to collect and (or) maintain the records are 44
U.S.C. 3101, 10 U.S.C. 8013, and E.O. 9397. System of Records notice F036 AF PC Q,
Personnel Data System, applies. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
2                                                  AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Responsibilities, training planning and budgeting process, off-site and commercial
training requests process, on-site training requests process, and individual training planning
process and procedures. Six new attachments have been added: Glossary of references and
supporting information, AFOTEC training course cancellation process, AFOTEC training course
waiver request process, Example SF 182- Military page 1, Example SF 182- Civilian page 1, and
Example SF 182- Military and Civilian page 2.
AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                               3



1. Concept. This instruction establishes the Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
(AFOTEC) Training Program and prescribes the principles, philosophy, and responsibilities for
managing training and education systems, programs, courses, services, and associated resources
for test specific training.
   1.1. The intent of this instruction is to provide guidance to effectively manage and provide
   AFOTEC with training needed to accomplish its mission. This instruction provides guidance
   for most of the actions that are accomplished in the management and execution of the
   training mission. For situations not covered by this instruction, AFOTEC leadership will
   provide direction meeting the intent of the mission and philosophy paragraphs below.
   1.2. The AFOTEC Chief of Training is responsible for providing and managing training and
   education services supporting the operational test and evaluation (OT&E) mission of
   AFOTEC. The training program is organized to implement and support the AFOTEC
   Strategic Plan by conducting seven main types of training:
       1.2.1. Core OT&E training consists of the general training required to operate in the test
       environment to include theory, field training exercises, test team training, and program
       management.
       1.2.2. Ancillary Training consists of Air Expeditionary Force readiness training and
       workplace environment training.
       1.2.3. Core Technical Training consists of AFOTEC-specific analyst courses and labs as
       well as opportunities for commercial technical training.
       1.2.4. Career Development Training consists of formal schools and programs for civilian
       and military personnel.
       1.2.5. Commercial Training consists of commercially provided career enhancement and
       skills development courses.
       1.2.6. Administrative Support Training consists of computer-based skill labs centered on
       current office productivity programs as well as other training tools.
       1.2.7. Professional Development Training consists of Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC)
       specific training necessary to help AFOTEC personnel enhance their careers and develop
       their leadership skills.
   1.3. The Operational Test (OT) Training Matrix standardizes the OT training requirements
   for all AFOTEC assigned personnel and is used to build the OT Training Templates within
   AFOTEC’s required training management system.
2. Scope. This instruction applies to all Air Force military, civilian, and contractor members
assigned to AFOTEC and those Air Force personnel participating in AFOTEC-sponsored or
funded courses.
3. Mission. The AFOTEC Training Program mission is to provide the best initial training,
continuation training, and educational opportunities available to ensure mission success and
enhance professional development. The primary goal of the training program is the preparation
and sustainment of the AFOTEC work force to be effective, and to fulfill current and future
requirements through planning, programming, budgeting, and execution.
4                                                   AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009


4. Responsibilities.
    4.1. AFOTEC Detachment Commanders and Directors are directly responsible for their
    personnel’s training and will:
       4.1.1. Encourage detachment or directorate personnel to participate as faculty in
       organically taught courses or assist in course development in their area of expertise.
       4.1.2. Establish procedures for supervisors or raters to execute their responsibilities in
       monitoring the training status of each of his or her subordinates, to include accomplishing
       training in the timeline set forth in the OT Training Matrix.
       4.1.3. Approve detachment or directorate member’s training requests and ensure requests
       have significant justification for use of AFOTEC training funds.
       4.1.4. Serve as the approving authority for individuals submitting requests for change, or
       cancellation of scheduled training (see section 8.3).
       4.1.5. Serve as the requesting authority for personnel requesting waivers from training
       (see section 8.4).
           4.1.5.1. Designate and budget for specialty training to maintain currency and
           promote professional development of personnel.
       4.1.6. Appoint, in writing, a primary and alternate detachment or directorate-training
       manager. If a 3S2XX Training Manager is not assigned to the detachment or directorate,
       an additional duty training manager will be appointed.
    4.2. The AFOTEC Chief of Training will:
       4.2.1. Ensure the training opportunities necessary for maximum efficiency and
       effectiveness of AFOTEC personnel to perform their official duties.
       4.2.2. Promote education and training as an ongoing process in the professional
       development of AFOTEC's personnel.
       4.2.3. Continually adapt and improve AFOTEC training courses and procedures to
       ensure AFOTEC personnel receive the best possible training opportunities.
       4.2.4. Oversee the operations of the AFOTEC Training Program and Training Managers.
       4.2.5. Serve as the final approval authority for all AFOTEC training requests.
    4.3. AFOTEC Training Division personnel will:
       4.3.1. Review each training request to ensure training meets AFOTEC and individual
       needs, is in accordance with the OT Training Matrix, and meets a valid AF training
       requirement.
       4.3.2. Develop and maintain the AFOTEC OT Training Matrix. The OT training matrix
       will be reviewed annually by detachment commanders and directors and approved by the
       AFOTEC/CC.
       4.3.3. Manage the AFOTEC training budget and work with the detachment and
       directorate-training managers to establish training budget allocations.
AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                              5


     4.3.4. Monitor the participation in and scheduling of AFOTEC personnel for AFOTEC
     and non-AFOTEC courses to ensure efficient use of government resources.
     4.3.5. Focus on AFOTEC's mission to ensure required training and education needs are
     identified and requirements met in an effective, timely, and efficient manner.
     4.3.6. Monitor and report the status of training to the AFOTEC Commander and Vice
     Commander when requested.
     4.3.7. Maintain automated records of training requirements, course offerings, and course
     completion through the required tracking system.
     4.3.8. Maintain attendance records for AFOTEC training courses for 24 months.
     4.3.9. Monitor duplication of training requirements for cost-effectiveness and initiate on-
     site group training requests, as appropriate.
     4.3.10. Encourage the reciprocal use of training resources by other government agencies
     to minimize government costs.
     4.3.11. Manage professional development opportunities for all AFOTEC personnel.
     4.3.12. Continually identify, analyze, and meet training and education requirements with
     a systematic approach.
     4.3.13. Identify and obtain training and education resources through the planning,
     programming, and budgeting system.
     4.3.14. Respond with just-in-time training to address the needs of AFOTEC, when
     required.
     4.3.15. Achieve senior-level involvement through course introduction and policy
     establishment.
     4.3.16. Foster partnerships between career development advisors and functional
     managers regarding education and training matters.
     4.3.17. Fully utilize government subject matter experts as instructors during OT&E
     training and when appropriate.
     4.3.18. Increase and improve the use of technology for training and education.
     4.3.19. Respond to Operational Test Agency (OTA), DoD, HQ USAF, MAJCOM and
     international operational test training requests for support, as directed.
     4.3.20. Appoint a class leader for each on-site, AFOTEC hosted course having a duration
     greater than one day. The class leader will be briefed on his or her responsibilities by
     training division.
     4.3.21. Schedule contractors for training only if the specific criteria covered in section
     7.3. are met.
  4.4. Training Managers will:
     4.4.1. Act as the primary link between their detachment’s or directorate’s personnel and
     the AFOTEC Training Division.
6                                                    AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009


       4.4.2. In-process and out-process personnel arriving and departing AFOTEC. During in-
       processing, personnel will be loaded into the required training management system and
       scheduled for training as appropriate, with corresponding suspense dates. During
       AFOTEC out-processing, profiles within the system will be deleted.
       4.4.3. Develop and assign individual position-specific training and development
       templates identifying each position’s training requirements, per detachment commander
       or director mandate.
       4.4.4. Document their member’s training accomplishments within the required training
       management system for required ancillary, operational test, and specialized training.
       Documents used to show proof of completion for DoD and AF directed training
       requirements will be filed for the required amount of time. Proof of course completion,
       such as a screen capture or certificate, will be maintained and protected in accordance
       with AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
       4.4.5. Assist detachment and directorate personnel with scheduling for AFOTEC
       courses.
       4.4.6. Request additional courses be tracked within the required training management
       system through the AFOTEC Training Division. Generally, courses will be added or
       tracked if they meet any of the following criteria:
           4.4.6.1. Non-career field specific training (AFSC-specific training is tracked by other
           training management systems in the Air Force).
           4.4.6.2. Select AFOTEC courses requiring AFOTEC leadership visibility.
       4.4.7. Assist their detachment or directorate leadership in the execution of the Education
       Planning and Budgeting Process as specified in section 5.1.
       4.4.8. Monitor and report training status to their detachment commanders or directors as
       required and provide this update to AFOTEC Chief of Training.
    4.5. Supervisors must maintain direct control over their subordinate’s training and will:
       4.5.1. Review each subordinate’s training status monthly with training managers. When
       training deficiencies or discrepancies are identified, documented performance reviews
       and feedback sessions will be used to ensure requirements are met.
       4.5.2. Ensure personnel are released to attend training as scheduled or training is
       cancelled in a timely manner.
       4.5.3. Assist subordinates in the process of requesting change or cancellation of
       scheduled courses if they are unable to attend training or complete a training course.
       4.5.4. Ensure subordinates are aware of their Acquisition Professional Development
       Program (APDP) coding level and category. Complete annual reviews of APDP coded
       personnel to ensure subordinates are progressing towards certification, or maintaining
       certification by completing required continuous learning points.
       4.5.5. Approve subordinates mission-required training requests and filter out non-
       essential training. Forward approved requests to their respective detachment commander
       or director for approval.
AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                               7


   4.6. AFOTEC assigned personnel are responsible for accomplishment of their required
   training and will:
      4.6.1. In-process through their training manager within one week of arrival to AFOTEC.
      This enables the initiation and formulation of the individual’s training requirements
      document in the required training management system. AFOTEC personnel will also
      out-process from their training manager no later than one week prior to their departure
      from AFOTEC.
      4.6.2. Identify additional required training needs to their supervisor and training manager
      who will request approval from their detachment commander or director.
      4.6.3. Ensure their personal records reflect completed training activities. Review their
      individual training requirements section within the required training management system
      monthly.
      4.6.4. Initiate training requests through their supervisor using the AFOTEC training
      request process when the requested training is both job-related and required for the
      performance of duties.
      4.6.5. Notify their supervisor and training managers when they become aware of training
      opportunities beneficial to other AFOTEC personnel.
      4.6.6. If unable to attend training or complete a training course, in a timely manner
      initiate the process of requesting change or cancellation of scheduled course. See section
      8.3. for rescheduling procedures.
      4.6.7. IAW AFI 36-401, all personnel will forward training completion documentation to
      their respective training managers and supervisors. If documentation of accomplished
      training is not readily available, members will provide their training manager and
      supervisor with written justification.
5. Training Planning and Budgeting Process.
   5.1. The AFOTEC Training Division will work with detachment and directorate training
   managers to develop and approve each detachments and directorates yearly training budget
   allocation before the start of the fiscal year. While the overall AFOTEC training budget will
   be managed by the training division, the individual detachment and directorate training
   budget allocations will be tracked and monitored by the detachment and directorate training
   manager.
   5.2. The AFOTEC Training Division will serve as the final approving authority for all
   training requests and ensure that detachment and directorate training requests are properly
   prioritized, sufficiently justified, and the most efficient use of AFOTEC training funds.
   5.3. Detachment and directorate training managers will be responsible for ensuring that their
   detachment and directorate personnel follow the required process for obtaining training
   approval.
   5.4. IAW AFI 36-2306, The Education Services Program, AFOTEC members wishing to
   accomplish post-secondary education using Air Force resources should participate in the Air
   Force Education Services Program. AFOTEC is not funded to provide secondary education
   for civilian personnel.
8                                                    AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009


6. Off-Site and Commercial Training Request Process.
    6.1. The individual initiates the training request process by completing the required
    information for an AFOTEC training request package. The AFOTEC training request
    package consists of: a completed and approved AFOTEC Training Approval Checklist; a
    completed and signed SF 182, Authorization, Agreement and Certification of Training Form;
    a course description; and, if required, a course registration form.
    6.2. The SF 182 must be completed in accordance with the Agency Training Electronic
    Reporting Instructions (pages 6-14) of the SF 182.
6.3 The AFOTEC Training Justification and Approval Checklist must be signed by the
individual requesting training and their detachment or directorate training manager.
    6.4. Requests for training of military and civilian members will be routed for approval
    through the member’s supervisor, to their training manager, and then to their detachment
    commander or director for consideration. The detachment commander or director will
    approve requests through their respective training managers who in turn will forward the
    completed request package to the AFOTEC Training Division. The training request package
    must be submitted to the training division no later than 21 duty days before class registration
    deadline. If request is submitted after the 21-day deadline, a late letter to the AFOTEC Chief
    of Training from the detachment commander or director must also be included in the request.
    Requests submitted later than 10 duty days prior to the class registration deadline may not be
    processed by your local base training office.
    6.5. Students will not register or attend training until notified of approval by the training
    division. Personnel who do so may incur personal liability for training costs, or their
    detachment or directorate will be responsible for the training costs.
    6.6. AFOTEC detachment commanders and directors will notify their training managers who
    in turn will notify the training division in a timely manner if their personnel are unable to
    attend or complete scheduled training courses. This will enable training division personnel to
    fill the vacancy with another individual requiring training. This is accomplished to help
    preserve scarce training funds. See section 8.3. for cancellation procedures.
    6.7. All civilians are required to submit an SF 182 for all training of 8 hours or more
    regardless of cost. Additionally, all military and civilians must submit an SF 182 for any
    training requiring AFOTEC training funds regardless of duration.
    6.8. After completion of training, all personnel will submit the required course evaluation
    feedback, certificate of completion, travel voucher, and travel orders to the training division
    with a copy to their respective base force support squadron within 10 days of completion.
    6.9. Training priorities are established in AFI 36-2201 vol 1.
7. On-Site Training Request Process.
    7.1. The AFOTEC Training Division will analyze training requirements submitted from the
    detachment and directorate inputs to identify the cost effectiveness of offering group on-site
    training or training by non-traditional delivery methods.
    7.2. Units will coordinate all on-site training requirements and initiatives with training
    division personnel.
AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                9


   7.3. Scheduling of AFOTEC-assigned contractors for AFOTEC courses will be
   accomplished using the following procedures:
      7.3.1. Requests for contractors to attend government courses or conferences will be
      addressed on a case-by-case basis.
      7.3.2. Government personnel may not independently require or grant contractor
      employees the time to attend training. The government may provide training to
      contractor employees if the contract requires it. If the government and contractor
      supervisor agree contractor employee attendance at training is appropriate and attendance
      does not otherwise create a conflict or give the appearance of favoring a contractor, then
      the government must determine whether the training is a necessity and reasonable
      expense under its appropriation.
      7.3.3. Before a contractor may be scheduled for a course (marked as scheduled or
      pending in the required training management system), the contractor must submit written
      proof the following individuals approve his or her participating in the training: his or her
      immediate supervisor; his or her detachment commander or director; the Contracting
      Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR); the contractor’s company; and the AFOTEC
      contracting office. The terms of the training (cost or no cost to the government) must be
      cited in the approval. If these actions are not met, contractors will not be scheduled for
      AFOTEC-sponsored or funded courses.
      7.3.4. For the scheduling of non-AFOTEC-assigned contractors for AFOTEC courses,
      please consult the training division.
8. Individual Training Planning Process and Procedures.
   8.1. An Individual Training Requirements Document (ITRD) (accomplished via the required
   training management system) will be prepared for all AFOTEC personnel, military, civilian,
   and contactor upon their arrival in the detachment or division by their organization’s training
   manager. The ITRD will be updated as training requirements change. Contractors are
   required to have an ITRD containing specific training required by DoD regulations and
   additional training as outlined in their individual company contract. Contractor training will
   be coordinated by their program managers, overseen by their COTR.
   8.2. An ITRD will be prepared using DoD, Air Force, and AFOTEC instructions as follows:
      8.2.1. OT Training will be added to the ITRD based upon the requirements set forth in
      the AFOTEC OT Training Matrix.
      8.2.2. Ancillary Training will be added to the ITRD based upon AFI 36-2201 and
      Advanced Distributed Learning System (ADLS) requirements.
   8.3. Requesting a scheduled course change or cancellation.
      8.3.1. AFOTEC personnel will initiate the process of requesting a change or cancellation
      of scheduled courses promptly if unable to attend training or complete a training course.
      The request will be reviewed by the individual’s supervisor and forwarded by the
      supervisor to the detachment commander or director through his or her chain of
      command. The detachment commander or director will provide a written or e-mailed
      request for change or cancellation of training.
10                                                   AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009


        8.3.2. Once approved internally by the detachment commander or director, the written
        request is forwarded to the AFOTEC registrar’s office for processing.
     8.4. Requesting a waiver to the OT Training Matrix.
        8.4.1. AFOTEC personnel will initiate the process of requesting a waiver to the OT
        Training Matrix if it is determined that he/she does not need the required training. The
        request will be reviewed by the individual’s supervisor and forwarded by the supervisor
        to the detachment commander or director through his or her chain of command. Ensure
        that the training manager is informed regarding the actions involved with the request.
        8.4.2. The AFOTEC detachment commander or director will forward his or her approval
        of the waiver to their respective training manager who in turn will forward the request to
        the AFOTEC Training Division for processing. The AFOTEC Chief of Training will
        review and present the request to the AFOTEC Commander for approval or disapproval.
        The AFOTEC Commander is the final adjudication authority for all deviations or waivers
        to the OT Training Matrix.

9. Adopted Forms.

Standard Form 182 (SF 182), Authorization, Agreement, and Certification of Training Form.




                                             STEPHEN T. SARGEANT, Major General, USAF
                                             Commander
AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                   11


                                    ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2201V1, Training Development, Delivery, and Evaluation, 1 October 2002
AFI 36-2201V2, Air Force Training Program Training Management, 13 January 2004
AFI 36-2306, The Education Services Program, 16 October 2000
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 June 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records and AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—-Advanced Distributed Learning System
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—-Air Force Manual
AFOTEC—-Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFSC—-Air Force Specialty Code
APDP—-Acquisition Professional Development Program
COTR—-Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative
DAU—-Defense Acquisition University
DoD—-Department of Defense
FM—-Financial Management
HQ—-Headquarters
MAJCOM—-Major Command
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
OT—-Operational Test
OTA—-Operational Test Agency
OT&E—-Operational Test and Evaluation
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
12                                                         AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009


                                           ATTACHMENT 2
                AFOTEC TRAINING COURSE CANCELLATION PROCESS

The following information is required for e-mail processing of an AFOTEC course cancellation.

NAME:
DUTY POSITION:
DATE ASSIGNED DUTY POSITION:
COURSE(S) TO CANCEL:
JUSTIFICATION:

**This information is required if the e-mail is not originating from the Detachment DO/Deputy Director or
higher**
APPROVED BY:
ON:
                                         Example email from Det X DO

From: Jones, Mike D Lt Col AFOTEC Det X/DO
Sent: Friday, July 25, 2008 10:33 AM
To: (All Current AFOTEC Training Division Registrars)
Subject: Request for cancellation from AFOTEC 310 for Capt Frank

NAME: Capt Ed Frank
DUTY POSITION: Test Director
DATE ASSIGNED DUTY POSITION: 05/01/08
COURSE(S) TO CANCEL: AFOTEC 310
JUSTIFICATION: Capt Frank needs to attend a late notice program review for the new program that he was
assigned to.
AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                           13


                                            ATTACHMENT 3
               AFOTEC TRAINING COURSE WAIVER REQUEST PROCESS

The following information is required for e-mail processing of an AFOTEC course waiver
request.

NAME:
DUTY POSITION:
DATE ASSIGNED DUTY POSITION:
COURSE(S) TO WAIVE:
JUSTIFICATION:

**This information is required if the e-mail is not originating from the Det CC or Director, such as the
Detachment/Directorate Corporate Account or Detachment DO/Deputy Director **
APPROVED BY:
ON:

                                    Example email from Det X Commander

From: Smith, Eric D Col AFOTEC Det X/CC
Sent: Friday, July 25, 2008 10:33 AM
To: (Current AFOTEC Training Division Chief)
Subject: Request for waiver from AFOTEC 141 for Capt Doe

NAME: Capt John Doe
DUTY POSITION: Test Director
DATE ASSIGNED DUTY POSITION: 07/01/08
COURSE(S) TO WAIVE: AFOTEC 141
JUSTIFICATION: Capt Doe recently came from AFIT where he took a semester long course in the Design of
Experiments.
14                                               AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009


                                  ATTACHMENT 4
                       EXAMPLE SF 182 - MILITARY PAGE 1

Figure A4.1. Example SF 182 – Military Page 1.
AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009                           15


                                  ATTACHMENT 5
                        EXAMPLE SF 182 - CIVILIAN PAGE 1

Figure A5.1. Example SF 182 – Civilian Page 1.
16                                             AFOTECI 36-2201 4 SEPTEMBER 2009


                                   ATTACHMENT 6
               EXAMPLE SF 182 - MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PAGE 2

Figure A6.1. Example SF 182 – Military and Civilian Page 2.
