BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               AIR FORCE OPERATIONAL TEST AND
                                                                    EVALUATION CENTER INSTRUCTION 99-101

                                                                                                                30 APRIL 2014
                                                                                                Certified Current 20 June 2014
                                                                                                           Test and Evaluation

                                                                        OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION
                                                                                           MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFOTEC/DS                                                                                           Certified by: AFOTEC/CV
                                                                                                                 (Col James K. Eck)
                                                                                                                          Pages: 24


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, and
Air Force Mission Directive (AFMD) 14, Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
(AFOTEC). This instruction implements the policies in Department of Defense Directive
(DoDD) 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, and Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System. Additionally, this Instruction is
AFOTEC’s capstone policy document and it contains the AFOTEC strategy to accomplish its
mission as directed by AFMD 14. This AFOTECI is applicable to all AFOTEC Detachments,
Directorates, Operating Locations and special staff including the Command Section. This
publication may not be supplemented.



Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.                                                                                                          3
       1.1.   Air Force Vision. ...................................................................................................          3
       1.2.   Standup. .................................................................................................................     3
       1.3.   Informed National Resource Decisions. ................................................................                         3
       1.4.   Strategy. .................................................................................................................    3

Chapter 2—FOUNDATIONAL LAW AND POLICY.                                                                                                       4
       2.1.   Law. .......................................................................................................................   4
       2.2.   Policy. ....................................................................................................................   4
2                                                                                   AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


Chapter 3—THE “ENDS”                                                                                                                6
     3.1.   The AFOTEC vision is to be “Premier Testers Arming the Warfighter with
            Operational Truth. ..................................................................................................   6

Chapter 4—THE “WAYS AND MEANS”                                                                                                      7
     4.1.   Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP). ...........................................................                      7
     4.2.   Managing Resources. .............................................................................................       7
     4.3.   Leading People. .....................................................................................................   8
     4.4.   Improving the Unit. ................................................................................................    10
     4.5.   Executing the Mission. ..........................................................................................       10

Chapter 5—CONCLUSION.                                                                                                               12
     5.1.   The law contained in USC Title 10 and the Department and Service policies
            contained primarily in DoDD 5000. ......................................................................                12
     5.2.   The Air Force Vision states that the Air Force is powered by its Airmen and
            fueled by innovation. .............................................................................................     12
     5.3.   The AFOTEC vision is to be “Premier Testers Arming the Warfighter with
            Operational Truth. ..................................................................................................   12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      13

Attachment 2—WAYS AND MEANS                                                                                                         17

Attachment 3—AFOTEC CCIP BATTLE RHYTHM                                                                                              18

Attachment 4—AFOTEC CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT COST MANAGEMENT
             COMMITTEE CHARTER                                                                                                      19

Attachment 5—AFOTEC CIVILIAN ADVISORY COUNCIL CHARTER                                                                               22
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                                    3



                                           Chapter 1

                             INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE.

1.1. Air Force Vision. The Air Force is faced with many global security, economic and
budgetary challenges requiring its Major Commands, Field Operating Agencies and Direct
Reporting Units to support the Air Force Vision by training Airmen, strengthening the Air Force
mission and pioneering innovative ways to maintain and increase our capabilities. The Air Force
Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) will support the Air Force Vision and help
the Air Force meet these challenges by training our Airmen on operational testing, conducting
and reporting the results of required operational tests, connecting with the requirements,
acquisition and test communities and pioneering innovative ways to influence and inform
national resource decisions. As Air Force requirements change in the future, AFOTEC will
adapt to support those requirements.
1.2. Standup. In 1974, the Air Force activated the Air Force Test and Evaluation Center (which
in 1983 became AFOTEC) in response to a Defense Panel study which found that Operational
Test and Evaluation (OT&E) is done most effectively when the OT&E organization reports
directly to the respective service chief and that OT&E reports and findings contribute
significantly to acquisition decision-making at all levels of the Department of Defense.
1.3. Informed National Resource Decisions. As a Direct Reporting Unit, the Commander of
AFOTEC reports directly to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF). AFOTEC will inform
the CSAF and senior acquisition leaders across the DoD with operational test results contained in
our test reports. AFOTEC’s role in informing these national resource decisions will be as
important in the future as in informing similar decisions since 1974.
1.4. Strategy. This Instruction is AFOTEC’s capstone policy document and its purpose is to
identify AFOTEC’s vision, mission and the strategy to adapt to change. The “ways and means”
or test management and business processes described in this instruction will enable AFOTEC to
adapt to changing Air Force acquisition program requirements and accomplish the mission or the
“ends.”
 4                                                             AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                            FOUNDATIONAL LAW AND POLICY.

2.1. Law. Operational testing, as conducted by service Operational Test Agencies (OTA), is
specifically mandated in US law.
     2.1.1. According to US Code (USC) Title 10, Operational Test and Evaluation is: the field
     test, under realistic combat conditions, of any item of (or key component of) weapons,
     equipment, or munitions for the purpose of determining the effectiveness and suitability of
     the weapons, equipment, or munitions for use in combat by typical military users; and the
     evaluation of the results of such test.
     2.1.2. Effectiveness answers the question, “does it work?” Suitability answers the question,
     “does it work when we need it?” AFOTEC’s primary function is to conduct Initial
     Operational Test and Evaluation (IOT&E) on major defense acquisition programs. IOT&E is
     mandated in USC Title 10 which states that major defense acquisition programs may not
     proceed beyond low rate initial production until IOT&E is completed. Further, AFOTEC
     supports the Secretary of the Air Force’s USC Title 10 responsibility to report promptly to
     the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation (DOT&E) of the Office of the Secretary of
     Defense on the results of operational test and evaluation conducted by the Air Force.
     2.1.3. USC Title 10 proscribes that operational testing of major defense acquisition programs
     may not be conducted until DOT&E approves (in writing) the adequacy of the plans
     (including projected level of funding) for operational test and evaluation to be conducted in
     connection with that program. Accordingly, AFOTEC conducts rigorous planning for its
     tests and presents these plans to DOT&E for adequacy approval when the acquisition
     program is on DOT&E oversight.
2.2. Policy. The policy foundation for AFOTEC’s existence comes from DoD Directive
(DoDD) 5000.01 and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02. The DoD policy states that each
Military Department shall establish an Operational Test Agency reporting directly to the Service
Chief to plan and conduct operational tests, report results, and provide evaluations of
effectiveness and suitability. According to DoD policy, the lead Operational Test Agency will
conduct an independent, dedicated phase of IOT&E before full rate production or full
deployment that provides objective test results free from potential conflicts of interest or bias.
AFOTEC is USAF’s Operational Test Agency, and as a Direct Reporting Unit, fulfills DoD’s
policy.
     2.2.1. DoDI 5000.02 specifies that all elements of Test Plans must be fully satisfied by the
     end of an operational test. The DoD policy also specifies how to determine the number and
     type of test articles to be used in AFOTEC test events. In particular, IOT&E for all programs
     will use production or production representative test articles.
     2.2.2. The Air Force Mission Directive 14 (AFMD-14) states the AFOTEC mission is to
     evaluate the capability of systems to meet warfighter needs by planning, executing, and
     reporting independent operational assessments, tests and evaluations. From concept
     development to system fielding, AFOTEC evaluates a system’s overall operational capability
     as determined by effectiveness, suitability, and other operational considerations, and assesses
     operational impacts in future and current battlespace environments. The AFOTEC OT&E
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                                5


  Guide also adds that AFOTEC delivers timely characterization of Air Force systems mission
  capability.
  2.2.3. According to AFMD-14, The AFOTEC Commander will lead personnel, facilities,
  property and funds organic to AFOTEC, and exercise control of operational test events using
  personnel and resources allocated to AFOTEC.
  2.2.4. AFI 99-103 specifies that IOT&E shall only be conducted by AFOTEC, which
  determines the operational effectiveness and suitability of systems under test. The
  Instruction states that AFOTEC will carry out the responsibilities of the Air Force
  independent OTA described in DoDD 5000.01 and AFMD-14, and is responsible to develop
  AFOTEC guidance, procedures and Memorandum of Agreements (MOA) for operational
  testing.
  2.2.5. AFOTEC is organized, trained and equipped for management of operational test.
  MAJCOMs provide personnel and equipment for the conduct of AFOTEC testing.
  Accordingly, the majority of AFOTEC work is in collaborating and building understanding
  with MAJCOMs in order to develop adequate test plans. From the early stages of major
  defense acquisition programs, AFOTEC works with DoD, DOT&E, Air Force MAJCOMs,
  the Director of AF Test and Evaluation, program offices and other service and allied test
  organizations to collaborate for the conduct of our test work.
 6                                                          AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


                                          Chapter 3

                                        THE “ENDS”

3.1. The AFOTEC vision is to be “Premier Testers Arming the Warfighter with
Operational Truth. ” AFOTEC achieves this vision by adapting to changing Air Force
requirements and expertly executing its mission as stated in AFMD-14: “evaluate the capability
of systems…and reporting independent…tests and evaluations.” The AFOTEC mission is the
“ends.” To accomplish the AFOTEC mission and our strategic end state, we will organize, train
and equip for the management of operational test. AFOTEC uses multiple test management and
business processes, also known as strategic “ways and means” to adapt to changing Air Force
requirements and to ensure the effective management of our resources to conduct operational test
activities.
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                                     7


                                           Chapter 4

                                 THE “WAYS AND MEANS”

4.1. Commander’s Inspection Program (CCIP). AFOTEC will use multiple processes to
adapt its mission execution to anticipated changes in Air Force acquisition program
requirements. The Air Force Inspection System (AFIS) defines four Major Graded Areas
(MGAs) that represent key processes, procedures and requirements based on either public law,
executive orders, directives and instructions. These four MGAs are: managing resources,
leading people, improving the unit, and executing the mission. The “ways and means” chart
(Attach 2) shows the processes that AFOTEC uses to adapt to changing acquisition requirements
and accomplish its mission. The CCIP is the overarching process AFOTEC uses to ensure
adaptation to changing requirements and to effectively execute the mission.
The purpose of the CCIP process is to provide the Commander with a mechanism to judge
detachment and directorate ability to execute the mission and promote responsibility and
accountability within AFOTEC. The CCIP allows the Commander to control the depth, scope
and frequency of inspections. The AFOTEC CCIP is an ongoing program with a battle rhythm
of two inspections per year (Attach 3). The AFOTEC Inspector General (IG) Visit provides the
Commander with an ability to detect non-compliance with governing directives, to measure unit
effectiveness in the four MGAs, and to understand the health of the detachment and directorate
identifying areas that require staff attention. CCIP Self Inspection ensures a level of compliance
with AF guidance and provides the Commander with the directorate and detachments’ own
assessment. CCIP governance and overarching guidance are provided by the Commander
through the Monthly Commander’s Inspection Management Board (CIMB) as directed in AFI
90-201. The OPR is the AFOTEC IG (currently the AFOTEC Vice Commander).
4.2. Managing Resources.
   4.2.1. Test Resource Plan (TRP) Review. The purpose of the AFOTEC TRP process is to
   identify all the resources required to support operational testing. TRP reviews are conducted
   twice each year, normally in October at the beginning of the fiscal year and then again in
   April at mid-way through the fiscal year. TRP governance and overarching guidance are
   provided in the AFOTEC OT&E Guide. The OPR is AFOTEC/A-5/8. OCRs are
   AFOTEC/A-3 and all detachments.
   4.2.2. Requirements Review Board (RRB). The purpose of the AFOTEC RRB process is to
   conduct a structured review of all AFOTEC manpower and test resource requirements. This
   review includes test program schedules, funding, and manpower requirements; focusing on
   the upcoming year funding allocation, and including six additional out-years. The RRB
   process includes a review of detachment and directorate funding and manpower
   requirements. Schedule slips, funding requests, and changes to manpower requirements are
   all reviewed at the Board. Outcomes of the RRB include the AFOTEC Program Objective
   Memorandum (POM) submission and the upcoming year’s Research, Development, Test and
   Evaluation (RDT&E) budget. RRBs are conducted twice each year, normally in January and
   July. RRB governance and overarching guidance are provided in the AFOTEC OT&E
   Guide. The OPR is AFOTEC/A-5/8. OCRs are all other directorates and all detachments.
 8                                                            AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


     4.2.3. Financial Management Board (FMB). The purpose of the AFOTEC FMB process is
     to program, track and manage the execution of Operations and Maintenance (O&M) and
     RDT&E appropriations provided by Headquarters Air Force (HAF) which provide the
     resources to complete and report on the operational test mission and funding for civilian
     manpower, and the maintenance of AFOTEC facilities. The FMB tracks expenditures,
     compares those to projections, and reprograms funds for high priority projects. The FMB
     meets once each quarter throughout the fiscal year. Additionally, during the Headquarters
     Monthly Update, the A-4/7 briefs expenditures to the Commander. FMB governance and
     overarching guidance are provided in AFI 65-601. The OPR is AFOTEC/A-4/7. OCRs are
     all other directorates and all detachments.
     4.2.4. Facilities Requirements Board (FRB). The purpose of the AFOTEC FRB process is to
     obtain and rank facility requirements from detachments, operating locations and directorates.
     The FRB occurs during the first and third quarters of the fiscal year. FRB governance and
     overarching guidance are provided in AFI 32-1032. The OPR is AFOTEC/A-4/7. OCRs
     include all other directorates and all detachments.
     4.2.5. Test Capability Roadmap. The purpose of the AFOTEC Test Capability Roadmap is
     to influence the design and development of test infrastructure. The Roadmap identifies the
     test capability shortfalls that impact AFOTEC’s ability to carry out our assigned mission. By
     eliminating these shortfalls, AFOTEC can provide the most complete and useful test results.
     AFOTEC publishes the AFOTEC Test Capability Roadmap every two years. AFOTEC Test
     Capability Roadmap governance and overarching guidance are provided in AFI 99-109. The
     OPR is AFOTEC/A-5/8. OCRs are AFOTEC/A-3 and the detachments.
     4.2.6. Management Internal Control Program (MICP). The Air Force MICP process purpose
     is to evaluate internal control programs and verify controls are in place. The MICP is an
     ongoing process, however AFOTEC provides an annual submission of Statement of
     Assurance to Headquarters Air Force (HAF) in June of each year. MICP governance and
     overarching guidance are provided in AFI 65-201. The OPR is AFOTEC/A-4/7. OCRs are
     all other directorates and all detachments.
     4.2.7. Information Technology Requirements Board (ITRB). The purpose of the AFOTEC
     ITRB process is to provide the AFOTEC Vice Commander and the A-6 with the request and
     justification for upgrades or additions to hardware and/or software of the current IT
     infrastructure. The ITRB ensures a level of visibility at AFOTEC HQ which assists in
     inventory control and provides situational awareness to the Commander. The ITRB conducts
     quarterly reviews throughout the year. The ITRB governance and overarching guidance are
     provided in AFOTECI 33-103. The OPR is AFOTEC/A-6. OCR is AFOTEC/A-4/7.
     4.2.8. Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee (CECMC). The purpose of the
     AFOTEC CECMC process is to review civilian resource management operating budget
     submissions and requests for additional civilian manpower positions at the command level.
     The CECMC compares civilian pay expenditures against budgetary targets and establishes
     guidelines on civilian resource management for the command. The CECMC will meet once
     per quarter. CECMC governance and overarching guidance are provided in AFI 36-502 and
     the CECMC Charter (Attach 4). The OPR is the AFOTEC Executive Director. OCRs are
     AFOTEC/A-1 and AFOTEC/A-4/7.
4.3. Leading People.
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                                      9


  4.3.1. Commander’s Call. The purpose of the AFOTEC Commander’s Call is to keep
  AFOTEC members informed through direct personal contact. The Commander’s Call
  provides this contact in both a face-to-face and virtual (via Video Teleconference) forum.
  Commander’s Call will be conducted quarterly throughout the year. Commander’s Call
  governance and overarching guidance are provided directly by the Commander. The OPR is
  the Commander’s Action Group. OCR is AFOTEC/A-1.
  4.3.2. Civilian Advisory Council (CAC). The purpose of the AFOTEC CAC process is to
  provide a senior-level forum to discuss and resolve civilian workforce issues at the command
  level and to give command civilian personnel efforts focus and attention. Civilian personnel
  efforts are strategic initiatives and/or critical cross-cutting issues that support the command’s
  civilian workforce. The CAC provides the Commander and his staff with professional advice
  and assistance in matters pertaining to the civilian workforce. The CAC will meet once per
  quarter throughout the year. CAC governance and overarching guidance are provided in the
  CAC Charter (Attach 5). The OPR is the AFOTEC Executive Director. OCR is
  AFOTEC/A-1.
  4.3.3. Mentoring Program. The purpose of the AFOTEC Mentoring Program is to provide
  useful, relevant information to foster personal and professional growth; develop and enhance
  supervisory and leadership skills. The Mentoring Program offers a Quarterly Leadership
  Matters seminar to all AFOTEC civilians, officers and enlisted members. Mentoring
  Program governance and overarching guidance are provided in the AFMAN 36-2643. The
  OPRs are the AFOTEC Executive Director, Vice Commander and the Chief Enlisted
  Manager. OCR is AFOTEC/A-1.
  4.3.4. Performance Evaluations and Fitness Review. The purpose of the AFOTEC
  Performance Evaluations process is to provide effective and timely feedback to civilian
  employees and military members as a critical component of a successful performance
  management program. Civilian employee and military member performance will improve
  with effective feedback including progress made towards goals. At least one interim
  performance review will be documented during the appraisal period. Civilian evaluation
  governance and overarching guidance are provided in AFI 36-1001. Military member
  evaluation governance and overarching guidance are provided in AFI 36-2406. For
  AFOTEC military members, the AFOTEC Fitness Review process provides a structured
  process of tracking fitness failures and non-current members. The Fitness Review provides a
  venue for each Director and Detachment Commander to discuss fitness issues with the
  AFOTEC Commander and ensure consistency in administrative actions across the command.
  Local Director or Detachment Commander-led Fitness Reviews are accomplished monthly as
  well as quarterly Fitness Reviews with all Directors and Detachment Commanders to the
  AFOTEC Commander. Fitness Review governance and overarching guidance are provided
  in AFI 36-2905. The OPR is AFOTEC/A-1.
  4.3.5. Military Vulnerable to Move List (VML) and Colonel’s Gameplan. The purpose of
  the Air Force VML process is to provide a systematic framework for O-5s and below that
  includes predictability, visibility and the ability to provide input. The VML process is
  executed in three Permanent Change of Station (PCS) cycles per year. AFOTEC/A-1
  provides the Commander’s requirements to the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC). Military
  members provide their assignment preferences, with Commander endorsement, to AFPC via
  the Airman Development Plan (ADP). VML governance and overarching guidance are
 10                                                          AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


   provided in AFI 36-2110. The purpose of the Air Force Colonel’s Gameplan is to provide
   the hiring authorities’ visibility to all the available colonels to consider for their projected
   vacancies. The Colonel’s Gameplan process is executed annually. AFOTEC/A-1 provides
   the Commander’s requirements to the AF/DPO, Colonel’s Group. Gameplan governance
   and overarching guidance are provided in the Colonel’s Handbook. The OPR is
   AFOTEC/A-1.
4.4. Improving the Unit.
   4.4.1. Headquarters and Detachment Commander Monthly Updates. The purpose of the
   AFOTEC Headquarters and Detachment CC Monthly Updates are to provide information to
   the Commander on key headquarters staff and program issues. The Headquarters and
   Detachment CC Monthly Updates are both held monthly throughout the year. The
   Headquarters Monthly Update focuses on headquarters staff issues and the Detachment CC
   Monthly Update focuses on program issues. Update governance and overarching guidance is
   provided directly from the Commander. The OPR is the Commander’s Action Group. OCRs
   are all directorates and detachments.
   4.4.2. Continuous Process Improvement Program. The purpose of the AFOTEC Continuous
   Process Improvement Program is to improve mission effectiveness and efficiency; to advise
   detachment commanders and directors on continuous process improvement tools and
   methods; and ensure alignment with DoD and Air Force requirements. The Continuous
   Process Improvement Program ensures AFOTEC personnel are trained and mentored on
   process improvement methods and are in alignment with this instruction. Continuous
   Process Improvement events are conducted as requested by the Commander and other senior
   leadership. Continuous Process Improvement Program governance and overarching
   guidance are provided in a draft AFOTEC Instruction that is currently in staffing. The OPR
   is AFOTEC/CVO.
   4.4.3. Security Staff Assistance Visits. The purpose of the AFOTEC Security Staff
   Assistance Visits process is to conduct local information protection management evaluations
   and meet AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, requirements. Security
   Staff Assistance Visits will be conducted at least annually, for detachments and operating
   locations that store or handle classified material. Security Staff Assistance Visits governance
   and overarching guidance are provided in AFI 31-401. The OPR is AFOTEC/CVI.
   4.4.4. Safety Program Assessments. The purpose of the AFOTEC Safety Program
   Assessments is to assess the areas of commander and supervisory support, compliance with
   program directives and the effectiveness of mishap prevention programs. Safety Program
   Assessments will be conducted at intervals not to exceed 36 months. Safety Program
   Assessments guidance is provided in AFI 91-202. The OPR is AFOTEC/SE. OCRs are all
   directorates and detachments.
4.5. Executing the Mission.
   4.5.1. Plan, Execute and Report. AFOTEC follows multiple processes to plan, execute and
   report test results. According to AFMD-14, The AFOTEC Commander independently leads
   the planning, execution, and reporting of operational assessments, tests, and evaluations on
   Air Force acquisition programs, to include new and existing systems, modification programs,
   commercial-off-the-shelf items, non-developmental items, and evolutionary acquisitions,
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                               11


  with consideration given to emergent joint service, allied, and other agency mission
  capabilities. The AFOTEC Manual (AFOTECMAN) 99-101 and the AFOTEC OT&E Guide
  provide overarching guidance of those processes. AFOTEC will employ the AFOTEC
  OT&E Guide which provides the instructions to do our job and to deliver timely evaluations
  of the operational effectiveness, suitability and mission capability of new or modified Air
  Force systems. The AFOTEC OT&E Guide provides AFOTEC personnel with the “how-to”
  for accomplishing OT&E. The OT&E Guide is updated, staffed and approved by the
  Commander on an annual basis. OPR is AFOTEC/A-3. OCRs are all other directorates and
  detachments.
  4.5.2. Training. The purpose of the AFOTEC Training process is to train newly assigned
  AFOTEC members on AFOTEC’s mission, vision and strategy and to train key personnel
  how to plan, execute and report on operational tests. All AFOTEC personnel are required to
  complete the AFOTEC 101 and 201 courses. AFOTEC 101 and 201 courses are provided in
  a Computer Based Training (CBT) format and offered at any time to newly assigned
  personnel. AFOTEC 301 course is normally offered three to four times per year to key
  personnel, based upon their specific duties, and is hosted at HQ AFOTEC, Kirtland AFB,
  New Mexico. AFOTEC Training governance and overarching guidance are provided in AFI
  36-2201.     OPR is AFOTEC/A-1.          OCRs are AFOTEC/A-2/9, AFOTEC/A-3 and
  AFOTEC/A-5/8.
 12                                                         AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


                                          Chapter 5

                                       CONCLUSION.

5.1. The law contained in USC Title 10 and the Department and Service policies contained
primarily in DoDD 5000. 01, DoDI 5000.02, AFI 99-103 and AFMD-14 provide the
foundation for AFOTEC’s strategy as described in this AFOTEC Instruction.
5.2. The Air Force Vision states that the Air Force is powered by its Airmen and fueled by
innovation. AFOTEC supports the Air Force Vision in several ways. AFOTEC maximizes our
Airmen’s potential by providing tailored training required for the operational test mission.
AFOTEC strengthens the Air Force’s mission through strong connections with the
Requirements, Acquisition and Test communities. AFOTEC is pioneering innovative ways to
maintain and increase our nation’s test capacities.
5.3. The AFOTEC vision is to be “Premier Testers Arming the Warfighter with
Operational Truth. ” AFOTEC achieves this vision by adapting to changing Air Force
acquisition program requirements and expertly executing its mission as stated in AFMD-14:
“evaluate the capability of systems…and reporting independent…tests and evaluations.” The
AFOTEC mission is the “ends.” To accomplish the AFOTEC mission and our strategic end
state, we will organize, train and equip for the management of operational test. AFOTEC uses
multiple processes, also known as strategic “ways and means” to adapt to changing Air Force
requirements and to ensure the effective management of our resources to conduct operational test
activities.




                                            SCOTT D. WEST, Major General, USAF
                                            Commander
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                           13


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 20 November 2007
Interim DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 26 November 2013
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
AFMD 14, Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center, 22 October 2013
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program, 18 September 2013
AFI 32-1032, Planning and Programming Appropriated Funded Maintenance Repair, and
Construction Projects, 1 October 2003
AFI 36-502, Managing Civilian Personnel Resources, 30 March 1994
AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program, 1 July 1999
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 8 June 2012
AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems, 1 January 2014
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 21 October 2013
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 March 2011
AFI 65-201, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures, 1 May 1997
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations, 29 August 2011
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 20 August 2013
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 2013
AFI 99-109, Test Resource Planning, 17 May 2006
AFMAN 36-2643, Air Force Mentoring Program, 1 May 2013
AFOTECI 33-103, IT Requirements Development and Processing, 6 August 2013
AFOTECMAN 99-101, Operational Test Processes and Procedures, 11 October 2012
AFOTEC OT&E Guide, 9th Edition, 10 November 2013

Abbreviations and Acronyms:
AF—Air Force
AF/DPO—Air Force Colonel’s Group
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIS—Air Force Inspection System
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
 14                                                    AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFOTECI—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center Instruction
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CAC—Civilian Advisory Council
CCIP—Commander’s Inspection Program
CECMC—Civilian Employment Cost Management Committee
CIMB—Commander’s Inspection Management Board
CSAF—Chief of Staff, Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOT&E—Director of Operational Test and Evaluation
DT—Developmental Test
FMB—Financial Management Board
FRB—Financial Review Board
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ—- Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
IOT&E—Initial Operational Test and Evaluation
IT&E—Integrated Test and Evaluation
ITRB—Information Technology Requirements Board
MAJCOM—Major Command
MICP—Management Internal Control Program
MGA—Major Graded Area
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OCR—Office of Coordinating Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
OTA—Operational Test Agency
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                                       15


PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RDT&E—Research, Developmental, Test and Evaluation
RRB—Requirements Review Board
TRP—Test Resource Plan
USAF—United States Air Force
USC—United States Code
VML—Vulnerable Movers List

Terms:
EFFECTIVENESS— The overall degree of mission accomplishment of a system when used by
representative personnel in the environment planned or expected (e.g., natural, electronic, threat)
for operational employment of the system considering organization, doctrine, tactics,
survivability, vulnerability, and threat (including countermeasures, initial nuclear weapons
effects, and nuclear, biological, and chemical (NBC) contamination threats).
FULL RATE PRODUCTION— The period encompassing the process of uniting facilities,
hardware and software, personnel, and procedural publications necessary for manufacturing and
delivering an acceptable integrated system to the using and supporting commands.
INITIAL OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION— An independent and dedicated
operational T&E conducted in as realistic an operational environment as possible to estimate the
prospective system’s overall operational capability determined by effectiveness, suitability, and
other operational consideration. In addition, OT&E provides information on organization,
personnel requirements, doctrine, and tactics. It may also provide data to support or verify
material in operating instructions, publications, and handbooks.
LOW RATE INITIAL PRODUCTION— The minimum number of systems (other than ships
and satellites) to provide production representative articles for operational T&E, to establish an
initial production base, and to permit an orderly increase in the production rate sufficient to reach
full-rate production upon successful completion of operational testing.
OPERATIONAL ASSESSMENT— Analysis of progress toward operational effectiveness and
suitability made by an independent operational test activity, with user support as required, on
other than production systems. Additionally, AFOTEC assesses progress towards overall
mission capability. The focus of an operational assessment is on significant trends noted in
developmental efforts, programmatic voids, areas of risk, adequacy of requirements, and the
ability of the program to support adequate operational testing. Operational assessments may be
made at any time using technology demonstrators, prototypes, mockups, engineering
development models, or simulations, but are not a substitute for the independent OT&E
necessary to support full production or full deployment decisions. An OA conducted before
acquisition milestone B is referred to as an Early Operational Assessment (EOA).
Operational Test and Evaluation— The field test, under realistic combat conditions, of any
item (or key component) of weapons, equipment, or munitions for the purpose of determining the
 16                                                           AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


effectiveness and suitability of the weapons, equipment, or munitions for use in combat by
typical military users; and the evaluation of the results of such test.
SUITABILITY— The degree to which a system can be placed satisfactorily in field use with
consideration given to availability, compatibility, transportability, interoperability, reliability,
wartime usage rates, maintainability, safety, human factors, manpower supportability, logistics
supportability, natural environmental effects and impacts, documentation, and training
requirements.
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                    17


                                Attachment 2
                              WAYS AND MEANS
18                         AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


            Attachment 3
     AFOTEC CCIP BATTLE RHYTHM
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                                   19


                                       Attachment 4

                                       AFOTEC
        CIVILIAN EMPLOYMENT COST MANAGEMENT
                  COMMITTEE CHARTER


1 . Committee's Official Designation. AFOTEC Civilian Employment and Cost Management
Committee (CECMC)

2. Date Established. 26 November 2012

3. Date to be Terminated. Indefinite - until changed or terminated by the AFOTEC
   Commander

4. Category and Type of Committee. Intra-AFOTEC

5. Mission or Purpose. The AFOTEC CECMC will:

       A. Review civilian resource management operating budget submissions and requests
          for additional civilian manpower positions at the command level.

       B. Serves as the corporate body, in accordance with Air Force Instruction 65-601
          Financial Management, Volume 2, chapter 9.2, responsible for civilian
          employment planning and tracking against budgetary targets. Periodically reviews
          employment plans and compares civilian pay expenditures against budgetary
          targets, provides managers and supervisors with targets for the civilian resource
          operating budget, allocates directed adjustments (to include approval of annual
          CECMC funded overhire request) and redistributes any surplus funds.

       C. Establishes instructions on civilian resource management for the command and
          recommends hiring policy for accomplishing funding, manpower, or workload
          reprogramming decisions that involve changes to the civilian workforce.
          Periodically reviews and makes recommendations as necessary on personnel
          management programs and practices such as: performance management,
          affirmative employment objectives, and labor/employee relations activities.

6. Direction and Control. AFOTEC Commander

7. Administrative Support and Staff Arrangements. The A-4/7 Directorate will act as the
   secretariat providing administrative support to the CECMC.

8. Composition. The CECMC is comprised of the AFOTEC Executive Director who will
20                                                             AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


     serve as the chairperson, and the A-Staff Directors and Detachment Commanders as
     primary members. Primary members will designate an alternate if they are unavailable to
     attend meetings. The designee must have full authority to act for the commander or
     director. The chairperson may invite additional representatives to participate in committee
     meetings (i.e., subject matter experts) as required.

9. Operating Principles. The committee will meet once a quarter at a minimum or more
   frequently as determined by the chairperson. The committee will meet at a suitable location
   with VTC capability as determined by the committee. The committee primary members are
   responsible for ensuring that views and opinions are incorporated from the broader AFOTEC
   community. Members will effectively participate by making recommendations that are in the
   best interests of the command rather than an individual or organizational unit. Members will
   speak openly and candidly, listen to and be open to other points of view and willingly share
   information and ideas. Once a decision is made, members will support it and champion the
   decision with others. Members will maintain confidentiality of all discussions and only
   share confidential information when the committee has agreed to do so.

        A. Special Sessions: The chairman may call a special session to address unique
           subjects of interest to the members.

        B. Agenda: All CECMC primary members can recommend agenda items. The
           secretariat should receive proposed agenda topics no later than 13 calendar
           days (or by the Wednesday two weeks) prior to the desired presentation date.
           The chairman will approve the CECMC agenda topics no later than 11 calendar
           days (or by the Friday two-weeks) prior to the desired presentation date. The
           secretariat will post to the CECMC SharePoint and forward via email to the
           CECMC members the approved agenda topics. Members will be given the
           opportunity to bring forward time sensitive issues following the planned
           agenda and prior to the action item review at each meeting.

        C. Presentations: Issues presented to the CECMC may be in any format; however use
           of Microsoft products (e.g., PowerPoint, Word, etc.) is highly encouraged. The
           presenting organization will determine the need for prebriefings and assumes all
           administrative actions such as coordinating the schedule of the prebriefings. Each
           briefer will provide a final version to the secretariat no later than five calendar days
           prior to the desired presentation date. This gives the secretariat sufficient time to
           distribute read-aheads. The organization must ensure the presentation includes
           appropriate classification markings prior to submission. The secretariat will post
           read-ahead materials to the CECMC SharePoint by the Friday before a CECMC
           meeting. Each OPR will facilitate discussion during their presentation.

        D. Actions Item(s): The secretariat will record action items and responses. At the end
           of the CECMC meeting, the secretariat will review and verify with the appropriate
           office(s) acceptance of an action item. Within three working days after the
           CECMC meeting, the secretariat will post all action items to the CECMC
           SharePoint and forward notification to OPRs/OCRs. When it becomes apparent
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                                   21


         that the action Item(s) will not close by the suspense date, the OPR will notify the
         secretariat with the status of the action item(s) and the anticipated completion date.
         Upon completion of an action item, the OPR will notify the secretariat of the action
         taken. The secretariat will recommend closure of the action item during the next
         CECMC. The committee will make the final decision based on the
         recommendation.
      E. Decision-making Process: Any issues that the chairman deems appropriate to be
         voted on will come before the primary members for vote. Decisions (i.e., formal
         recommendations to AFOTEC/CC) will be made either by the chairman or based
         on majority/consensus vote as the chairman dictates. All decisions will be
         coordinated with Detachment/CCs and A-Staff Directors prior to forwarding to
         AFOTEC/CC for approval.



                                   SCOTT D. WEST, Major General, USAF
                                   Commander
22                                                           AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


                                         Attachment 5

                                         AFOTEC
             CIVILIAN ADVISORY COUNCIL CHARTER

1. Committee's Official Designation. AFOTEC Civilian Advisory Council (CAC)

2. Date Established. 15 November 2012

3. Date to be Terminated. Indefinite - until changed or terminated by the AFOTEC

Commander

4. Category and Type of Committee. Intra-AFOTEC

5. Mission or Purpose. The AFOTEC CAC will:

       a. Provide a senior-level forum to discuss and resolve civilian workforce issues at the
          command level and to give command civilian personnel efforts focus and direction.
          Civilian personnel efforts are strategic initiatives and/or critical cross- cutting
          issues that support the command’s civilian workforce (e.g., workforce
          development, training, hiring, etc.). The AFOTEC CAC does not address day-to-
          day supervisory issues that are in the purview of the supervisor of civilian
          employees.

       b. Provide the AFOTEC Commander, and his staff with professional advice and
          assistance in matters pertaining to the civilian workforce.

       c. Serve as representative and advocate for AFOTEC civilians in matters raised to
          the AFOTEC Commander.

       d. Strengthen the bonds between uniformed and civilian members of the command.

       e. Highlight the importance of keeping civilian workforce issues integrated into the
          AFOTEC planning process and at the forefront of AFOTEC priorities.

6. Direction and Control. AFOTEC Commander

7. Administrative Support and Staff Arrangements. The Manpower, Personnel and
   Training (A-1) Directorate will act as the secretariat providing administrative support to
   the council and serve as an advisor to the council.

8. Composition. The AFOTEC CAC is comprised of the AFOTEC Executive Director who
   will serve as the chairperson. The council consists of primary members, affiliate members
AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014                                                                  23


   and subject matters experts from within the command.

       a. Primary Members: Primary members are required to attend all AFOTEC CACs.
          In the absence of the primary member, each organization will send an empowered
          alternate to the AFOTEC CAC. AFOTEC CAC primary members include:
           AFOTEC Technical Advisor – represents command staff A-1
           Deputy Director
           A-2/9 Deputy Director A-3
           Deputy Director A-4/7
           Deputy Director A-5/8
           Director
           A-6 Deputy Director
       b. Affiliate Members: Affiliate members participate in AFOTEC CAC discussions,
          providing input for consideration and feedback on potential or actual impacts.
          Affiliate members are encouraged to attend all AFOTEC CACs, but are not
          required. Affiliate members include:
           Det 1 Technical Advisor
           Det 2 Technical Advisor
           Det 4 Technical Advisor
           Det 5 Technical Advisor
           Det 6 Technical Advisor
       c. Subject Matter Experts (SMEs): Council members will invite SMEs to provide
          counsel and advice as required.

9. Operating Principles. The council will meet once a quarter at a minimum or more
   frequently as determined by the chairperson. The council will meet at a suitable location
   with VTC capability as determined by the council. The council members are responsible
   for ensuring that views and opinions are incorporated from the broader AFOTEC
   community. Members will effectively participate by making recommendations that are in
   the best interests of the command rather than an individual or organizational unit. Members
   will speak openly and candidly, listen to and be open to other points of view and willingly
   share information and ideas. Members will actively engage in discussions and will debate
   issues, attempting to influence others to his/her point of view. Once a decision is made,
   members will support it and champion the decision with others. Members will maintain
   confidentiality of all discussions and only share confidential information when the council
   has agreed to do so.

       a. Special Sessions: The chairman may call a special session to address unique
          subjects of interest to the primary members.

       b. Agenda: All CAC primary and affiliate members can recommend agenda items.
          The secretariat should receive proposed agenda topics no later than 13 calendar
          days (or by the Wednesday two weeks) prior to the desired presentation date. The
24                                                          AFOTECI99-101 30 APRIL 2014


         chairman will approve the CAC agenda topics no later than 11 calendar days (or by
         the Friday two-weeks) prior to the desired presentation date. The secretariat will
         post to the CAC SharePoint and forward via email to the CAC primary and affiliate
         members the approved agenda topics. Primary members will be given the
         opportunity to bring forward time sensitive issues following the planned agenda
         and prior to the action item review at each meeting.

     c. Presentations: Issues presented to the CAC may be in any format; however use of
        Microsoft products (e.g., PowerPoint, Word, etc.) is highly encouraged. The
        presenting organization will determine the need for prebriefings and assumes all
        administrative actions such as coordinating the schedule of the prebriefings. Each
        briefer will provide a final version to the secretariat no later than five calendar days
        prior to the desired presentation date. This gives the secretariat sufficient time to
        distribute read-ahead’s. The organization must ensure the presentation includes
        appropriate classification markings prior to submission. The secretariat will post
        read-ahead materials to the CAC SharePoint by the Friday before a CAC. Each
        OPR will facilitate discussion during their presentation.

     d. Actions Item(s): A-1 will record action items and responses. At the end of the
        CAC, the secretariat will review and verify with the appropriate office(s)
        acceptance of an action item. Within three working days after the CAC, the
        secretariat will post all action items to the CAC SharePoint and forward notification
        to OPRs/OCRs. When it becomes apparent that the action Item (s) will not close
        by the suspense date, the OPR will notify the secretariat with the status of the
        action item(s) and the anticipated completion date. Upon completion of an action
        item, the OPR will notify the secretariat of the action taken. The secretariat will
        recommend closure of the action item during the next CAC. The council will make
        the final decision based on the recommendation.

     e. Decision-making Process: Any issues that the chairman deems appropriate to be
        voted on will come before the primary members for vote. Decisions (i.e., formal
        recommendations to AFOTEC/CC) will be made based on majority/consensus vote.
        Decisions will be coordinated with Detachment/CCs and A-Staff Directors prior to
        forwarding to AFOTEC/CC for approval.



                                                SCOTT D. WEST, Major General, USAF
                                                Commander
