BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            AIR FORCE OPERATIONAL TEST AND
                                                                EVALUATION CENTER INSTRUCTION 31-401

                                                                                                  14 MARCH 2003
                                                                             Incorporating Change 1, 7 JUNE 2011
                                                                                Certified Current 25 October 2013
                                                                                                          Security

                                                                 THE AFOTEC INFORMATION SECURITY
                                                                                        PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:   HQ AFOTEC/SF (Mr. Floyd L. Collins)                                 Certified by: AFOTEC/CV (Col Douglas R.
                                                                                                      Lincoln, Jr.)
Supersedes:   AFOTECI 31-401, 6 November                                                                 Pages: 24
              2002


This instruction implements AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, which
was substantially revised on 1 November 2001. This instruction establishes procedures and
assigns responsibilities within AFOTEC relative to the handling and safeguarding of classified
information. It applies to HQ AFOTEC, Kirtland AFB, as well as all Detachments and Operating
Locations. It does not apply to Special Access Programs within AFOTEC that are governed by
other regulations. Directorates, Detachments, and Operating Locations should publish their own
instruction covering specific or unique security practices, procedures, and responsibilities.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force WEB-RIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil/rds/index.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change has been revised to update office symbols, names of systems utilized to
verify security clearances and names of special access programs; includes Industrial and Physical
Security responsibilities within the existing disciplines of security.

       1.     RESPONSIBILITIES: ...........................................................................................   2
       2.     CLASSIFICATION AND DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION. ...........                                                 6
       3.     MARKING CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. .......................................................                         7
2                                                                  AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003


      4.     SAFEGUARDING CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. ...........................................                7
      5.     TRANSMISSION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. ......................................                 11
      6.     LOSS OR COMPROMISE OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. ........................                         13
      7.     NATO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. ...............................................................   14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                              15

Attachment 2—*AFOTEC EMERGENCY PROTECTION/REMOVAL OF CLASSIFIED
             MATERIAL PLAN                                                                                  16

Attachment 3—*AFOTEC CLASSIFIED MEETING OR CONFERENCES CHECKLISTS                                           17


1. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    1.1. AFOTEC/CVI
      1.1.1. Manage the AFOTEC Information, Personnel, Physical and Industrial Security
      Program.
      1.1.2. Conduct information security program reviews (ISPRs) of AFOTEC Directorates
      and Detachments on a bi-annual basis. Distribute tentative ISPR schedule to Directors,
      Detachment Commanders or Security Managers bi-annually.
      1.1.3. Provide training, assistance and guidance required by referenced publications to
      Security Managers and assigned personnel.
      1.1.4. Provide a basic security orientation to newly-assigned personnel in conjunction
      with issuance of their AFOTEC badge.
      1.1.5. Brief personnel who are appointed to conduct investigations involving the loss or
      compromise of classified information.
      1.1.6. Maintain records of classified storage containers and vaults.
      1.1.7. Utilize Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) for clearance management
      and verification.
      1.1.8. Obtain a signed SF Form 312, Non Disclosure Agreement, from AFOTEC civilian
      and military personnel upon issuance of initial security clearance. Provide individual a
      briefing on their responsibility to protect classified information at the time the SF 312 is
      signed.
      1.1.9. Complete AF Form 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action, for AFOTEC
      personnel who require a security clearance or any special access (i.e., NATO, CNWDI or
      NC2-ESI).
      1.1.10. Process AFOTEC personnel for required clearance investigation and submit
      clearance package to appropriate investigating agency.
      1.1.11. Contact adjudication facilities and investigative                         agencies      regarding
      clearance/investigation status checks on assigned personnel.
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003                                                                 3


     1.1.12. Process and maintain copies of Suitability Determinations and Security
     Information Files (SIFs) on AFOTEC personnel.
     1.1.13. Obtain a signed AF Form 2587, Security Termination Statement, from AFOTEC
     civilian personnel who terminate employment and military personnel who separate or
     retire from military service. Also obtain a signed AF Form 2587 from individuals who
     have their access or clearance suspended, revoked or denied.
     1.1.14. Submit the SF 311, Agency Information Security Program Data, report to
     SAF/AAP by 1 October of each year.
     1.1.15. Send report through command information protection (IP) channels when
     someone knowingly, willfully, or negligently discloses classified information to
     unauthorized individuals.
     1.1.16. Submit requests for original classification authority (OCA) to command IP
     channels to SAF/AAP and provide OCA training.
     1.1.17. Assist personnel who require restricted area badges with completion of the AF
     Form 2586, Unescorted Entry Authorization Certificate, in accordance with AFI 31-
     101, The Air Force Physical Security Program.
  1.2. Detachment Commanders (Det CCs) and Operating Location Chiefs.
     1.2.1. Appoint a Primary and an Alternate Security Manager for the Detachment (Det) or
     Operating Location (OL).
     1.2.2. Appoint a Top Secret Control Officer (TSCO) if the Det or OL stores Top Secret
     material.
     1.2.3. Appoint individuals to conduct security self-inspections of the Det or OL on a
     semi-annual basis. ISPRs conducted by AFOTEC/CVI may count as one self-inspection.
     1.2.4. Annually review position investigation codes to ensure investigative and clearance
     requirements are consistent with mission needs.
     1.2.5. Ensure procedures are in place to internally control Secret and Confidential
     material.
  1.3. AFOTEC Security Managers:
     1.3.1. Complete required Security Manager Training provided by base or AFOTEC/CVI
     within 90 days of appointment.
     1.3.2. Manage the Information Security Program.
     1.3.3. Provide advice and assistance to the Commander/Director and all assigned
     personnel on security matters and referenced security guidance.
     1.3.4. Provide initial security training to newly assigned personnel upon arrival, and
     refresher security training to personnel on at least a quarterly basis.
     1.3.5. Monitor the unit’s copy of the JPAS roster. Process investigation code changes
     when required.
     1.3.6. Issue Courier Authorization Letters to personnel who act as couriers of classified
     material.
4                                                            AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003


       1.3.7. Inform personnel who travel to foreign countries to report foreign travel to
       AFOTEC/CVI and review the US Department of State website prior to departure. In
       addition, ensure personnel who travel to foreign countries on the national threat list
       (NTL) receive a foreign travel briefing by the local AFOSI office.
       1.3.8. Maintain a record of the combinations to security containers and vaults within
       their respective organization. Security container combinations must be safeguarded to
       the highest level of classified stored in the security container.
       1.3.9. Designate whether reproduction equipment, shredders, and faxes are authorized
       for classified information. Utilize KAFBVA 31-9, 31-10, 31-19 and 31-20 to identify
       equipment.
       1.3.10. Maintain a list of storage containers, vaults, and open storage areas within their
       respective organization.
       1.3.11. Process visit requests for personnel visiting other organizations. Note:
       AFOTEC/CVI must certify the Department of Energy (DOE) Form 5631.20, Request for
       Visit and Access Approval, for AFOTEC personnel visiting DOE facilities.
       1.3.12. Initiate/track SF 311 reporting requirements tasker during a consecutive two-
       week period each quarter (Nov-Jan, Feb-Apr, May-Jul, and Aug-Sep).
    1.4. Det/OL Security Managers:
       1.4.1. Complete required security manager training offered by the host Information
       Security Program Manager (ISPM) within 90 days of appointment.
       1.4.2. Manage the Information, Personnel, Physical and Industrial Security Program
       within their Det/OL.
       1.4.3. Provide advice and assistance to the Commander and assigned personnel on
       security matters and referenced security guidance.
       1.4.4. Provide a basic security orientation to newly-assigned personnel. Provide refresher
       training to personnel on at least a quarterly basis.
       1.4.5. Brief personnel who are appointed to conduct investigations involving the loss or
       compromise of classified information.
       1.4.6. Provide couriers of classified material a Courier Briefing and issue a DD 2501,
       Courier Authorization Card, and/or Courier Authorization Letter as appropriate. The
       Security Homepage on the AFOTEC MIN contains a sample Courier Authorization
       Letter.
       1.4.7. Maintain a record of the combinations to all security containers and vaults within
       the Detachment or Operating Location. Security container combinations must be
       safeguarded to the highest level of classified stored in the container.
       1.4.8. Maintain a list of all storage containers, vaults, and open storage areas.
       1.4.9. Designate whether reproduction equipment, shredders, and faxes are authorized
       for classified information. Use host base visual aids to identify equipment.
       1.4.10. Process visit requests for personnel visiting other organizations.
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003                                                                    5


     1.4.11. Provide AFOTEC/CVI a SF 311 containing data for item #6 on the form.
     Sample data for item #6 (Number of classification decisions) during a consecutive two-
     week period each quarter (Nov-Jan, Feb-Apr, May-Jul, and Aug-Sep).
     1.4.12. Obtain a signed AF Form 2587 from civilian personnel who terminate
     employment and military personnel who separate or retire from military service. Also
     obtain a signed AF Form 2587 from individuals who have their access or clearance
     suspended, revoked, or denied.
     1.4.13. Utilize JPAS for clearance management and verification.
     1.4.14. Process investigation code changes when required and submit changes to
     AFOTEC/CVI.
     1.4.15. Obtain a signed SF 312 from civilian and military personnel upon issuance of
     initial security clearance. Provide individual a briefing on their responsibility to protect
     classified information at the time the SF 312 is signed.
     1.4.16. Complete AF Form 2583 for all personnel who require a security clearance or
     any special access (i.e., NATO, CNWDI, or NC2-ESI).
     1.4.17. Notify personnel requiring a clearance investigation and assist them in
     completing the required clearance questionnaire. Review questionnaire for accuracy, and
     submit clearance packages to host Security Forces for processing.
     1.4.18. Provides assistance to Det CC on Suitability Determinations and SIFs and
     inform/forward copies to AFOTEC/CVI.
     1.4.19. Inform personnel who travel to foreign countries to report foreign travel and
     review the US Department of State website prior to departure. In addition, ensure
     personnel who travel to foreign countries on the NTL receive a foreign travel briefing by
     the local AFOSI office.
     1.4.20. Assist personnel who require restricted area badges with completion of the AF
     Form 2586 in accordance with AFI 31-101.
  1.5. Top Secret Control Officers (TSCOs):
     1.5.1. Ensure Top Secret material is stored only in a security container specifically
     authorized for Top Secret storage.
     1.5.2. Maintain accountability and control of all Top Secret material within the
     Directorate/Detachment/OL.
     1.5.3. Perform all destruction, reproduction, and transmission of Top Secret material.
  1.6. Supervisors:
     1.6.1. Verify through the Det or OL Security Manager or AFOTEC/CVI, the security
     clearance of newly assigned personnel before allowing such personnel access to any
     classified information. Provide, or arrange for, any security training that is deemed
     necessary.
     1.6.2. Ensure subordinates receive and comply with recurring security training/guidance
     throughout their duty assignment.
6                                                          AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003


       1.6.3. Continually observe subordinates for personal problems or adverse conduct that
       could have a bearing on their continued eligibility for access to classified information.
       Report any derogatory information to AFOTEC/CVI. Det and OL personnel will report
       derogatory information to their Security Managers, who will in turn notify
       AFOTEC/CVI.
       1.6.4. Take into consideration adherence to security requirements and procedures when
       rating subordinates on their job performance.
       1.6.5. Ensure subordinates terminating employment or separating/retiring from military
       service out-process through AFOTEC/CVI or through their Det or OL Security Manager
       to accomplish the following required actions:
          1.6.5.1. Sign the AF Form 2587.
          1.6.5.2. Receive required security debriefings (e.g., NATO, CNWDI, NC2-ESI) as
          appropriate.
          1.6.5.3. Surrender their AFOTEC identification badge, Restricted Area badge (if
          any), and DD Form 2501 (if any).
    1.7. All Cleared Personnel:
       1.7.1. Understand the standards of conduct required of a person in a position of trust, and
       the moral and legal responsibilities for protecting classified information.
       1.7.2. Comply with all relevant Air Force and AFOTEC security requirements and
       procedures. If necessary, seek guidance from AFOTEC/CVI or Det or OL Security
       Manager.
       1.7.3. Report to their supervisor, Director/Det CC, Security Manager, and AFOTEC/CVI
       any information that could adversely reflect on their suitability for continued access to
       classified information, or a co-workers suitability for continued access to classified
       information.
       1.7.4. Report derivative classifications decisions to AFOTEC/CVI or their Det or OL
       Security Manager when requested for tracking purposes.
       1.7.5. Verify the security clearance and need-to-know of any person requesting access to
       classified information before allowing that person access. For non-AFOTEC individuals,
       verify security clearance through their organization’s Security Manager or Facility
       Security Officer (FSO).
       1.7.6. Immediately report any security violation or any loss, compromise, or suspected
       compromise of classified information to their Supervisor, Dir/Det CC, Security Manager,
       and AFOTEC/CVI. Immediately provide protection to any classified material found
       unprotected.
       1.7.7. Report foreign travel and suspicious foreign contacts to their supervisor, Det or
       OL Security Manager or AFOTEC/CVI.
2. CLASSIFICATION AND DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION.
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003                                                                 7


  2.1. Personnel who prepare classified documents shall coordinate with the Det or OL
  Security Manager or AFOTEC/CVI to ensure the documents are properly classified and
  marked.
  2.2. Consult DoD 5200.1-I, DoD Index of Security Classification Guides, to identify guides
  that apply to OT&E operations. In the absence of classification guidance for a system in the
  OT&E process, the Commander, AFOTEC, has original classification authority up to and
  including the Top Secret level. Should original classification of OT&E information be
  necessary, coordinate with AFOTEC/CVI.
  2.3. AFOTEC/HO has primary responsibility for ensuring AFOTEC’s compliance with the
  25-Year Automatic Declassification Plan mandated by EO 12958. The Plan calls for the
  identification of any classified documents more than 25 years old, followed by a
  declassification review of each identified document. Whenever possible, such information
  shall be declassified. The results of declassification reviews will be reported to SAF/AAP.
  Challenges to reclassification decisions will be submitted to AFOTEC/HO. AFOTEC/HO
  will send challenges through command IP channels to SAF/AAP.
3. MARKING CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
  3.1. All classified documents and other classified material produced within AFOTEC must
  be marked in accordance with EO 12958, DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program and
  Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO), Marking Classified National Security
  Information, as required by EO 12958, as Amended Classified National Security Information
  March 25, 2003 and ISOO Implementing Directive No. 1, effective September 22, 2003.
  3.2. DELETED.
  3.3. DELETED.
4. SAFEGUARDING CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
  4.1. Access to Classified Information:
     4.1.1. Before releasing classified information to another individual, confirm that
     individual’s authorized access level through his/her security manager or AFOTEC/CVI.
     The Security Manager or AFOTEC/CVI will check JPAS for the individual’s current
     authorized access level. If the individual is not a member of AFOTEC, check his or her
     visit request on file with AFOTEC/CVI or Det or OL Security Manager.
     4.1.2. In addition to having an authorized access level commensurate with the level of
     classified information involved, an individual must also have a need-to-know the
     information and must have previously signed the SF 312.
     4.1.3. Classified information may not be released outside the Air Force unless such
     release is provided for on the document itself or the originator of the document has
     authorized the proposed release.
     4.1.4. Only the Commander, AFOTEC, may authorize release of AFOTEC classified
     information outside the Executive Branch of the U.S. Government.
  4.2. Storage of Classified Material:
8                                                            AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003


       4.2.1. The first person listed on the SF Form 700, Security Container Information,
       shall be considered the Safe Custodian. The Safe Custodian shall:
          4.2.1.1. Notify AFOTEC/CVI to change security container combinations when
          placed in use; whenever an individual knowing the combination no longer requires
          access; when the combination has been subjected to possible compromise; and when
          taken out of service.
          4.2.1.2. Comply with the restrictions on the use of security containers (i.e., they may
          not be used to store money, valuables, or weapons).
          4.2.1.3. Ensure that any classified material not associated with a current program is
          destroyed, unless its continued retention has been authorized.
          4.2.1.4. Report any security containers or locks that malfunction to AFOTEC/CVI,
          who will make arrangements with contracted locksmith for repairs. Det and OL
          custodians contact their Security Manager to make repair arrangements.
          4.2.1.5. Identify the contents of the safe (in an unclassified manner) in the unit’s file
          plan.
          4.2.1.6. Ensure the Safe Custodian Letter, SF 700, Security Container Information;
          SF 701, Activity Security Checklist; SF 702, Security Container Check Sheet; AFTO
          36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment; Emergency
          Protection/Removal of Classified Material Plan (Attachment 2) and all other label
          requirements are current and affixed within or on each security container. Notify
          AFOTEC/CVI to ensure routine maintenance is conducted on security container
          every five years IAW TO-00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventative Maintenance
          Procedures for Classified Storage Containers. Any maintenance performed on the
          container must be recorded on the AFTO 36.
          4.2.1.7. DELETED.
          4.2.1.8. Ensure the AF Form 614, Charge Out Record, is utilized when classified
          material is withdrawn from a security container. The title of documents will be
          identified on the form in an unclassified manner.
    4.3. Removal of Classified Material from AFOTEC Facilities:
       4.3.1. Only Commanders, Directors, Security Managers or AFOTEC/CVI may authorize
       the removal of classified material from an AFOTEC facility. All buildings at or near the
       intersection of Wyoming and Gibson on Kirtland AFB comprise the AFOTEC facility.
       4.3.2. Removal of classified material from an AFOTEC facility will be for one of the
       following reasons:
          4.3.2.1. Destruction at the installation’s classified destruction facility.
          4.3.2.2. Presentation at an approved classified meeting or conference.
          4.3.2.3. In conjunction with official OT&E efforts in the field or at U.S. Government
          installations.
          4.3.2.4. Transmission by courier from AFOTEC to another DoD activity or a cleared
          contractor facility – when time does not permit mailing the material to the
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003                                                                  9


        destination. Personnel authorized to hand-carry classified material will have a DD
        Form 2501 and/or Courier Authorization Letter, in their possession. A trip-specific
        Courier Authorization Letter is required when a courier carries classified information
        aboard commercial aircraft.
        4.3.2.5. When conditions warrant emergency protection/removal.              Reference
        Attachment 2 of this instruction.
  4.4. Classified Meetings and Conferences:
     4.4.1. Conference rooms and presentation centers will be locked when not in use. The
     AFOTEC official who arranges for or convenes a classified meeting is responsible for
     security of the meeting.
     4.4.2. AFOTEC/CVI is the single point of contact when conducting classified meetings
     or conferences. The AFOTEC host is responsible for ensuring all requirements have
     been met. Reference Attachment 3 of this instruction.
     4.4.3. SAF/AAP must approve any classified meeting, conference, or seminar to be held
     at a non-Government, uncleared facility. The AFOTEC official in charge of such
     meetings must send a formal request through AFOTEC/CVI. AFOTEC/CVI will in turn
     send the request to SAF/AAP for approval. The request must include a security plan as
     specified in DoD 5200.1-R, paragraph 6-307.
  4.5. End-of-Day Security Checks. Individuals appointed to conduct end-of-day security
  checks must accomplish, as a minimum, the following actions:
     4.5.1. Ensure that all classified documents, computer disks, typewriter ribbons,
     removable hard drives, etc. have been secured in approved security containers.
     4.5.2. Check desk tops, tables, file cabinets, credenzas, computer workstations, filing
     baskets, etc, for unsecured classified material.
     4.5.3. Check all secure telephone units (STEs) and secure fax machines to ensure the
     KSV-21 has been removed and stored.
     4.5.4. Check all video teleconferencing equipment to ensure that CIK has been removed
     and stored.
     4.5.5. Check each security container by rotating the dial of each lock at least four times
     in the same direction and then depressing the handle of each locking drawer. Enter the
     time of the check and initials on the SF 702, Security Container Checksheet. Security
     containers must be checked at the end of each duty day, even if the container was not
     opened.
     4.5.6. After completing the above actions for each assigned office area, fill out the SF
     Form 701, Activity Security Checklist. List the names of any individuals still working
     within the area and record the safe number of any safe that is open and in use by those
     individuals. Remind the individuals that they are responsible for ensuring that all open
     security containers are properly secured before departing the area.
     4.5.7. Ensure that all records created using SF 701 and SF 702 are maintained in
     accordance with Table 33-42, Rule 04.00, Communications and Information, AFMAN
     33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
10                                                        AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003


     Records           Disposition            Schedule              located                     at
     https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.
  4.6. Reproduction of Classified Information:
     4.6.1. If approved by a supervisor or security manager, any appropriately-cleared
     AFOTEC member is authorized to reproduce Secret and Confidential material using
     equipment identified as being approved for classified reproduction.
     4.6.2. AFOTEC personnel may not reproduce (including facsimile transmission) Top
     Secret information without the consent of the originator or higher authority. When such
     approval is obtained, the TSCO will perform the reproduction and record it on the AF
     Form 143, Top Secret Register Page.
     4.6.3. Persons performing classified reproduction must ensure that the file copy of the
     document is annotated with the number of copies reproduced and any secondary
     distribution.
     4.6.4. After classified reproduction has been accomplished, run a sufficient number of
     blank sheets through the copier to clear it of possible latent images. Treat the blank sheets
     as classified waste and destroy in a shredder. Thoroughly check the outside and the inside
     of the equipment for any classified information before departing the area.
     4.6.5. AFOTEC/CVI will determine which equipment is authorized for classified
     reproduction. The following criteria should be used when determining which equipment
     shall be authorized to reproduce classified information:
         4.6.5.1. Equipment should be located in a room or area where access to classified
         information being reproduced can be controlled, such as by a locked door.
         4.6.5.2. Equipment that leaves any visible image on a blank sheet of paper run
         through the equipment immediately after reproducing a printed document should not
         be approved.
         4.6.5.3. Access to the equipment during non-duty hours should be prevented. This
         can be accomplished by denying access to the room or area in which the equipment is
         located, by removing and securing the toner cartridge at the end of the day, by hard-
         wiring the equipment into a key-controlled power outlet switch and securing the key
         at the end of the day, or by several other methods. Contact AFOTEC/CVI for
         additional guidance.
  4.7. Disposal and Destruction of Classified Material:
     4.7.1. Appropriately-cleared AFOTEC personnel may destroy Secret and Confidential
     paper products using AFOTEC paper shredders identified as approved for the destruction
     of classified information. Contact your Det or OL Security Manager, A-6 or
     AFOTEC/CVI to destroy magnetic media.
     4.7.2. Destruction of Confidential. No destruction certificate is required for destroying
     Confidential information. One cleared AFOTEC member may destroy Confidential
     material using an approved shredder or disintegrator.
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003                                                                  11


     4.7.3. Destruction of Secret. Except for NATO Secret, no destruction certificate is
     required for destroying Secret information. One cleared AFOTEC member may destroy
     Secret material using an approved shredder or disintegrator.
     4.7.4. Destruction of Top Secret. Only TSCOs may destroy Top Secret material. Two (2)
     people with Top Secret access must be involved in the destruction process, and the AF
     Form 143, AF Form 310, or AF Form 1565, Entry, Receipt and Destruction
     Certificate, shall be used to record the destruction.
     4.7.5. Annual Classified Clean-out Day. The second Wednesday in December is
     designated as “Annual Classified Clean-out Day” within AFOTEC. The focus of this
     event will be on the disposal of all Directorate, Det and OL classified material that is
     obsolete or unneeded. All holders of classified material will participate in this event.
     (NOTE: Any and all classified material that is of historical value to AFOTEC, the
     USAF, or DoD OT&E will be forwarded to AFOTEC/HO, for review and inclusion in
     the USAF OT&E Historical Records Depository.
     4.7.6. To destroy large amounts of classified material, AFOTEC/CVI may schedule use
     of the Kirtland AFB Destruction Facility (located in Bldg. 20404, Wyoming Blvd. at M
     Street). Classified documents and certain non-paper products (plastic sheets, ribbons,
     floppy disks, video and audio tapes, etc) may be destroyed in this equipment provided all
     metal is removed from the items. Det and OL personnel contact their host base to make
     arrangements to destroy large amounts of classified.
5. TRANSMISSION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
  5.1. Top Secret. Only TSCOs may transmit Top Secret material to other locations within
  the CONUS. AFOTEC TSCOs will use the Defense Courier Service (DCS) to transmit Top
  Secret material.
  5.2. Secret. Material classified at the Secret level will be transmitted only by the following
  means:
     5.2.1. United States Postal Service (USPS) Registered Mail.
     5.2.2. USPS Express Mail. (NOTE: Use of street-side collection boxes is prohibited.)
     5.2.3. The current holder of the GSA contract for overnight delivery of classified
     information is Federal Express (FedEx). (NOTE: There are limitations and special
     procedures in effect on using FedEx, so check with the AFOTEC Mailroom and
     AFOTEC/CVI before using FedEx.) Since FedEx may be used to transmit Secret and
     Confidential material to AFOTEC, all overnight FedEx mail must be protected as if it
     contains classified information until opened and a determination made otherwise.
     5.2.4. Protective Security Service (PSS). Use for Secret hardware that cannot be sent by
     other approved means. Check with the Military Traffic Management Command for
     authorized commercial carriers providing PSS.
     5.2.5. Approved electronic system. If necessary, contact AFOTEC/CVI or Det or OL
     Security Managers for approved equipment.
     5.2.6. Authorized courier. See paragraph 5.7, below.
12                                                       AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003


  5.3. Confidential. Material classified at the Confidential level will be transmitted only by
  the following means:
     5.3.1. Any means approved for Secret material.
     5.3.2. USPS Certified Mail.
     5.3.3. Constant Surveillance Service (CSS). Use for Confidential hardware that cannot
     be sent by other approved means. Check with the Military Traffic Management
     Command for authorized carriers providing CSS.
     5.3.4. USPS First Class Mail. May be used only to send Confidential to other DoD
     activities within the CONUS. May not be used to send Confidential to contractors or
     non-DoD agencies. Mark the outer envelope “RETURN SERVICE REQUESTED.”
     Since first class mail may be used to transmit Confidential material to AFOTEC, all first
     class mail bearing the notation “RETURN SERVICE REQUESTED” or
     “POSTMASTER – DO NOT FORWARD” must be protected until it has been opened
     and a determination made otherwise.
  5.4. AFOTEC/CVI with the assistance of the information owner is responsible for packaging
  all outgoing classified material. Classified material transmitted outside AFOTEC must be
  double-wrapped using substantial opaque materials. FedEx containers may be used as
  outside container when transmitting via FedEx. The inner wrapping only is stamped with the
  highest classification of the contents. Enclose an AF 310 and suspense return of the signed
  receipt for no more than 30 days. AFOTEC/CVI will initiate tracer action if the receipt is not
  returned within 30 days. If the tracer action does not produce a signed receipt within an
  additional 30 days, AFOTEC/CVI or the Det or OL Security Managers will initiate security
  incident procedures.
  5.5. The AFOTEC Mailroom, located in Bldg. 20202, receives all outgoing “official
  business” USPS Registered and Certified Mail, as well as all FedEx packages from AFOTEC
  personnel. Mailroom personnel will take custody of all such mail/packages and ensure
  proper transfer is completed.
  5.6. OPRs submitting classified reports from locations geographically separated from
  Kirtland will provide the AFOTEC Mailroom a distribution listing when the report is mailed
  for signature. The AFOTEC Mailroom is responsible for distributing these reports. The
  information owner is responsible for preparing the AF 310 and AFOTEC/CVI is responsible
  for tracking of the AF 310.
  5.7. Hand-carrying Classified Material:
     5.7.1. Hand-carrying of classified information, especially aboard commercial aircraft, is
     highly discouraged, and should only be used as an absolute last resort to meet mission
     requirements.
     5.7.2. Only AFOTEC personnel who are officially authorized as DoD couriers may
     hand-carry classified material from AFOTEC to another location. Contractor personnel
     may hand-carry classified material from an AFOTEC facility only if they have been
     designated as a courier and briefed by their Facility Security Officer and AFOTEC/CVI.
     To be eligible for courier authorization, an AFOTEC member shall (a) possess an
     appropriate security clearance; (b) be designated by a Commander, Director, Program
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003                                                                   13


     Manager, Project Leader, or Security Manager to hand-carry classified material in
     connection with an AFOTEC program or project; (c) receive a courier briefing and sign a
     briefing statement; and (d) be issued a DD Form 2501, and/or courier authorization letter,
     by AFOTEC/CVI or the Det or OL Security Manager.
     5.7.3. If the courier’s travel will involve use of a commercial airline, the courier’s
     Security Manager or AFOTEC/CVI will prepare a trip-specific Courier Authorization
     Letter. The purpose of this letter is to facilitate the courier’s passage through
     airport/airline security checkpoints.
     5.7.4. Before departing AFOTEC, the courier shall provide to his/her Security Manager
     or AFOTEC/CVI a listing of all classified material being hand-carried. Upon return,
     courier must provide a copy of signed AF 310 for material that is not returned.
     5.7.5. While en route, the courier shall keep the classified material in his or her personal
     possession at all times. The courier may not remove the classified material from its
     package or container under any circumstances. If overnight storage of the material is
     necessary, the package or container must be stored in a GSA approved safe or vault at a
     U.S. military installation, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) office, Defense Security
     Service (DSS) office, or a cleared contractor facility DSS-certified for safeguarding
     capability at the level of information being transported. If leaving the classified material
     at the destination, the courier shall obtain a signed receipt for the material.
     5.7.6. The courier shall immediately report any loss or theft of classified material to the
     nearest FBI, Office of Special Investigations (OSI), or DSS office. AFOTEC/CVI will
     also be notified at the earliest opportunity.
6. LOSS OR COMPROMISE OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
  6.1. Anyone who has reason to believe that a loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure
  of classified information may have occurred must report it without delay to his or her
  supervisor, Dir/Det CC, or Security Manager, who in turn will report the information
  immediately to AFOTEC/CVI. Keep all items related to the incident (mailing wrappers,
  boxes, signed receipts, safe check records, etc) until completion of the investigation.
  6.2. AFOTEC/CVI or the Det or OL Security Manager will arrange for an official
  investigation of the incident other than the one involved in the loss, compromise, or
  unauthorized disclosure of classified information. AFOTEC/CV or Chief, Information
  Protection will issue this individual an official appointment letter. Det CC or DO issues
  official appointment letter at their locations.
  6.3. AFOTEC/CVI or Det or OL Security Managers will brief and provide instructional
  material to the person appointed to conduct the investigation before any actions are initiated.
  The Investigating Official must complete the investigation within fifteen (15) duty days from
  the date of appointment.
  6.4. The Investigating Official may seek guidance from the AFOTEC Legal Counsel before,
  during, or after the investigation.
  6.5. AFOTEC/CVI will report information developed during an investigation that concerns
  any foreign intelligence activity or criminal activity to OSI and SAF/AAP. In addition,
  SAF/AAP must be notified if the loss or compromise involves NATO, Restricted Data,
14                                                        AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003


  Formerly Restricted Data, foreign government classified information, or classified
  information in the public media.
  6.6. Dets and OLs will forward a copy of all incident reports to AFOTEC/CVI upon
  completion.
7. NATO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
  7.1. Operational test and evaluation efforts by AFOTEC may require access to NATO
  classified information. AFOTEC/CVI or the Det or OL Security Managers are designated as
  the focal point for NATO classified information within AFOTEC.
  7.2. Access to NATO classified information will be approved at the Director level and
  recorded on AF Form 2583. NATO security briefings and debriefings will be accomplished
  and records maintained by AFOTEC/CVI. A listing of NATO briefed personnel will be
  maintained by AFOTEC/CVI to ensure that incoming NATO documents are distributed only
  to authorized personnel.
  7.3. AFOTEC/CVI or the Det or OL Security Managers are responsible for receiving,
  distributing, and transmitting NATO classified material. Accordingly, all incoming and
  outgoing NATO classified documents shall be routed through AFOTEC/CVI. AFOTEC/CVI
  will provide assistance on marking and safeguarding NATO classified information.
  7.4. AFOTEC/CVI will issue entry control badges to AFOTEC personnel upon completing
  initial security orientation and validation of security clearance thru JPAS. Badges issued to
  access AFOTEC facilities will be restricted to Monday thru Friday, 0600 thru 1800 (6 to 6),
  with the exception of those personnel identified as “mission critical”. Individuals that require
  additional access must coordinate justification thru their Director and CVI.




                                            DAVID J. EICHHORN
                                            Major General, USAF
                                            Commander
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003                                  15


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program Regulation
DoD 5200.2-R, Personnel Security Program Regulation
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management
 16                                                          AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003


                                          Attachment 2
 *AFOTEC EMERGENCY PROTECTION/REMOVAL OF CLASSIFIED MATERIAL
                            PLAN

A2.2. SITUATION: AFOTEC and/or Dets or OLs may be threatened by severe weather
conditions such as tornadoes, hail storms and flash floods. The possibility of fire always exists.
Civil disturbances may consist of small groups of dissidents to large-scale riots. In any of these
cases, classified material becomes vulnerable to compromise due to loss or theft and requires
additional protection.
       A2.3.1.1. Fire. If time permits, before evacuation of an area, secure classified material in
       a vault or safe within the immediate area. Personnel will not, however, risk injury or loss
       of life to secure classified material. If classified material cannot be properly stored,
       personnel will evacuate the area to the limits established by emergency response forces.
       If this occurs, place the material in or on a desk, or if possible, hand-carry the information
       out of the area. Personnel will notify AFOTEC/CVI or the Det or OL Security Manager
       of any classified left unsecured at the time of evacuation. AFOTEC/CVI or the Det or
       OL Security Manager will alert police and fire personnel of unsecured classified and its
       location. Immediately after the emergency and authorized by emergency response forces,
       personnel will return to their area and check for unsecured classified material. If material
       is missing or inadvertent access or compromise is suspected, AFOTEC/CVI or the Det or
       OL Security Manager will comply with DoD 5200.1-R, Chapter 6. Emergency response
       forces will be debriefed if necessary after the situation is terminated.
   A2.3.2. Emergency Removal. If intelligence sources reveal a terrorist attack is imminent,
   emergency removal of classified from AFOTEC facilities will be ordered by
   AFOTEC/CC/CV or Det/OL CC. To ensure the most important and sensitive materials are
   evacuated/destroyed, the following priorities are assigned:
       A2.3.2.1. PRIORITY ONE. All cryptographic keying material including Crypto Ignition
       Keys (CIK) and KSV-21s encrypted for TOP SECRET, TOP SECRET SCI, TOP
       SECRET SAR, and TOP SECRET collateral material.
       A2.3.2.2. PRIORITY TWO. CIKs and KSVs encrypted for SECRET information,
       SECRET SCI, SECRET SAR, and SECRET collateral material.
       A2.3.2.3. PRIORITY THREE: CONFIDENTIAL SCI, CONFIDENTIAL SAR, AND
       CONFIDENTIAL collateral material.
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003                                         17


                                    Attachment 3
       *AFOTEC CLASSIFIED MEETING OR CONFERENCES CHECKLISTS

Figure A3.1. AFOTEC Classified Meeting or Conferences Checklists.
18   AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003   19
20   AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003   21
22   AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003
AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003   23
24   AFOTECI31-401 14 MARCH 2003
