BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AFOTEC INSTRUCTION 36-1
AIR FORCE OPERATIONAL TEST AND
EVALUATION CENTER (AFOTEC)                                                        24 JULY 2012

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                PLANNING AND EXECUTION OF AFOTEC
                                                                  SPECIAL EVENTS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AFOTEC/CCP                                                      Certified by: AFOTEC/CV
Supersedes: AFOTECI 36-1, 1 October                                          (Col James K. Eck)
            2006                                                                       Pages: 5


This instruction establishes policy, procedures, and responsibilities regarding assignment for
AFOTEC Special Events to directorate and staff offices of primary responsibility (OPR). It sets
forth criteria and implementation procedures for the AFOTEC Special Events program. It
applies to Headquarters AFOTEC. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847’s from the field through command publications and forms managers. The
use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

It incorporates organizational changes resulting from the restructuring of AFOTEC headquarters
and a change to the events conducted. The OPR groupings (paragraph 4.) were realigned to
better organize groups by personnel assigned and the assigned activities schedule will be posted
prior to the new calendar year, instead of being included in this document. In addition, the Unit
Advisory Council (UAC) fundraising activities and guidelines will be published internal to the
UAC.
1. Purpose. This instruction establishes and governs the AFOTEC Special Events program
outlining responsibilities and procedures for administering the program.
2. Events.
 2                                                               AFOTECI 36-1 24 JULY 2012


     2.1. There are four events that have been identified by the AFOTEC Commander as
     important to the morale, welfare and esprit de corps of AFOTEC personnel and therefore, are
     conducted on an annual basis. These events must be in good taste and must be compatible
     with Air Force customs and courtesies; the code of conduct; and all federal, state and local
     laws. In order to provide adequate planning for these events, a group of AFOTEC
     directorates or units will be assigned one event per year to organize and accomplish on behalf
     of AFOTEC. The schedule of events with the assigned OPR groups will be posted prior to
     the beginning of the new calendar year.          The events and recommended month(s) of
     implementation) are listed below:
        2.1.1. Annual Awards Banquet (February/March)
        2.1.2. Family Picnic (June/July/August)
        2.1.3. Holiday Party (December)
        2.1.4. Commander’s Reception commencing Semi-Annual Senior Leaders Conference
        (Spring/Fall)
     2.2. The AFOTEC Commander has the authority to revise the above list at anytime during
     the calendar year based on mission requirements.
3. Program Responsibilities. The AFOTEC Commander or Vice Commander is the approving
authority for the AFOTEC Special Events program. The following offices and organizations
have specific responsibilities to support and administer the AFOTEC Special Events program.
     3.1. AFOTEC Support.
        3.1.1. Protocol will monitor and provide oversight to AFOTEC Special Events planning
        and acts as advisor to event committees.
            3.1.1.1. Protocol will maintain a common calendar and will be the primary
            scheduling source for all AFOTEC Special Events.
            3.1.1.2. Protocol will coordinate with the OPR group to identify an event point of
            contact (POC) and determine the date of the event based on schedules, location
            availability and mission requirements, at least two to three months prior to the event.
            3.1.1.3. Protocol will coordinate with the Communications and Information
            Directorate and committee members to provide appropriate SharePoint publicity for
            AFOTEC Special Events.
        3.1.2. The Commander’s Executive Staff will coordinate with the event POC to ensure
        proper recognition for various committees, volunteers and community contributors.
        3.1.3. Public Affairs will assist with coordination of base publicity support for specific
        AFOTEC Special Events as required.
        3.1.4. AFOTEC Multi-Media will:
            3.1.4.1. Provide support to AFOTEC Special Events as specific to each event, i.e.
            publicity posters, programs, banners and web page.
            3.1.4.2. Provide support to AFOTEC Special Events as required, i.e., preparation of
            slideshows, videos and technical support as required per event.
AFOTECI 36-1 24 JULY 2012                                                                      3


       3.1.5. AFOTEC Legal Counsel will act as legal advisor to events committees and advise
       the AFOTEC Special Events program as appropriate.
       3.1.6. Equipment, supplies, decorations and any other miscellaneous items purchased for
       the AFOTEC Special Events program will be stored in the AFOTEC warehouse.
   3.2. AFOTEC OPR.
       3.2.1. The OPR group will be held responsible for the primary planning and execution of
       the event, including logistics, publicity, entertainment, and budget. Representatives from
       other directorates and staff within AFOTEC are highly encouraged to act as committee
       members and volunteers, in order to maintain a broad base of support and participation.
       3.2.2. The OPR group will select a unit member to be the POC and organizer of the
       event committee. The POC will establish committee leads; conduct regular committee
       meetings and overall execution of the event, ensuring compliance with established
       policies and regulations.
       3.2.3. Protocol will coordinate with the event POC to ensure the AFOTEC Commander
       is briefed in a timely manner to allow for feedback in event planning.
4. OPR Assigned Groupings.
   4.1. The following OPR groupings are based upon the current personnel authorizations:
       4.1.1. Group 1:
          4.1.1.1. A-1: Manpower, Personnel and Training Directorate
          4.1.1.2. A-5/8: Plans and Programs Directorate
   4.1.2. Group 2:
          4.1.2.1. A-2/9:     Intelligence, Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned
          Directorate
          4.1.2.2. A-4/7: Logistics, Installations and Mission Support Directorate
       4.1.3. Group 3:
          4.1.3.1. A-3: Operations Directorate
          4.1.3.2. A-6: Communications and Information Directorate
       4.1.4. Group 4:
          4.1.4.1. Command Advisors: (CA/LC/PA/SE/HO/SB)
          4.1.4.2. Command Support: (CCE/CCJ/CCM/CCP/CCX/CVI, CVO)
*NOTE: Group 4 will provide personnel and committee support to each event rather than
assume the lead responsibility for one event.
   4.2. When multiple organizations are listed, both organizations will assume joint
   responsibility for organizing the event. They should coordinate between themselves to
   identify a primary POC (committee lead).
 4                                                            AFOTECI 36-1 24 JULY 2012


5. Financial Support/Funding. The AFOTEC Special Events program is primarily funded
through ticket sales and financial assistance from the UAC, which prepares an annual budget
allocating funds for each activity/event.
     5.1. Guidelines and schedules on fundraising activities will be published internal to the
     UAC.
6. Scheduling Conflicts.
     6.1. The dates for the Air Force Assistance Fund (AFAF) and Combined Federal Campaign
     (CFC) activities will take precedence over AFOTEC Special Events.



                                            DAVID J. EICHHORN
                                            Major General, USAF
                                            Commander
AFOTECI 36-1 24 JULY 2012                                                               5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A-1—Manpower and Personnel Directorate
A-2/9—Intelligence, Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned Directorate
A-3—Operations Directorate
A-4/7—Logistics, Installations and Mission Support Directorate
A-5/8—Plans and Programs Directorate
A-6—Communications and Information Directorate
AFAF—Air Force Assistance Fund
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational and Test and Evaluation Center
CC—Command Advisors and Command Support (CCJ/CCE/CCP/CCX/CCM/CVI)
CFC—Combined Federal Campaign
HO—History Office
LC—Legal Counsel
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Affairs
POC—Point of Contact
SB—Small Business
SE—Safety
UAC—Unit Advisory Council

Terms
Current Personnel Authorizations— Number of assigned personnel to specific directorates or
units
