      The
 Air Force
   Suicide
Prevention
  Program

    A description of
 program initiatives
      and outcomes
            April 2001



        AFPAM 44-160
    OPR: AFMOA/SGZP (Lt Col G. Wayne Talcott)   Certified by: AFMOA/CV
                                                (Col Paul B. Christianson)
                                                Pages: 54
                                                Distribution: F




2     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                    PREFACE




        The United States Air Force is committed to maintaining a fit and healthy
force because the health of the Air Force community is crucial to force readiness. In
1996, the Vice Chief of Staff directed the establishment of an integrated product team
(IPT) dedicated to reducing the number of lives lost to suicide. With senior leader-
ship support, the IPT developed a plan that marked the inception of the Air Force
Suicide Prevention Program.
        Since its creation, suicide rates among Air Force members have fallen to
record lows. We commend the hard work and dedication of those personnel in-
volved in the development of the Suicide Prevention Program. Toward that end, this
document recounts their efforts.
        The Air Force Suicide Prevention Program has heightened community aware-
ness of suicide and suicide risk factors. In addition, it has created a safety net that
provides protection and adds support for those in trouble. As we move beyond
program development and implementation, we must work to sustain the effort. Air
Force leadership should continually strive to communicate in words and actions that
it is not only acceptable, but also a sign of strength, to recognize life problems and to
get the necessary help. As the program matures, it will require continued leadership
support and involvement in addressing the needs of Air Force members. Our work
is not done. We are fully committed to the Air Force Suicide Prevention Program—
now and in the future.




                                                                  MICHAEL E. RYAN
                                                                  GENERAL, USAF
                                                                    CHIEF OF STAFF


                                                            PAUL K. CARLTON, JR.
                                                      LIEUTENANT GENERAL, USAF
                                                               SURGEON GENERAL


                                        US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM             3
4   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                         TABLE             OF       CONTENTS
PREFACE ..................................................................................................................... 3
INTRODUCTION ........................................................................................................... 7
      I LEADERSHIP INVOLVEMENT ............................................................................ 9
     II ADDRESSING SUICIDE THROUGH PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION ......... 12
    III GUIDELINES FOR COMMANDERS: USE OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ........... 14
   IV COMMUNITY PREVENTIVE SERVICES .............................................................. 16
     V COMMUNITY EDUCATION AND TRAINING ..................................................... 18
   VI INVESTIGATIVE INTERVIEW POLICY (HAND-OFF POLICY) ............................... 20
   VII CRITICAL INCIDENT STRESS MANAGEMENT (CISM) ..................................... 21
  VIII INTEGRATED DELIVERY SYSTEM (IDS) FOR HUMAN SERVICES PREVENTION ... 23
    IX LIMITED PATIENT PRIVILEGE ........................................................................ 26
     X BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SURVEY ..................................................................... 28
    XI EPIDEMIOLOGICAL DATABASE AND SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM ........................... 31
CONCLUSIONS ........................................................................................................... 33
REFERENCES .............................................................................................................. 34
APPENDIXES ............................................................................................................. 35
       APPENDIX A: PME SKILLS LIST (CHAPTER II) .................................................................. 37
       APPENDIX B: GUIDELINES FOR COMMANDERS BRIEFING (CHAPTER III) .............................. 39




                                                                 US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM                          5
6   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                I NTRODUCTION
                             DAVID LITTS, COLONEL, USAF
                           OFFICE OF THE US SURGEON GENERAL
    In the spring of 1996, the Air Force’s most senior leaders sensed that the details of far
too many suicides were crossing their desks in daily reports of major events. In May of that
year, the suicide of Admiral Jeremy Boorda, the top-ranking officer in the US Navy, caused
them to take an even closer look. It was time to take more aggressive action against the
problem of suicide among Air Force members.
    General Thomas Moorman, then the Air Force Vice Chief of Staff, commissioned the Air
Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT), under the leadership of Lieuten-
ant General Charles “Chip” Roadman II. This IPT was to develop a comprehensive plan to
respond to the problem. Consonant with the team leader’s vision, Air Force suicide would
not receive merely a medical response, but rather an Air Force response. To do that, repre-
sentatives from the entire Air Force community had to be fully invested in the process and
the result. Many Air Force agencies and individuals—Military and Civilian Personnel, the
Chaplains, Safety, Staff Judge Advocate, Commanders, First Sergeants, Child and Youth
Programs, Family Support, Family Advocacy, Law Enforcement, Office of Special Investi-
gations, Epidemiology, Mental Health, and Preventive Medicine—participated. From
outside the Air Force, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Armed
Forces Institute of Pathology, and the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research also helped.
Altogether, about 75 individuals spent June and July of 1996 assembling all that was
known about Air Force suicide victims. From this initial evaluation, a plan emerged, based
on expert opinion and the best available scientific knowledge. The goal was to build a
prevention program that would, through its implementation, save lives.
    At the first few meetings that summer, each team member presented his or her view of
the “problem” and the “solution.” After numerous briefings on stand-alone databases,
suicide theories, and single-faceted solutions, three themes resonated with team members:
    — Airmen feared losing their jobs and avoided seeking professional help because of
        the stigma associated with mental health problems and their treatment.
    — Many airmen perceived that commanders and supervisors routinely viewed mental
        health records, which reinforced the barriers due to stigma.
    — The Air Force was losing one of its defining qualities, a supportive
        interconnectedness that was best described by an old, though oft-repeated, slogan:
        “The Air Force takes care of its own.”

   The team established several epidemiological baselines:
   — In the first half of the 1990’s, suicide had been the second leading killer of airmen,
      responsible for 24 percent of all deaths.
   — The rate of suicide had risen significantly for enlisted males, both African-American
      and Caucasian, in the years preceding 1996, though still about 40 percent less than
      the age-, sex-, and race-matched US population.*
   — Fewer than one third of the suicide victims had accessed Air Force mental health
      services before their deaths.


                                              US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM           7
    Introduction

          — From 1990 to 1995, 25 percent of suicide victims had legal problems, frequently with
            the military justice system. A mental health specialist had evaluated fewer than one
            in five.
          — Of the entire constellation of risk factors, problems with relationships, the law, and
            finances played a part in an overwhelming majority of suicides.

           The team identified the risk factors for suicide and, with the exception of previous
       attempts, observed that all were modifiable. Additionally, it characterized “protective”
       factors as falling into three categories:
           — Social support and interconnectedness
           — Individual coping skills
           — Cultural norms that promote and protect responsible help-seeking behavior

           The team also observed that these protective factors were modifiable, and perhaps
       much more so even than the risk factors.
           During six weeks of briefings, discussions, e-mails, and multiple drafts and redrafts,
       certain assumptions emerged that would underlie the remainder of the team’s work:
           — Many, if not most, suicides are preventable.
           — Although there were no proven suicide-prevention methods, consensus recommen-
              dations from the CDC and World Health Organization were most promising.
           — Suicide is not a medical problem, but a problem of the entire Air Force community.
           — Suicide is the “tip of the iceberg” of psychosocial problems in the Air Force. A re-
              sponsible suicide prevention program must address the entire iceberg of afflictions
              to individuals, families, and their communities.
           — A community-based approach to reducing suicide would require committed part-
              nerships by many different professional and social service providers.
           — Only the Air Force Chief of Staff and the four-star generals could lead the way for
              the requisite cultural transformations that would
              -- Strengthen lifesaving social support to all Air Force members, especially those in
                  personal crisis, and
              -- Encourage and protect those who responsibly seek mental health treatment.

          The chapters that follow provide details of the Air Force Suicide Prevention Plan, which
       consists of eleven initiatives identified by the Suicide Prevention IPT. The discussion of
       each initiative generally addresses:
          — The reason the team deemed it important.
          — The actions taken to implement it.
          — The results of those actions.

           This document represents a snapshot in time of the general structure of the Air Force
       Suicide Prevention Program. The Suicide Prevention IPT continues to meet and the pro-
       gram is continually being refined and improved. The goal of this prevention program is to
       eliminate suicide as a cause of death among active duty Air Force members. When it comes
       to suicide, there are no “acceptable losses.”




8        US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                    I LEADERSHIP INVOLVEMENT
                                    G. WAYNE TALCOTT
                                    LT COLONEL, USAF
    Developing an effective suicide-prevention program that will reach over 370,000 airmen
stationed around the globe presents significant challenges for training and program main-
tenance. Another barrier to an effective program is the constantly changing Air Force
population, with over 30,000 new airmen entering service every year. Commanders, as
well as young airmen, move around the world and in and out of the service. To remain
viable and effective, a prevention effort has to remain on the minds of all members of the
community, especially commanders and supervisors.
    One way in which the Air Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT)
sought to keep the prevention program current and on everyone’s mind was to make it a
commander’s program by obtaining leadership support. The Air Force is structured hierar-
chically. The Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) is the senior ranking officer. Under the
CSAF are nine major commands, called MAJCOMs, each with its own commander. The
MAJCOMs then have Wing commanders (at the installation level), which have Group
commanders (organizations on an installation), which, in turn, have Squadron command-
ers (sections within organizations). Active support from the CSAF meant the team could
send information and directives regarding suicide prevention through the chain of com-
mand, from the CSAF to Squadron commanders, rapidly.
    A primary method for transferring important information from the CSAF to the instal-
lations is through the message system. This system disseminates information rapidly
throughout the Air Force. The IPT saw it as an ideal method for distributing information
about suicide prevention.
    Having the CSAF send regular messages serves several purposes. First, it provides a
timely way of broadcasting information about suicide prevention throughout the Air Force.
Second, it shows that the chief executive officer of the organization is interested in suicide
prevention—a powerful message to other leaders. Third, even in an organization with a
high job turnover, messages can be sent regularly, to ensure that leadership at all levels
remains informed about the importance of suicide prevention.
    The messages released by the CSAF not only show top-level support for suicide preven-
tion, but also provide education and guidance to Air Force leaders. Messages are released
every three to six months. They generally encourage commanders to
    — Actively support suicide prevention.
    — Promote protective factors.
    — Identify risk factors.
    — Recognize suicide prevention as a community effort.
    — Encourage airmen not to fear seeking help.
    — Provide progress reports and information.

    One of the first messages released by the CSAF emphasized the importance of the
suicide prevention effort and the need for leadership to take an active role in suicide pre-
vention:

                                              US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM            9
 Leadership Involvement

     “…Suicide affects the Total Force and causes the loss of our most valuable resource, trained profes-
       sionals. It is the second leading cause of death among active duty members. As leaders, we must
       take action to turn the tide on the needless tragedy of suicide...”
                                                              General Ronald R. Fogleman
                                                              Air Force Chief of Staff (1994-1997)

         Protective factors are those efforts that tend to decrease the likelihood someone might
     contemplate or actually harm themselves. The following excerpt from a message empha-
     sizes social support, which is a powerful protective factor:
     “…Please go the extra mile to foster a sense of belonging. Make sure your people feel they are a
      member of the team at unit functions and other small gatherings. It has been repeatedly demon-
      strated that social connections save lives…Let’s ensure we take care of our own—our Air Force
      family...”
                                                             General Michael E. Ryan
                                                             Air Force Chief of Staff (1997-Present)

         In addition, commanders want to be vigilant for risk factors that could increase the
     likelihood of a suicide or an attempt. The following is an example from a message that
     attempts to increase awareness of suicide risk factors:
     “…Since relationship problems are a factor in over half of our suicides, be vigilant for risk signs and
     respond with help to fellow airmen having problems…”
                                                             General Michael E. Ryan
                                                             Air Force Chief of Staff

         Making suicide prevention a community effort is a central feature of the prevention
     program. The goal is to heighten awareness of suicide and to create a culture that encour-
     ages everyone to take some responsibility for this effort:
     “…We are not just another big corporation—we are the United States Air Force, and we ‘take care
        of our own’…”
                                                         General Thomas Moorman
                                                         Air Force Vice Chief of Staff (1994-1997)

         A major goal of the prevention program is to reduce the barriers to seeking help. There-
     fore, a number of messages encouraged commanders to communicate to their troops that it
     is appropriate to seek help, even mental health services:
     “…Communicate in your words and actions that it is not only acceptable, but a sign of strength, to
        recognize life problems and get professional help to deal with them constructively. This help may
        come from chaplains, mental health providers, family support centers, or other providers on-base
        or off-base. We must support and protect to the full extent possible those courageous people who
        seek help early, before the crisis develops...”
                                                              General Michael E. Ryan
                                                              Air Force Chief of Staff




10      US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                                                                Leadership Involvement

    Using the message system provides a way of keeping commanders informed about the
progress of the suicide prevention program:
“…Suicides among Air Force members have fallen 37 percent, to the lowest rate since 1989. Since
   many of the risk factors involved are slow to change (e.g., substance abuse, mental health prob-
   lems, failures in relationships, etc.), we can assume the decline is due primarily to strengthening
   protective factors: social support, effective personal skills for handling difficult situations, and
   policies and cultural norms that encourage and protect those who seek help…”
                                                                           General Michael E. Ryan
                                                                           Air Force Chief of Staff

    Finally, messages are used to maintain a focus on suicide prevention. Sustaining the
program is a major concern as it enters its fourth year. The IPT sees messages as one way of
trying to keep suicide prevention a central part of commanders’ activities:
“…we have experienced dramatic reductions in the number of Air Force suicides. Our efforts are
working. Suicide however, continues to pose a threat to the health and well-being of our community
and we cannot afford to relax our efforts…”
                                                                       General Michael E. Ryan
                                                                       Air Force Chief of Staff

    The Air Force Suicide Prevention IPT believes that having the CSAF send regular mes-
sages to other Air Force leaders, encouraging their support and active participation in
suicide prevention, will help maintain leadership interest. Some recent findings lend sup-
port to this belief. In 1999, the USAF Office for Prevention and Health Services Assessment
conducted a survey of Squadron commanders to assess their interest in identifying specific
behavioral health problems in their units. The survey had them rank, in order of impor-
tance, those behavioral health concerns in their units about which they were interested in
knowing more. The number one concern was suicide prevention. This was surprising,
considering the Air Force had only 20 suicides in 1999. One explanation for this finding is
that suicide prevention is important to the CSAF and, therefore, important to leadership in
general.
    It is encouraging that Air Force leaders, even at the Squadron level, continue to see
suicide prevention as important. Sending regular messages over the past four years from
the Chief of Staff of the Air Force is one reason for this sustained interest.




                                                   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM                11
                  II ADDRESSING SUICIDE THROUGH
                 PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION
                                              SKIP MOE
                                            COLONEL, USAF
         In reviewing those factors that contributed to suicides, as well as those that seemed to
     protect against it, it became very clear that suicide was most effectively viewed as a com-
     mand problem, rather than a mental health problem. One statistic made this point: fewer
     than one-third of Air Force suicide victims had been seen in a mental health clinic within
     the last month of their lives. However, they had all been seen at work—typically as re-
     cently as the last workday before their deaths. Still, it was not fair or correct simply to point
     fingers at commanders, first sergeants, or supervisors, and allege that they were somehow
     not doing their jobs. It was absolutely true that many believed they were not adequately
     prepared to intervene effectively with a suicidal individual. Education for commanders,
     first sergeants, and supervisors, seemed to be an appropriate initiative, even though many
     of them were routinely and successfully managing difficult situations with seriously dis-
     tressed individuals.
         The Air Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT) developed two educa-
     tional initiatives to fill any real or imagined gaps in knowledge regarding suicide and
     helping individuals who were suicidal:
         — General community training (see Chapter V of this report)—Annual community
             training with a limited set of basic learning objectives on identifying individuals in
             distress and guidelines for taking appropriate action
         — Professional military education (PME)—More extensive periodic training for Air
             Force members, in greater depth and specifically oriented to an individual’s rank
             and level of responsibility. Most individuals who stay in the Air Force beyond their
             initial obligation attend rank-appropriate PME. Therefore, the IPT determined that
             PME curricula should be reviewed and, where appropriate, changes and/or addi-
             tions should be proposed that address suicide prevention.

         The IPT developed a comprehensive list of the information and skills that Air Force
     leaders and members should have regarding suicide and related subjects. Both enlisted
     and officer personnel reviewed this list, to ensure that it was complete and appropriate.
     (See the Skills List at Appendix A.) It included information that the lowest levels of super-
     vision and leadership would need, as well as the most advanced information senior leaders
     would need. The importance of various educational points differs for personnel at different
     stages in their careers. Consequently, the IPT developed separate lists of desired learning
     outcomes for each of three levels of enlisted PME and each of three levels of officer PME, as
     well as for the First Sergeants’ Academy. The lists overlapped; specific desired learning
     outcomes applied to multiple levels of PME. IPT members prepared information that helps
     meet desired learning outcomes for each level. Additionally, as an aid to course directors
     and instructors, they wrote a number of test questions for each level. Finally, they devel-
     oped eight case studies based on actual Air Force suicides as exercises. The IPT intended
     these products to be information for instructors, as opposed to a set of lesson outlines. This
     allows instructors to develop instructional sessions appropriate to their setting and student
     population more easily.

12     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                                               Professional Military Education

    When the IPT completed development of the PME resources, it provided them to the
curriculum managers for each PME school, to incorporate into existing curricula. Updated
annual statistics have been provided to the PME curriculum managers, to help keep their
course material fresh.
    Perhaps the most difficult aspect of the educational initiatives has been getting addi-
tional information included in PME curricula, which are always very full. There are many
and diverse demands to include instructional blocks on specific areas of interest. A typical
response from a PME course director is, “Show me what I should drop to make room for
your block.” Support for the suicide risk-reduction initiatives came from the highest levels
of authority on the Air Staff, which helped clear the way.




                                              US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM          13
                   III GUIDELINES FOR COMMANDERS:
                   USE OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
                                            MOLLY HALL
                                           COLONEL, USAF
        The Air Force Suicide Prevention program was adapted from seven recommendations
     from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for the prevention of youth
     suicide. The CDC had recommended a dual approach:
        — Population-based measures
        — Measures targeted at high-risk individuals

        The population-based efforts were divided into three subcategories: community train-
     ing, preventive services, and risk assessment/monitoring. The targeted measures entailed
        — Mental health treatment
        — Screening programs to identify high-risk individuals
        — Crisis centers/hotlines
        — Action taken after a suicide to prevent a “contagion” effect

         In reviewing the status of community training on suicide prevention in the Air Force,
     the Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT) found that there was no system-
     wide approach to this effort. The IPT also found there was great variation in the depth and
     maturity of programs that had been developed. Moreover, people were somewhat con-
     fused about how and when to access mental health services. The Boxer Amendment, which
     had codified active duty members’ rights when referred for commander-directed mental
     health evaluations, appeared to have exacerbated the situation. It seemed as though com-
     manders were reluctant to refer active duty members for mental health evaluations. Conse-
     quently, there was concern that some active duty members might not be getting the mental
     health help they needed.
         The IPT provided clear guidance to commanders on the best use of mental health ser-
     vices. The IPT sent a briefing to all Air Force installations and mental health facilities, with
     a cover letter from the Chief of Staff of the Air Force directing that every commander in the
     Air Force receive the briefing and put its message into practice. Commanders were to
     encourage early self-referral to mental health, and unequivocally communicate to subordi-
     nates that “It’s okay to get help.” This message was considered important enough to con-
     vene all Air Force commanders and first sergeants for the sole purpose of hearing the
     briefing.
         The 15-slide, fully scripted briefing addresses the issue of the rising rate of suicide in
     the Air Force since the late 1980’s. It establishes that, despite the effectiveness of early
     intervention, only a third of all cases of Air Force suicide ever received treatment in mental
     health clinics. The scope of mental health services is reviewed, with an intentional empha-
     sis on the nature of these services, beginning with consultation, education, and training to
     enhance performance and improve coping skills. This is followed by an overview of the
     more traditional evaluation and treatment services offered for the full spectrum of mental
     health disorders, including domestic abuse, alcohol and substance abuse, and administra-
     tive recommendations/actions, such as commander-directed evaluations.
14     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                                                  Guidelines for Commanders

    The briefing repeatedly underscores that effective leaders help their people seek care
early, and are instrumental in removing barriers and stigma associated with needing care.
An individual life-enhancement, mission-performance opportunity is captured by an early
referral. The briefing states that every member of the Air Force community (commanders,
first sergeants, supervisors, friends, and family) participate in recognizing and getting help
for those who are struggling to cope with difficult life events. Commanders and supervi-
sors, in particular, are in a powerful position to dispel concerns about seeking help. They
can also facilitate obtaining such help. Commanders are given data to counteract the per-
ception that seeking mental health care is a career-ending move. There is evidence to sug-
gest that members who refer themselves are unlikely to experience a negative career im-
pact.
    A list of circumstances where referral to mental health may be appropriate is provided,
highlighting problems with alcohol, the law, finances, job performance, and relationships.
    Referral types and options are reviewed, including member self-referral, or com-
mander-directed referral for Mental Health, Substance Abuse, Family Advocacy, or emer-
gency evaluation. A discussion of commander-directed referral briefly reviews the policy,
as well as identifying appropriate questions for commanders to ask. Commanders are
reminded to take expeditious action in emergencies, or when imminent risk of harm to an
individual or others is identified.
    The briefing concludes by emphasizing that commanders and mental health profession-
als are partners in improving duty performance, and reducing negative career impact and
the loss of trained personnel through early mental health care. (See Appendix B for a copy
of the briefing.)




                                              US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM            15
                IV COMMUNITY PREVENTIVE SERVICES
                                          GEORGE NICOLAS
                                         LT COLONEL, USAF
         Historically, prevention services were not officially accounted for on existing manpower
     standards, and so any agency providing these services was in danger of losing personnel.
     This “prevention penalty” discouraged the delivery of community preventive services. For
     instance, in calendar year 1997, the ratio of prevention services to all mental health services
     was about 0.7 percent, the equivalent of only 8 full-time positions providing prevention
     services for the entire Air Force.
         Getting mental health personnel into the community and performing a prevention role
     serves many functions. Only about one-third of those who committed suicide had received
     mental health care or intervention. Many view seeking such help in the military environ-
     ment as a sign of weakness, at best, and a career killer, at worst. The IPT considered that
     putting mental health personnel into the community to serve in prevention/non-clinical
     roles was a first step to removing the stigma associated with seeking traditional mental
     health care. Second, it allows mental health professionals earlier access to those who are
     suffering. Third, mental health personnel provide these preventive/educational encounters
     without record keeping. The hope was that the lack of a written record would encourage an
     atmosphere where information could be exchanged more freely.
         The IPT’s requirement to implement the Integrated Delivery System (IDS) (described in
     detail in Chapter VIII) would further exacerbate the dilemma of providing community-based
     preventive services at the expense of traditional individual, couple, and family therapy.
     Mental health personnel comprise one-sixth of the cross-functional IDS, the charter of which
     is to provide for the bio-psychosocial needs of the installation community, via integrated
     prevention services. It was clear that the manpower standard for mental health had to
     change to accommodate prevention activities.
         Initial assessment of the status of the standard led to two recommendations:
         — A manpower additive to Air Force Manual (AFM) 168-695, Vol. 1, Medical Administra-
             tive Management System-Base Users Manual, to provide one full-time equivalent (FTE)
             for every mental health work center. The primary job of this FTE would be preven-
             tion.
         — A limited-scale pilot project to test the concept of increasing mental health resources
             in prevention activities.

         For the first recommendation, justifying an FTE without compelling data and/or a pilot
     project was difficult. The existing manpower standard was based on “bean count”—one
     patient equalled one bean. “X” number of beans equaled one FTE. Prevention activity does
     not lend itself to bean counting; it is a function of time spent versus the number of patients
     seen. Initial estimates of time needed to complete preventive mental health services were
     developed in five major areas:
         — Assessment of community needs
         — Delivery of interventions for individuals
         — Delivery of interventions for units
         — Administrative contributions to IDS
         — Marketing/networking

16     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                                                 Community Preventive Services

    We estimated that the amount of time needed was 1,641 hours per year, per installation,
or 84 percent of an FTE. If this recommendation had been accepted, it would have added
approximately 65 more mental health providers to active duty Air Force units. Reserve and
National Guard units would not have been affected. However, this recommendation was
not adopted.
    The second recommendation, to establish a pilot project to test prevention in practice,
would have placed one field-grade FTE to work with the base IDS for three years, at two
sites in the US and two overseas. This recommendation ultimately fell into disfavor due to
the commitment of resources, length of time for the project, and the need for a more imme-
diate solution to the problem.
    As a result, the five preventive mental health service functions and tasks developed for
the first recommendation were distilled into the Work Center Description Additive, con-
necting three functions to provide prevention services with the base-level IDS. These three
functions were:
    — Preparing and providing education and community training in accordance with AFI
        44-154, Community Education: Suicide Prevention and Violence Awareness Training*
    — Consulting
    — Performing outreach activities

    The manpower standard additive was approved to include prevention services on 15
March 1997, about seven months after the initiative began. The Medical Expense and
Performance Reporting System (MEPRS) code “FAZY” was developed to quantify the
activity of the additive, so all time spent by mental health personnel in prevention activities
could be tracked through this system.
    Time spent in prevention activities tripled in 1998 and remained steady through 1999.
However, we have not reached the goal of dedicating five percent of all mental health
activities to prevention. The rate of activity leveled off at two percent, or the equivalent of
26 FTEs Air Force-wide. Air Force consultants for psychiatry, psychology, and social work
monitor this data and establish priorities for prevention activities.




                                              US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM             17
           V COMMUNITY EDUCATION                                AND      TRAINING
                                         RICHARD HANDLEY
                                        LT COLONEL, USAF
        Although mental health intervention can be very effective, we can only act when we are
     aware that a problem exists. This places the responsibility on individuals to seek help, or
     on others to refer them for help. We know from Air Force Office of Special Investigation
     (AFOSI) studies that, from 1983 to 1993, the Air Force averaged one suicide every five
     days. We also know, from the AFOSI studies, these facts about the suicide victims:
        — 47 percent communicated their intention to kill themselves
        — 53 percent gave clear indications of depression at the time of their death
        — 76 percent had serious problems in their intimate relationships
        — 32 percent had substance abuse problems
        — 23 percent had financial problems
        — 16 percent had legal problems
        — 43 percent had work-related problems
        — 60 percent had multiple problems

         Despite these facts, two-thirds of the victims in these studies had not come into contact
     with the healthcare system. Since healthcare providers saw so few of the victims, the Air
     Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT) recognized the need to provide
     community-based training for all Air Force personnel, including civilians.
         Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-154, Suicide Prevention Education and Community Training,
     adapts elements from the Air Education and Training Command (AETC) LINK suicide
     prevention program. It requires annual training in basic suicide risk factors, intervention
     skills, and referral procedures for people potentially at risk.
         AETC designed the LINK program as a preventive “web” of individuals, supervisors,
     first sergeants, commanders, the community, and medical professionals to create circles of
     concern. Most suicidal individuals want to live, but many are unable to see alternatives to
     their problems. They often view their situations as hopeless. The LINK program “links”
     people to helping resources and alternatives.
         The goal of the LINK program is to improve the early identification and referral of
     potentially at-risk personnel to prevent the loss of life from suicide, other self-defeating
     behavior, or behavior that may place others at risk. This program attempts to reach this
     goal by:
         — Decreasing the stigma associated with seeking help
         — Promoting early identification and referral of individuals at risk by those who know
             them best: their friends and co-workers
         — Encouraging supervisors to act as gateways to helping resources

        “LINK” describes actions each person can take to help prevent suicides, and is the
     theme of the program:



18     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                                                          Community Education

      Look for possible concerns
      I nquire about concerns
      Note level of risk
      Know referral resources and strategies

    In 1997, when the AFI was implemented, the required training included four different
intervention levels.

LEVEL ONE—INDIVIDUAL
    Level One was buddy care. This involved basic awareness training, with emphasis on
stress and suicide risk factors. This training was conducted annually and at all levels of
professional military education. The training encouraged the early identification and refer-
ral of potentially at-risk individuals to supervisors in Level Two.

LEVEL TWO—UNIT GATEKEEPERS
    Level Two involved identifying at-risk personnel (triage) and mentoring. This training
equipped squadron supervisors with the tools necessary to act as a gateway to help those
in need. Mentoring for supervisors would assist this effort and was a natural complement
to the “buddy care” concept encouraged in Level One. Referrals were to be made to com-
munity resources within Level Three, such as the Family Support Center or chaplains, or
directly to Level Four (medical professionals) in emergencies.

LEVEL THREE—COMMUNITY GATEKEEPERS
   Level Three involved those in the helping professions at each base. A base helping-
professions team (Family Support Center, Chaplain, Mental Health, Family Advocacy,
Child and Youth Services, and Health and Wellness Center) was to be established to net-
work and coordinate service delivery to those in need.

LEVEL FOUR—MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS
    Level Four involved direct care. All medical providers were trained in identifying,
referring, and treating persons at risk.

    In 1999, the IPT made several changes to the training requirements of the initial pro-
gram. Instead of four levels of intervention, the new AFI 44-154 requires only two: non-
supervisory “buddy care” training and leadership/supervisory training. The IPT made
these changes primarily because community gatekeepers and medical professionals taught
the suicide prevention interventions. By 1999, over 90 percent of all active duty and civilian
personnel had received some form of suicide prevention training.




                                              US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM            19
                VI INVESTIGATIVE INTERVIEW POLICY
                       (HAND-OFF POLICY)
                                         GEORGE NICOLAS
                                        LT COLONEL, USAF
         Experts in the study of suicide traditionally identify legal problems as a significant
     contributing risk factor leading to suicidal acts. The Air Force Suicide Prevention Inte-
     grated Product Team (IPT) identified legal problems as one of the top three risk factors for
     suicide by active duty Air Force members. People under investigation can easily feel iso-
     lated from their family, friends, and other social supports when they need them most. In
     mid-1996, over 30 percent of active duty suicide victims had legal problems and most were
     under some type of investigation. At that time, no policy existed to ensure individuals
     under investigation were being assessed for suicide potential, or were receiving adequate
     social and psychological support while undergoing investigation.
         In August 1996, the IPT began drafting a policy to assist those individuals under inves-
     tigation with their emotional and psychological needs. A combined effort over the next
     several months involving the personnel, legal, security forces, medical, and inspector
     general communities led to agreement, in November 1996, on the following policy tenets:
         — Agencies and unit leaders share responsibility for the safety and well being of indi-
             viduals who are under investigation and may be experiencing significant stress as a
             result of the investigation.
         — All Air Force investigators (e.g., Inspector General, Equal Opportunity and Treat-
             ment, Equal Employment Opportunity, Security Forces, or Office of Special Investi-
             gations) will notify/refer an individual’s first sergeant, commander, or supervisor,
             through person-to-person, documented contact, that the individual was interviewed
             and notified that they were under investigation.
         — Individuals appearing emotionally distraught or stunned will be released only to
             their first sergeant, commander, supervisor, or designee, and are not allowed to
             depart from an interview or interrogation alone.
         — Ensure that those agencies that do not have the legal right to detain an individual
             make reasonable efforts to “hand off” an individual to a representative from their
             unit. If that is not possible, they must make notification as soon as possible.
         — Unit leaders will take individuals experiencing stress that puts them at risk for
             suicide to a helping agency for professional care and services.

         This policy was not designed to circumvent any legal rights of the individual (e.g., the
     right to an attorney, the right against self-incrimination), or to create any rights not re-
     quired by law.
         The Air Force Chief of Staff signed a policy letter incorporating those tenets, to be
     effective immediately, on 4 December 1996. This policy appears to have been effective. To
     date, no life has been lost because involved agencies did not support it. The policy has been
     adopted as a requirement in Department of Defense Directive 6490.1, Mental Health Evalua-
     tions of Military Members (October 1997), and Department of Defense Instruction 6490.4,
     Mental Health Evaluations of Military Members (October 1997), that address the issues of
     mental health evaluations and the concept of imminent dangerousness.



20     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                    VII CRITICAL INCIDENT
                 STRESS MANAGEMENT (CISM)
                          DICK NEWSOME, LT COLONEL, USAF
                               SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY
    A completed suicide affects not only the one who dies, but also those who survive. This
is especially true in an organization such as the Air Force, where there is a strong emphasis
on unit cohesion. A death in a unit can be very much like a death in the family. Since the
death involves “work environment” relationships, instead of more traditional family rela-
tionships, there can be a risk for expecting people to just “suck it up” and go on with the
mission.
    Experiences with combat veterans throughout the history of war have repeatedly indi-
cated that feelings repressed become feelings expressed, and not always in the best way.
Following the Vietnam war, work with veterans from that era led to an improved under-
standing that exposure to trauma can have long-term effects on an individual’s daily func-
tioning. This knowledge resulted in identifying a pattern of behavior now referred to as
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
    Recognizing the long-term effects of PTSD is helping prevent people who are exposed
to trauma from developing PTSD. Research and literature over the past 20 years have
contributed to current PTSD prevention approaches. Investigators got their first exposure
to a particular approach to PTSD prevention while watching the extensive coverage of the
bombing of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, in 1995. This approach is
referred to as Critical Incident Stress Management (CISM).
    The Air Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT) surveyed Air Force
major commands to assess established procedures for responding to trauma. The survey
results revealed a wide range in the levels and types of responses, and an absence of spe-
cific Air Force guidance. Understanding the potential impact of a completed suicide on
survivors, the IPT determined that an integral part of any comprehensive approach to
suicide prevention would include CISM.
    The IPT helped develop Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-153, Critical Incident Stress Man-
agement,1 to guide the Air Force in responding to traumatic events, including completed
suicides. The AFI addresses the full spectrum of who, what, when, where, and how to
respond. For the first time, the Air Force required trained, multi-disciplinary teams at each
installation to respond to local traumatic events.
    Rather than using only mental health personnel, the AFI established multi-disciplinary
teams composed of mental health providers, medical providers, and chaplains, along with
senior non-commissioned officers in non-medical positions. The benefits of multi-disciplin-
ary Critical Incident Stress Teams (CIST) include:
    — Reducing the impression, and potential stigma, that CISM is only for those who
        need to see a mental health provider
    — Broadening the skills, perspectives, and expertise delivered to participants
    — Reducing the impact on any one unit in responding to a traumatic event




                                              US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM           21
 Critical Incident Stress Management

         The success of the CISM initiative depends on an understanding by commanders,
     supervisors, and those supervised that responding to a traumatic event is difficult. The
     goal of CISM is to help survivors identify, through a group experience, the normalcy of
     their various individual responses. CISM helps replace the internal question of “What’s
     wrong with me,” and lessens the impact on feelings of those who might think “I’m the only
     one feeling this way.”
         The CISM AFI establishes a CIST responsibility for training peer-support volunteers at
     each facility. This trained cadre of volunteers can better identify with a particular unit’s
     perspective in helping it respond to a traumatic event.
         The CISM AFI also includes a prevention component, which has the goal of providing
     anticipatory guidance for how to deal most effectively with an anticipated traumatic event.
     A curriculum for pre-exposure preparation (PEP) is part of the AFI. The curriculum in-
     cludes core content, facilitator guidance, and material for commanders and supervisors in
     understanding the purpose and goals of PEP. The PEP training is conducted primarily in
     two ways:
         — Periodic prevention training for initial responder groups, such as security forces,
            firefighters, and emergency medical technicians
         — “Just in time” training for personnel being deployed to potentially threatening
            environments

         The CISM AFI was adopted in July 1997. Within the following year, all Air Force instal-
     lations had established CISTs composed of members from many disciplines. These teams
     had responded to a wide variety of events, including completed suicides. Commanders
     familiar with CISM through their own participation began requesting additional sessions,
     to address members who worked shifts. Commanders of security forces, firefighters, and
     emergency medical personnel have continued to request periodic PEP training for their
     personnel, to enhance the state of force readiness.




22     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
  VIII INTEGRATED DELIVERY SYSTEM (IDS)                                              FOR
          HUMAN SERVICES PREVENTION
                                       JOHN NELSON
                                      COLONEL, USAF
    The Integrated Delivery System (IDS) is one of the major programmatic recommenda-
tions proposed by the Air Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT). The
IPT’s specific charter was to examine completed suicides in the Air Force as a community
and as a leadership concern. However, it was soon apparent that suicide was just the tip of
the iceberg. Initial epidemiological analysis demonstrated that the issues and risk factors
that underlie suicide have multiple outcomes; suicide is rare. In fact, these risk factors more
often underlie other human problems on which we focus many of our other support pro-
grams. These common risk factors include problems with:
    — Relationships
    — Finances
    — Job performance
    — Legal system
    — Substance abuse and mental health, especially depression

    It became clear that addressing these risk factors, using a community strategy designed
to prevent suicide, could have a much broader impact on the behavioral health of the
community.
    Many Air Force agencies provide broad-based prevention services that focus on these
risk factors, reduce stress, and improve the coping skills and general well being of indi-
viduals and families. While each agency has a unique mission, they all share a common
prevention mission, in which there may be overlaps, duplication, or gaps. Given such a
diversity of agencies and programs, customers found it difficult to access and navigate the
system. One agency’s marketing efforts often inadvertently created a sense of competition
with another, which confused the customer. Many bases attempted ad hoc coordination, to
increase the availability of programs and services. However, these attempts were not
consistent Air Force-wide in addressing wasteful duplications or service gaps. Without a
coordinated system, customers (both commanders and members) often did not get the
service they desired or needed.
    The intent of the IDS is to establish a seamless system of services, made up of collabora-
tive partnerships and coordinated human-service preventive activities for individuals and
families. This system streamlines access and establishes new links among participating
helping agencies. The six primary IDS agencies that have significant prevention-based
resources dedicated to these issues are:
    — Chaplains
    — Child and youth programs
    — Family Advocacy
    — Family Support
    — Health promotion/Health and Wellness Centers
    — Mental health clinics




                                              US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM             23
 Integrated Delivery System

         The IDS organizes and coordinates overlapping prevention missions of participating
     agencies, while retaining each agency’s unique mission. The intent of the IDS is to elimi-
     nate duplication, overlap, and gaps in delivering prevention services through the consoli-
     dation of existing committees with similar charters. Consequently, the IDS can offer more
     comprehensive preventive services, which will increase protective factors and decrease
     behavioral risk factors in the Air Force community.




        The IDS has four primary functions:
        — Centralized information and referral (I and R)
        — Assessment of unit and community behavioral risk factors
        — Delivery of prevention services that are targeted to a wide range of individuals and
           groups within Air Force communities (leaders, active duty members and their
           families, civilian employees, and Reserve component members and their families)
        — Collaborative marketing of IDS I and R and prevention services

          The IDS exists as a virtual matrixed function, rather than a traditional agency. As such,
     it is defined by its activity rather than its location. IDS offers its services at work sites,
     schools, and community facilities, as well as at any of the member agency facilities.
          The IDS is chartered as a standing subcommittee of the installation Community Action
     Information Board (CAIB). (The CAIB is a cross-functional committee made up of commu-
     nity agencies and chaired by a senior military officer on the installation, usually the Wing
     Commander or the Vice Commander.) Core membership of the IDS includes, but is not
     limited to, leadership representatives from each of the six primary agencies. Since preven-
     tion is a community-wide concern, any program or agency not specifically mentioned is
     welcome to participate in collaborating, coordinating, and marketing these efforts. The
     installation commander annually appoints a representative from one of the primary agen-
     cies to act as the IDS coordinator in his or her behalf. In making this appointment, the
     installation commander ensures the full cooperation of each agency contributing services to
     the IDS function. As the installation commander’s representative, the coordinator is re-
     sponsible for facilitating and directing collaborative efforts within the IDS team, and be-
     tween the IDS team and the community. The coordinator reports to the installation com-
     mander at least quarterly on the progress of the IDS.
          Initial policy guidance to installations in support of this significant effort was broad,
     rather than prescriptive. It provided for maximum flexibility in meeting local needs, based
     on local requirements and resources. Rather than specifying a “one-size-fits-all” model for
     the IDS, the bottom-line requirements are twofold:
          — Create a collaborative, integrated, and customer-focused prevention delivery system
          — Achieve meaningful and measurable outcomes for the community

24     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                                                      Integrated Delivery System

    One year following their initial development, IDS teams were operational on all Air
Force installations. Many innovative best practices were identified. However, the need was
apparent for a formal management structure, outside the Suicide Prevention IPT, to pro-
vide oversight and ongoing guidance for IDS implementation across the Air Force. The
establishment of the Air Force CAIB (Air Force Instruction 90-500, Community Action Infor-
mation Boards), chaired by the assistant vice chief of staff, provided an ideal response to this
gap. (Note: The assistant vice chief of staff is the third highest position in the United States
Air Force.) The Air Force CAIB elevates IDS issues from functional concerns to Air Force
issues, and provides senior Air Force leadership visibility for these important quality-of-
life issues.




                                               US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM             25
                       IX LIMITED PATIENT PRIVILEGE
                                           GEORGE NICOLAS
                                          LT COLONEL, USAF
         The stigma associated with mental health care in the civilian community takes on
     added significance in the military. This is due primarily to the nature of military operations
     and commanders’ “need to know” about the mental, and physical, capabilities of their
     troops to safely and efficiently carry out their missions. The “need to know” can run
     counter to the concept of confidentiality. In military medical practice, the provisions of the
     federal Privacy Act govern confidentiality for active duty members and non-active duty
     personnel. There are instances where confidentiality is not protected, to maintain the integ-
     rity of military missions. This military necessity permits commanders to access medical
     information, to preserve the safety and security of military personnel, dependents, prop-
     erty, or classified information, or to accomplish the military mission. Child abuse or mal-
     treatment and danger to self or others are examples of other exceptions to patient privacy
     in the military.
         With such broad access, military members shy away from military mental health pro-
     viders because they do not want the commander to have access to information about their
     personal problems. Members commonly believe that if they seek mental health care, their
     careers will be adversely affected or terminated. In fact, results from the most recent De-
     partment of Defense Survey of Health Related Behaviors Among Military Personnel indi-
     cated that 86 percent of Air Force members felt receiving mental health services may or
     definitely would damage their careers. Fortunately, this view appears to be more percep-
     tion than fact. One investigation found that nearly 98 percent of those who sought mental
     health care on their own did not experience any adverse effect on their careers. Conversely,
     37 percent of those whom the commander directed to seek mental health care had negative
     career consequences. 1
         When these statistics were coupled with the fact that 30 percent of Air Force members
     who committed suicide never sought mental health care, the Air Force Suicide Prevention
     Integrated Product Team (IPT) moved to establish a minimum level of confidentiality, as a
     means to promote help-seeking behavior. Confidentiality was needed not only to encour-
     age help-seeking behavior, but also to mitigate another significant risk factor: approxi-
     mately 30 percent of those who committed suicide were undergoing disciplinary action
     (court-martial or administrative non-judicial punishment), or were being investigated for
     matters that could have resulted in disciplinary action. Mental health intervention during
     this time is critical.
         The IPT chose to address these concerns in the March 1997 revision of Air Force Instruc-
     tion (AFI) 44-109, Mental Health and Military Law.2 Staff from the offices of the Air Force vice
     chief of staff, inspector general, judge advocate general, personnel, and surgeon general
     combined to draft the limited privilege suicide prevention (LPSP) program. The initial
     version of the LPSP provided the following guidance:
         — It applied to members only after charges had been preferred in a court martial, or
             after notification of intent to impose punishment under Article 15 or Article 30 of the
             Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).


26     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                                                     Limited Patient Privilege

   — Commanders were responsible for placing members in the LPSP when they became
     aware they were at risk for suicide and consulted with a mental health professional.
   — The privilege lasted as long as the member was suicidal.
   — LPSP provided limited protection to enrolled members:
     -- Information revealed to the mental health provider could not be used in UCMJ action.
     -- Information revealed could not be used to characterize service at time of separation.
   — Notification of commanders for administrative purposes was allowed for any other
     purpose authorized by law, AFI 44-109, and other AF instructions and programs (e.g.,
     nuclear personnel reliability program, when danger to persons and property is discov-
     ered).
   — Members were disenrolled when the threat of suicide no longer existed and such was
     noted in the medical record.

    Although limited in scope, this initiative was groundbreaking for military mental health care
by establishing a psychotherapist-patient privilege. Its establishment was not expected to have
any impact on the ability to prosecute cases.
    After implementation of the 1 March 1997 revision, it became apparent that only about nine
percent of cases were eligible for the LPSP program. The Suicide Prevention IPT wanted to
broaden protections, so a greater percentage of members would be covered. A second revision
of AFI 44-109 was published on 1 March 2000. The newly revised AFI retained the LPSP pro-
gram, but significantly expanded the period for eligibility. Members are eligible for enrollment
in the LPSP program now from the time of official notification that they are under investigation.
This change is expected to increase eligibility to 35 percent of cases.




                                             US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM         27
                           X BEHAVIORAL HEALTH SURVEY
                                                PAUL WILSON
                                                MAJOR, USAF
         The need for a tool to assess behavioral health aspects of a unit and members of a unit
     has long been a topic of interest in the Air Force. In 1993, the Air Education and Training
     Command (AETC) took steps to reduce their suicide rate. One of their initiatives was to
     develop a tool to help assess behavioral health risks in the workplace. They developed this
     tool, the Behavioral Health Survey, in 1994-1995, in cooperation with the Johnson Institute
     of Minneapolis, Minnesota (a civilian contractor). The Behavioral Health Survey was de-
     signed to alert commanding officers to behavioral problems in their organization’s person-
     nel, and to recommend prevention or intervention programs to reduce areas of risk or loss.
         In 1996, the Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT) decided that behavioral
     health assessment was needed as a component of a suicide reduction strategy. The IPT also
     decided that the Behavioral Health Survey was the best tool available for the Air Force.
         The Behavioral Health Survey is composed of 196 items that ask about behaviors in the
     last 12 months. Most of the responses are in a “yes/no” or “true/false” format. The survey
     is self-administered, anonymous, and designed for work units of 100 or more. Administra-
     tion usually occurs in large groups, and may include civilians, as well as active duty mem-
     bers. Since most items ask about behaviors in the last 12 months, it is recommended that
     the Behavioral Health Survey not be administered more than once a year.
         A commander can request administration of the Behavioral Health Survey through the
     Integrated Delivery System (IDS), a “virtual” organization of helping agencies on each
     installation. The IDS representative can request survey forms either directly from the
     vendor (formerly Johnson Institute, now Hazelden), or from an existing supply purchased
     by the Air Force. Once the IDS representative administers the survey, responses are sent to
     the vendor for scoring and analysis. The vendor generates two reports of aggregate data
     that are sent back to the unit’s commander (the Commander’s Report) and to the IDS
     representative (the Helping Professional’s Report).
         The Commander’s Report gives information on five main behavioral health factors:
         — Alcohol use frequency
         — Emotional distress
         — Lack of cooperation with partner
         — Psychological stress
         — Job dissatisfaction (see Table 1)



     Table 1. Scales from the Behavioral Health Survey, Commander’s Report
     Scale Name                         Assessment Area
     Alcohol use frequency              Drinking alcohol approximately two or more times per week on average
     Emotional distress                 Preoccupation with problems, depression, and/or a sense of helplessness,
                                        failure or shame
     Lack of cooperation with partner   Inability of partners to appreciate one another’s perspectives and compromise
     Psychological stress               Lack of sleep, exercise, healthy diet, or quality time to spend alone or with
                                        families
     Job dissatisfaction                Lack of information and resources needed for good job performance, difficult
                                        working conditions, unrealistic deadlines, and/or job-related stress

28      US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                                                                     Behavioral Health Survey

   These scales have been shown to have adequate reliability and validity (i.e., they give
the same results repeatedly and they measure what they purport to measure). In addition,
the report gives commanders feedback on
   — Aerobic activity
   — Height/weight standards
   — Cigarette use frequency
   — Drinking and driving
   — Demographics of their unit (gender, rank, time on station, hours worked per week)
       (see Table 2)

Table 2. Other Information from the Behavioral Health Survey, Commander’s Report
Scale Name                     Assessment Area
Aerobic activity level         Frequency of engaging in at least 20 minutes of aerobic exercise per week
Height/weight standards        Meeting current Air Force height/weight standards
Cigarette use frequency        Smoking one-half pack or more cigarettes a day in the past 30 days
Drinking and driving           Driving one or more times while under the influence of alcohol or other drugs during
                               the past 12 months

    The report that gives commanders information about these factors compares their unit
to others from across the Air Force, weighted to match the gender and rank distribution of
the work unit. This allows commanders to see if their unit is significantly different on these
factors from a sample of other units across the Air Force.

    The Helping Professional’s Report includes information on five additional scales:
    — Changes at work
    — Dissatisfaction with partner
    — Feelings of hopelessness
    — Lack of unit cohesiveness
    — Unresolved partner conflicts

    These do not have as good psychometric properties as the five main scales. However,
they may be useful to the commander. Also included are detailed item-level analyses of the
unit’s scores, allowing for hypotheses to be generated about where to focus prevention or
intervention efforts (see Table 3).

Table 3. Scales from the Behavioral Health Survey, Helping Professional’s Report
Scale Name                         Assessment Area
Changes at work                    Perceptions of changing responsibilities and threatened or actual reductions
                                   in the work force
Dissatisfaction with partner       Dissatisfaction with spouse/partner, perception of a lack of support
Feelings of hopelessness           Hopeless outlook towards the future and a negative view towards self, with
                                   possible increased risk for suicidal thoughts/behavior and depression
Lack of unit cohesiveness          Perceptions of poor morale, lack of interpersonal trust and loyalty, and lack
                                   of acceptance of new personnel
Unresolved partner conflicts       Anger and arguments in the relationship, with threats of separation




                                                         US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM                   29
 Behavioral Health Survey

         In late 1999, a random sample survey of commanders across the Air Force revealed that
     84 percent “agreed” or “strongly agreed” that an instrument providing accurate informa-
     tion about the behavioral health strengths and needs of a unit would be helpful. However,
     only 14 percent of commanders had actually used the Behavioral Health Survey. The
     survey also found that most of the behavioral health domains of interest to commanders
     were not adequately addressed by the existing Behavioral Health Survey. A ranking of the
     top ten areas of interest to a majority of commanders is provided in Table 4.
     Table   4. Top Ten Items of Interest to a Majority of Commanders
     Rank      Item
       1.    Suicide (thoughts, intent)
       2.    Stressors and ability to cope
       3.    Unit cohesion/morale
       4.    Family problems
       5.    Alcohol use
       6.    Family separation (deployment, TDY)
       7.    Family violence
       8.    Depression
       9.    Substance use (other than alcohol/tobacco)
      10.    Quality of life/general well being

        A working group has been formed to determine future directions for the Behavioral Health
     Survey, a revised Survey, or another assessment instrument, and for the use of behavioral
     health assessment in the work unit.




30     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
            XI EPIDEMIOLOGICAL DATABASE                                       AND
                  SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
                                          JILL FEIG
                                        MAJOR, USAF
    From 1990 to 1994, suicide accounted for an average of 24 percent of all deaths among
active duty Air Force (ADAF) members and was the second leading cause of death in 1991,
1992, and 1994, after unintentional injuries. 1 During the same time, the annual suicide rate
among ADAF personnel increased significantly, from 10.0 to 16.4 suicides per 100,000
members (p<0.01). In 1995, senior USAF leaders initiated prevention programs in several
major commands (MAJCOM) because of the increasing suicide rate. Despite these pro-
grams, the suicide rate in 1996 was still considered too high by Air Force leadership.
    The Air Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team (IPT) called for establishing
a central surveillance database for fatal and nonfatal self-injuries.2 This database would be
used not only to track events, but also to facilitate the analysis of potential risk factors for a
suicide event. The system used to track the events is called the Suicide Event Surveillance
System (SESS).
    Initially, the SESS was developed as part of the Air Force Reportable Event Surveillance
System (AFRESS), which is used by installation public health staff to track diseases and
injuries in Air Force personnel. Suicide data, including personal demographics, event
details, and use of preventive services, were tracked through AFRESS from 1 January 1997
until 19 January 1999. A 20 March 1997 memorandum by the Air Force Surgeon General
addressed reporting requirements.
    The SESS became an independent system on 20 January 1999. This move was made to:
    — Alleviate technical incompatibilities with Air Force Office of Special Investigations
        (AFOSI) computer systems.
    — Fill the need for expanded reporting of events to include non-ADAF personnel
        (Guard, Reserve, dependents, retirees, and DoD civilians).
    — Allow direct reporting of suicide events by mental health staff, to improve patient
        confidentiality.

   The SESS also collects data beyond that covered in AFRESS, including psychological,
social, behavioral, relationship, and economic factors. Air Force Instruction (AFI) 48-105,
Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health or Military
Significance, currently in draft, will also include a section on suicide surveillance.
   The SESS is a World Wide Web-based application. The system requires Netscape®
Communicator version 4.5 or higher, authorization from the user’s commander, and a
computer with a “.mil” address. All data entered into the database is stored on a high-
security server at Kelly AFB, Texas. The data in the SESS is governed by the Privacy Act of
1974. Privacy Act system notice F044 AF SG T, Suicide Event Surveillance System, applies.
   There are two authorized mental health users at each base, and four AFOSI users at
AFOSI headquarters at Andrews AFB, Maryland. Each user has a unique user name and
password with which to enter the system. AFOSI users are responsible for reporting all
completed suicides of ADAF members. Installation mental health users enter information
on all non-fatal, self-injurious events, or NFSE. The NFSE cover suicide attempts and
gestures, and may include ADAF, other military service members, and other non-active
duty cases.

                                                US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM              31
 Database and Surveillance

         After logging onto the SESS Web site, the user can add a new case, update an existing
     case, or download such information as a user’s manual, an investigative worksheet (Air
     Force Form 4273), or a summary report. A paper copy of the worksheet is not necessary,
     though some users prefer to use one as a “rough draft” on which to gather information.
         The Force Health Protection and Surveillance Branch of the Air Force Institute for Envi-
     ronment, Safety, and Occupational Health Risk Analysis (AFIERA/RSRH) at Brooks AFB,
     Texas, is responsible for maintaining, continuously improving the quality of, analyzing,
     and reporting the data. One authorized user at the Air Force Medical Support Agency
     downloads the data monthly and provides it to a designated AFIERA/RSRH staff member.
     AFIERA/RSRH then creates routine monthly and yearly reports, as well as addresses
     requests from users and customers at the Air Force Medical Operations Agency, Office of
     the Surgeon General, and various mental health leaders at the MAJCOMs.
         From 1994 to 1999, the suicide rate significantly decreased, from 16.4 suicides per
     100,000 ADAF members to 5.6 (p < 0.0001; see figure).



                                               Num ber of Suicides                         Suicide Rate
           Number of Suicides




                                120                                                                          18




                                                                                                                  Rate per 100,000
                                100
                                                                                                             13
                                 80
                                 60                                                                          8
                                 40
                                                                                                             3
                                 20
                                  0                                                                          -2
                                  0

                                         2

                                                4

                                                       6

                                                              8

                                                                     0

                                                                            2

                                                                                   4

                                                                                          6

                                                                                                 8

                                                                                                        99
                                   8

                                          8

                                                 8

                                                        8

                                                               8

                                                                      9

                                                                             9

                                                                                    9

                                                                                           9

                                                                                                  9
                                19

                                       19

                                              19

                                                     19

                                                            19

                                                                   19

                                                                          19

                                                                                 19

                                                                                        19

                                                                                               19

                                                                                                      19




                                                                     Year
         The rate has decreased every year since 1994. One possible explanation may be the
     various efforts at suicide prevention that the USAF has employed. However, testing this
     hypothesis is not possible, due to the lack of a control group. Future trend analysis and
     comparison with rates from other branches of the military may provide more insight on
     this issue.
        For more information about SESS, contact AFIERA/RSRH at:
                               2513 Kennedy Circle
                               Brooks AFB, TX 78235-5123
                               210/536-3471 (DSN: 240-)




32     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                                  C ONCLUSIONS

    Suicide rates have fallen significantly since the inception of the Air Force Suicide Pre-
vention Program. In addition, we have taken a number of positive steps toward making
this an effective program:
    — Actively involving leadership
    — Breaking down traditional “stove pipes” among helping services
    — Striving to remove the stigma of seeking help
    — Creating the first privileged communication for suicidal personnel who are under
       criminal investigation
    — Encouraging the responsibility of all Air Force members to care for one another—
       “buddy care”

    Although we can temporally relate the drop in suicides to the beginning of the preven-
tion program, we have not established a definitive causal link. This means that it is difficult
to prove that the suicide prevention program is the real, or only, reason for the reduction of
suicides. When we began to design the program, we found no proven suicide-prevention
methods. Therefore, we used consensus recommendations from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and other expert consultants in the field of suicidology to identify
the basic components of this community-based approach.
    Since no causal link has been established, future program initiatives strive to maximize
the recommendations of the Air Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team and
other consultants. These first few years were very encouraging and, in 1999, the Air Force
had one of the lowest rates of suicide in its history. However, even with these impressive
results, we have work to do—in 1999, a historically low suicide rate still meant over 20 Air
Force members died from self-inflicted injuries.
    The Air Force Suicide Prevention Integrated Product Team continues to meet regularly
to identify critical areas for program improvement. As the prevention program enters its
fourth year, trying to sustain a global program and high quality interventions is challeng-
ing. The goal is to maintain the highest quality possible and to keep the program focused
on those factors we believe are crucial to its success:
    — Leadership involvement
    — Education at all levels
    — Re-engineering helping services
    — Unit behavioral assessment
    — Surveillance




                                               US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM            33
                                       REFERENCES



     Introduction
        Air Force members are screened for mental illness on accession to the force. One hun-
        dred percent are employed and housed. There is universal access to health care, includ-
        ing mental health services. All speak one language.

     Chapter IV
       Air Force Instruction 44-154, Community Education: Suicide Prevention and Violence Awareness
       Training
       (See http://afpubs.hq.af.mil/pubfiles/af/44/afi44-154/afi44-154.pdf)

     Chapter VII
       Air Force Instruction 44-153, Critical Incident Stress Management
       (See http://afpubs.hq.af.mil/pubfiles/af/44/afi44-153/afi44-153.pdf)

     Chapter IX
       1. Crosby RC, Hall MJ. Psychiatric evaluation of self-referred and non self-referred
       active duty military members. Military Medicine 1992: 157:224-229.
       2. Air Force Instruction 44-109, Mental Health and Military Law
       (See http://afpubs.hq.af.mil/pubfiles/af/44/afi44-109/afi44-109.pdf)

     Chapter XI
       1. Air Force Personnel Center, casualty statistics Web page:
       http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/sascasstats/
       2. Litts DA, Moe K, Roadman CH, Janke R, Miller J. Suicide prevention among active
       duty Air Force personnel: United States, 1990-1999. MMWR. Nov 26, 1999; 48(46); 1053-
       1057.




34     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
APPENDIXES




    US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM   35
36   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
          APPENDIX A: PME SKILLS LIST (CHAPTER II)
                               Recom mended D esired Learning O utcom es
                               For Professional M ilitary Learning Courses




                                                                                                            1st Sergeants
                                                                         Senior NCO
                                                  Leadership




                                                                                      Command
                                                                                      Squadron
                                                               Academy


                                                                         Academy




                                                                                                            Academy
                                                                                      and Staff

                                                                                                  Air War
                                                                                      College

                                                                                                  College
                                                  Airman




                                                                                      Officer
                                                                                      School
                                                               NCO




                                                                                      Air
1. Background K now ledge
1.1. K now basic inform ation about how
       much of problem suicide is for the            I*         R **        R          I    R       R            R
       A ir Force
1.2. K now that suicide represents a
       failure to find other m ore effective
                                                      I          R          R          I    R       R            R
       w ays to cope w ith problem s that
       seem insoluble
1.3. K now w arning signs of suicide and
       decreased or impaired emotional                I          R          R          I                         R
       status
1.4. K now the im plications of being
                                                      I          R          R          I    R       R            R
       seen in m ental health
1.4.1.    W hat if som eone w ho w orks for
                                                                  I         R          I    R                    R
          you is seen in m ental health
1.4.2.    W hat if you need to be seen in
                                                                  I         R          I    R                    R
          m ental health
1.5. For com manders and first
       sergeants:
1.5.1. K now im plications of getting help
                                                                                                                  I
       from a chaplain
1.5.2. K now im plications of getting help
                                                                                                                  I
       from off-base sources
1.5.3. K now im plications of getting help
                                                                                                                  I
       from a friend
1.5.4. K now im plications of not getting
                                                                                                                  I
       help at all
1.5.5. K now the im plications of being
                                                                                                                  I
       seen in m ental health
2. Personal C oping Skills
2.1. K now that problem solving,
       conflict resolution, and building
                                                      I                                I
       social support are highly valued
       coping skills.
2.2. K now w here to go for help w ith
                                                      I                                I
       im proving these coping skills
3. Peer Support Skills
3.1. K now w hat to say to and do for a
       co-w orker, friend, fam ily m em ber           I          R          R          I            R            R
       w ho appears to need help
3.2. K now w hat to say to a subordinate
                                                                             I         I            R            R
       w ho appears to need help
3.3. K now w here and how to get help                 I          R          R          I            R            R

*
    I indicates that this inform ation is first introduced at this level of Professional M ilitary Education
**
     R indicates that this information is review ed at this level of Professional M ilitary Education

                                                     US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM                                37
                                         Recommended Desired Learning Outcomes
                                         For Professional Military Learning Courses




                                                                                                 Officer School

                                                                                                                  Air Command




                                                                                                                                          1st Sergeants
                                                                                    Senior NCO
                                                             Leadership




                                                                                                 Squadron
                                                                          Academy


                                                                                    Academy




                                                                                                                                          Academy
                                                                                                                  and Staff

                                                                                                                                Air War
                                                                                                                  College


                                                                                                                                College
                                                             Airman


                                                                          NCO
            4. Leadership Skills
            4.1. Know prevention steps senior NCOs,
                                                                                                                                     **
                  OICs, and commanders should be                                       I*              I                         R             R
                  taking
            4.1.1. Know importance of facilitating
                                                                                        I              I                                       R
                    social support and how to do that
            4.1.2. Know relationship of marital
                    problems to suicide and what to do
                    about marital and other                                             I              I                                       R
                    relationship problems within the
                    unit
            4.1.3. Know relationship of suicide to
                    investigations and legal problems
                    and how to provide support to                                       I              I                                       R
                    members under investigation or
                    with legal problems
            4.2. Know prevention steps commanders
                                                                                                       I              R           R
                  should be taking
            4.2.1. Understand relationship of work
                                                                                                       I              R           R
                    environment to help-seeking
            4.2.2. Understand what policies promote
                                                                                                       I              R           R
                    and discourage help-seeking
            4.2.3. Know when and how to refer for a
                                                                                                       I              R           R
                    mental health evaluation
            4.3. First sergeants and commanders:
                  Know, in great detail, where and                                                                                             R
                  how to get help
            4.3.1. Know how to get help through
                                                                                                                                               R
                    mental health
            4.3.2. Know how to get help from a
                                                                                                                                               R
                    chaplain
            4.3.3. Know how to get help from off-
                                                                                                                                               R
                    base sources
            4.3.4. Know how to get help from a
                                                                                                                                               R
                    friend
            4.3.5. Know implications of not getting
                                                                                                                                               R
                    help at all
            4.4. Know what to do for your unit
                                                                                                                                  R            R
                  following a suicide




     *
         I indicates that this information is first introduced at this level of Professional Military Education
     **
          R indicates that this information is reviewed at this level of Professional Military Education

38        US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
APPENDIX B: GUIDELINES FOR COMMANDERS BRIEFING
                 (CHAPTER III)




         GUIDELINES FOR COMMANDERS:
        USE OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES




                      US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM   39
                                 CONTEXT OF BRIEFING


                 z   Suicide rates are rising among segments
                     of AF population (enlisted males)
                 z   Suicide has risk factors that are prevalent
                     among general population
                 z   Use of Commander Directed Evaluations
                     (CDEs) has decreased markedly since
                     implementation of Boxer Amendment




               The purpose of this briefing is to provide clear guidance to command-
           ers on the best use of mental health services. The issue was raised by senior
           leadership in the context of addressing the suicide problem in the Air
           Force. Although suicide is a rare event, it was the second leading cause of
           death for active duty Air Force between 1990 and 1995 after unintentional
           injury. The rate of suicide has risen from roughly nine per 100,000 to 15
           per 100,000 AF-wide since the late 1980’s. This rising trend is most evi-
           dent among enlisted males.
               Suicide occurs at the end of a long road of personal suffering and
           turmoil. Along the way, though, there are usually multiple signs which
           point to a need for help and present an opportunity for effective interven-
           tion. These can include a range of symptoms: poor coping skills, relation-
           ship problems, legal difficulties, decreased job performance, emotional
           distress. Only a third of all cases of suicide had received treatment in
           mental health clinics. Many individuals have risk factors, and while only a
           very small number will attempt or complete suicide, all exhibit decreased
           functioning contributing to lost workdays and reduced productivity. We
           must get our people help when they first show signs of distress.
               A commander-directed evaluation is often a late intervention, but an
           intervention nevertheless. Commander-directed evaluations are occurring
           less frequently since the Boxer Law guaranteed certain legal rights to
           members being directed to the evaluation. The reason for the decline in this
           referral process is not known, but we should be concerned that this decline
           may mean some members are not getting the mental health help they need.




40   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                         BRIEFING OUTLINE


      z   Scope of Services provided by Mental
          Health
      z   Considerations for referral
      z   How to refer
          z   Outpatient Evaluation/Treatment
          z   Commander Directed Evaluation
          z   Emergencies




    In this briefing we will review the range of services provided by AF
Mental Health Clinics; we will provide an overview of the kinds of warn-
ing signs that should prompt commanders and supervisors to refer an
individual for an evaluation; and finally, we will discuss the best approach
to ensure a successful referral and intervention.




                                    US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM    41
                              SCOPE OF MENTAL HEALTH
                                     SERVICES


                 Mental Health offers front-line services
                 z Training and education

                     z   Performance enhancement
                     z   Improve coping skills
                 z   Consultation to units/squadrons
                     z   Managing organizational behavior
                 z   Support services in aftermath of traumatic events
                     z   Critical Incident Stress Debriefings (CISD)




                Mental Health Services are best used early when the opportunity for a
           positive outcome is highest. Unfortunately, there are social and personal
           barriers that inhibit many Americans from seeking mental health care—the
           stigma associated with needing this kind of help and the fear that seeking
           such help may negatively impact their life or work. Military members
           struggle with the same fears, and because of the unique aspects of the
           military culture, may be even less likely to use Mental Health Services
           first.
                Mental Health Clinics offer a variety of programs targeted to improving
           individuals’ coping through anger management, assertiveness training,
           communication skills, as well as marital and parenting groups. Effective
           coping skills are the key to resilience and problem solving. Inadequate and
           inappropriate problem solving skills lead to occupational and social dys-
           function, and individual suffering. Almost all patients with serious mental
           health disorders, and particularly suicide victims, demonstrate a lifelong
           pattern of poor coping skills. Early intervention can mean the difference
           between a productive, fulfilling life and a life of chronic suffering, depen-
           dence or death.
                Mental Health professionals offer consultation to units to identify
           causes of stress in the workplace that may degrade unit and individual
           performance.
                After a traumatic event—such as a suicide in the unit—Mental Health
           Services can help ensure unit members have the necessary coping skills.
           These services are provided in the unit and are called Critical Incident
           Stress Debriefings.


42   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                  SCOPE OF MENTAL HEALTH
                      SERVICES (cont’d)


      z   Evaluation and treatment of mental health
          disorders
      z   Evaluation and treatment of domestic abuse or
          violence
      z   Evaluation and treatment of alcohol and
          substance abuse
      z   Administrative recommendations and actions
           z Commander-directed evaluations




    Of course, Mental Health offers comprehensive evaluation and treat-
ment for the full spectrum of mental health disorders. Additionally, Family
Advocacy Services and the Substance Abuse programs are offered through
the Mental Health Clinic.




                                   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM    43
                                      GENERAL GUIDANCE


                  z   REFER EARLY: Mental Health Services
                      are front-line interventions
                  z   REFER TO ENHANCE: Mental Health
                      Services enhance individual and unit
                      performance
                  z   CALL WITH QUESTIONS: Get advice on
                      best approach




               We have already emphasized that early referral is critical. Unfortu-
           nately, regardless of how accessible help is, many people struggling with
           such serious problems as family maltreatment or substance abuse simply
           will not seek help on their own. Referral by a concerned, caring family
           member, friend, coworker, or supervisor may make all the difference in
           enabling someone to seek help.
               In order to prevent individual suffering and loss of performance due to
           mental health problems, it is essential that every member of the Air Force
           community identify people having difficulty coping with life events and
           refer them to help. In the extreme case, this may mean taking someone in
           crisis to what for them is lifesaving help. A recent study* estimated that one
           half of Air Force suicides in 1993 might have been prevented if the victims
           had been referred for mental health treatment. If this is true, we lose an
           opportunity to save twenty Air Force lives each year. Moreover, by not
           making early referrals to mental health, we lose the opportunity to enhance
           an individual’s life, and ultimately the unit’s performance. The key to
           timely referrals rests in the hands of commanders, first sergeants, supervi-
           sors, friends, and family.
               Commanders can discuss a situation with Mental Health providers
           before making a referral and get advice on the best approach for the indi-
           vidual.


           *”Active Duty Suicides 1983-93”, Investigative Operations Center, AFOSI, August 1994




44   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                         BACKGROUND DATA


      z   Self-referral rarely results in negative career
          impact- 97% receive no duty limitation
      z   Commander directed evaluation more likely (36%)
          to have negative career impact
      z   Younger, lower ranking members less likely to
          self- refer
      z   Need to promote early self-initiated help-seeking
      z   Supervisors/commanders can target group less
          likely to seek help--debunk myths about help-
          seeking with facts




    There is very little data on the factors which influence mental health
help-seeking in the military. One thing is clear—members who self-refer,
either on their own or through a recommendation from someone else, are
much less likely to experience a negative impact to their career. In contrast,
when commanders direct members for an evaluation, they are ten times
more likely to have a negative career impact.1
    Clearly, younger and lower ranking members (E1-E4) are less likely to
self-refer.2 So are individuals with security clearances and those who carry
weapons. A study at Goodfellow AFB found that 99 percent of members
who self-referred to Mental Health were recommended for continued SCI
clearances. Only 46 percent of a commander-directed group were recom-
mended for continued security clearance.3
    Commanders should use these facts to counter the myth that voluntary
help-seeking is a career-ending move. The facts should also motivate
commanders to more closely attend to the youngest members of our Air
Force family and members with a special duty status who may feel the
risks of seeking help are too high. The advantages of early referral in a
young population cannot be overemphasized. Interventions in this group
are likely to have the most effective outcomes, because their behavioral
patterns are more easily changed.




                                    US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM      45
                                    REFER TO
                               MENTAL HEALTH WHEN:


                 z   Occupational/academic performance change
                 z   Relationships with others at work change
                 z   Relationships with family/friends change
                 z   Alcohol use shows poor judgment
                 z   Other substance abuse problem is suspected
                 z   Financial difficulty is not managed
                 z   Serious change in physical health occurs
                 z   Emotional symptoms appear
                 z   Legal difficulty is present
                 z   Disciplinary action is pending/taken



               This list contains no surprises. There are many areas where signs and
           symptoms of stress can surface. When they do, commanders and supervi-
           sors must take action to support the member in crisis.
               People with these problems may also have underlying risk factors for
           suicide: poor coping, social, or communication skills; substance abuse; and
           problems with the law, finances, job performance and relationships. A
           Mental Health history and previous suicide attempts are also identified as
           suicide risk factors. A military member in legal difficulty or facing disci-
           plinary action may be particularly sensitive to experiencing shame and
           guilt in a setting of isolation from the community, all of which heightens
           the risk of suicide.




46   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                          WHEN REFERRING:


      z   Emphasize that it is all right to get help

      z   Emphasize the goal is self-improvement

      z   Emphasize self-initiated help-seeking




    Commanders and supervisors are in a powerful position to dispel many
concerns about seeking help from Mental Health. Everyone in the commu-
nity, but especially commanders and supervisors, need to be alert to mem-
bers who are in need of help and take action to ensure that members get
help.
    Members who are struggling or in distress may feel that they should be
able to master things alone. Hearing directly from a figure of authority that
getting help is a number one priority—not only for the individual but for
the unit—can make a big difference. Commanders should emphasize that
their goal is to keep that individual employed at their fullest potential. The
best way to achieve that goal is for the member to self-refer early.




                                    US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM      47
                            COMMANDERS’ OPTIONS ARE:


                  z   Strongly encourage self-referral

                  z   Commander-directed mental health evaluation

                  z   Commander- directed evaluation by Substance
                      Abuse Program, Family Advocacy

                  z   Emergency referral




               Self-referral is the intervention with the highest probability of the best
           outcome for the individual and the unit. Early self-referral may eliminate
           the need for the later, and often more costly, interventions, listed below it
           here. There are circumstances, though, when commanders must direct a
           member to the Mental Health Clinic, whether for a mental health evalua-
           tion, substance abuse, family advocacy issues, or bona fide emergencies.




48   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                    COMMANDER DIRECTED
                     EVALUATIONS (CDEs)


      z   Commanders are responsible for safety of their
          units
      z   Commanders’ prerogative to direct military
          member for mental health evaluation
      z   Requests for CDEs have decreased since
          implementation of Boxer Amendment (AFI 44-109:
          Mental Health and Military Law)
      z   Questions used as basis for CDE in past are still
          applicable
      z   AFI 44-109 establishes procedural steps to obtain
          CDE



    Commander-directed mental health evaluations are necessary whenever
mission effectiveness and unit safety are at risk.
    The recent decline in commander directed evaluations is disturbing. At
one of our largest training centers, CDEs have decreased by 60 to 70
percent since implementation of the Boxer Amendment. Prior to the Boxer
Amendment, 35 percent of individuals seen for CDEs required mental
health treatment or hospitalization.(1) Air Force is concerned that the
decrease in CDEs may indicate that people who clearly need mental health
care are not getting it. The Boxer Law seems to be inhibiting commanders
from making referrals for a CDE. This was not the law’s intention. The
circumstances that required a CDE in the past should do the same today.




                                  US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM    49
                          QUESTIONS TRIGGERING CDEs


                    z   Is this behavior due to a mental health problem?
                    z   Should this individual’s security clearance/PRP
                        status be maintained?
                    z   Are duty restrictions appropriate? (hazardous
                        equipment, carrying a weapon)
                    z   Is cross-training appropriate?
                    z   Is this individual suitable for continued service in
                        USAF?




              Specifically, commander-directed referrals are appropriate when the
           commander needs answers to these questions:
              T Is the member’s behavior due to a mental health problem?
              T Should this individual’s security clearance/PRP status be main-
                  tained?
              T Are duty restrictions appropriate? (hazardous equipment, carrying a
                  weapon)
              T Is cross-training appropriate?
              T Is this individual suitable for continued service in USAF?
              Use these as guidelines. Feel free, though, to call for expert advice from
           your local mental health professionals.




50   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                    EMERGENCY REFERRALS


      z   Defined as imminent risk to self or others

      z   Have member evaluated in ER or Mental
          Health Clinic immediately

      z   The specific provisions of AFI 44-109 do not
          apply in a true emergency




    If early self-referrals and timely command directed referrals are occur-
ring, the need for emergency referrals should be rare. However, when
emergency situations arise, by all means, take immediate action. A member
should be evaluated immediately when he or she expresses an intention of
harming self or others, or behaves in a manner which would lead you to
conclude that there was imminent risk of this harm. The Boxer provisions
do not apply to emergencies.




                                   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM     51
                                          BOTTOM LINE



                 z   Early Mental Health Care is key to enhanced unit
                     performance

                 z   Early and effective mental health interventions
                      z Improve duty performance

                      z Reduce negative career impacts

                      z Reduce loss of trained personnel




               We have discussed the circumstances that should lead commanders to
           make referrals to Mental Health. Mental Health providers offer a broad
           array of services to the AF community. They are uniquely qualified to
           provide prevention services at the unit level. These include teaching skills
           that enhance individual performance and address important areas of dys-
           function. These are the same skills that reduce key risk factors associated
           with suicides and suicide attempts. Here is the take home—individuals
           evaluated and supported early have the best chance of achieving their full
           potential at work and at home.
               A partnership between commanders and mental health professionals
           can get members to help earlier, lead to more successful interventions, and
           enhance the unit’s overall performance. Commanders should feel free to
           call their mental health clinic for professional advice at any time.




52   US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM
                     REFERENCES

z   1) Crosby RC, Hall MJ: Psychiatric Evaluation of Self-
    Referred and Non Self-Referred Active Duty Military
    Members, Military Medicine. Vol 157:224-229, 1992
z   2) Rowan AB: Demographic, Clinical, and Military Factors
    Related to Military Mental Health Referral Patterns, Military
    Medicine. Vol 161: 324-328, 1996
z   3) Rowan AB: Studies at Goodfellow AFB, The Military
    Psychologist, 1994, 1995.
z   AFI 44-109 Mental Health and Military Law
z   AFI 36-3212 Physical Evaluation and Retention, Retirement,
    and Separation
z   AFI 36-2104 Nuclear Weapons Personnel Reliability
    Program
z   AFI 31-501 Personnel Security Management Program
z   AFI 36-3207 Administrative Separation of Airmen




                         US AIR FORCE SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAM    53
               The
          Air Force
            Suicide
         Prevention
           Program
A Community Solution to a
     Community Problem
