BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 32-7089
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 14 JUNE 2013

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                            REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFCEC/CO                                                        Certified by: HQ AF/A7CO
                                                                           (Col Derrek D. Sanks)
                                                                                      Pages: 145




This publication provides guidance for implementing procedures in Air Force instruction (AFI)
32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, Chapter 4, "Air Force Ozone Depleting Substances
(ODS) Program (ODSP)," as it applies to refrigerants used in real property equipment and does
not apply to refrigerants used in motor vehicle air conditioning (MVAC) or aircraft refrigeration
systems. This pamphlet replaces the 1994 Air Force Refrigerant Management Handbook that
provided information and guidance for setting up Base Refrigerant Management Programs
(BRMP) throughout the Air Force. The original program focused on chlorofluorocarbons (CFC)
with guidance on future issues associated with refrigerant management. This publication
provides the base civil engineer (BCE) and staff with a systematic approach to meet the
requirements of the BRMP. This publication also includes steps to meet daily and annual record-
keeping requirements through the Refrigerant Management System (RMS). Use of the name or
mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this pamphlet
does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS). Users should send comments and suggested improvements on
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through their major commands
(MAJCOM) and AFCEC, 139 Barnes Drive, Suite 1, Tyndall AFB, FL 32403-5319, to HQ
USAF/A7C, 1260 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, D.C. 20330-1260. Units may supplement
 2                                                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


this publication as required; such supplements must be coordinated through the Air Force Civil
Engineer Center, Operations Directorate (AFCEC/CO), prior to publication.


Chapter 1—INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                       4
       1.1.   Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    4
       1.2.   Requirements. ........................................................................................................         4
       1.3.   Air Force Goal. ......................................................................................................         4
       1.4.   Replaces 1994 Handbook. .....................................................................................                  5
       1.5.   Background. ...........................................................................................................        5
Table 1.1.    HCFC-22 Production Levels. .................................................................................                   6
Table 1.2.    ODP and GWP Values. ..........................................................................................                 6
       1.6.   Base Refrigerant Management Program (BRMP). ................................................                                   7
       1.7.   Summary of Chapters and Attachments. ...............................................................                          10

Chapter 2—BASE REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ELEMENTS                                                                                      12
       2.1.   Certifying Technicians and Recovery Equipment. ................................................                               12
       2.2.   Complying with EPA Refrigerant Leakage Rates. ................................................                                16
Figure 2.1.   Sample Leakage Rate Calculation. ........................................................................                     17
       2.3.   Maintaining Equipment to Minimize Refrigerant Leakage. ..................................                                     21
       2.4.   Managing Refrigerant Inventories. ........................................................................                    23
       2.5.   Planning Equipment Phase-out and Funding Requirements. .................................                                      26
       2.6.   Generating the Annual Base RMP. ........................................................................                      29

Chapter 3—REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (RMS)                                                                                               30
       3.1.   RMS Working Tool. ..............................................................................................              30
       3.2.   RMS Spreadsheet Application Description. ..........................................................                           30
       3.3.   RMS User’s Guide. ................................................................................................            30

Chapter 4—ANNUAL BASE REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT PLAN (RMP)                                                                                     31
       4.1.   Introduction. ...........................................................................................................     31
       4.2.   Requirements. ........................................................................................................        31
       4.3.   RMP Development Guidance. ...............................................................................                     31
Figure 4.1.   RMP Suggested Table of Contents. .......................................................................                      31

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              38

Attachment 2—UPDATE ON REFRIGERANTS: TRANSLATING THE LAWS,
             REGULATIONS, AND POLICIES INTO PRACTICE                                                                                        48
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                            3


Attachment 3—REFRIGERANT SENSORS AND MONITORING OF EQUIPMENT
             ROOMS                                                   54

Attachment 4—REFRIGERANT HANDLING AND STORAGE RECOMMENDATIONS
             AND REQUIREMENTS                                        61

Attachment 5—REFRIGERANT LEAK DETECTION METHODS AND EQUIPMENT        72

Attachment 6—EQUIPMENT TO REDUCE REFRIGERANT RELEASE DURING
             MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF AIR-CONDITIONING AND
             REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS                                   78

Attachment 7—REFRIGERANT LEAK MITIGATION THROUGH EQUIPMENT
             MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE PRACTICES                       82

Attachment 8—APPLICATION OF ASHRAE EQUIPMENT ROOM DESIGN
             REQUIREMENTS                                            89

Attachment 9—FUNDAMENTALS OF COOLING LOAD AND ENERGY ANALYSIS       101

Attachment 10—CHILLER SELECTION GUIDE                               106

Attachment 11—HEAT RECOVERY ALTERNATIVES FOR REFRIGERANT
             CHILLERS                                               117

Attachment 12—ALTERNATIVE REFRIGERANTS FOR RETROFIT APPLICATIONS:
             LONG-TERM AND INTERIM REFRIGERANTS                     123

Attachment 13—NATURAL GAS COOLING TECHNOLOGIES                      133

Attachment 14—COMMISSIONING HVAC EQUIPMENT                          145
 4                                                               AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                            Chapter 1

                                        INTRODUCTION

1.1. Purpose. All installations, regardless of size, with refrigeration and/or comfort cooling
equipment using refrigerants, as required by AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management,
must set up and maintain a Base Refrigerant Management Program (BRMP). This pamphlet is
intended to provide guidance and a methodology to the base civil engineer (BCE) and staff to set
up a program, perform daily tasks, and prepare annual reports to meet the requirements of the
BRMP. Daily record-keeping can be accomplished with the Refrigerant Management System
(RMS) spreadsheet and annual reporting requirements can be accomplished with the Refrigerant
Management Plan (RMP). The BRMP was originally required to manage Class I
(chlorofluorocarbon [CFC] –based) and Class II (hydrochlorofluorocarbon [HCFC] -based)
refrigerants in equipment with a charge of 50 pounds or more. However, with the new focus on
phasing out HCFCs, as well as transitioning to alternate refrigerants, it is strongly recommended
that all other refrigerants, including hydrofluorocarbon (HFC), be treated and managed
identically. A BCE might also choose to include equipment with lower refrigerant charges to
maintain mission capability with better inventory management and control. The RMS
spreadsheet, RMS User’s Guide, and a sample RMP are available on the AFCEC Heating,
Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems Air Force Portal website:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c88B4F00B39C57917013
AD0CA469435FB&channelPageId=s2D8EB9D637283B5601377B2CE4030666&programId=t2
D8EB9D6386BFB8B01394F5729351F52
1.2. Requirements.
     1.2.1. This pamphlet provides guidance for the practical application of the laws and
     regulations behind the purpose for the BRMP. The initial requirement was published in 1994
     as Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 82 (40 CFR Part 82), Protection of
     Environment, Subpart F, and has been amended over the years. The Air Force incorporated
     this law on 7 January 1993 via an Action Memorandum from the Secretary and Chief of Staff
     of the Air Force that, in some cases, provided more stringent requirements than required by
     law to manage refrigerants.
     1.2.2. On 1 November 2004, by order of the Secretary of the Air Force, implementation of
     AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, Chapter 4, “Air Force Ozone Depleting
     Substances (ODS) Program (ODSP),” took effect. On 24 January 2007, Executive Order
     (E.O.) 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
     Management, was issued. E.O. 13423 states: “It is the policy of the United States that Federal
     agencies conduct their environmental, transportation, and energy-related activities under the
     law in support of their respective missions in an environmentally, economically and fiscally
     sound, integrated, continuously improving, efficient, and sustainable manner.”
1.3. Air Force Goal. The Air Force goal is to manage the inventory of regulated refrigerants
and air-conditioning/refrigeration (AC/R) equipment to ensure uninterrupted mission support
while operating the equipment until the end of its economic life. Maintenance procedures used
by base civil engineering (CE) personnel must be compatible with the Environmental Protection
Agency’s (EPA) environmental compliance regulations. The objective of this pamphlet is to
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                        5


provide guidance for managing the base’s inventory of regulated refrigerants and AC/R
equipment, and to provide information for refrigerant servicing procedures. This pamphlet also
assists the BCE in developing a BRMP for managing refrigerant resources and operating AC/R
equipment to ensure continued mission support and environmental compliance. Using strong
conservation procedures and life-cycle costing methods, the BRMP will extend the availability
of existing refrigerant supplies and prioritize equipment retirement. Although the emphasis is on
CFCs and HCFCs, this pamphlet's procedures to standardize operations and maintenance (O&M)
practices can be applied to all refrigerants. It is also recommended that base CE staff use this
pamphlet to develop the RMP. Following the guidelines provided in this pamphlet, base CE staff
will be able to successfully complete all essential elements of the BRMP.
1.4. Replaces 1994 Handbook. This pamphlet replaces the 1994 Air Force Refrigerant
Management Handbook that provided directions and guidance for setting up the original BRMPs
throughout the Air Force. The original program focused on CFCs with guidance on future (at that
time) issues associated with HCFCs. This pamphlet provides up-to-date guidance on these
HCFCs and HFCs as directed by E.O. 13423, which is interpreted to include management of all
refrigerants, in addition to Class I and Class II. Guidance on accounting and reporting for
greenhouse gases is found in E.O. 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and
Economic Performance, 8 October 2009. The program outlined in this pamphlet provides
updated guidance for meeting the requirements of the BRMP and managing refrigerant
inventories and equipment to meet EPA requirements. The BCE should ensure the CE staff is
familiar with this pamphlet.
1.5. Background. There is no requirement to eliminate any equipment type based on its class.
This makes for a thoughtful decision on whether to maintain or eliminate a piece of equipment.
This decision should be based on an economic analysis, considering the condition of the
equipment, efficiency of the equipment, and availability of the refrigerant considered.
   1.5.1. Class I and Class II Refrigerant Equipment Phase-out. The manufacture of all
   Class I refrigerant-containing equipment ceased in the mid-1990s. The phase-out of Class II
   refrigerant-containing equipment started 1 January 2010 when the manufacture of HCFC-22
   -containing equipment ceased. This commonly used direct expansion (DX) and smaller
   chiller equipment product line has been replaced with similar equipment using HFC-410a
   refrigerant. The only remaining Class II refrigerant-containing equipment still being
   manufactured is HCFC-123 chillers. The manufacture of this equipment will cease in 2020.
       1.5.1.1. CFC Refrigerant Equipment Replacement. Though not required by law or
       Air Force policy, most CFC refrigerant-containing equipment has been replaced due to
       condition and/or age. In many cases, the CFC equipment was retrofitted to corresponding
       non-CFC refrigerants. There is no requirement to phase-out Class I refrigerant-containing
       equipment simply for the sake of eliminating them from the equipment or refrigerant
       inventory.
       1.5.1.2. HCFC Refrigerant Continuation.
           1.5.1.2.1. HCFC Availability. Though HCFC-22 equipment is no longer
           manufactured, the refrigerant itself is still available for purchase. HCFC-22
           refrigerant is expected to remain relatively plentiful, though production levels will be
           reduced to the levels in Table 1.1. HCFC-123 refrigerant will continue production
 6                                                              AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


            through 2029 (with no production allowed in 2030) and at present does not have a
            mandated production rate reduction schedule.

Table 1.1. HCFC-22 Production Levels.
                            Year           Production Level
                            2010           25% of 1996 level
                            2015           10% of 1996 level
                            2020           No production
            1.5.1.2.2. Refrigerant Considerations. There is no imminent regulatory reason to
            make equipment replacement decisions based on whether equipment contains an
            HCFC versus HFC refrigerant. There are other factors to consider when determining
            whether to retain or select equipment with a particular refrigerant. The most
            important selection criteria include equipment efficiency and condition. Based on past
            phase-outs of refrigerants such as R-12 and R-11, the refrigerant inventory or
            availability will not be an issue if refrigerants are recovered and reused as aging
            equipment is decommissioned. Therefore, with common refrigerants still in
            production today, the selection criteria should be heavily weighted towards
            equipment efficiency and condition factors. The total impact on the environment is
            inconsequential between the two DX-type HCFC-22 and HFC-410a refrigerants. The
            total impact on the environment is much less for the large chiller refrigerant HCFC-
            123 than for HFC-134a. The ozone-depletion potential (ODP) and global warming
            potential (GWP) factors for each refrigerant are provided in Table 1.2. Ozone
            depleting substances (ODS) such as CFCs are chemicals that are responsible for
            thinning the ozone layer. ODS vary in their capacity to destroy ozone molecules. The
            relative depletion caused by different ODS is represented by the ODP, which is the
            ratio of calculated ozone change for each mass unit of gas emitted into the
            atmosphere relative to the reference gas CFC-11 (ODP = 1.0). Global warming is the
            ongoing global average increase in temperature near the Earth’s surface caused by
            various chemicals. The GWP represents how much a given mass of a chemical
            contributes to global warming over a given time period compared to the same mass of
            carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide’s GWP is defined as 1.0. All GWP values represent
            global warming potential over a 100-year time horizon.

Table 1.2. ODP and GWP Values.
                          Refrigerant Class         ODP        GWP
                          HCFC-22     II            0.05       1,700
                          HCFC-123 II               0.02       93
                          HFC-134a                  0          1,300
                          HFC-410a                  0          1,890
     1.5.2. New Refrigerant Transitions.
        1.5.2.1. Long-term Refrigerant Replacements. Currently, the major HFC refrigerants
        being used are HFC-134a and HFC-410a. These two refrigerants are long-term solutions
        and are in full production. There has not been a definite replacement identified for
        HCFC-123, although R-245fa is a strong possibility. R-245fa is a propane-based
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      7


      refrigerant that is considered non-flammable but slightly toxic. It has a 920 GWP and 0
      ODP rating. Currently, the EPA has not approved R-245fa for use in AC/R equipment.
      When transitioning to new refrigerants the BCE should only install EPA-approved
      refrigerants and give careful consideration to long-term support requirements and
      availability.
      1.5.2.2. Management of Refrigerants. Currently, EPA prohibits intentional venting of
      all refrigerants, including HFCs and other current alternative refrigerants. However, the
      leakage rates and documentation for regulatory requirements that apply to Class I and
      Class II refrigerants currently do not apply to HFCs. Applying these requirements to
      HFCs and other alternative refrigerants will help ensure better servicing and management
      of all equipment.
   1.5.3. Establish Base Refrigerant Management Program (BRMP). The successful
   management of refrigerants and maintaining mission capability requires the establishment of
   a formal and permanent BRMP under the direction of the BCE. This pamphlet provides
   guidance on developing a BRMP.
   1.5.4. Only CE Refrigerants for CE-owned Equipment.
      1.5.4.1. The BCE is responsible for the proper use, storage, record-keeping, and
      management of refrigerants used in refrigeration and comfort cooling equipment owned
      by the CE organization. It is up to the BCE to determine if that includes equipment that
      might be maintained for other customers (e.g., Army and Air Force Exchange Service
      [AAFES]) on base in shared responsibility agreements. Service contracts to perform
      refrigerant repairs by outside contractors shall include a requirement in the statement of
      work (SOW) to report the quantity of refrigerant removed, recovered, recycled, or
      disposed of, and details on repairs. Contractors are responsible for compliance with
      Section 608 of the Clean Air Act of 1990 as codified in EPA regulations found in 40 CFR
      82, Subpart F, Recycling and Emissions Reduction. The same requirements apply to
      contractor-operated BCE refrigerant management functions.
      1.5.4.2. The BCE is not responsible for refrigerants used in motor vehicle air-
      conditioning (MVAC) or aircraft refrigeration systems.
1.6. Base Refrigerant Management Program (BRMP). The implementation of a successful
BRMP consists of focusing on and implementing six major elements. The pamphlet provides
specific guidance on implementing the elements of the BRMP in Chapter 2. These elements
address and provide specific solutions for (1) certifying technicians and equipment; (2)
complying with EPA refrigerant leakage rates legacy data; (3) maintaining equipment to
minimize refrigerant leakage; (4) managing refrigerant inventories; (5) planning equipment
phase-out; and (6) generating the annual base RMP.
   1.6.1. Certifying Technicians and Equipment. The EPA requires that any technician
   servicing the refrigerant section of AC/R equipment must be certified to perform service on
   the specific refrigerant within the machine. There are four types of certifications allowed by
   the EPA: Types I, II, III, and Universal. Types I, II, and III are limited in the types of
   equipment that can be serviced. It is recommended that Air Force refrigeration technicians
   have a Universal certification that enables them to work on every refrigerant type. In
   addition, to meet EPA requirements, an EPA-approved testing company must certify
8                                                                AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


    recovery equipment used to service refrigerant. The technician and recovery equipment
    certifications must be kept on file at the base. Submit EPA Form 7610-31, Refrigerant
    Recovery or Recycling Device Acquisition Certification Form, with the initial list of certified
    equipment. Equipment owners do not have to send in a new form each time they add
    recycling or recovery equipment to their inventory after the initial list has been submitted.
    1.6.2. Complying with EPA Refrigerant Leakage Rates. Effective 1 July 1992, Section
    608 of the Clean Air Act prohibited intentional venting of ozone-depleting substances into
    the atmosphere. The EPA is authorized to assess fines of up to $37,500 per day for any
    violation of these regulations. Leakage rates for Class I and Class II refrigerants in regulated
    equipment (charge of 50 pounds or more) must not exceed specific levels of leakage. These
    maximum levels are 15% for comfort cooling and 35% for commercial and industrial
    refrigeration applications using the EPA-dictated calculation method to determine the rate. If
    maximum leakage rates are exceeded, repairs must be made within 30 days. If the leaks
    cannot be repaired within 30 days, notification must be made to the EPA with a plan to
    eliminate the issue through either repair or replacement of the equipment. There are very
    specific time schedules that must be met between identification of the leak and final
    verification of the leak resolution. The EPA requires that specific records be kept and
    maintained onsite. The EPA also requires that refrigerant service records be maintained for
    three to five years, depending on the EPA tier level emission standards. Check with the base
    environmental office for final determination. The RMS spreadsheet application (and
    Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide), available on the AFCEC Heating,
    Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems Air Force Portal website (see paragraph
    1.1), is an optional tool for the BCE to monitor equipment leakage rates and document
    servicing in accordance with EPA requirements. The RMS also provides information needed
    to develop the base RMP and is described in Chapter 3. Other refrigerant management
    tracking software is available, but bases need to ensure the software meets EPA requirements
    and complies with MAJCOM CE and base/MAJCOM communications squadron
    requirements. The EPA is available to answer questions via the Stratospheric Protection
    Ozone Information Hotline: (800) 296-1996, 0900 to 1630 EST. EPA leak reports required
    by Section 608 of the Clean Air Act go to the Base Environmental Office, which is
    responsible for reporting to the EPA.
       1.6.2.1. Legacy Data.
           1.6.2.1.1. As stated above, the RMS has been developed as a tool for the BCE to
           track performance and maintain records in accordance with EPA requirements.
           However, legacy data (e.g., leakage rates and equipment inventory) from the current
           system must be addressed.
           1.6.2.1.2. Legacy data is data that already exists and in use in the current system.
           When migrating to a new system, there are typically two options for the legacy data,
           depending on the systems involved and the nature and state of the current data: (1)
           move the data to the new system (after validating and cleaning) and discontinue (or
           phase out) use of the current system; (2) keep the data in the current system and
           reference it when needed.
           1.6.2.1.3. Data volume and data value are two variables that help determine whether
           to migrate or keep the data in its current location.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                        9


         1.6.2.1.4. Since the EPA requires that refrigerant records be maintained for three to
         five years, depending on EPA tier level, the BRMP will need to address the issue of
         data in the current system. If the data cannot be migrated from the current system to
         the new system, then access to the existing service records will need to be maintained.
         Guidance on data migration and records management is addressed in the Refrigerant
         Management System User’s Guide.
  1.6.3. Maintaining Equipment to Minimize Refrigerant Leakage. Best service practices
  must be put into place and performed when servicing refrigerant-containing equipment to
  minimize loss of refrigerant during maintenance. These include a refrigerant leak-detection
  program, use of low-loss fittings, and use of high-efficiency purge units on low-pressure
  chillers, evaporator blanket heaters, and removing refrigerants from abandoned or out-of-
  service equipment. These and other suggestions are explained in Attachment 5, Attachment
  6, and Attachment 7.
  1.6.4. Managing Refrigerant Inventories. It is imperative for the BCE to maintain
  adequate inventories of each refrigerant type on the installation to ensure the base mission is
  not compromised. Inventory management is a multi-use tool to know exact quantities at any
  time, determine future refrigerant needs based on historical usage, identify habitual leaking
  equipment, monitor refrigerant usage more tightly, and predict when additional supplies are
  required. Refrigerants should be stored in a secure area with limited accessibility as described
  in Attachment 4.
  1.6.5. Planning Equipment Replacement. Scheduling AC/R equipment replacement
  requires evaluating multiple factors, including equipment operating condition, efficiency,
  service history, and age. Refrigerant inventory quantities, cost of refrigerant, and availability
  are also factors. This was a significant factor for Class I equipment for which the refrigerants
  were no longer available to the Air Force after 1993. Class II refrigerant prices will continue
  to increase as availability declines due to reduced production. As HCFC-22 equipment is
  replaced, recovered refrigerant should be added to the inventory and the inventory managed
  to reduce refrigerant costs and secure adequate supply through the economic life of the
  remaining refrigerant equipment. Keeping equipment in good repair and minimizing leakage
  will stretch refrigerant inventories and prolong equipment life.
  1.6.6. Generating the Annual Base Refrigerant Management Plan (RMP). According to
  AFI 32-7086, the BCE is required to generate an annual RMP. This plan serves many
  purposes. It provides the information required by the EPA to be submitted either directly or
  kept for future review in a single document. It indicates the path forward for the BCE to
  maintain the facility’s mission with respect to the following: future refrigerant needs and
  from where it will be obtained; equipment replacements that will be required based on
  condition, efficiency, and/or refrigerant needs; and capital or operating funds that will be
  required. Guidance on generating the RMP is explained in detail in Chapter 4; a sample RMP
  is available on the AFCEC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems Air
  Force Portal website (see paragraph 1.1).
     1.6.6.1. BCE Waiver for Class II Refrigeration Equipment. AFI 32-7086 requires the
     BCE to approve an exception for the purchase of equipment that uses Class II refrigerant
     if the anticipated life of the equipment extends beyond 2020. This applies only to HCFC-
     123 centrifugal chillers since such chillers will remain in production until 2020 and the
 10                                                          AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       refrigerant will be produced until 2030. AFI 32-7086 grants the BCE the authority to
       approve an exception to the prohibition of purchasing AC/R equipment with Class II
       refrigerant, but the BCE must have a plan to support the new equipment through its
       useful economic life. This plan must become part of the base RMP.
       1.6.6.2. BCE Review and Certification of RMP. The RMP must be updated annually
       and changes in the plan highlighted. The BCE must annually review, certify, and sign the
       updated RMP, as required by AFI 32-7086.
   1.6.7. Assignment of Refrigerant Management Duties. It is recommended that the duties
   to manage the BRMP be assigned to one individual, as deemed most appropriate by the BCE.
   The refrigerant manager is responsible for the proper use, storage, record-keeping, and
   management of refrigerants used in refrigeration, industrial, and comfort cooling equipment
   owned by the CE organization.
1.7. Summary of Chapters and Attachments. The following is a summary of the organization
of the pamphlet chapters and supporting attachments. The chapters explain the process and
elements of a properly managed and executed BRMP and the annual report required to document
the results. The attachments address technical items and do not necessarily support the daily
events in a BRMP.
   1.7.1. Chapter 1, Introduction: Provides background and sources for BRMP requirements
   and highlights the elements of a good program.
   1.7.2. Chapter 2, Base Refrigerant Management Program (BRMP) Elements: Provides
   the requirements, recommendations, and general guidance for each of the six elements of a
   good BRMP and insight into the development of the RMP.
   1.7.3. Chapter 3, Refrigerant Management System (RMS): Describes the individual
   tools in the RMS. The Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide, described in this
   chapter, gives a more detailed summary of the general data input process and the resulting
   reports generated by the RMS. These reports display information needed by the BCE to
   ensure that the base complies with EPA requirements and that good practices are followed in
   the management of base refrigerant inventories and AC/R equipment.
   1.7.4. Chapter 4, Annual Base Refrigerant Management Plan (RMP): Provides
   guidance on developing an RMP.
   1.7.5. Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information: Includes
   references, acronyms, abbreviations, and definitions.
   1.7.6. Attachment 2, Update on Refrigerants: Translating the Laws, Regulations, and
   Policies Into Practice: Details the policies that affect ODS use, especially regarding
   refrigerants. It covers the Montréal Protocol, federal taxes, the Clean Air Act Amendments
   (CAAA), EPA rules and regulations, and Air Force policy.
   1.7.7. Attachment 3, Refrigerant Sensors and Monitoring of Equipment
   Rooms: Descriptions, availability, and applications of refrigerant area monitors used in
   mechanical rooms and refrigerant storage areas.
   1.7.8. Attachment 4, Refrigerant Handling and Storage Recommendations and
   Requirements: Safe-handling procedures and storage requirements for facility and
   container refrigerants.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     11


  1.7.9. Attachment 5, Refrigerant Leak-Detection Methods and Equipment: Refrigerant
  leak-detection methods and detection equipment for high-pressure and low-pressure
  refrigerant use in idle or operating equipment, the advantages and disadvantages of portable
  units for pinpointing leaks, and common equipment leak locations.
  1.7.10. Attachment 6, Equipment to Reduce Refrigerant Release During Maintenance
  and Operation of Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Systems: Recovery equipment
  reviews and terms, recycling details, and reclamation details.
  1.7.11. Attachment 7, Refrigerant Leak Mitigation Through Equipment Maintenance
  and Service Practices: Major refrigerant leak mitigation through equipment maintenance
  and service practices.
  1.7.12. Attachment 8, Application of ASHRAE Equipment Room Design
  Requirements: Mechanical equipment room design requirements for refrigeration systems
  covered by American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers
  (ASHRAE) 15-2007, Standard Safety Code for Mechanical Refrigeration.
  1.7.13. Attachment      9,    Fundamentals        of    Cooling    Load      and       Energy
  Analysis: Calculations for a building's cooling load and energy usage analysis.
  1.7.14. Attachment 10, Chiller Selection Guide: Guidelines and procedures for selecting
  water chillers based on efficiency, energy cost and availability, load matching, initial cost,
  and annual operating cost.
  1.7.15. Attachment 11, Heat Recovery Alternatives for Refrigerant Chillers: Guidelines
  to determine if heat-recovery chillers are practical by comparing their life-cycle cost against
  alternatives.
  1.7.16. Attachment 12, Alternative Refrigerants for Retrofit Applications: Long-Term
  And Interim Refrigerants: The Montréal Protocol (1987) was amended in 1992 to halt
  production of all CFCs by 1996, HCFC R-22 by 2020, and HCFC R-123 by 2030.
  Manufacturers responded by introducing an assortment of alternative refrigerants. Long-term
  alternative refrigerants are HFC refrigerants or blends (mixtures) of HFC refrigerants which
  have 0 ODP and do not face a foreseeable phase-out. However, EPA rules (40 CFR Part 82,
  Subpart F, Section 82.154) prohibit the venting of any refrigerants.
  1.7.17. Attachment 13, Natural Gas Cooling Technologies: Commercially available
  natural gas cooling technologies such as direct-fired absorption systems, gas engine-driven
  systems, and desiccant dehumidification and cooling systems.
  1.7.18. Attachment 14, Commissioning HVAC Equipment: Guidelines and procedures to
  develop the commissioning process for HVAC systems. Requirements for the testing
  program and procedures are described in detail, in addition to design guidance for setting up
  the commissioning specification.
 12                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                           Chapter 2

           BASE REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ELEMENTS

2.1. Certifying Technicians and Recovery Equipment. All technicians working with
refrigerants must satisfy EPA training and certification requirements imposed by the Clean Air
Act Amendments (CAAA) of 1990 (PL 101-549) to work on AC/R equipment containing Class I
or Class II refrigerants. In addition, all refrigerant recovery/recycling equipment must be
certified by an EPA-approved organization and the certification copies for all base refrigerant
recovery/recycling/reclaiming equipment must be kept onsite at the base.
   2.1.1. Certifying Technicians. “Technician” refers to any person who performs
   maintenance, service, or repair, that could be reasonably expected to release refrigerants from
   appliances, except for MVAC, into the atmosphere. Training and certification sessions may
   include practicing improved maintenance procedures, finding improvements for current
   AC/R equipment, and becoming familiar with new equipment. Apprentices are exempt from
   this requirement provided the apprentice is closely and continually supervised by a certified
   technician while performing any maintenance, service, repair, or disposal that could
   reasonably be expected to release refrigerant from appliances into the environment. The
   supervising certified technician is responsible for ensuring that the apprentice complies with
   all EPA requirements.
       2.1.1.1. Class I and Class II EPA Requirements.
          2.1.1.1.1. EPA technician certification requirements do not differentiate between
          Class I and Class II refrigerants. Certification requirements apply equally to these
          types of refrigerants and are based on the type of appliance that is being serviced in
          accordance with paragraph 2.1.1.2.
          2.1.1.1.2. The EPA is proposing to extend the certification requirements for
          technicians who work with CFC and HCFC refrigerants to technicians who work with
          HFCs. Technicians certified to work with CFCs and HCFCs would not have to be
          retested to work with HFCs, but new technicians entering the field would have to pass
          a test to work with CFCs, HCFCs, and/or HFCs.
       2.1.1.2. Certification Types.
          2.1.1.2.1. The EPA has developed four types of certification. All technicians must be
          certified by an approved technician certification program in accordance with the
          following classifications and types:
              2.1.1.2.1.1. Type I: Required for servicing small appliances.
              2.1.1.2.1.2. Type II: Required for servicing or disposing of high-pressure and
              very-high-pressure appliances, excluding small appliances and MVAC.
              2.1.1.2.1.3. Type III: Required for servicing or disposing of low-pressure
              appliances.
              2.1.1.2.1.4. Universal: Permits servicing all types of appliances.
              2.1.1.2.1.5. Ensure that personally identifiable information (PII), such as Social
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                   13


            Security numbers, date of birth, and age, are not listed for technician
            certifications.
        2.1.1.2.2. Detailed definitions of small, low-pressure, high-pressure, and very-high-
        pressure appliances can be found in 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.152.
     2.1.1.3. Documentation Requirements.
        2.1.1.3.1. Technician certification programs must issue individuals a wallet-sized
        card (or equivalent) to be used as proof of certification upon successful completion of
        the test. Each card must include, at a minimum, the name of the certifying program,
        the date the organization became a certifying program, the name of the person
        certified, the type of certification, a unique number for the certified person, and the
        following text: “[Name of person] has been certified as a [Type I, Type II, Type III,
        and/or Universal, as appropriate] technician as required by 40 CFR Part 82 (2008),
        Subpart F.”
        2.1.1.3.2. Technicians must keep a copy of their proof of certification at their place
        of business.
     2.1.1.4. Fines.
        2.1.1.4.1. Authorized representatives of the certification program administrator may
        require technicians to demonstrate on the business entity’s premises their ability to
        perform proper procedures for recovering and/or recycling refrigerant. Failure to
        demonstrate or failure to properly use the equipment may result in revocation of the
        certificate.
        2.1.1.4.2. The EPA performs random inspections and responds to tips. The EPA is
        authorized to assess fines of up to $37,500 per day for any violation of these
        regulations.
     2.1.1.5. Air Force Recommendations. Technician certifications are required to service
     equipment containing Class I and Class II refrigerants. However, at the present time, the
     EPA has not extended the same technician certification requirements to HFC or HFC
     substitutes that do not contain Class I or Class II ODS. Due to the wide variety of
     refrigeration equipment on Air Force bases, it is recommended that all refrigerant
     technicians be certified as Universal technicians.
     2.1.1.6. Obtaining Technician Certifications. There are two ways for training and
     certification of technicians to be arranged:
        2.1.1.6.1. Air Force CerTest Module. AFCEC and the Civil Engineering School at
        Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas, developed a study guide and a CerTest (certification
        test) module for EPA certification. All Air Force technicians can review the guide and
        attempt the certification test through the BCE at their home stations. The school has
        EPA approval to certify technicians and certificates are distributed by Sheppard AFB.
        Typically, military technician apprentices are trained and tested at Sheppard AFB.
        The following link lists other training and certification programs:
        http://www.epa.gov/Ozone/title6/608/technicians/608certs.html
14                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


         2.1.1.6.2. Local Vendors. Local vendors who provide refrigeration training and
         EPA certification may be used based on the vendor’s compliance with EPA standards
         for certifying programs (40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.152).
     2.1.1.7. Technician Recertification. Currently there are no mandatory requirements for
     refrigerant technician recertifications. However, the EPA reserves the right to specify the
     need for technician recertification in the future, if necessary, by placing a notice in the
     Federal Register.
  2.1.2. Certifying Recovery and Recycling Equipment. Base personnel who maintain,
  repair, or dispose of AC/R equipment must use recovery and recycling equipment certified
  by an EPA-approved testing organization. In addition, owners of recovery and recycling
  equipment must certify to the EPA that they have acquired certified equipment (according to
  Section 608 of the Clean Air Act of 1990) and are complying with applicable EPA
  requirements regarding proper use. The EPA requires that an initial one-time list of the
  purchased recovery and recycling equipment be submitted to the EPA regional office. Any
  equipment added after the initial submittal does not have to be reported; however, an updated
  list of equipment must be kept on file. EPA Form 7610-31, EPA Refrigerant Recovery or
  Recycling      Device     Acquisition      Certification     Form,      is    available     at
  http://www.epa.gov/ozone/title6/608/recoveryform.pdf. The addresses for the EPA
  Regional offices are included at the above website. Reporting should be coordinated through
  the base environmental office.
     2.1.2.1. Class I and Class II EPA Requirements for Recycling and Recovery Equipment.
         2.1.2.1.1. All manufacturers and importers of recycling and recovery equipment
         intended for use on Air Force facilities during the maintenance, service, or repair of
         appliances containing Class I and Class II refrigerants shall have had such equipment
         certified by an EPA-approved equipment testing organization to meet the applicable
         requirements and standards of 40 CFR Part 82 (2008), Subpart F, Section 82.158.
         2.1.2.1.2. Manufacturers and importers of recycling and recovery equipment certified
         by the EPA must place a label on each piece of equipment stating the following:
         “This equipment has been certified by an approved equipment testing organization to
         meet EPA’s minimum requirements for recycling or recovery equipment intended for
         use with [appropriate category of appliance].” The label shall also show the date of
         manufacture and the serial number (if applicable) of the equipment. The label shall be
         affixed in a readily visible or accessible location, be made of a material expected to
         last the lifetime of the equipment, present required information in such a manner that
         it is likely to remain legible for the lifetime of the equipment, and be affixed in such a
         manner that it cannot be removed from the equipment without damaging the label.
         2.1.2.1.3. All persons opening appliances (except for small appliances, MVAC, and
         MVAC-like appliances) for maintenance, service, or repair, and all persons disposing
         of appliances (except small appliances, MVAC, and MVAC-like appliances) must
         have at least one piece of certified, self-contained recovery or recycling equipment
         available at their place of business.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     15


        2.1.2.1.4. Use and maintain all recovery or recycling equipment in accordance with
        the manufacturer’s directions unless such directions conflict with the requirements of
        the EPA.
        2.1.2.1.5. The EPA has proposed standards for HFC recovery equipment that are
        very similar to the standards for CFC and HCFC equipment. The standards depend
        upon the saturation pressure of the refrigerant, the size of the appliance in which it is
        used, and the date of manufacture of the recovery equipment. Manufacturers of
        recycling and recovery equipment have stated that most recovery and recycling
        equipment designed for use with multiple CFC or HCFC refrigerants (e.g., 12, 22,
        500, and 502) can be adapted for use with HFC refrigerants with similar saturation
        pressures. Thus, the EPA is proposing to allow technicians to recover HFCs using
        recovery or recycling equipment designed for use with at least two CFC or HCFC
        refrigerants of similar saturation pressure. However, recovery or recycling equipment
        already used for CFC or HCFC equipment should not be used for other alternate
        refrigerants to avoid mixing different types of refrigerants.
     2.1.2.2. Documentation Requirements.
        2.1.2.2.1. A list of certified refrigerant recovery/recycling/reclaiming equipment that
        includes manufacturer names, evacuation certification types, the date of certification,
        and refrigerant type must be available on base. Owners do not have to send in a new
        certification form to the EPA each time they add new recovery or recycling
        equipment.
        2.1.2.2.2. The design of certified refrigerant recycling or recovery equipment shall
        not be altered in a way that would affect the equipment’s ability to meet the
        certification standards set forth by the EPA without resubmitting the altered design
        for certification testing.
     2.1.2.3. Fines.
        2.1.2.3.1. The EPA performs random inspections and responds to tips. The EPA is
        authorized to assess fines of up to $37,500 per day (all references to days refer to
        calendar days) for any violation of Section 608 of the Clean Air Act.
        2.1.2.3.2. In addition to potential fines, failure to abide by any of the provisions set
        forth by the EPA may result in revocation or suspension of certification.
     2.1.2.4. Owner Certification.
        2.1.2.4.1. Certification will take the form of a statement signed by the owner of the
        equipment (or another responsible designee) and shall include the following:
            2.1.2.4.1.1. The name and address of the purchaser of the equipment, including
            the county name;
            2.1.2.4.1.2. The name and address of the establishment where each piece of
            equipment is or will be located;
            2.1.2.4.1.3. The number of service trucks (or other vehicles) used to transport
            technicians and equipment between the establishment and job sites and the field;
            2.1.2.4.1.4. The manufacturer’s name, the date of manufacture, and, if applicable,
 16                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


               the model and serial number of the equipment; and
               2.1.2.4.1.5. The certification must include a statement that the equipment will be
               properly used to service or dispose of appliances and that the information given is
               true and correct.
           2.1.2.4.2. These owner equipment certifications must be sent to the EPA per
           instructions set forth in 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.162, Certification by
           owners of recovery and recycling equipment, including mailing addresses, dependent
           on base location.
       2.1.2.5. Equipment Recertification. Currently there are no mandatory requirements for
       refrigerant-recovery equipment recertification by the owner. The EPA does require
       recovery equipment manufacturers to have their equipment models retested or
       reinspected at least once every three years by an EPA-approved organization.
2.2. Complying with EPA Refrigerant Leakage Rates. This section provides guidance and
information on refrigerant regulation compliance and conservation. This information will assist
the BCE to comply with EPA requirements regarding the effective management of Class I and
Class II refrigerants. A compliance overview with additional details is available in Attachment 2.
Note that there are many exceptions and provisions included within 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F,
Section 82.156, regarding leakage compliance, including leakage identification, extended repair
time, and follow-up verification. The following paragraphs are intended to identify the main
components of this compliance. It is the responsibility of the BCE to be familiar with all of the
detailed provisions as they pertain to their specific equipment.
   2.2.1. Requirements. The requirements and prohibitions that form compliance with EPA
   refrigerant leakage rates are provided in 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.156. The
   penalties for non-compliance are significant. Venting any refrigerants or substitutes into the
   environment or improperly evacuating or destroying refrigerants is prohibited.
       2.2.1.1. Applicable Equipment Refrigerant Charges. EPA regulations regarding
       refrigerant leakage rates apply to AC/R equipment with a refrigerant charge of 50 pounds
       or more.
       2.2.1.2. Leakage Rates.
           2.2.1.2.1. According to the EPA, “leakage rate” is the rate at which an appliance
           loses refrigerant, measured between refrigerant charges. The leakage rate is expressed
           in terms of the percentage of the appliance’s full charge that would be lost over a 12-
           month period if the current rate of loss were to continue over that period.
           2.2.1.2.2. Allowable EPA leakage rates are based on three main equipment
           categories: comfort cooling, commercial refrigeration, and industrial refrigeration.
           Comfort cooling refers to equipment designed for environmental control for occupant
           comfort. Commercial refrigeration refers to refrigeration appliances used in the retail
           food and cold storage warehouse sectors. (Retail food includes refrigeration
           equipment found in supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants, and other food
           service establishments.) Industrial process refrigeration refers to complex, customized
           appliances used in the chemical, pharmaceutical, petrochemical, and manufacturing
           industries and is directly linked to the industrial process.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                          17


           2.2.1.2.3. Comfort cooling refrigeration equipment containing 50 pounds or more of
           refrigerant must have all refrigerant leaks repaired within 30 days if the actual annual
           leakage rate exceeds 15 percent of the total charge. The annual leakage rate is based
           on the percentage of the appliance’s full charge that would be lost over a 12-month
           period if the current rate of loss were to continue over that period.
           2.2.1.2.4. Commercial and industrial refrigeration equipment containing 50 pounds
           or more of refrigerant must have refrigerant leaks repaired within 30 days if the actual
           annual leakage rate exceeds 35 percent of the total charge. The annual leakage rate is
           based on the percentage of the appliance’s full charge that would be lost over a 12-
           month period if the current rate of loss were to continue over that period.
           2.2.1.2.5. The leakage rate can be calculated using one of two methods for each
           appliance located at an operating facility. These include the “annualized” method
           (most familiar and most used) and the rolling average method (intended to catch leaks
           more quickly). The rolling average method has recently been introduced into EPA
           regulations. The results of the two methods differ only when leakage rates are
           calculated at periods of less than one year. Although not entirely clear in the EPA
           regulations, once a method is chosen, that method may be required to be used for the
           life of all appliances at the facility; therefore, use discretion before switching from the
           annualized method to the rolling average method. For the purposes of this pamphlet
           and to maintain continuity in the precedent set in the original BRMP, the annualized
           method is used in the RMS calculations. A sample calculation follows:
              2.2.1.2.5.1. Figure 2.1 shows how to calculate the EPA maximum leakage rate
              (MLR) and the actual leakage rate (ALR) based on the annualized method. The
              leakage rate calculations are shown in the RMS reports entitled Refrigerant
              Service Record Report and Annual Excessive Leakage Rate Report.

Figure 2.1. Sample Leakage Rate Calculation.
An office building is cooled by a 200-ton rotary chiller containing a 400-pound HCFC R-22
refrigerant charge. Ten pounds of HCFC R-22 were added during the last servicing. Because the
chiller provides comfort cooling, uses a regulated refrigerant, and contains 50 pounds or more of
charge, the 15 percent leakage rate applies. If this were a commercial or industrial refrigerant
system, the 35 percent leakage rate would apply.
Service Records
Service Dates
                                                  Refrigerant Added
Calendar Date              Julian Date
1 October                  274                    5 lb
4 December                 338                    10 lb
1. Determine the EPA maximum leakage rate (EPAMLR):
        EPAMLR = 400 lb x 15%/yr = 60 lb/yr (This is the maximum amount of refrigerant this
        unit can lose in a 12-month period without violating EPA regulations.)
2. Determine the actual leak rate (ALR):
        ALR = lb refrigerant added since last servicing /[(days between servicing)/(365 days/yr)]
        ALR =
      ALR = 57 lb/yr
 18                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       Is ALR ≥ EPAMLR?
       57 lb/yr is less than 60 lb/yr
Action is not necessary. However, the unit used 10 pounds of refrigerant. Good conservation
practice requires checking for and repairing any leaks.
             2.2.1.2.5.2. If the ALR had been ≥ EPAMLR, it triggers the requirement to repair
             the leak within 30 days of the leak discovery and to keep records of its timely
             repair. The repair must be verified within 30 days as required by the EPA. If the
             appliance cannot be repaired within 30 days, document all repair efforts and have
             the base environmental office notify the EPA of the inability to comply within the
             30-day repair requirement and the reason for not being able to comply in
             accordance with 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.166. An extension beyond
             the 30-day period may be requested from the EPA if the necessary parts are
             unavailable or if requirements of other applicable federal, state, or local
             regulations make repair within 30 days impossible.
             2.2.1.2.5.3. If the appliance cannot be repaired within 30 days or within 30 days
             of a failed follow-up verification test, or after making a good-faith effort to repair
             the leaks, owners can develop a one-year retirement or replacement plan for the
             leaking appliance. A copy of the retirement or replacement plan needs to be sent
             by the base environmental office to the EPA within 30 days of discovering the
             leak. Compliance with the 30-day requirement is based on the date the report was
             postmarked. Keep a copy of the replacement or retirement plan at the site of the
             appliance. Further discussion regarding required practices and reporting are
             included in the following sections.
      2.2.1.3. Service History. The EPA requires several recordkeeping practices involving
      the servicing of AC/R equipment containing more than 50 pounds of CFC or HCFC
      refrigerant. A record must be kept of all CFC or HCFC leaks, even if the EPAMLR is not
      exceeded. By maintaining these records, technicians can identify equipment with
      substantial and/or frequent leaks. By discovering these leaks early, refrigerant can be
      conserved and EPA reporting may be avoided as a result of leaks being fixed before they
      exceed the EPAMLR. Only leaks exceeding the EPAMLR that are not repaired within 30
      days must be reported to the EPA. Refer to the Refrigerant Service Record Report
      description in paragraph 2.2.2.1.1.
      2.2.1.4. Leakage Identification. The EPA requires equipment owners or operators to
      promptly calculate the leakage rate each time refrigerant is added to applicable
      equipment. The leakage rate should be calculated as soon as possible after refrigerant has
      been added. If the system is leaking above the EPAMLR, the EPA imposes strict
      deadlines for compliance (see paragraph 2.2.1.5). This compliance applies to repairing
      the leaks or retrofitting/retiring the equipment. When EPA notification is required,
      prompt action will allow more repair time and avoid the potential for time-extension
      requests.
      2.2.1.5. Leakage Repair.
          2.2.1.5.1. Owners or operators of Class I and Class II refrigeration equipment must
          repair leaks as indicated in paragraph 2.2.1.2 within 30 days after discovery or within
          30 days after the leaks should have been discovered if the owners intentionally
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      19


        shielded themselves from information that would have revealed a leak. Servicing
        records documenting the date and type of service, leak repair calculations, and
        quantity of refrigerant added must be kept for a minimum of three years as outlined in
        paragraph 2.2.1.7.1.
        2.2.1.5.2. If the 30-day compliance requirement cannot be met, the leak must be
        reported to the EPA. The EPA may grant additional time to repair leaks under certain
        circumstances. These circumstances include, but may not be limited to, the following:
            2.2.1.5.2.1. If the refrigeration appliance is located in an area subject to
            radiological contamination or where shutting down the appliance will directly
            lead to radiological contamination;
            2.2.1.5.2.2. If necessary parts are unavailable or if requirements of other
            applicable federal, state, or local regulations make a repair within 30 or 120 days
            impossible;
            2.2.1.5.2.3. Instances where an industrial process shutdown is needed to repair
            leaks from industrial process refrigeration equipment;
            2.2.1.5.2.4. Equipment is “mothballed.” System mothballing means the
            intentional shut down of a refrigeration appliance undertaken for an extended
            period by the owners or operators of that facility, where the refrigerant has been
            evacuated from the appliance or the affected isolated section of the appliance, at
            least to atmospheric pressure.
        2.2.1.5.3. Equipment repair is unnecessary if a plan to retire or replace the equipment
        within a year is developed within 30 days after the leak is discovered. This provision
        also applies to a failed follow-up verification test or after making good-faith efforts to
        repair the leak(s).
        2.2.1.5.4. It is recommended that the BCE and staff become familiar with all
        provisions included in the EPA regulations regarding equipment repair time allotment
        and replacement.
     2.2.1.6. Verification Tests. Verification tests include both initial and follow-up tests
     and have provisions with regard to leak repairs that require the evacuation of the
     equipment or portion of the equipment refrigerant charge. Initial verification tests are
     leak tests conducted as soon as practicable after the repair is completed. Follow-up
     verification tests are tests that involve checking the repairs within 30 days of the
     appliance returning to normal operating characteristics and conditions. Initial and follow-
     up verification can be done in a single service call, provided the unit is operating under
     normal conditions when the follow-up verification is performed.
     2.2.1.7. Documentation. The following documentation pertaining to refrigerant leakage
     compliance is required in accordance with 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.166:
        2.2.1.7.1. Owners/operators of appliances normally containing 50 or more pounds of
        refrigerant must keep service records for three to five years, depending upon the EPA
        tier level, documenting the date and type of service and the quantity of added
        refrigerant. The owner/operator must keep records of refrigerant purchased and added
20                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


     to such appliances in cases where owners added their own refrigerant. Such records
     should indicate the date(s) when refrigerant was added.
     2.2.1.7.2. EPA Initial Report.
        2.2.1.7.2.1. An initial report must be submitted to the EPA regarding why more
        than 30 days are needed to complete repairs. This report must include the
        following:
            2.2.1.7.2.1.1. Identification of the facility;
            2.2.1.7.2.1.2. Leakage rate;
            2.2.1.7.2.1.3. Method used to determine the leakage rate and full charge;
            2.2.1.7.2.1.4. Date a leakage rate above the applicable leakage rate was
            discovered;
            2.2.1.7.2.1.5. Location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date;
            2.2.1.7.2.1.6. Any repair work completed thus far and the date that work was
            completed;
            2.2.1.7.2.1.7. The reasons why more than 30 days are needed to complete the
            work and an estimate of when the work will be completed.
        2.2.1.7.2.2. If changes from the original estimate of when work will be completed
        result in extending the completion date from the date submitted to the EPA, the
        reasons for these changes must be documented and submitted to the EPA within
        30 days of discovering the need for the change.
     2.2.1.7.3. Leak Repair Plans. Regarding industrial refrigeration equipment, if the
     BCE intends to establish that the appliance’s leakage rate does not exceed the EPA
     allowable leakage rate, the BCE must submit a plan to fix leaks for which repairs are
     planned but not yet completed to achieve a rate below the applicable allowable
     leakage rate. This plan is submitted only after the BCE has originally notified the
     EPA that the equipment will be retired due to failed follow-up verification tests.
     2.2.1.7.4. EPA Final Report.
        2.2.1.7.4.1. Owners or operators must maintain records of the dates, types, and
        results of all initial and follow-up verification tests. Owners or operators must
        repair leaks exceeding the EPAMLR, perform an initial verification to confirm the
        leak is fixed, and submit this information to the EPA within 30 days after
        discovering the leak. The owners or operators then have 30 days from the date of
        the repair and initial verification to perform and report the results of a follow-up
        verification test. Each report must also include the following:
            2.2.1.7.4.1.1. Identification of the facility;
            2.2.1.7.4.1.2. Leakage rate;
            2.2.1.7.4.1.3. Method used to determine the leakage rate and full charge;
            2.2.1.7.4.1.4. Date a leakage rate above the applicable leakage rate was
            discovered;
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                        21


                  2.2.1.7.4.1.5. Location of leak(s) to the extent determined to date;
                  2.2.1.7.4.1.6. Any repair work completed thus far and the date that work was
                  completed.
              2.2.1.7.4.2. It is recommended that the BCE and/or staff become familiar with all
              documentation requirements regarding refrigerant leakage included in the EPA
              regulations. Records and submitted documentation must be kept for three to five
              years, depending upon the EPA tier level.
   2.2.2. Tracking Refrigerant Leakage. Effective tracking of Class I and Class II refrigerant
   leakage is essential to a successful RMP. The RMS discussed in paragraph 2.2.2.1, and
   further in Chapter 3, can provide information and reports to assist the BCE to track
   refrigerant leakage.
       2.2.2.1. Refrigerant Management System (RMS) Reports. The RMS is a spreadsheet
       application based on Microsoft® Excel spreadsheets and is customized to provide data
       the BCE needs to fully implement a BRMP. The following four reports from the RMS
       can be used to effectively track refrigerant leakage. Each report is described in further
       detail in the Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide (see paragraph 1.1).
           2.2.2.1.1. Refrigerant Service Record Report. This report consists of a complete
           list of all AC/R equipment using Class I or Class II refrigerants and with reported
           refrigerant leaks during the past year or longer. The leakage rate is calculated for a
           365-day period or the number of days since the last leak was fixed if the repair took
           place within one year. The list will include the leakage rate and indicate if the leakage
           rate exceeds the EPA minimum rate that requires EPA notification.
           2.2.2.1.2. Annual Excessive Leakage Rate Status Report. This report consists of a
           complete list of all AC/R equipment using Class I or Class II refrigerants and further
           breaks down the units from the service record report that exhibited leakage above the
           EPA allowable maximum and what corrective action was taken. The report also
           includes the outcome of the repair work as well as dates for initial and follow-up
           verification as required by the EPA.
           2.2.2.1.3. Equipment Inventory Report. This report includes a complete AC/R
           equipment inventory of equipment and can be used to list EPA-regulated equipment
           containing 50 pounds or more of Class I or Class II refrigerant.
           2.2.2.1.4. HFC Equipment Inventory Report. This report is similar to the
           Equipment Inventory Report but is sorted to indicate and account for the non-
           regulated HFC refrigerants as deemed necessary by the BCE.
       2.2.2.2. Optional Air Force Recommendations. In addition to mandatory EPA
       compliance regarding refrigerant leakage, and given possible EPA regulations in the
       future concerning HFC refrigerants, it is recommended to include these types of
       refrigerants in all service records and leakage calculations.
2.3. Maintaining Equipment to Minimize Refrigerant Leakage. There are several methods
and procedures to minimize refrigerant leakage. These consist of required EPA practices, general
equipment servicing and repair, leak detection methods, and AC/R equipment modifications.
These methods are outlined and described below.
22                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


  2.3.1. EPA Service Practice Requirements.
     2.3.1.1. The EPA has outlined several required practices intended to minimize refrigerant
     leakage. These include, but may not be limited to, the following:
        2.3.1.1.1. All persons disposing of appliances, except for small appliances, MVAC,
        and MVAC-like appliances, must evacuate the refrigerant, including the entire liquid
        refrigerant, into EPA-approved recovery or recycling equipment as described in
        paragraph 2.1.2. Refrigerant must be evacuated to the levels indicated in Attachment
        6, Table 6.1.
        2.3.1.1.2. Technicians must be EPA-certified as indicated in paragraph 2.1.1.
        2.3.1.1.3. Persons opening appliances (except for small appliances, MVAC, and
        MVAC-like appliances) for maintenance, service, or repair must evacuate the
        refrigerant to the levels set forth in 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, section 82.156, before
        opening the appliance. These levels are indicated in Attachment 6, Table A6.1.
        2.3.1.1.4. Use all recovery or recycling equipment in accordance with the
        manufacturer’s directions unless such directions conflict with the requirements of the
        EPA.
     2.3.1.2. These EPA-required practices include many provisions and exceptions based on
     type of appliance and type of recovery equipment utilized; therefore, see 40 CFR Part 82
     for detailed requirements. Those requirements and practices involving refrigerant leakage
     are covered in paragraph 2.2.
  2.3.2. Equipment Servicing and Repairs. Detailed requirements and information about
  performing equipment service and repairs are found in Attachment 6 and Attachment 7.
  2.3.3. Leak Detection.
     2.3.3.1. The BCE should develop a leak detection program that matches individual AC/R
     equipment with a specific type of leak detection. The BCE should also develop an
     equipment leak-check schedule based on the equipment type, and leak history, and
     include it with the equipment’s Recurring Work Plan (RWP) requirements. As more
     leaks occur, equipment checks need to be increased accordingly.
     2.3.3.2. Leak-detection procedures vary from soap bubbles to sophisticated sensors. For
     detailed information, review Attachment 5 and Attachment 7.
  2.3.4. AC/R Equipment Modifications.
     2.3.4.1. Several equipment modifications may prevent excess refrigerant from entering
     the atmosphere. One example is installing low-loss fittings used to service AC/R
     equipment.
     2.3.4.2. Most low-pressure chillers have or were retrofitted with high-efficiency purge
     units. The BCE and staff should provide purge units with a safety system that prevents
     excessive purging created by a malfunction or large leak. These safety systems limit the
     time a purge unit operates to prevent a control malfunction from allowing a continuous
     purge.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      23


       2.3.4.3. Purge units for chillers or recovery/recycling equipment require regular service.
       Purge tanks and oil separators must be cleaned, gaskets must be renewed, purge
       compressors must be overhauled, etc. These functions should be performed according to
       the purge system manufacturer's product guidelines. More information is available in
       Attachment 6.
   2.3.5. Venting Prohibitions (All Refrigerants).
       2.3.5.1. Since July 2005, it is an EPA violation to knowingly release any Class I or Class
       II refrigerant or substitute refrigerant other than carbon dioxide (CO2), ammonia, or water
       into the atmosphere. The knowing release of a refrigerant or non-exempt substitute
       subsequent to its recovery from an appliance is an EPA violation.
       2.3.5.2. “De minimis” releases (as outlined within referenced EPA regulations)
       associated with good-faith attempts to recycle or recover refrigerants or non-exempt
       substitutes are not subject to this prohibition.
   2.3.6. Refrigerant Management System (RMS). The Refrigerant Service Record Report
   from the RMS details the frequency and magnitude of refrigerant leaks and can be used to
   maintain equipment to minimize refrigerant leaks. This report is described in further detail in
   the Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide.
2.4. Managing Refrigerant Inventories. This element includes effectively managing Class I
and Class II refrigerants used in AC/R equipment to ensure adequate supplies are available to
support Air Force mission requirements. Given that Class I refrigerants can no longer be
purchased on the open market or be provided by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) for AC/R
equipment, the BCE must rely on inventories already on hand or made available through
transfers with other bases. The effective management of Class I refrigerants must also include
supplies contained in equipment to be decommissioned. Existing equipment containing Class I
refrigerants must be managed to the end of their service lives or until Class I refrigerant
inventories are below critical levels. Once all Class I equipment has been decommissioned or
retired, the Class I refrigerants must be transferred to the DLA (see paragraph 2.4.4.5). Given
reductions of Class II refrigerant production levels and their eventual elimination by the year
2030, diminishing supplies of Class II refrigerants will require close management of refrigerant
inventories to ensure adequate supplies of refrigerant are available to meet Air Force mission
requirements. Additionally, managing refrigerant inventories will help contain costs associated
with the service and maintenance of equipment containing Class I and Class II refrigerants.
   2.4.1. By Refrigerant Type. Inventory management must be accomplished on a per-
   refrigerant basis. A refrigerant transaction log must be maintained for each refrigerant so the
   refrigerant’s actual consumption rate can be used to predict how much refrigerant should be
   stored for maintenance purposes.
   2.4.2. Determining Adequate Inventory Levels.
       2.4.2.1. The determination of adequate inventory levels must be made by the BCE based
       on certain criteria such as mission capability, refrigerant cost and availability, and AC/R
       equipment phase-out. One approach may be to take the average of the consumption in the
       past year, along with the refrigerant charge of the largest piece of equipment, minus any
       refrigerant recovered, to determine the minimum inventory level for each refrigerant
24                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


     type. The RMS Refrigerant Transaction Report (see paragraph 2.4.6.3) may be used to
     predict historical leakage (i.e., consumption) for each refrigerant type.
     2.4.2.2. In determining the minimum inventory level, an additional safety factor that
     should be considered is the amount of charge associated with the largest critical AC/R
     equipment unit.
  2.4.3. Management Inventory Controls.
     2.4.3.1. Management inventory controls refer to those measures and practices, both
     administrative and physical, which may be used to ensure accurate refrigerant inventory
     levels. They may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         2.4.3.1.1. Use of a refrigerant transaction log (see paragraph 2.4.6.1);
         2.4.3.1.2. Limited access to refrigerant storage areas;
         2.4.3.1.3. Check-in and check-out procedures (i.e., weigh-in procedures) for
         refrigerant containers, including potential same-day check-in/check-out;
         2.4.3.1.4. Ongoing training for technicians and other affected personnel;
         2.4.3.1.5. Written labeling policy for refrigerant cylinders.
     2.4.3.2. Because of the importance of tracking refrigerant use and disposition, the BCE
     should publish and enforce a refrigerant and storage policy, to include designation of
     individual positions responsible for inventory management and record-keeping.
  2.4.4. Refrigerant Transactions. Multiple refrigerant transactions may be used to
  effectively manage refrigerant inventories. The RMS may be used to track and document
  these transactions. Data input for refrigerant transactions is discussed in the Refrigerant
  Management System User’s Guide. The data input is compiled in two reports developed to
  support the BCE in managing the base’s refrigerant inventories. The Refrigerant Transaction
  Report tracks the daily withdrawals from inventory which is used to service AC/R equipment
  and calculates the actual consumption for each refrigerant type. The Refrigerant Inventory
  Report can be compiled for each refrigerant stored on base. This report tracks all transactions
  into and out of the inventory of each refrigerant and calculates the current volume of each
  refrigerant available in storage. These two reports are described in more detail in the
  Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide. The types of refrigerant transactions are
  briefly described in the paragraphs below.
     2.4.4.1. Daily On-Base Transactions. These transactions include those required in the
     day-to-day service and maintenance of AC/R equipment. All classes and types of
     refrigerants should be recorded. These are the only transactions tracked by the
     Refrigerant Transaction Report.
     2.4.4.2. Purchases.
         2.4.4.2.1. Air Force CE units are not allowed to purchase commercial Class I ODS;
         however, refrigerant may be obtained, if available, through inter-base transfers.
         2.4.4.2.2. There are currently no restrictions to purchasing Class II refrigerants;
         however, ownership of both Class I and Class II refrigerants must remain within the
         Department of Defense (DOD).
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                  25


        2.4.4.2.3. The BCE may approve a variance to purchase AC/R equipment that uses
        HCFCs (e.g., R-123) but a BRMP is required to ensure adequate refrigerant
        inventories are available to service the equipment for its expected life. Requirements
        are described in AFI 32-7086, Chapter 4, paragraph 4.8.
        2.4.4.2.4. Refrigerant purchased or transferred must be recorded as a transaction in
        the Refrigerant Inventory Report (see paragraph 2.4.6.1).
     2.4.4.3. Recover/Recycle/Reclaim.
        2.4.4.3.1. Recovery, recycling, and reuse of Class I and Class II refrigerants will be
        accomplished to the maximum extent practicable to ensure responsible use and
        prevent losses to the atmosphere.
        2.4.4.3.2. Anyone who disposes of AC/R equipment must recover the remaining
        refrigerant and/or verify that the refrigerant is evacuated properly as detailed in
        Attachment 6, Table A6.1.
        2.4.4.3.3. Refrigerant may be returned to the appliance from which it is recovered or
        to another appliance owned by the Air Force without being recycled or reclaimed.
     2.4.4.4. Transfers.
        2.4.4.4.1. The transfer of excess Class I ODS outside the Air Force, except to the
        DLA ODS Defense Reserve Stockpile, is prohibited (see paragraph 2.4.4.5).
        2.4.4.4.2. AC/R equipment containing Class I refrigerants must rely on internal
        refrigerant inventories, without access to the DLA Class I ODS Defense Reserve
        stockpile. These internal inventories may result from decommissioned equipment
        and, in some rare cases, inter-base transfers.
        2.4.4.4.3. Class I or Class II refrigerant ownership cannot be sold or transferred
        outside of DOD. Transfers of excess refrigerant to other bases are encouraged and
        should be arranged through the MAJCOM. Excess Class I ODS refrigerant must be
        turned into the DLA Refrigerant Bank.
     2.4.4.5. DLA Turn-ins.
        2.4.4.5.1. If the BCE identifies excess Class I refrigerants that cannot be reused on
        the base or reallocated within the MAJCOM, these supplies should be returned to the
        DLA Class I ODS Defense Reserve stockpile. This includes Class I refrigerants that
        cannot be reused on the base or reallocated within the MAJCOM. An example of this
        may be the retirement or disposal of the last item of equipment containing that
        refrigerant.
        2.4.4.5.2. If a refrigerant is identified to be turned over to the DLA, note this
        transaction in the Refrigerant Transaction Report described in paragraph 2.4.6.3.
        2.4.4.5.3. For further information on DLA turn-in procedures, see Department of
        Defense Ozone Depleting Substances Turn-in Procedures.
     2.4.4.6. Disposal.
        2.4.4.6.1. All refrigerants should be recovered/recycled by removing the refrigerant
        using EPA-certified recovery equipment and storing it in an approved container. Any
 26                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


          refrigerant contaminated by other refrigerants and that cannot be reclaimed must be
          disposed of as hazardous waste. For this reason, it is imperative that refrigerants are
          not mixed during recovery.
          2.4.4.6.2. If a refrigerant is determined to require disposal, this transaction should be
          duly noted in the Refrigerant Transaction Report described in paragraph 2.4.6.3.
          Refrigerant evacuation must be accomplished per EPA guidelines summarized in
          Attachment 2.
   2.4.5. Secure Storage Areas. Refrigerant is valuable and supplies are limited. The base
   should have one or more secure storage areas to store, issue, and receive refrigerants. The
   storage location(s) should be convenient and secure. For information on storage room
   construction standards, see Attachment 4.
       2.4.5.1. Limited Accessibility. Secure storage areas should include limited accessibility
       by only those individuals responsible for distributing and tracking refrigerant. For this
       reason, such storage areas should not include mechanical equipment rooms.
       2.4.5.2. Protection of Personnel. Refrigerant storage areas must comply with ASHRAE
       15-2007 (see Attachment 8). This standard includes details on such items as refrigerant
       storage facility ventilation and exhaust requirements, and refrigerant monitoring and
       alarms.
   2.4.6. Refrigerant Management System (RMS). The following three reports from the
   RMS can be used to effectively manage base refrigerant inventories. Each report is described
   in further detail in the Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide.
       2.4.6.1. Refrigerant Inventory Report. This report shows all refrigerant transactions
       (both additions and withdrawals) and can be used for tracking refrigerant inventory levels
       for each refrigerant to ensure the required minimum levels are maintained.
       2.4.6.2. Decommissioned Equipment List. This report shows decommissioned
       equipment and the amount and type of recovered refrigerant.
       2.4.6.3. Refrigerant Transaction Report. This report provides historical usage by
       showing the amount of refrigerant consumed from inventory (e.g., refrigerant used for
       servicing equipment). It is used to estimate future needs and inventory levels.
2.5. Planning Equipment Phase-out and Funding Requirements. The RMS can be used by
the BCE to plan for the strategic and cost-effective replacement of both Class I and Class II
refrigerant-containing equipment. Planning the phase-out of Class I and Class II refrigerant
equipment will assist in meeting Air Force objectives regarding the elimination of ODS.
Additionally, this process can be used to establish equipment replacement budgets.
   2.5.1. Recommendations. The recommendations noted below refer predominantly to
   equipment containing a charge of 50 pounds or greater but can also be applied to smaller
   equipment. Recommended replacement decision criteria may include equipment age,
   equipment condition, refrigerant type and availability, equipment service, equipment cost,
   energy efficiency, and operational status. Replacement should not be decided by equipment
   age alone. Equipment average or median service life is shown in ASHRAE Handbook,
   HVAC Applications, Chapter 37, Table 4, “Comparison of Service Life Estimates.”
       2.5.1.1. Class I Refrigerants.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      27


        2.5.1.1.1. AC/R equipment containing Class I refrigerants have not been
        manufactured since 1996. The number of such units in use within the Air Force
        continues to dwindle and the replacement of such equipment should take into
        consideration refrigerant inventory, the condition of the equipment, equipment
        efficiency, and runtime. For example, if the equipment is in good condition, serves as
        emergency back-up, and/or there is an ample supply of refrigerant available, it may
        be best to maintain the equipment in service; replace other equipment that is less
        efficient, in poor condition, and/or prone to refrigerant leaks.
        2.5.1.1.2. Consider the following when evaluating Class I refrigerant equipment for
        replacement:
            2.5.1.1.2.1. Equipment Age. Has the equipment exceeded the ASHRAE median
            service life? This includes 15 years for unitary equipment, 20 years for
            reciprocating and rotary chillers, and 23 years for centrifugal chillers. See
            ASHRAE Handbook, HVAC Applications, Chapter 37, Table 4, “Comparison of
            Service Life Estimates.”
            2.5.1.1.2.2. Equipment Condition. Refer to past equipment service records and
            maintenance costs. What would be the maintenance cost savings associated with
            equipment replacement? What is its leakage rate and is it in EPA compliance?
            2.5.1.1.2.3. Refrigerant Availability. Does current inventory exceed all
            remaining units’ full charge? If not, what percentage of the equipment’s full
            charge is available and what is the likely or historical leakage rate? Given the
            limited availability of Class I refrigerants, refrigerant availability may be a
            primary decision criterion regarding Class I refrigerant equipment replacement.
            For instance, if there is one remaining piece of equipment on base containing
            Class I refrigerant and there is little to no inventory of that refrigerant, equipment
            replacement would be a likely recommendation (pending other decision criteria).
            2.5.1.1.2.4. Equipment Service. Does the equipment service a mission-critical
            function? What are the consequences if this equipment fails?
            2.5.1.1.2.5. Equipment Cost. The greater the replacement cost, the greater the
            planning horizon is needed to obtain funding, procure design services, and
            schedule outages.
            2.5.1.1.2.6. Energy Efficiency. Compare the potential energy savings by
            evaluating the current equipment energy cost to a similar new high-efficiency
            unit.
            2.5.1.1.2.7. Operational Status. Does the equipment serve as primary or back-
            up? If primary, does the equipment have a functional backup? The replacement
            priority may be lower if the equipment serves as a backup and is a tight, low-
            leakage unit.
     2.5.1.2. Class II Chillers.
        2.5.1.2.1. It is anticipated that through good service practices, inventory control, and
        conservation, the supply of Class II refrigerants will meet the servicing needs of
        existing equipment through their expected service lives. A replacement plan based
28                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


         upon the remaining useful life of the equipment should be developed for planning
         purposes. Select replacement equipment based upon a life-cycle cost analysis.
         2.5.1.2.2. A key consideration with Class II refrigerant equipment involves those
         using HCFC-123. Equipment designed to use HCFC-123 can be manufactured until
         2020 and the refrigerant will be produced until 2030. HCFC-123 has a low GWP, a
         very low ODP, and is typically more efficient than other AC/R equipment using any
         other refrigerant. This makes chillers containing HCFC-123 still a viable alternative
         as discussed in paragraphs 1.6.6.1 and 2.4.4.2.
     2.5.1.3. Class II Unitary.
         2.5.1.3.1. Unitary equipment consists predominantly of packaged-type, self-
         contained equipment using the direct expansion of a refrigerant for cooling supply
         airflow. Equipment types such as packaged rooftop units and split-system air-
         conditioners are included in this category. The ASHRAE average service life is 15
         years.
         2.5.1.3.2. The predominant refrigerant utilized in this type of equipment is HCFC-22.
         Much of this equipment contains refrigerant charges of less than 50 pounds.
         Therefore, before the decision is made to replace HCFC-22 equipment, potential
         HCFC-22 recovery from equipment containing smaller refrigerant charges must be
         considered. Recommendations similar to those indicated for Class I AC/R equipment
         apply to Class II refrigerant equipment as well as taking into account the refrigerant
         phase-out schedule for Class II refrigerants and the fact that Class II refrigerants are
         still available for purchase. These conditions lower the significance of decision
         criteria involving equipment age and condition.
  2.5.2. Refrigerant Management System (RMS). The RMS tool can be used to help plan
  the phase-out of Class I refrigerant equipment and to program future replacement
  requirements for Class II refrigerant equipment. Each report included below is described in
  the Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide (see paragraph 1.1). The information
  provided by these reports can be combined to develop a programmed phase-out list for both
  Class I and Class II AC/R equipment.
     2.5.2.1. Equipment Inventory Report. This report includes a complete AC/R
     equipment inventory that can compile either regulated equipment or all refrigerant-
     containing equipment. This RMS-generated list can be sorted by equipment age and
     refrigerant type. By sorting equipment by age, the BCE can determine AC/R equipment
     with the longest service lives and develop priorities for an equipment replacement plan.
     2.5.2.2. Refrigerant Service Record Report. This report can be used to evaluate the
     condition of the equipment by noting the frequency of refrigerant services as well as the
     required refrigerant quantity. The more frequent the service, the more likely the
     equipment condition is deteriorating.
     2.5.2.3. Excessive Leakage Rate Status Report. This report includes a complete list of
     all AC/R equipment with a Class I or Class II refrigerant charge of 50 pounds or greater
     and with reported refrigerant leaks during the past year or earlier. This report can be used
     to evaluate the condition of the equipment. Such items as multiple leakage events and
     extent or magnitude of leaks should be noted.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                   29


2.6. Generating the Annual Base RMP. The final element of the BRMP is developing and
updating the annual base RMP. The annual base RMP provides a phase-out schedule for Class I
equipment and anticipated Class II equipment in the near future. It also provides one concise
document showing compliance with Air Force and EPA requirements. The RMP also
summarizes inventory levels and provides a projection of refrigerant inventory levels into the
future. The RMP does not include motor vehicle or aircraft refrigerants.
   2.6.1. BCE Waiver for Class II Refrigerants. Installing new equipment using Class II
   refrigerants requires the BCE to issue a waiver. All such waivers should be included in the
   RMP. Note that the purchase and application of HCFC-123 chillers is allowed. HCFC-123
   equipment production will continue until 2020. The refrigerant is expected to remain readily
   available for years after its production ceases in 2030.
   2.6.2. BCE Review and Certification. According to AFI 32-7086, the BCE is required to
   review and certify the annual base RMP. This pamphlet provides guidance to help the BCE
   certify the RMP.
 30                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                           Chapter 3

                    REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (RMS)

3.1. RMS Working Tool. The daily working tool for the base RMP is the RMS, available on
the AFCEC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems Air Force Portal
website (see paragraph 1.1). This system can be used to manage refrigerants in place of the
current private-sector compliance software. If the RMS is utilized, make sure provisions are
made to retain access to past service records for three to five years, depending upon the EPA tier
level, before discontinuing use of the existing compliance software. Use of the RMS is not
mandatory but it is provided as a tool to facilitate tracking equipment leakage rates, meeting
documentation requirements, and developing the base RMP.
3.2. RMS Spreadsheet Application Description. The RMS is a spreadsheet application based
on Microsoft® Excel and is customized to provide the data the BCE needs to fully implement a
BRMP. It supports the daily refrigerant management requirements, daily and annual
recordkeeping, and provides management tools for planning future actions required to maintain a
mission-capable base refrigerant system. The RMS tracks refrigerant service records and notifies
the user of an EPA excessive leakage event which requires timely resolution. The system will
continue to monitor the event until it is resolved and verified according to EPA requirements.
3.3. RMS User’s Guide. The Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide contains
descriptions of the individual tools in the RMS and other valuable information, including details
on adding data, and system navigation. The Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide
focuses on the general data-input process and RMS-generated reports that provide information to
ensure the base is in compliance with EPA requirements for managing base refrigerant
inventories and AC/R equipment. Chapter 4 of this pamphlet provides guidance for applying this
information to develop a fact-based, realistic RMP. A sample RMP, complete with sample RMS-
generated reports, is available on the AFCEC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
(HVAC) Systems Air Force Portal website (see paragraph 1.1).
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     31


                                            Chapter 4

            ANNUAL BASE REFRIGERANT MANAGEMENT PLAN (RMP)

4.1. Introduction.
   4.1.1. An RMP must be produced annually and reviewed by the MAJCOM refrigerant
   program manager for each installation to meet the requirements of AFI 32-7086. This RMP
   should include the records required by the EPA. This will enable one document to serve as a
   single source for all required recordkeeping in print. Some of this information will be stored
   in the RMS and can be accessed at any time.
   4.1.2. This chapter provides guidance on the development of an RMP. A sample RMP is
   available on the AFCEC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Systems Air
   Force Portal website (see paragraph 1.1) in an editable Microsoft Word® version.
4.2. Requirements. The RMP is an Air Force requirement per AFI 32-7086. The EPA requires
certain items to be retained and/or submitted to the EPA. The following items are expected to be
included in the RMP:
   4.2.1. Records maintained for three to five years, depending upon the EPA tier level;
   4.2.2. Timely notification of leakage events;
   4.2.3. Timely notification of fix verification;
   4.2.4. Copies of certifications.
4.3. RMP Development Guidance. This chapter provides guidance for developing a useful and
practical RMP.
   4.3.1. RMP Suggested Table of Contents.
       4.3.1.1. A suggested table of contents for the RMP is listed in Figure 4.1. This is the
       organizational format which will be followed as each section is discussed through this
       chapter.

Figure 4.1. RMP Suggested Table of Contents.
 1.0                  Executive Summary
 2.0                  General Information
 3.0                  Certifying Technicians & Recovery Equipment
 4.0                  Complying with EPA Refrigerant Leakage Rates
 5.0                  Maintaining Equipment to Minimize Refrigerant Leakage
 6.0                  Managing Refrigerant Inventories
 7.0                  Planning Equipment Replacements
 8.0                  Approval of Annual Base Refrigerant Management Plan (RMP)
 Appendix A1          Refrigerant Technician Certifications
 Appendix A2          Refrigerant Recovery/Recycle Machine Certifications
 Appendix B1          EPA Required Refrigerant Service Records
 Appendix B2          Excessive Leakage Notifications to EPA
 Appendix B3          Decommissioned Equipment Report
32                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


Appendix B4    Excessive Leakage Rate Annual Report
Appendix C     Equipment Inventories (By Refrigerant) and Refrigerant Service
               Records
Appendixes C1– Equipment Inventories, Refrigerant Service Records, Consumption and
C8             Storage Records by Refrigerant Type
Appendix D     HCFC-123 Equipment Purchase Waiver
     4.3.1.2. The order indicated in Figure 4.1 allows sections or divisions within a section to
     be removed and copied or given to the EPA in the event of an inspection. The numbered
     sections of the RMP describe the refrigerant management activities underway at the base
     and summarize the status of meeting the base’s EPA requirements. The appendices
     contain the actual documents and reports required to meet EPA requirements and the
     RMS reports that help the BCE manage AC/R equipment and refrigerant inventories.
  4.3.2. Executive Summary. Include an executive summary, no more than a page in length.
  It should highlight equipment or refrigerant concerns, risks, and/or inventory level projected
  for the upcoming year in terms of regulatory issues, mission impacts, and funding
  requirements. The BCE might want to include, and thus document, significant
  accomplishments from the just-completed year. The sample RMP (see paragraph 1.1) has
  examples of items that might be included under each of the above headings.
  4.3.3. General Information. This section serves as a place for the “boilerplate” items that
  might be specific to a particular base or MAJCOM. These items are part of the total BRMP
  and are essentially constant. These might include requirements of the EPA or AFI 32-7086 to
  serve as a reminder. List the persons designated as BRMP points of contact (POC) in this
  section. The sample RMP includes only what is recommended as the minimum amount of
  information to be included in this section. Ensure that PII, such as Social Security numbers,
  date of birth, and age, are not listed for any personnel.
  4.3.4. Certifying Technicians & Recovery Equipment. This section provides
  documentation that all staff servicing AC/R equipment have refrigeration technician
  certifications from EPA-approved testing agencies. The list and documentation for the
  manufacturer-certified recovery equipment should also be referenced in this section. It would
  be appropriate in this section to indicate items to be addressed or actions to be taken in the
  upcoming year. Examples might include the following: “Staff retirements caused the need for
  [x] more certified refrigerant technicians”; “Intent to purchase additional recovery equipment
  to eliminate servicing ‘funnel.’”
  4.3.5. Complying with EPA Refrigerant Leakage Rates.
     4.3.5.1. This section of the RMP summarizes EPA-required documentation relating to
     refrigerant leakage provided in Appendices B1 to B4. This documentation applies only to
     regulated equipment that contains 50 pounds or greater of CFC or HCFC refrigerant.
     4.3.5.2. Each base is required to maintain service records for three to five years,
     depending upon the EPA tier level, noting when refrigerant was added to regulated
     equipment. This information includes the RMS Refrigerant Service Record Report,
     described in paragraph 4.3.11.3.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       33


     4.3.5.3. The EPA has established an MLR for regulated equipment. The EPA must be
     notified and leaks fixed within 30 days unless delays are approved. Paragraph 4.3.11.4
     describes the notification documentation.
     4.3.5.4. To resolve a refrigerant leak in regulated AC/R equipment if a leak cannot be
     fixed, a plan can be submitted to replace or retire the equipment within one year. This
     solution is documented in the required EPA leakage notification and by the RMS in the
     Decommissioned Equipment Report described in paragraph 4.3.11.5.
     4.3.5.5. Documentation of the refrigerant leakage mitigation steps is provided in detail in
     the Excessive Leakage Rate Annual Report described in paragraph 4.3.11.6.
  4.3.6. Maintaining Equipment to Minimize Refrigerant Leakage. This section of the
  RMP may be used to describe the specific methods used by the base to reduce refrigerant
  leaks. This could include preventative maintenance leak-checking, the purchase of more
  accurate detection devices, or tracking refrigerant leaks in unregulated equipment as well as
  the required tracking of leaks in regulated equipment.
  4.3.7. Managing Refrigerant Inventories.
     4.3.7.1. Appendix C of the sample RMP contains equipment inventories for all AC/R
     equipment and refrigerant service records for that equipment. The reports are: Equipment
     Inventory Report (All Equipment) and Refrigerant Service Records Report (All
     Equipment).
     4.3.7.2. Appendices C1 through C(x) provide the inventory status of each refrigerant
     used on base for refrigerant 1 through refrigerant x. Each of the eight refrigerants listed in
     Appendices C1 through C8 contains four RMS reports. The reports are: Equipment
     Inventory Report; Refrigerant Service Record Report; Refrigerant Transactions Report;
     and Refrigerant Inventory Report. By compiling these reports individually, the inventory
     status for each refrigerant can be compiled and used to predict future refrigerant needs.
     Examples of these reports are found in Appendices C1 through C8 of the sample RMP.
     This inventory analysis is described in detail in paragraph 4.3.12.1.
  4.3.8. Planning Equipment Replacements. There is no reason at this time to phase out any
  CFC or HCFC AC/R equipment before the end of its useful economic life unless the base is
  unable to provide the refrigerant needed for servicing. (Excessive servicing and leakage may
  indicate the equipment is at the end of its useful economic life.) This section is intended to
  identify equipment that should be replaced based on information discussed in Appendix C of
  the RMP. For example, the base may have equipment containing several CFC refrigerants
  such as R-11, R-12, R-113, and R-500. The base cannot purchase CFCs and the DLA will not
  transfer refrigerant to the bases to service AC/R equipment. Other than the unlikely
  possibility of a transfer from another base, the refrigerant presently stored and any refrigerant
  that becomes available through recovery from decommissioned AC/R equipment are the only
  sources of refrigerant. Recycling HCFC refrigerant from decommissioned AC/R equipment
  is a cost-effective way to increase refrigerant inventories. Although most CFC AC/R
  equipment has already been replaced, considerable HCFC equipment is still in place.
  Therefore, maintaining inventories of HCFC refrigerants as prices go up will be an important
  consideration in planning equipment replacement.
34                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


  4.3.9. Approval of Annual Base Refrigerant Management Plan (RMP). The BCE
  annually reviews and certifies the RMP.
  4.3.10. Appendix A. Appendices A1, A2, and B1 through B4 should include only those
  items required by the EPA and thus can be pulled out in their entirety and forwarded to the
  EPA without editing, should the need arise. Appendix A will include (Appendix A1)
  Refrigerant Technician Certifications and (Appendix A2) Refrigerant Recovery/Recycle
  Machine Certifications.
  4.3.11. Appendix B. This section provides the documentation required by the EPA for
  regulated equipment at the installation, leakages that occurred, the chronology of what, when,
  and how leaks were fixed, and the status of these leakage events. The RMS is instrumental in
  providing the documentation for this requirement. Most of this section will refer to the
  documentation in Appendix B.
     4.3.11.1. Equipment leakage events should be described in this section in appropriate
     detail. Events still awaiting disposition might be specifically listed.
     4.3.11.2. The remaining items pertinent to this section are indicated in the sample RMP
     and refer to documents that will be placed in the supporting appendices listed below.
     4.3.11.3. Appendix B1.
         4.3.11.3.1. This appendix provides the following reports to meet the EPA
         requirement to maintain refrigerant service records for CFCs and HCFCs for three to
         five years, depending upon the EPA tier level: Refrigerant Service Record Report and
         Equipment Inventory Report.
         4.3.11.3.2. This EPA requirement can be met by keeping service invoices to
         document the service work and filing them in folders for retrieval in the event of an
         EPA inspection. The RMS provides not only this minimum requirement but enables
         the analysis needed to manage the base inventory of regulated AC/R equipment and
         refrigerants. By inputting these service records into the RMS, the Refrigerant Service
         Record Report can provide service records for any period or refrigerant type. This
         report, if sorted by building and unit number (or refrigerant type), enables the BCE to
         identify equipment which may have been troublesome during the past year (or
         earlier). The Refrigerant Service Record Report is sorted so that multiple leak
         occurrences for the same units will appear in adjacent rows in the report and the total
         leakage from the same unit is summed to illustrate the impact of multiple leaks from
         one unit. The BCE can then take additional corrective action to fix the unit or replace
         it even if the percentage leak does not exceed the EPA MLR.
         4.3.11.3.3. For additional information, the Equipment Inventory Report is provided
         that documents the entire base’s regulated equipment data, including equipment age,
         which can help the BCE make repair or replacement decisions for problematic AC/R
         equipment.
     4.3.11.4. Appendix B2. Appendix B2 contains copies of refrigerant leak notification
     letters. Placed within this appendix are the correspondence records and the past
     correspondence with the EPA concerning refrigerant leakage events that exceeded the
     allowable maximum rates. This would include initial notifications, plans for resolution,
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    35


     and resolution verification. For events that require simple on-the-spot fixes, these
     notifications would likely all be reported in a single document. For events that require
     major fixes or equipment replacements, an extension may be requested with a plan for
     resolution included. This plan is attached to the notification letter and located in
     Appendix B2. These reports must be retained for three to five years, depending upon the
     EPA tier level. All the items below must be submitted to the EPA within 30 days. They
     can be multiple letters or one letter for all. The notifications are: Non-Compliance Report
     Letter; Plan for Resolution Letter; Resolution Achieved Letter; Extension Request Letter;
     and Equipment Replacement Plan.
     4.3.11.5. Appendix B3. If the second leak follow-up verification fails, the equipment
     must be retired. Open the Decommission Equipment option from the RMS Main Menu.
     Enter the equipment data, including the unit name, building, and quantity of refrigerant
     recovered. The Decommission Equipment option takes the unit out of inventory and
     removes it from noncompliance tracking. The recovered refrigerant is added to the
     storage inventory for the appropriate refrigerant. The Decommissioned Equipment Report
     documents this process and is located in Appendix B3 of the sample RMP.
     4.3.11.6. Appendix B4. Appendix B4 includes the Excessive Leakage Rate Annual
     Report. The Excessive Leakage Rate Status Report is discussed in detail in the
     Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide. This report displays the status of all
     regulated AC/R equipment which has an unresolved refrigerant leak in excess of the EPA
     maximum allowable leakage rate. When leaks are resolved through repair, replacement,
     or retirement, the unit is no longer displayed on the Excessive Leakage Rate Status
     Report. These resolved leaks remain on the Excessive Leakage Rate Annual Report,
     which maintains records indefinitely and may be provided to the EPA if requested. The
     Excessive Leakage Rate Annual Report maintains historical data but also displays issues
     that were open at the time the report was generated, so only the Excessive Leakage Rate
     Annual Report is included in Appendix B4. This report should be retained for three to
     five years, depending upon the EPA tier level.
  4.3.12. Appendix C. Appendix C contains reports which assist the BCE to evaluate and
  manage refrigerant inventories and associated AC/R equipment. The base may have
  equipment containing several CFC refrigerants, such as R-11, R-12, R-113, and R-500. The
  base cannot purchase CFCs and the DLA will not transfer refrigerant to bases to service
  AC/R equipment. Other than the unlikely possibility of a transfer from another base, the
  refrigerant presently stored and any refrigerant that becomes available through recovery from
  decommissioning AC/R equipment are the only sources of CFC refrigerant. Therefore, the
  decommissioning of AC/R equipment is the only dependable option to increase CFC
  inventory. The reports recommended to be included in Appendix C can guide the BCE in
  making these refrigerant-related decisions.
     4.3.12.1. RMS Inventory Status Reports. To review the inventory status of the
     refrigerants used on base, four RMS reports should be compiled separately for each
     refrigerant type. The four RMS reports include: Equipment Inventory Report; Refrigerant
     Service Record Report; Refrigerant Transactions Report; and Refrigerant Inventory
     Report. These reports can be found as examples in Appendices C1 through C8 of the
     sample RMP. Appendices C1 through C8 contain the reports for R-11, R-12, R-113, R-
     500, R-123, R-22, R-134a, and R-410a, respectively. (Note: The refrigerants included in
36                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


     the sample RMP are examples, but the actual number of refrigerants for each base will be
     input during the setup phase for the RMS, as described in the Refrigerant Management
     System User’s Guide.) The Equipment Inventory Report is printed separately for each
     refrigerant and shows refrigerant use by equipment. A Refrigerant Service Record Report
     is also provided for each refrigerant. This report highlights equipment that requires
     charging due to excessive leaks and may have to be decommissioned to save refrigerant.
     The Refrigerant Transactions Report records daily refrigerant withdrawals from the
     storage center used to charge AC/R equipment. Tracing the withdrawals allows
     refrigerant use to be accounted for in smaller equipment and regulated equipment (50
     pounds or more of CFC or HCFC). This report separately tabulates the total refrigerant
     consumption for each refrigerant. The fourth report, the Refrigerant Inventory Report,
     tracks each positive or negative transaction for each refrigerant, such as withdrawals,
     purchases, transfers in or out, and recovered or destroyed refrigerants. A running total of
     the amount available for each refrigerant is calculated and displayed. Adding this running
     inventory total to the anticipated recovery and dividing by the consumption rate compiled
     on the Refrigerant Transaction Report yields the number of years the refrigerant may be
     available to service AC/R equipment at current consumption rates. Transfers are possible
     between bases but very unlikely. Since bases cannot buy CFC and transfers are unlikely,
     current refrigerant inventory can service existing equipment as follows: [(Inventory +
     recovery – destroyed) / annual consumption] = years remaining of inventory
     4.3.12.2. Minimum Required Inventory.
        4.3.12.2.1. This value can be subjective and is calculated to establish a value that
        provides confidence for the BCE and staff. The determination of this value should
        include, at a minimum:
            4.3.12.2.1.1. Supplying the largest AC/R equipment single refrigerant charge in
            the inventory;
            4.3.12.2.1.2. The historical annual consumption rate;
            4.3.12.2.1.3. Evaluation of the number of machines in the inventory, their
            charges, and the criticality of the building or process they serve.
        4.3.12.2.2. Calculating the years a refrigerant will be available is not very relevant
        because a large chiller could have a catastrophic failure and lose its entire charge.
        However, the number of years of availability for each refrigerant can be observed
        over time and the results recorded and compared monthly to see trends in refrigerant
        consumption and inventory transactions.
     4.3.12.3. Class II Refrigerants.
        4.3.12.3.1. Class II refrigerants are typically subdivided into two groups due to the
        different phase-out dates for the production of the refrigerants. The first group
        consists of HCFC-22, which will be phased out by 2020. The second group consists
        of HCFC-123, which will not be supplied in AC/R equipment after 2020 and will not
        be produced after 2030. Concerns about these Class II refrigerants include the
        following:
            4.3.12.3.1.1. Current existing inventory;
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      37


            4.3.12.3.1.2. Open-market purchases (even after production has ceased in 2020);
            4.3.12.3.1.3. Refrigerant charges still in operational equipment;
            4.3.12.3.1.4. Possible transfer from other bases in the MAJCOM.
         4.3.12.3.2. While HCFCs are still available for purchase, their availability is not as
         important as it is for CFCs, but the same four RMS reports are still compiled for each
         refrigerant.
     4.3.12.4. Equipment Retirement.
         4.3.12.4.1. As discussed in Chapter 1, there is no reason to retire any AC/R
         equipment because of the type of refrigerant. Using the four RMS reports (described
         in paragraph 4.3.12.1) that are compiled for each of the refrigerants on base, the BCE
         staff can quickly identify refrigerant shortages, such as the example in Appendix C3
         of the sample RMP. That example shows three R-113 chillers with very low
         availability. It is necessary to retire one R-113 chiller to obtain recovered refrigerant
         to keep the remaining two operating. The Refrigerant Service Record Report in
         Appendix C5 of the sample RMP shows two R-123 chillers requiring service calls for
         refrigerant. A review of the report shows that more than 350 pounds of refrigerant
         were lost, indicating improvements are required in the servicing of this equipment.
         4.3.12.4.2. The goal of the sample RMP is to provide information and guidance to
         the BCE to develop the annual RMP. The sample RMP contains examples of reports
         and provides an outline of information required to be submitted to the EPA either
         directly or for future review in a single document. The RMS is used to support daily
         refrigerant management requirements and provides a management tool to generate the
         reports and input for the annual RMP to ensure continued mission support.
  4.3.13. Appendix D. This appendix contains copies of equipment purchase waivers.




                                           Judith A. Fedder, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           DCS/Logistics, Installations & Mission Support
 38                                                          AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR 1910.120, Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response (OSHA 1910.12),
2007
40 CFR Part 82, Protection of Environment, 2008
40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.156, Required Practices, 2008
40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.162, Certification by Owners of Recovery and Recycling
Equipment, 2007
40 CFR Part 261, Subpart A, Section 261.3, Definition of Hazardous Waste, 2010
40 CFR Part 261, Subpart A, Section 261.24, Toxicity Characteristic, 2010
49 CFR Part 178, Subpart C, Section 178.35, General Requirements for Specification Cylinders,
2011
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 1 November 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 20 July 2011
AHRI 700-2006, Specification for Fluorocarbon Refrigerants, 2006
AHRI 740-2006, Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment, 2006
AHRI Guideline N, 2008 Guideline for Assignment of Refrigerant Container Colors, 2008,
http://www.ahrinet.org/App_Content/ahri/files/Guidelines/AHRI%20Guideline%20N-
2008.pdf
AHRI/ARI 550/590-2011, Performance Rating of Water Chilling Packages Using the Vapor
Compression Cycle, 2011
Althouse, Andrew D., Turnquist, Carl H., Modern Refrigeration and Air Conditioning, 1 August
2003
ANSI Z400.1/Z129.1-2010, Hazardous Workplace Chemicals - Hazard Evaluation and Safety
Data Sheet and Precautionary Labeling Preparation, 2010
ASHRAE 15-2007, Standard Safety Code for Mechanical Refrigeration, 2007
ASHRAE 34-2010, Designation and Classification of Refrigerants, 2010
ASHRAE 62.1-2007, Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality, 2007
ASHRAE Handbook, Fundamentals, 2009
ASHRAE Handbook, HVAC Applications, 2007
CGA C-7, Guide to the Preparation of Precautional Labeling and Marking of Compressed Gas
Containers, 31 March 2004
Department of Defense Ozone Depleting Substances Turn-in Procedures, June 2009,
http://www.aviation.dla.mil/userweb/aviationengineering/OZONE/
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                  39


DLAI 4145.25, Storage and Handling of Liquefied and Gaseous Compressed Gasses and Their
Full and Empty Cylinders, 16 June 2000, http://www.dla.mil/dlaps/dlai/i4145.25.htm
DOT Specification 39, 49 CFR Part 178, Subpart C, Section 178.65, Specification 39 non-
reusable (non-refillable) cylinders, 2002
DOT Specification 3AA-1800, 49 CFR Part 178, Subpart C, Section 178.37, Specification 3AA
and 3AAX seamless steel cylinders, 2002
DOT Specification 3AA-2015, 49 CFR Part 178, Subpart C, Section 178.37, Specification 3AA
and 3AAX seamless steel cylinders, 2002
DOT Specification 4BA-300, 49 CFR Part 178, Subpart C, Section 178.51, Specification 4BA
Welded or Brazed Steel Cylinders, 2002
DuPont #ARTD27, Leak Detection for Alternative Refrigerants, 1992
DuPont Booklet No. P-HP, SUVA® HP Properties - Uses, Storage, and Handling, 2004,
http://www2.dupont.com/Refrigerants/en_US/assets/downloads/h47122_SuvaHP_push.pdf
E.O. 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, 24
January 2007
E.O. 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance, 8
October 2009
Montréal Protocol, 1987
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code (NEC), 2011
NISTR 85-3273-26, Energy Prices and Discount Factors for Life-Cycle Cost Analysis, 2011
PL 101-239, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989, 19 December 1989
PL 101-549, Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA), 15 November 1990
Refrigerant Management Plan (RMP) template, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c88B4F00B39C57917
013AD0CA469435FB&channelPageId=s2D8EB9D637283B5601377B2CE4030666&progra
mId=t2D8EB9D6386BFB8B01394F5729351F52
Refrigerant Management System (RMS) spreadsheet, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c88B4F00B39C57917
013AD0CA469435FB&channelPageId=s2D8EB9D637283B5601377B2CE4030666&progra
mId=t2D8EB9D6386BFB8B01394F5729351F52
Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/contentView.do?contentType=EDITORIAL&contentId=c88B4F00B39C57917
013AD0CA469435FB&channelPageId=s2D8EB9D637283B5601377B2CE4030666&progra
mId=t2D8EB9D6386BFB8B01394F5729351F52
Trane APP-APM001-EN, Refrigerating Systems and Machinery Rooms - Application
Considerations for Compliance with ASHRAE Standard 15, July 2005
UFC 3-400-02, Design: Engineering Weather Data, 28 February 2003
UFGS 23 08 00.00 10, Commissioning of HVAC Systems, January 2008
 40                                                        AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
EPA Form 7610-31, Refrigerant Recovery or Recycling Device Acquisition Certification Form,
http://www.epa.gov/ozone/title6/608/recoveryform.pdf
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
%—percent
>—greater than
≥—greater than or equal to
<—less than
≤—less than or equal to
°C—degrees Celsius
°F—degrees Fahrenheit
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AC/R—air-conditioning and refrigeration
ACGIH—American Conference of Government and Industrial Hygienists
AEL—allowable/acceptable exposure limit
AFB—Air Force base
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineer Center
AFCEC/CO—Air Force Civil Engineer Center, Operations Directorate
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFPAM—Air Force pamphlet
AHRI—Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute (formerly ARI)
AIHA—American Industrial Hygienists Alliance
ALR—actual leakage rate
ANG—Air National Guard
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
API—American Petroleum Institute
APLV—application part-load value
ARI—Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute or American Refrigeration Institute (now
AHRI)
ASHRAE—American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                        41


BAS—building automation system
BCE—base civil engineer
BRMP—Base Refrigerant Management Program
Btu/hr—British thermal unit per hour
Btu—British thermal unit
CAAA—Clean Air Act amendments
CAA—Clean Air Act
CE—civil engineering
CerTest—U.S. Air Force-administered certification test
CFC—chlorofluorocarbon
cfm—cubic feet per minute
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CGA—Compressed Gas Association
CLTD—cooling load temperature difference
CO2—carbon dioxide
COP—coefficient of performance
CR—consumption rate
CRR—critical refrigerant reserve
cSt—centistoke
DDRV—Defense Distribution Depot, Richmond, Virginia
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DLAI—Defense Logistics Agency Instruction
DOD—Department of Defense
DOE—Department of Energy
DOT—Department of Transportation
DSCR—Defense Supply Center Richmond (Defense Logistics Agency)
DX—direct expansion
EEL—emergency exposure limit
E.O.—Executive Order
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
EPAMLR—EPA maximum leakage rate
EST—Eastern Standard Time
 42                                               AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


ft2—square foot
gal/min—gallon per minute
GAX—generator/absorber heat exchange
GED—gas engine-driven
g/m3—gallon per cubic meter
gpm—gallon per minute
GWP—global warming potential
HCFC—hydrochlorofluorocarbon
HFC—hydrofluorocarbon
Hg—mercury
HVAC—heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning
HW—hot water
IDLH—immediately dangerous to life and health
IPLV—integrated part-load value
IR—infrared
IR-PAS—infrared-photo acoustic spectroscopy
kg—kilogram
KOH—potassium hydroxide
kW/ton—kilowatt per ton
kWh—kilowatt-hour
kW—kilowatt
lb—pound
lb/hr/ton—pound per hour per ton
lb/yr—pound per year
LCC—life-cycle cost
MAJCOM—major command
mA—milliamperes
Mbh—1,000 Btu per hour
Mbh/ton—1,000 Btu per hour per ton
mg—milligram
MLR—maximum leakage rate
MRR—marginal refrigerant reserve
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                     43


MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
MVAC—motor vehicle air-conditioning
NIOSH—National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
NIST—National Institute of Standards and Technology
NPT—National Pipe Thread
O&M—operations and management/maintenance
OBRA—Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
ODC—ozone-depleting chemicals
ODP—ozone-depletion potential
ODS—ozone-depleting substances
ODSP—Ozone-Depleting Substance Program
OEM—original equipment manufacturer
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
PII—personally identifiable information
PL—Public Law
POC—point of contact
POE—polyol ester
ppm—parts per million
psig—pound per square inch gauge
psi—pound per square inch
PVC—polyvinylchloride
RCL—refrigerant concentration limit
RMP—Refrigerant Management Plan
RMS—Refrigerant Management System
RWP—Recurring Work Plan
SNAP—Significant New Alternatives Policy
SOW—statement of work
steam/hr/ton—steam per hour per ton
STEL—short-term exposure limit
TAN—total acid number
TLV—threshold limit value
TLV—TWA—threshold limit values – time-weighted average
 44                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


TWA—time-weighted average
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
UFGS—Unified Facilities Guide Specification
UL—Underwriters' Laboratory
UNEP—United Nations Environment Programme
UN—United Nations
USAF/A7C—The Air Force Civil Engineer
UV—ultraviolet
vDC—volts of direct current
W—watt
wt—weight
yr—year

Terms
Appliance—Any device that contains a Class I or Class II chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) as a
refrigerant and is used for household or commercial purposes (e.g., air conditioner, refrigerator,
chiller, freezer).
Application Part-Load Value (APLV)—A single kW/ton value which modifies the integrated
part-load value (IPLV) for the chilled and condenser water supply temperatures required in a
specific application. The same IPLV schedule for operational hours is used in producing this
value.
Btu—British thermal unit. 1. A unit of heat. 2. The heat required to raise the temperature of 1
pound of water, at its maximum density, 1 °F. 3. The heat to be removed in cooling 1 pound of
water 1 °F.
Central Chilled Water Plant—Multiple chilled water systems served from a single piping
network.
Challenging Alternative—A proposed optimization of the defending alternative to find a more
energy-efficient alternative with a lower life-cycle cost (LCC).
Chilled Water System—(see also Chiller System) One or more chillers that serve a single
piping network.
Chiller System—A chiller system uses refrigerant flowing through a coil to cool chilled water.
The chilled water is pumped through a piping loop to air handlers where the chilled water flows
into an air handler coil to cool the air flowing over the coil that goes to the space.
Cluster—Individual chilled water systems within close proximity to each other that may be
considered for incorporation into a central chilled water plant.
Commercial Refrigeration—Refrigeration appliances used in retail food and cold storage
warehouse sectors.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       45


Consumption Rate (CR)—The annual rate at which a refrigerant is lost to leaks and emissions,
typically expressed in pounds per year (lb/yr).
Cooling Load Temperature Difference (CLTD)—An ASHRAE method that simplifies the
solar heat gain calculation for a cooling load on a building. It substitutes a one-step conduction
calculation for solar heat transfer through walls, roofs, and glass using an equivalent temperature
difference.
Critical Refrigerant Reserve (CRR)—The single largest charge (in pounds) for each
refrigerant used at an AFB.
Days—All references to days refer to calendar days.
Defending Alternative—Lowest LCC chiller alternative from the previous analysis.
Demand Charge—Charge assessed by a utility for the largest amount of power used during a
specified period of time.
Disposal—1. The process leading to appliance disassembly where the appliance components are
reused. 2. The disassembly of any appliance for discharge, deposit, dumping, or placing of its
discarded component parts into or on any land or water. 3. The discharge, deposit, dumping, or
placing of any discarded appliance into any land or water.
Emergency Exposure Limit (EEL)—The concentration of a hazardous material from which
escape is feasible without any irreversible effects on health in an emergency situation where
recurrence is expected to be rare during an individual's lifetime.
Enhanced Retrofit—The enhanced retrofit involves re-engineering the chiller to be compatible
with the properties of a new environmentally friendly refrigerant. Re-engineering includes
minimizing loss of cooling capacity and maximizing chiller efficiency. The redesigned
components consist of, but are not limited to, gaskets, O-rings, resized compressor impellers, and
a revised refrigerant expansion orifice system.
EPA Maximum Leakage Rate (EPAMLR)—The maximum percentage of the total charge a
machine can lose based on a 12-month period without exceeding EPA leakage limitations.
Exceeding the maximum leakage rate (MLR) does not constitute a violation unless the leak is not
repaired or a plan to replace the equipment has not been established within 30 days.
High-Pressure Appliance—Uses refrigerant with a boiling point between -50 °C (-58 °F) and
10 °C (50 °F) at atmospheric pressure.
Household Refrigeration—Refrigerators and freezers intended primarily for household use.
This equipment may be used outside the home.
Industrial Process Refrigeration—Complex customized appliances used in the chemical,
pharmaceutical, petrochemical, and manufacturing industries. The sector is also defined to
include industrial ice machines and ice rinks.
Integrated Part—Load Value (IPLV)—A single kW/ton value that describes part-load chiller
efficiency at 25, 50, 75, and 100 percent full-load conditions based on a typical number of
operational hours at each. It is based on 7 °C (44 °F) chilled water and 29 °C (85 °F) condenser
water temperatures. It is defined in Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration Institute
(AHRI) 550/590-2011 by the equation IPLV = 0.05 (100% kW/ton) + 0.3 (75% kW/ton) + 0.4
(50% kW/Ton) + 0.25 (25% kW/ton).
 46                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


Life—Cycle Cost (LCC)—The total cost associated with the purchase, installation, operating,
and maintenance of a system or equipment over its expected life.
Load Diversity—To allow a lesser maximum load on the central plant than the sum of the loads
for separate systems.
Low-Loss Fitting—Any device intended to establish a connection between hoses, AC/R
equipment, or recovery or recycling equipment that will close automatically or must be manually
closed before disconnecting, thereby minimizing the release of refrigerant to the atmosphere.
Low-Pressure Appliance—Appliance that uses a refrigerant with a boiling point above 10 °C
(50 °F) at atmospheric pressure.
Major Maintenance, Service, or Repair—Maintenance, service, or repair that involves
removing the compressor, evaporator, or auxiliary heat exchanger coil.
Marginal Refrigerant Reserve (MRR)—The sum of the appropriate EPAMLRs (15% or 35%)
for each machine, plus the critical refrigerant reserve (CRR) for each refrigerant.
Off-peak—A time period when utility energy costs are reduced to below-normal demand rates.
On-peak—A time period when energy costs are raised by a utility due to above-normal demand.
Opening an Appliance—Any service, maintenance, or repair of an appliance that could be
reasonably expected to release refrigerant to the atmosphere unless the refrigerant was previously
recovered from the appliance.
Partition—Any wall, ceiling, or floor assembly that is not exposed to outside ambient
conditions.
Primary Chilled Water Pump—A pump that distributes chilled water between the chiller plant
and the secondary chilled water pumps serving the load.
Push/Pull Method of Recovery—The push/pull refrigerant recovery method is defined as the
process of transferring liquid refrigerant from a refrigeration system to a receiving vessel by
lowering the pressure in the vessel and raising the pressure in the system, thus causing the
refrigerant to flow by pressure differential. A separate line between the system liquid port and
the receiving vessel is connected for the refrigerant transfer.
Reclaim—Reprocessing of refrigerant to new product specifications. The purity of the final
product must be chemically verified to meet Air-Conditioning, Heating, and Refrigeration
Institute (AHRI) 700 standards.
Recover—Removal of refrigerant from a system. Testing the refrigerant’s condition is not
necessary.
Recycle—To clean refrigerant for re-use without chemical purity verification.
Refrigerant Management Plan (RMP)—A schedule with the associated costs required to
eliminate CFC refrigerants in AC/R equipment at an Air Force base. The ideal schedule allows
existing equipment to operate until the end of its economic life while maintaining sufficient
refrigerant reserves. Reserves are maintained through inter-base refrigerant transfers, purchase
waivers, and recovery of equipment refrigerant charges upon retirement.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     47


Refrigerant Manager—An individual selected to manage the BRMP and is responsible for
developing the RMP.
Retirement—The ability to recover refrigerant from a machine by retrofit or replacement.
Retrofit—The conversion of equipment containing a CFC refrigerant to use a more
environmentally friendly refrigerant.
Schedule—Equipment retirement schedule. A pre-determined plan developed to establish the
specific dates and order in which AC/R equipment retirements should be conducted to maintain
sufficient refrigerant inventories and maintain annual funding requirements as level as possible.
Secondary Chilled Water Pump—Pump which serves the users at the end of the distribution
loop. The pump is sized to overcome only the piping losses in the secondary piping loop going to
the end-users.
Self-Contained Recovery Equipment—Equipment that has its own means of drawing
refrigerant out of an appliance.
Small Appliance—Air-conditioners, refrigeration equipment, or freezers that are fully
manufactured, charged, and hermetically sealed in a factory with a charge of 5 pounds or less.
System-Dependent Recovery Equipment—Relies on the appliance compressor or the
refrigerant pressure in the appliance to extract the appliance’s refrigerant.
Technician—Any person who maintains, services, or repairs AC/R equipment that could
reasonably be expected to release CFCs or HCFCs to the atmosphere.
Ton of Refrigeration—12,000 Btu/hr of cooling capacity.
Ton-Hour—The amount of cooling (in tons) provided in a given amount of time (in hours).
Very-High-Pressure Appliance—AC/R equipment that contains refrigerant with a boiling point
below -50 °C (-58 °F) at atmospheric pressure.
 48                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                        Attachment 2
 UPDATE ON REFRIGERANTS: TRANSLATING THE LAWS, REGULATIONS, AND
                     POLICIES INTO PRACTICE

A2.1. The Montréal Protocol. Since 1974, atmospheric scientists worldwide have
substantiated and refined the hypothesis confirming the long-term, negative consequences of
CFC use. In response to scientists' concerns, representatives of 35 nations met in 1987 at the
United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in Montréal and established an international
protocol for restricting CFC and halon production. Representatives from 93 nations met in
London in 1990 to revise the Montréal Protocol because of new information regarding ozone
destruction. This meeting accelerated the CFC phase-out. UNEP's November 1992 meeting in
Copenhagen accelerated the phase-out schedules. The Montréal Protocol representatives
generally meet every year to assess the status of ODS reduction efforts and consider new
recommendations. The 2007 meeting increased the pace of the R-22 phase-out. The 2008
meeting urged the use of natural refrigerants such as carbon dioxide (CO2).
   A2.1.1. Phase-Out Schedules. By 2015, HCFC refrigerants were to be reduced by 65
   percent from their baseline. However, based on a 2007 meeting of the Montréal Protocol
   representatives, HCFCs were further reduced by 75 percent from their baseline by 2010. By
   2020, the production of all new refrigerants will cease. In addition, manufacturing new
   equipment using HCFC refrigerants was banned beyond January 2010. The exception is
   HCFC-123. Equipment designed to use HCFC-123 can be produced until January 2020. The
   refrigerant itself will be produced until 2030. This special consideration is based on HCFC-
   123’s low ODP (0.02), low GWP (93), and short atmospheric lifetime (less than two years).
   A2.1.2. Applicable CFCs. The CFC refrigerants used by the Air Force for AC/R units that
   are affected by the Montréal Protocol include CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-500, CFC-
   501, CFC-502, and CFC-503.
   A2.1.3. Applicable HCFCs. The most widely used HCFC refrigerants affected by the
   Montréal Protocol are HCFC-22 and HCFC-123.
A2.2. Taxes.
   A2.2.1. Federal Excise Tax. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (OBRA) of 1989
   (PL 101-239) imposed an excise tax on certain ozone-depleting chemicals (ODC) and
   products made with or using those chemicals. The tax, increased in late 1992, penalized ODC
   consumers and brought the prices of these chemicals closer to their new alternatives. The tax
   affects only new refrigerant and is calculated by multiplying each chemical's ODP by the
   base tax rate. The base tax per pound began at $1.37 in 1991 and increased to $7.15 by 1999.
   Base tax rates for 2009 were $11.65 per pound and increased to $12.10 in 2010. This excise
   tax will have negligible effects on Air Force AC/R operations.
   A2.2.2. Floor Stocks Tax. ODCs are subject to a tax on floor stocks that are held for sale or
   use in further manufacture on the date the tax is imposed. This tax does not apply to Air
   Force operations. An ODC held by a government agency for its own use is not held for sale
   even if the ODC will be transferred between agencies or other subdivisions that have or are
   required to have different employer identification numbers.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      49


A2.3. Clean Air Act Amendments. Table A2.1 shows the current phase-out schedule for
HCFCs, including the change at the Montréal Protocol meeting in 2007.

Table A2.1. Current Phase-Out Schedule for HCFCs.
Montréal Protocol                    United States
             Percent reduction in
Year to be consumption           and Year to be Implementation of HCFCs phase-out
implemented production using the cap Implemented to Clean Air Act regulations
             as a baseline
                                                   No production and no importing of
2004         35.0%                   2003
                                                   HCFC-141b
                                                   No production and no importing of
                                                   HCFCs R-22 or R-142b except for
2010         75.0%                   2010
                                                   use in equipment made before 1
                                                   January 2010
                                                   No production and no importing of
                                                   any HCFCs except for use as
2015         90.0%                   2015
                                                   refrigerants    and       equipment
                                                   manufactured before 1 January 2010
                                                   No production and no importing of
2020         99.5%                   2020
                                                   HCFC-142b and HCFC-22
                                                   No production and no importing any
2030         100.0%                  2030
                                                   HCFCs
A2.4. EPA Regulations.
   A2.4.1. Overview. A refrigerant recycling requirement overview of CAAA, Section 608,
   follows. It includes the final regulations published in the 14 May 1993 Federal Register, 40
   CFR Part 82 (2008). The prohibition against venting became effective 1 July 2008. These
   requirements directly impact base CE daily activities. For additional information, call the
   EPA Stratospheric Ozone Information Hotline at (800) 296-1996 from 0900 to 1630 EST,
   Monday through Friday, or visit their web site: http://www.epa.gov/ozone/. The following
   regulation summarizes these procedures:
      A2.4.1.1. Require service practices that maximize ODS recovering or recycling during
      servicing and disposal of AC/R equipment.
      A2.4.1.2. Establish certification requirements for recycling and recovery equipment,
      technicians, and reclaimers.
      A2.4.1.3. Confine Class I and Class II ODS refrigerant sales to certified technicians.
      A2.4.1.4. Require that substantial leaks in AC/R equipment with a refrigerant charge of
      50 pounds or greater be repaired.
      A2.4.1.5. Establish safe disposal requirements for small appliances such as home
      refrigerators and room air-conditioners which typically enter the waste stream with an
      intact charge.
50                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


  A2.4.2. Prohibition on Venting. Effective 13 June 2005, no person maintaining, servicing,
  repairing, or disposing of appliances may knowingly vent or otherwise release into the
  environment any appliance’s refrigerant or its substitute. The exceptions include nitrogen,
  water, ammonia, hydrocarbons, and chlorine. Some industrial uses are not affected. This
  applies to HFC refrigerants, including, but not limited to, R-134a and R-410a.
  A2.4.3. Service Practice Requirements. The EPA established requirements that must be
  met when servicing AC/R equipment.
     A2.4.3.1. Technicians are required to evacuate AC/R equipment to established vacuum
     levels. If the technician's recovery or recycling equipment was manufactured before 15
     November 1993, the AC/R equipment must be evacuated to the levels indicated in the
     first column of Table A6.1. The recovery or recycling equipment must have been
     certified by an EPA-approved equipment testing organization (see 40 CFR Part 82
     [2008], Subpart F, 156 to 158). Technicians repairing small appliances, such as
     household refrigerators, household freezers, and water coolers, are required to recover 80
     to 90 percent of the system refrigerant, depending on the system's compressor status.
     A2.4.3.2. The EPA has established limited exceptions to its evacuation requirements for
     minor repairs and repairs of leaky equipment not followed by an equipment evacuation
     into the environment. If evacuation to the level described in Table A6.1 is not attainable,
     or would significantly contaminate the recovered refrigerant, persons opening the
     appliance must isolate the leaking components from the non-leaking components
     whenever possible; evacuate non-leaking components to the levels shown in Table A6.1;
     and evacuate leaking components to a level that will not significantly contaminate the
     refrigerant (≤ 0 pound per square inch gauge [psig]).
         A2.4.3.2.1. If evacuation of the equipment to the environment will not be performed
         when repairs are complete, and if the repair is not major, then the appliance must be
         evacuated to at least 0 psig before it is opened if it is a high-pressure or very-high-
         pressure appliance, or be pressurized to 0 psig before it is opened if it is a low-
         pressure appliance. Methods that require subsequent purging (e.g., nitrogen) cannot
         be used.
         A2.4.3.2.2. Major repairs include the removal of a compressor(s), condenser,
         evaporator, or auxiliary heat exchanger coil.
     A2.4.3.3. The EPA permits the return of recovered and/or recycled refrigerant to the
     same system or other systems owned by the same person without restriction. If refrigerant
     changes ownership, the refrigerant must be reclaimed. (It must be cleaned according to
     purity standards of AHRI 700-2006, Specification for Fluorocarbon Refrigerants, and
     chemically analyzed to confirm it meets that standard.)
  A2.4.4. Equipment Certification. The EPA has created a certification program for
  recovery/recycle equipment. Under the program, the EPA requires that equipment
  manufactured on or after 15 November 1993 undergo tests administered by an EPA-approved
  testing organization to verify it meets the EPA’s requirements. Recycling and recovery
  equipment intended for use with AC/R equipment other than small appliances must be tested
  according to AHRI 740-2006, Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling Equipment. Recovery
  equipment designed for small appliances must also be tested to comply with AHRI 740-2006.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    51


  The EPA requires recovery efficiency standards that vary based on the AC/R equipment size
  and type being serviced. For recovery and recycling equipment designed for AC/R
  equipment other than small appliances, the standards are identical to those shown in the
  second column of Table A6.1. Recovery equipment intended for small appliances must
  recover 90 percent of the refrigerant in a small appliance while the appliance’s compressor is
  operating or 80 percent if the compressor is not operating.
  A2.4.5. Grandfathering Equipment. Equipment manufactured before 15 November 1993,
  including homemade equipment, will be grandfathered if it meets the standards in the first
  column of Table A6.1. Third-party testing is not required for equipment manufactured before
  15 November 1993 (see paragraph A2.4.4).
  A2.4.6. Refrigerant Leaks. Owners of equipment with charges of 50 pounds or more must
  repair leaks that exceed the annual maximum leakage rate of 15% for comfort cooling and
  35% for commercial and industrial refrigeration applications within 30 days. If the owner is
  unable to repair the equipment, a retirement plan must be developed within 30 days and
  implemented within 12 months. A copy of the plan must be present with the equipment.
  Upon completion of the repair, a follow-up verification must occur within 30 days. Owners
  must maintain records of the refrigerant quantity added to their equipment during servicing
  and maintenance procedures. To help meet this requirement, AFCEC developed the
  Refrigerant Management System (RMS). The RMS is explained in the Refrigerant
  Management System User’s Guide.
  A2.4.7. Mandatory Technician Certification. The CAAA of 1990, Title VI, Section 608,
  imposes requirements for training and certifying technicians involved in maintaining and
  servicing refrigeration systems with CFC or HCFC refrigerants. Technicians servicing
  MVAC must also be certified to work with R-134a. The best practice for the Air Force is to
  train and certify all technicians working with any refrigerants.
     A2.4.7.1. The EPA has four types of certification:
         A2.4.7.1.1. Type I: Required for servicing small appliances.
         A2.4.7.1.2. Type II: Required for servicing or disposing of high-pressure or very
         high-pressure appliances, except small appliances and MVAC.
         A2.4.7.1.3. Type III: Required for servicing or disposing of low-pressure appliances.
         A2.4.7.1.4. Universal: Approved for servicing all equipment types.
     A2.4.7.2. Technicians, as defined in 40 CFR 82, Subpart F, 82.15, who service or repair
     small appliances must have Type I certification.
     A2.4.7.3. Technicians must pass an EPA-approved test administered by an EPA-
     approved certifying organization. Technicians must be certified to be able to maintain,
     service, and repair AC/R equipment. Apprentice technicians working in an approved
     program under the direction of a certified technician do not require certification.
  A2.4.8. Refrigerant Sales Restrictions. Any CFC or HCFC refrigerant sold in any size
  container will be restricted to technicians certified by an EPA-approved program.
  A2.4.9. Certification by Owners of Recycling and Recovery Equipment. The EPA
  requires that persons who service or dispose of AC/R equipment must certify to the EPA that
52                                                              AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


  they have purchased and use recovery or recycling equipment certified to meet EPA
  requirements and that they are complying with the applicable requirements of EPA Section
  608, Refrigerant Recycling Rule (40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F). The initial certification form,
  EPA Form 7610-31, Refrigerant Recovery or Recycling Device Acquisition Certification
  Form, must be signed by the equipment’s owner or another responsible officer and sent to the
  appropriate EPA regional office. Equipment owners do not have to send in a new form each
  time they add recycling or recovery equipment to their inventory after the initial list has been
  submitted. Although recycling and recovery equipment owners are required to list the
  number of trucks based at their shops, they do not need a piece of recycling or recovery
  equipment for every truck.
  A2.4.10. Safe Disposal Requirements. Under the EPA’s rule, equipment that is typically
  dismantled onsite before disposal (e.g., retail food refrigeration, cold storage warehouse
  refrigeration, chillers, or industrial process refrigeration) must have its refrigerant recovered
  according to the EPA's servicing requirements. However, equipment that typically enters the
  waste stream with the charge intact (e.g., household refrigerators, freezers, or room air-
  conditioners) is subject to special safe disposal requirements. Under these requirements, the
  final person in the disposal chain (e.g., scrap metal recycler or landfill owner) must ensure
  the refrigerant is recovered before final disposal of the equipment. If the final person in the
  disposal chain accepts appliances that no longer hold a refrigerant charge, that person is
  responsible for obtaining a signed statement from whom the appliance is being accepted. The
  signed statement must include the name and address of the person who recovered the
  refrigerant and the date the refrigerant was recovered, or a copy of a contract stating that the
  refrigerant will be removed before delivery. The signed statement or contract must be
  available onsite for inspection. The EPA does not mandate a sticker as a form of verification
  that the refrigerant has been removed prior to disposal of the appliance, but such stickers do
  not relieve the final disposer of their responsibility to recover any remaining refrigerant in the
  appliance. Technician certification is not required for individuals removing refrigerant from
  appliances prior to disposal; however, the equipment used to recover refrigerant from
  appliances prior to final disposal must meet the same performance standards as EPA-certified
  refrigerant recovery equipment used prior to servicing. Per EPA Section 608 of the Clean Air
  Act of 1990, disposable cylinders should be emptied (recover the refrigerant until the
  pressure is reduced to a vacuum). The container’s valve should be closed and the container
  itself marked as empty; the container is now ready for disposal. It is recommended, but not
  required, by EPA Section 608 that the cylinder valve be opened afterwards to allow air to
  enter. The cylinder valve is then broken off while the valve remains open and the cylinder is
  punctured. This will prevent cylinder misuse by untrained individuals. Once the cylinder has
  been rendered useless as a container, it can be disposed of as scrap metal. For details on
  disposal rules, refer to Department of Transportation (DOT) Specification 39, 49 CFR
  178.65, Specification 39 Non-reusable (non-refillable) cylinders, and Defense Logistics
  Agency Instruction (DLAI) 4145.25, Storage and Handling of Liquefied and Gaseous
  Compressed Gasses and Their Full and Empty Cylinders.
  A2.4.11. Major Recordkeeping Requirements. The EPA recordkeeping requirements
  discussed in paragraphs A2.4.11.1 and A2.4.11.2 can be met by using the RMS spreadsheet.
     A2.4.11.1. Technicians servicing appliances containing 50 or more pounds of refrigerant
     must provide the owner with an invoice that indicates the amount of refrigerant added to
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    53


      the appliance. Technicians must also keep a copy of their proof of certification at their
      place of business.
      A2.4.11.2. Owners of appliances that contain 50 or more pounds of refrigerant must keep
      service records documenting the date and type of service and the quantity of refrigerant
      added.
   A2.4.12. Hazardous Waste Disposal. The EPA has requirements for safely disposing of
   refrigerants.
      A2.4.12.1. If refrigerants are recycled or reclaimed, they are not considered hazardous
      under federal law. In addition, used oils contaminated with CFCs or HCFCs are not
      hazardous as long as they are not combined with other waste.
          A2.4.12.1.1. CFC-contaminated oils are subject to CFC recycling or reclamation.
          A2.4.12.1.2. HCFC-contaminated oils are subject to HCFC recycling or reclamation.
          A2.4.12.1.3. Contaminated oils are not to be mixed with used oils from other
          sources.
      A2.4.12.2. Used oils containing CFCs after the CFC reclamation procedure are,
      however, subject to specification limits for used oil fuels if they are not burned.
   A2.4.13. Enforcement. The EPA is continually performing random inspections, responding
   to tips, and pursuing violators. Under the CAAA, the EPA is authorized to assess fines of up
   to $37,500 per day for any violations.
A2.5. Air Force Requirements. Air Force requirements are in AFI 32-7086. That instruction
comprises the major policy and procedural guidance used to develop the BRMP.
   A2.5.1. Refrigerant Management Required. By order of the Secretary of the Air Force,
   the implementation by Air Force CE of AFI 32-7086 is mandatory. AFI 32-7086, Chapter 4,
   “Air Force Ozone Depleting Substance (ODS) Program (ODSP),” discusses managing ODS.
   The RMP establishes a base-level BRMP that guides BCEs to achieve the objectives of AFI
   32-7086.
   A2.5.2. Air Force Goal. The Air Force will provide its bases with AC/R equipment to
   support the elimination of Class I ODS and the management of Class II ODS base
   inventories in accordance with applicable codes and environmental regulations. The
   remaining capabilities of existing Class II equipment will be fully exhausted. This goal will
   be met by reaching the objectives of AFI 32-7086.
   A2.5.3. AFI 32-7086 Objectives. The key objectives in AFI 32-7086, Chapter 4,
   paragraphs 4.1 and 4.2, include managing ODS inventories to eliminate Class I ODS and
   managing Class II ODS before it is necessary to maintain a central Class II stockpile. This
   will reduce the cost and risk of ODS maintenance and ensure compliance with federal laws,
   regulations, and international agreements. The BRMP, as discussed in Chapter 1 of this
   pamphlet, was developed to meet the requirements of AFI 32-7086.
 54                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                          Attachment 3
      REFRIGERANT SENSORS AND MONITORING OF EQUIPMENT ROOMS

A3.1. Introduction. All new mechanical equipment rooms must be designed to comply with
ASHRAE 15-2007. All current mechanical rooms must comply with this standard whenever new
mechanical equipment is installed or current mechanical equipment is retrofitted. ASHRAE 15-
2007 includes requirements for installing permanent refrigerant leak detectors. This attachment
provides an overview of these requirements and an introduction to refrigerant leak-detection
equipment.
A3.2. Refrigerant Sensor Terminology. The following section describes these refrigerant
sensor and detection terminology comparison criteria: sensitivity, detection limits, and
selectivity. These are applicable to portable pinpoint detectors and permanently mounted area
monitors.
   A3.2.1. Sensitivity.
       A3.2.1.1. The device sensitivity is the amount of input needed to change an output
       signal. For refrigerant sensors, the refrigerant vapor concentration being measured is
       displayed on a panel meter, a voltage output, or other display. Highly sensitive refrigerant
       sensors require little material to generate a large change in output signal. Low-sensitivity
       sensors need large amounts of material to change the output signal. The sensitivity is
       affected by the detection method and the material under consideration.
       A3.2.1.2. The sensitivity of an ionization sensor associated with a particular material that
       demonstrates high sensitivity for CFC-12 may have low sensitivity for HCFC-123 and
       very low sensitivity for HFC-134a. The variations in sensitivity are due to the reduction
       in chlorine content, very easily ionized and detected, from CFC- to HCFC- to HFC-class
       compounds. Sensitivity differences of 100x to 1000x have been reported when comparing
       CFC-12 to HFC-134a with some ionization-based sensors. Another example of this
       varying sensitivity is an infrared (IR) -based sensor. It has roughly the same sensitivity to
       CFC-12, HCFC-123, and HFC-134a, which is not the case for an ionization detector.
       Refrigerant blends such as HCFC-410a and HCFC-406 are covered in Table A3.1 for
       sensor comparisons.
   A3.2.2. Detection Limit. Sensitivity values are well defined but refrigerant sensor
   sensitivity values do not exist. The most common measure of sensor performance is the
   detection limit. It is the minimum amount of material a unit can sense that returns a signal at
   least two times stronger than the background noise level. A sensitive device does not
   necessarily have a low-detection limit, but that is usually the case. Area-monitoring
   application detection limits are measured in parts per million (ppm). Area monitors have
   detection limits as low as 1 ppm but are typically 3 ppm to 4 ppm for most compounds. A
   highly sensitive detector may be able to accurately record vapor concentration levels ranging
   from 1 ppm to 2 ppm, while a low-sensitivity detector may record the same vapor using
   increments of 20 ppm or higher. A refrigerant sensor must match the intended application.
   For example, an ionization detector that boasts a 2-ppm CFC-12 detection limit will not work
   as well when detecting HFC-134a. Conversely, an ionization detector designed specifically
   for HFC-134a may be too sensitive to monitor CFC-12.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      55


   A3.2.3. Selectivity.
      A3.2.3.1. Selectivity is the ability to detect only one refrigerant of interest without
      interference from other compounds. Area monitoring selectivity requirements vary with
      specific installations. This is an important issue because monitors must work
      continuously and they become exposed to refrigerants with potentially more interference
      in a wider concentration range over a long period of time.
      A3.2.3.2. Area monitors require selectivity if other refrigerants present have vastly
      different threshold limit values (TLV). ASHRAE 15-2007 requires that an alarm activate
      the mechanical ventilation system with a value not exceeding the threshold limit values –
      time-weighted average (TLV-TWA). A TLV is the maximum chemical vapor air
      concentration that workers can be chronically exposed to (defined as an eight-hour work
      day and a 40-hour work week) without suffering adverse health effects during their
      career. TWA is the time-weighted average for the TLV. Workers can be exposed to
      concentrations greater than the TLV, but the average exposure during a day will not
      exceed the average exposure level. These values were created by the American
      Conference of Government and Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH). A monitor’s selectivity
      feature allows the alarm to actuate for a specific chemical and identify it. This helps
      maintenance technicians to determine the exposure to workers.
A3.3. Electronic Area Monitor Detection Equipment. Electronic area monitor detection
equipment belongs in one of the following categories according to selectivity criteria: (1)
nonselective; (2) halogen-selective; (3) compound-specific.
   A3.3.1. Nonselective Sensors. These equipment sensors can detect any emission or vapor
   present, regardless of its chemical composition. Detectors in this category are based on
   electrical ionization, thermal conductivity, ultrasonic, or metal-oxide semiconductors. These
   detectors are simple to use, very rugged, and typically inexpensive. Nonselective sensors
   excel at pinpointing leaks.
   A3.3.2. Halogen-Selective Sensors. Halogen-selective sensors use a specialized sensor that
   allows the monitor to detect compounds containing fluoride, chloride, bromide, and iodide
   without interference from other chemicals. These sensors reduce the number of false alarms
   generated by non-refrigerant compounds such as paint or gas fumes. These durable detectors
   are easy to use and have a higher sensitivity than nonselective detectors (detection limits are
   typically < 5 ppm). The detector’s partial specificity makes calibration easy.
   A3.3.3. Compound-Specific Sensors. Compound-specific sensors are complex and
   expensive. They can detect a single variety without suffering interference from other
   compounds. Compound-specific sensors are IR-based. Newer types are based on infrared-
   photo acoustic spectroscopy (IR-PAS). These have detection limits around 1 ppm, depending
   upon the compound detected. Technological improvements have reduced prices, but expect
   to pay between $3,500 to $4,000 for a compound-specific detector.
   A3.3.4. Comparing Sensors. These three types of sensors are compared in Table A3.1.

Table A3.1. Comparison of Refrigerant Sensors.
 Comments         Nonselective                Halogen-Selective          Compound-Specific
 56                                                                AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


 Advantages:       Simplicity                 Simple/rugged              Virtually interference-
                                                                         free
                   Ruggedness                 Can be calibrated          Can be calibrated
                                              Good sensitivity           Good sensitivity
                                              Low maintenance
 Disadvantages:    Poor detection limits      Not compound-specific      Complexity/
                                                                         maintenance
                   Cross-sensitive to other   Detector                   Stability questionable
                   varieties                  lifetime/stability
                   Most       cannot     be                              High price
                   calibrated
 Refrigerants      All CFCs, HCFCs,           All CFCs, HCFCs,           All CFCs, HCFCs,
 detected:         HFCs, blends (e.g.,        HFC-134a,         blends   HFC-134a,    blends
                   410a, 406, 407C)           (e.g., 410a, 406, 407C)    (e.g., 410a,   406,
                                                                         407C)
                   Not recommended due
                   to cross-sensitivity and
                   poor detection limits
 Other:            None                       Where       only    one    Performance degraded
                                              refrigerant is used        in            "dirty"
                                                                         environments
                                              In moderately clean        Preferred type for use
                                              equipment rooms            in    multi-refrigerant
                                                                         environments

A3.4. Refrigerant Sensors. ASHRAE 15-2007 requires that every refrigerating machinery
room contain a refrigerant detector that activates an alarm and mechanical ventilation for a
refrigerant vapor level no greater than the TLV-TWA. The detector can reduce a workforce’s
chemical exposure and may help save enough refrigerant to pay for itself by preventing partial or
entire charge losses.
A3.5. Continuous Duty Area Monitors. Area monitors check the refrigerant vapor level
continuously in an equipment room or other locations where exposure is possible. Monitoring
happens for several reasons: to protect personnel health and safety, conserve refrigerant, and
protect valuable refrigeration equipment.
   A3.5.1. Monitor Characteristics. If a monitor continuously samples air inside an
   equipment room, it should have several capabilities that short-term or leak-checking monitors
   do not require. These include low 0-drift or an auto-zeroing capability and outputs for
   triggering external alarms that alert appropriate base personnel. Continuous monitors should
   be refrigerant-specific to prevent nuisance alarms generated by untargeted compounds.
   Monitors with poor selectivity will react to compounds other than refrigerants, including
   cleaning agents or paints.
   A3.5.2. Monitor Requirements. ASHRAE 15-2007 requires a monitor to activate an alarm
   and start mechanical ventilation when limits are exceeded. Alerting personnel that a
   refrigerant level has exceeded TLV-TWA is a basic monitor function. Long-term monitoring
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     57


  devices should remain stable inside the temperature, voltage, humidity, and barometric
  pressure ranges they will encounter. One output should notify base emergency personnel if a
  major refrigerant release occurs. They should require minimal maintenance.
  A3.5.3. Calibration Stability. Calibration stability is very important for long-term
  monitoring. Stability is provided by electronics that read the sensor output. In general, the
  electronics should be able to correctly interpret sensor output under all equipment room
  conditions, such as those involving temperature and humidity changes. Recalibrate an area
  monitor after a repair involving a sensor, bridge board, or a main control board replacement.
  Replacing any of these components can significantly affect unit calibration. There are many
  situations where multiple refrigerants are monitored. R-123 does not have ACGIH TLV, but
  it has a 50-ppm TLV listed on a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) provided by the
  American Industrial Hygienists Alliance (AIHA). TLVs for most refrigerants are much
  higher. For instance, R-134a has 1000-ppm TLV. Several sensor types are used in
  refrigerant-detection devices, but they can generally detect a wide range of refrigerants.
  Monitor sensitivity is tuned best for detecting a specific refrigerant. Even after tuning, a
  monitor will be sensitive to other common refrigerants. Manufacturers often publish cross-
  sensitivity charts that show how the monitor will react to various chemicals, including other
  refrigerants, if it is tuned to a specific refrigerant. If you know which refrigerants will be
  inside the equipment room, it is possible to choose a monitor calibration that will generate
  alarms at or below those refrigerants’ TLV-TWA. If a proper calibration setting cannot be
  found, multiple detectors are needed. For example, Trane’s monitor set detects R-123. It
  would also detect R-134a at a level that would generate alarms for both refrigerants below
  their respective TLV-TWA.
     A3.5.3.1. Sensitivity.
         A3.5.3.1.1. Although most area monitors will detect all halogen-based refrigerants,
         their sensitivity varies with the specific refrigerant type. Commonly used refrigerants
         can be divided into four groups based on their sensitivity levels:
             A3.5.3.1.1.1. Highest sensitivity: R-11, -22, -123
             A3.5.3.1.1.2. Moderate sensitivity: R-502
             A3.5.3.1.1.3. Low sensitivity: R-12, -500, -114
             A3.5.3.1.1.4. Lowest sensitivity: R-134a
         A3.5.3.1.2. Choose the refrigerant for which the detector has the lowest sensitivity.
         For example, if the unit is monitoring a room that has both R-12 and R-22, choose R-
         12 when calibrating.
     A3.5.3.2. Refrigerant Detection Sensors. Typically, sensors last approximately two to
     five years from the installation date before a new sensor is required. As refrigerant
     detection takes place, the sensor loses some of its ability to detect refrigerant again.
     Sensor life is mostly determined by how much refrigerant it senses over time. Choose a
     sensor with a built-in calibration leak (a pre-programmed leak for a large selection of
     gases [refrigerants]), built into the leak detector to quickly verify the unit’s calibration
     status. Recalibrate when necessary. To ensure accuracy, the calibrated leak contains
     unique electronics that correct for leak rate changes created by temperature fluctuations.
 58                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       It also monitors the calibrated leak’s history and provides prompt alerts when
       replacements are needed.
   A3.5.4. Characteristics. Monitors should also have a way to set the 0 reference point.
   Monitors used on a long-term basis should have either a very small 0-drift (ppm) between
   inspections or an auto-zero feature.
A3.6. Monitor Alarm Outputs. Monitors must provide a relay to activate an alarm signal if the
TLV-TWA limit is reached. It should be used to trigger an audible and visible alarm, alert other
building areas about the condition, and activate the ventilation system to purge the room. The
monitor should perform equipment room alarm signaling and activate mechanical ventilation
systems. Remote alarm indicators can be connected through a building automation system
(BAS). Some monitors provide relay outputs triggered by various refrigerant concentration
levels. These can be used to alert others about the possibility of exposure. ASHRAE 15-2007
states, “The alarm shall annunciate a visual and audio alarm inside the refrigerating machinery
room and outside each entrance to the refrigerating machinery room. The alarms required in this
section shall be of the manual reset type with the reset located inside the refrigerating machinery
room. Alarms set at other levels (such as IDLH) and automatic reset is permitted in addition to
those required by this section. The meaning of each alarm should be clearly marked by signage
near the annunciators."
   A3.6.1. Self-Monitoring. Many monitors are capable of detecting failures that occur as they
   operate. They have an output signal, such as a relay, to report sensor failures. Failures can
   include low airflow through the monitor, circuit failure, and a saturated or absent sensor
   signal. Power loss can be detected if the monitor’s alarm contacts are normally powered
   open. This output should send an alarm condition to the building’s operator who can check
   the monitor and restore its operation. After receiving a signal, the operator should bring a
   portable monitoring device to the equipment room to check the permanent monitor. The
   operator should determine the refrigerant level in the mechanical equipment room before
   entering.
   A3.6.2. Serial Signal. Some monitors provide 0 to 10 volts of direct current (vDC), 4 to 20
   milliamperes (mA), or serial signal proportional to the refrigerant level sensed by the
   monitor. This signal can provide a remote indication of the equipment room’s refrigerant
   level. If connected to a building automation system, a signal can alert operating personnel
   about a leak, begin a ventilation purge of the room, generate an electronic log of the
   equipment room’s refrigerant level, and notify a hazardous response team.
   A3.6.3. Advantages. Monitoring equipment room refrigerant concentrations with a BAS
   may eventually become common practice for all refrigerants. This level of control not only
   monitors the refrigerant level and sets off necessary alarms; it automatically alerts the service
   order desk responsible for repairing the equipment. This inexpensively replaces a trained
   expert who would quickly respond to a problem by constantly monitoring equipment room
   operations.
       A3.6.3.1. Refrigerant concentration in the equipment room can be logged electronically
       and documented. This provides documentation that refrigerant concentrations are
       maintained below the acceptable levels. Any level below 100 ppm of the refrigerant
       concentration limit (RCL) is acceptable. Personnel also feel comfortable that they are
       working in a safe environment.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       59


      A3.6.3.2. A refrigerant vapor monitor is used for early refrigerant leak detection and may
      prevent significant refrigerant losses. Monitoring the purge unit with a BAS provides
      valuable information that can lead to early leak detection.
      A3.6.3.3. Chillers that use CFC-11 or HCFC-123 operate at a pressure less than
      atmospheric pressure; therefore, air and water vapor leak into the chiller rather than
      refrigerant leaking out. An intermittently running purge unit removes these non-
      condensable gases that leak in. The purge unit pumps the non-condensable gases back to
      the atmosphere but a small amount of refrigerant escapes. Purge unit runtimes can be
      automatically logged and plotted in graph form to reveal trends. In addition, an alarm
      message can be triggered if the purge rate exceeds a preset limit. In general, purge unit
      runtimes exceeding one hour per week are signs of excessive leakage. This value depends
      on the purge unit’s capacity and the chiller’s internal volume; therefore, it is only a
      guideline. Consult the chiller manufacturer to determine the actual maximum purge unit
      runtimes allowed for each chiller that is indicative of good operating condition.
A3.7. Sensor Locations.
   A3.7.1. Refrigerant sensors paired with area monitors must be properly located. Some
   refrigerant leak detectors are capable of monitoring multiple locations and may use multiple
   sensors in a single unit. Other leak detectors are single-zone units capable of monitoring only
   one location. Some of the key factors to determine sensor locations are leak locations, airflow
   patterns, and where occupants are likely to inhale refrigerants. With occupant safety in mind,
   the recommended sensor height is 18 inches (457 millimeters) above the floor. The sensor
   should remain below the 5-foot (1.5-meter) common breathing zone height. When
   undisturbed by air currents, leaking refrigerants descend to the floor and spread out.
   Refrigerants are three to five times heavier than air and seek the lowest areas. Once these
   areas are saturated, the space begins filling up from the bottom as if it were being filled with
   water.
   A3.7.2. Locating Sensors. ASHRAE 15-2007 states, “Locate the sensor where refrigerant
   is likely to concentrate." This is the only direction offered by ASHRAE 15-2007 when
   positioning a refrigerant monitor sensor. This recommendation is intentionally vague because
   of the wide variety of equipment room configurations. Follow instructions provided by the
   monitor manufacturer when positioning a sensor.
      A3.7.2.1. Because the sensor measures airborne refrigerant concentration levels, each
      zone inlet tube should be mounted where leaks are most likely to occur. Place the inlet as
      close as possible to an area with potential leaks on the downstream side of the room’s
      airflow pattern. Place the inlet close to the floor since refrigerants are typically heavier
      than air. Position the control unit so the farthest pickup point will not exceed the
      manufacturer's recommendations for zone inlet tube length.
      A3.7.2.2. Moisture can damage refrigerant sensors. Protect pickup points from water
      entering the system.
      A3.7.2.3. Figure A3.1 shows the general location of pickup points where sensors should
      be located in accordance with ASHRAE 15-2007.
 60                                                        AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


A3.8. Additional References. Additional references are provided as suggested sources where
more in-depth information can be found: Modern Refrigeration and Air Conditioning (Althouse,
Turnquist); DuPont #ARTD27, Leak Detection for Alternative Refrigerants.

Figure A3.1. Sensor Pickup Points.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                        61


                                          Attachment 4
      REFRIGERANT HANDLING AND STORAGE RECOMMENDATIONS AND
                          REQUIREMENTS

A4.1. Introduction. Refrigerants, whether regulated or non-regulated, should be stored in a
controlled environment. For safety, it is important to limit access to refrigerants; some
refrigerants are very toxic, flammable, or stored in high-pressure containers. With the upcoming
HCFC production ban in 2030, the limited availability and increasing expense for HCFC and the
prohibition to purchase CFC makes refrigerant inventory control very important. Whenever
possible, store refrigerants at a single location for better control and management. This simplifies
refrigerant inventory management and guarantees that essential recordkeeping practices are
followed. If refrigerant is stored within an enclosed space, the area monitor and emergency
ventilation system cost savings are significant, particularly if one site is used; otherwise, all
storage sites will require these systems.
A4.2. Refrigerant Storage Requirements: Enclosed Space. Buildings or areas within
buildings, designed or used specifically as enclosed refrigerant storage facilities, shall comply
with ASHRAE 15-2007 (see Attachment 8 of this pamphlet). ASHRAE 15-2007 guidelines
include, but are not limited to, refrigerant storage facility ventilation and exhaust requirements,
refrigerant monitors, and alarms. ASHRAE 15-2007 limits the amount of refrigerant stored in
containers without relief valves and piping to not more than 330 pounds (150 kilograms [kg]) of
refrigerant. Store all refrigerants in approved containers and store additional refrigerants in an
enclosed room that meets ASHRAE 15-2007 requirements.
A4.3. Refrigerant Storage Recommendations: Open Space. Currently, there are no
regulations governing refrigerant storage in non-enclosed refrigerant storage areas other than
following safe refrigerant-handling practices. Storage areas must have limited access. See
Attachment 8 for guidelines on natural ventilation. The following practices are recommended:
   A4.3.1. All storage areas should be roofed for protection from weather extremes and be large
   enough to shield the refrigerant containers from direct sunlight. At a minimum, enclose the
   area with a chain-link fence for security.
   A4.3.2. An open enclosure should be a stand-alone entity.
   A4.3.3. If an enclosure is located adjacent to a building with which it shares a common wall
   with the remaining sides open, do not install a door in the common wall within the enclosure
   confines.
A4.4. Other Recommendations. Technicians or anyone with the potential to be working with
or around refrigerants should complete a training program that meets the minimum guidelines in
29 CFR 1910.120, Hazardous waste operations and emergency response (Occupational Safety
and Health [OSHA] 1910.120), including training on the flammability and toxicity of
refrigerants commonly used on base and safe work practices and handling of refrigerants,
especially when working in an enclosed space. Emergency procedures in the event of accidents,
spills, and exposure involving refrigerants should be provided during training.
A4.5. Refrigerant Health and Safety Issues. There are many health and safety issues
associated with both the new, alternative non-CFC refrigerants and HCFC refrigerants. The
following section addresses several of these issues.
62                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


  A4.5.1. Physical Properties of Refrigerants. Table A4.1 provides an overview of the
  refrigerants used in AC/R applications, including the type and designation number, chemical
  formula, boiling point, TLV, short-term exposure limit (STEL), and immediately dangerous
  to life and health (IDLH) information. Values for some of these items are not readily
  available or have not been determined. Table A4.2, from ASHRAE 15-2007, provides the
  weight per unit volume of various refrigerants to determine the volume of mechanical
  ventilation required and where to set an oxygen sensor for chemicals that do not have a
  TLV/TWA. Table A4.2, item c (alternatives), indicates the oxygen level settings. Table A4.2
  also shows the amount of refrigerant in a given space that, when exceeded, requires a
  machinery room. Ventilation for the machinery room is addressed in ASHRAE 15-2007,
  Section 8.11.5.
     A4.5.1.1. Refrigerants which are CFC, HCFC, and HFC compounds have been identified
     in the “Refrigerant” column of Table A4.1 and Table A4.2 by replacing the "R"
     designation with the appropriate compound designation. In Table A4.1, the boiling point
     is the temperature at which the refrigerant will boil off as a gas at atmospheric pressure.
     A4.5.1.2. The various refrigerant concentration levels at which an individual can be
     safely exposed are usually time-dependent. In Table A4.1, these levels are indicated by
     the TLV, STEL, and IDLH columns, and are expressed in ppm.
         A4.5.1.2.1. The compound TLVs are established by the ACGIH. TLVs are the
         maximum chemical vapor concentration in the air to which workers can be exposed
         daily (eight-hour work days and a 40-hour work week during a working lifetime)
         without adverse effects. Several years can elapse before the TLVs for a new chemical
         are established.
         A4.5.1.2.2. The compound allowable/acceptable exposure limit (AEL) is determined
         by the manufacturer of a chemical or substance. It is listed in the MSDS for the
         substance for guidance on personnel exposure. This value is typically used until
         ACGIH can establish TLVs. Often the AEL and TLV are equal and used
         interchangeably.
         A4.5.1.2.3. The STEL is defined by ACGIH as a 15-minute time-weighted average
         exposure which should not be exceeded at any time during a work day, even if the
         eight-hour time-weighted average is within the TLV. Exposures at the STEL should
         not be longer than 15 minutes and should not be repeated more than four times per
         day. There should be at least 60 minutes between successive exposures at the STEL.
         STEL represents the concentration to which workers can be exposed continuously for
         a short period without suffering from irritation, chronic or permanent tissue damage,
         or narcosis of sufficient degree to increase the likelihood of accidental injury, impair
         self-rescue, or materially reduce work efficiency, provided the daily TLV is not
         exceeded. It is not a separate, independent exposure limit; rather, it supplements the
         TWA limit where there are recognized acute effects from a substance whose toxic
         effects are primarily of a chronic nature. STELs are recommended only where toxic
         effects have been reported from high, short-term exposures in either humans or
         animals. Very few refrigerants have had STEL values developed.
         A4.5.1.2.4. IDLH values are specified by the National Institute of Occupational
         Safety and Health (NIOSH). These values represent a vapor concentration level that,
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                                   63


             when present, results in oxygen concentrations dropping below 19.5 percent. The
             oxygen content of normal air at sea level is approximately 21 percent. Physiological
             effects of oxygen deficiency in humans are readily apparent when the oxygen
             concentration in the air decreases to 16 percent. These effects include impaired
             attention, judgment and coordination, and increased breathing and heart rate. Oxygen
             concentrations below 16 percent can result in nausea and vomiting, brain damage,
             heart damage, unconsciousness, and death. To take into account individual
             physiological responses and errors in measurement, concentrations of 19.5 percent
             oxygen or lower are considered to be indicative of oxygen deficiency.
   A4.5.2. Refrigerant Exposure. Refrigerants handled in accordance with the manufacturer's
   recommended exposure limits pose no acute or chronic inhalation toxicity hazard. However,
   certain precautions should be taken, as shown in Tables A4.1 and A4.2.

Table A4.1. Physical Properties of Refrigerants.
  Refrigerant    Name                            Chemical Formula   Boiling        TLV     STEL IDLH
                                                                    Point          (ppm)** (ppm) (ppm)
                                                                    °C/°F
  Group A1       This grouping signifies least
                 toxic and least flammable
  CFC-11         Trichlorofluoromethane          CCl3F              23.9/75        1,000   --      10,000
  CFC-12         Dichlorodifluoromethane         CCl2F2             -30/-22        1,000   --      50,000
  CFC-13         Chlorotrifluoromethane          CClF3              -82/-115       --      --      50,000
  R-13B1         Bromotrifluoromethane           CBrF3              -57.8/-72      1,000   --      --
  R-14           Tetrafluoromethane (carbon      CF4                -128/-198      --      --      --
                 tetrafluoride)
  HCFC-22        Chlorodifluoromethane           CHClF2             -40.6/-41      1,000   1,250   --
  CFC-113        Trichlorotrifluoroethane        CCl2FCClF2         47.8/118       1,000   1,250   4,500
  CFC-114        Dichlorotetrafluoroethane       CClF2CClF2         3.3/38         1,000   --      50,000
  CFC-115        Chloropentafluoroethane         CClF2CF3           -38.9/-38      1,000   --      --
  HFC-134a       1,1,1,2-Tetrafluoroethane       CH2FCF3            -26/-15.2      --      --      --
  R-C318         Octafluorocyclobutane           C4F8               -6/21.2        --      --      --
  CFC-400        R-12 and R-114                  CCl2F2/C2Cl2F4     Boiling        1,000   --      50,000
                                                                    point
                                                                    changes with
                                                                    pressure
  HCFC-401a      R-22/R-152a/R-124               CHClF2/CH3CHF2/    -32.8/-27      --      --      --
                 (53%/13%/34% by wt)             CHClFCF3
  HCFC-401b      R-22/R-152a/R-124               CHClF2/CH3CHF2/    -35/-30.5      --      --      --
                 (61%/11%/28% by wt)             CHClFCF3
  HCFC-402a      R-22/R-125/R-290                CHClF2/C3H8/       -49/-56.6      --      --      --
                 (30%/60%/2% by wt)              CHF2CF3C2HF5
  HCFC-402b      R-22/R-125/R-290                CHClF2/C3H8/       -47/-53.3      --      --      --
                 (60%/38%/2% by wt)              CHF2CF3C2HF5
  HFC-404a       R-143a/R-125/R-134a             CH3CF3/CHF2CF3/    -46.7/-52      --      --      --
                 (52%/44%/4% by wt)              CH2FCF3
  CFC-500        R-12/152a                       CCl2F2/CH3CHF3     -33.3/-28      1,000   --      --
                 (73.8%/26.2% by wt)
  CFC-502        R-22/115                        CHClF2/CClF2CF3    -45/-49.7      1,000   --      --
                 (48.8%/51.2% by wt)
  CFC-503        R-23/13                         CHF3/CClF3         -88/-126       --      --      --
                 (40.1%/59.9% by wt)
  64                                                                     AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


    Refrigerant   Name                            Chemical Formula    Boiling     TLV     STEL IDLH
                                                                      Point       (ppm)** (ppm) (ppm)
                                                                      °C/°F
    HFC-507       R-125/R-143a                    CHF2CF3/CH3CF3      -46.7/-52   --            --          --
                  (50%/50% by wt)
    R-718         Water                           H 2O                100/212     --            --          --
    R-744         Carbon Dioxide                  CO2                 -78/-109    5,000         30,00       50,000
                                                                                                0
    Group A2      This grouping signifies least
                  toxic but more flammable

    CFC-142b      1-Chloro-1,1,-                  CH3CClF2            -10/14      --            --          --
                  Difluoroethane
    HFC-152a      1,1-Difluoroethane              CH3CHF2             -25/-13     --            --          --
    Group A3      This group signifies least
                  toxic but most flammable
    R-170         Ethane*                         C2H6                -89/-128    --            --          --
    R-290         Propane*                        C3H8                -42.2/-44   1,000         --          20,000
    R-600         Butane                          C4H10               -0.6/31     800           --          --
    R-600a        2-Methylpropane                 CH(CH3)3            -11.7/11    --            --          --
                  (Isobutane)
    R-1150        Ethene (Ethylene)               C2H4                -104/-155   --            --          --
    R-1270        Propene (Propylene)             C3H6                -47.8/-54   --            --          --
    Group B1      This grouping signifies
                  more toxicity but least
                  flammable
    HCFC-123      2,2-Dichloro-1,1,1-Tri-         CHCl2CF3            27.6/81.7   --            --          --
                  fluoroethane
    R-764         Sulfur Dioxide                  SO2                 -10/14      2             5           100
    Group B2      This grouping signifies
                  most toxic but more
                  flammable
    R40           Chloromethane       (Methyl     CH3Cl               -24.4/-12   50            100         10,000
                  chloride)
    R-611         Methyl formate                HCOOCH3               31.7/89     100           150         5,000
    R-717         Ammonia                       NH3                   -33.3/-28   25            35          500
*Simple asphyxiant
**Workplace environmental exposure limit as defined by ACGIH

 Table A4.2. Refrigeranta and Amountsb,c.
    Refrigerant    Chemical Name                   Chemical Formula    Quantity of Refrigerant per
                                                                       Occupied Space
                                                                       lb       per ppm by g/m3 a,d
                                                                               3 a,d
                                                                       1000 ft       volume
    Group A1       This grouping signifies least
                   toxic and least flammable
    R-11           Trichlorofluoromethane          CCl3F               1.6             4,000          25
    R-12           Dichlorodifluoromethane         CCl2F2              12              40,000         200
    R-13           Chlorotrifluoromethane          CClF3               18              67,000         290
    R-13B1         Bromotrifluoromethane           CBrF3               22              57,000         350
    R-14           Tetrafluoromethane (Carbon      CF4                 15              67,000         240
                   tetrafluoride)
    R-22           Chlorodifluoromethane           CHClF2              9.4             42,000         150
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                                    65


  Refrigerant    Chemical Name                    Chemical Formula   Quantity of Refrigerant per
                                                                     Occupied Space
                                                                     lb       per ppm by g/m3 a,d
                                                                             3 a,d
                                                                     1000 ft       volume
  R-113          Trichlorotrifluoroethane         CCl2FCClF2         1.9           4,000  31
  R-114          Dichlorotetrafluoroethane        CClF2CClF2         9.4           21,000 150
  R-115          Chloropentafluoroethane          CClF2CF3           27            67,000 430
  R-134a         1,1,1,2-Tetrafluoroethane        CH2FCF3            16            60,000 250
  R-C318         Octafluorocyclobutane            C4F8               35            67,000 550
  R-400          R-12 and R-114                   CCl2F2/C2Cl2F4     e             e      e
  R-401a         Chlorodifluoromethane/                              6.6           27,000 110
                 Difluoroethane/                  HCFC-22/HFC-
                 Tetrafluoroethane                152a/HCFC-124
  R-407c         Pentafluoroethane/                                  17           76,000     270
                 Tetrafluoroethane/               HFC-125/HFC-
                 Difluoromethane                  134a/HFC-32
  R-417a         Tetrafluoroethane/                                  3.5          13,000     56
                 Pentafluoroethane/Butane
  R-410a         Pentafluoroethane/               HFC-125            25           130,000    390
                 Difluoromethane                  HFC-32
  R-500          R-12/152a (73.8/26.2)            CCl2F2/CH3CHF2     12           47,000     200
  R-502          R-22/115 (48.8/51.2)             CHClF2/CClF2CF3    19           65,000     300
  R-503          R-23/13 (40.1/59.9)              CHF3/CClF3         15           67,000     240
  R-718          Water                            H2O                f            f          f
  R-744          Carbon dioxide                   CO2                5.7          50,000     91
  Group A2       This grouping signifies least
                 toxic but more flammable
  R-142b         1-Chloro-1,1,-Difluoroethane     CH3CClF2           3.7          14,000     60
  R-152a         1,1-Difluoroethane               CH3CHF2            1.2          7,000      20
  Group A3       This group signifies least
                 toxic but most flammable
  R-170          Ethane                           C2H6               0.50         6,400      8.0
  R-290          Propane                          C3H8               0.50         4,400      8.0
  R-600          Butane                           C4H10              0.51         3,400      8.2
  R-600a         2-Methyl               propane   CH(CH3)3           0.51         3,400      8.2
                 (Isobutane)
  R-1150         Ethene (Ethylene)                C2H4               0.38         5,200      6.0
  R-1270         Propene (Propylene)              C3H6               0.37         3,400      5.9
  Group B1       This grouping signifies more
                 toxicity but least flammable
  R-123          2,2-Dichloro-1,1,1-              CHCl2CF3           0.40         1,000      6.3
                 Trifluoroethane
  R-764          Sulfur dioxide                   SO2                0.016        100        0.26
  Group B2       This grouping signifies most
                 toxic but more flammable
  R-40           Chloromethane          (Methyl   CH3Cl              1.3          10,000     21
                 chloride)
  R-611          Methyl formate                    HCOOCH3              0.78       5,000      12
  R-717          Ammonia                           NH3                  0.022      500        0.35
  Alternative
  a    The refrigerant data and safety classifications shown are from Table 1, ASHRAE 34-2010, Designation
       and Classification of Refrigerants.
  b To be used only in conjunction with Section 7, ASHRAE 34-2010.
66                                                                        AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


 Refrigerant    Chemical Name                   Chemical Formula          Quantity of Refrigerant per
                                                                          Occupied Space
                                                                          lb       per ppm by g/m3 a,d
                                                                                  3 a,d
                                                                          1000 ft       volume
 c   The basis of the table quantities is a single event where a complete discharge of any refrigerant system
     into the occupied space occurs. The quantity of refrigerant is the most restrictive of a minimum oxygen
     concentration of 19.5% or as follows: Group A1: 80% of the cardiac sensitization level for R-11, R-12,
     R-13B1, R-22, R-113, R-114, R-134a, R-500, and R-502. 100% of the IDLH (21) for R-744. Others are
     limited by levels where oxygen deprivation begins to occur. Groups A2, A3: Approximately 20% of
     LFL. Group B1: 100% of IDLH for R-764 and 100% of the measure consistent with the IDLH for R-
     123. Groups B2, B3: 100% of IDLH or 20% of LFL, whichever is lower.
 d   To correct for height, H (ft), above sea level, multiply these values by (1 – 2.42 × 10 – 5 • H). To correct
     for height, h (m), above sea level, multiply these values by (1 – 7.94 × 10 – 5 • h).
 e   The quantity of each component shall comply with the limits set in Table 1, ASHRAE 34-2010, for the
     pure compound, and the total volume % of all components shall be calculated per Appendix A,
     ASHRAE 34-2010 (not to exceed 67,000 ppm by volume for any refrigerant blend).
 f   The quantity is unlimited when R-718 (water) is used as the refrigerant.
     A4.5.2.1. At room temperature, refrigerant vapors have little or no effect on the skin or
     eyes. Inhaling high concentrations of refrigerant vapor may cause temporary central
     nervous system depression with narcosis, lethargy, and anesthetic effects. Other effects
     may be dizziness, intoxication, and a loss of coordination. Continued breathing of high
     concentrations of vapor may produce cardiac irregularities (cardiac sensitization),
     unconsciousness, and, with gross overexposure, death. If any of the above symptoms are
     experienced, move to fresh air and seek medical attention.
     A4.5.2.2. Cardiac sensitization can occur if vapors are inhaled at concentrations well
     above the AEL. This can cause the heart to become sensitized to adrenaline, leading to
     cardiac irregularities and possible cardiac arrest. The likelihood of these cardiac problems
     increases with physical or emotional stress. Immediate attention from an emergency
     medical response team must be provided if exposure to high concentrations of
     refrigerants occurs. Do not use adrenaline (epinephrine) or similar drugs. These drugs
     may increase the risk of cardiac arrhythmias and cardiac arrest. If the person is having
     difficulty breathing, administer oxygen. If breathing has stopped, give artificial
     respiration.
     A4.5.2.3. Suffocation can occur when a large release of vapor occurs, such as from a
     large spill or leak. These vapors may concentrate near the floor or in low spots and will
     displace the oxygen available for breathing, causing suffocation. If a large release of
     vapor occurs, an alarm should sound and purge ventilation should be activated. Notify the
     emergency response team immediately.
     A4.5.2.4. When working with a piece of refrigeration equipment in an equipment room
     or enclosed area, ensure that the relief and purge vent piping has been routed outdoors
     away from air intakes. Make certain the area is well-ventilated. If necessary, use auxiliary
     ventilation to remove refrigerant vapors. Check that air-monitoring equipment has been
     installed to detect leaks. Ensure the area is clear of vapors before beginning work.
     A4.5.2.5. Refrigerants that are liquid at room temperature tend to dissolve the skin's
     protective fat, causing dryness and irritation, particularly after prolonged or repeated
     contact. Protective clothing should always be worn when there is a risk of exposure to
     liquid refrigerants. Where splashing is possible, always wear eye protection and a face
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      67


       shield. If the eyes are splashed, repeatedly flush them with water for at least 15 minutes.
       When handling refrigerants, always wear lined butyl gloves to avoid prolonged skin
       contact and chemical splash goggles to avoid eye contact.
   A4.5.3. Flammability Precautions.
       A4.5.3.1. Typical AC/R refrigerants are nonflammable and non-explosive. However,
       mixing refrigerants with flammable gases (such as air) or liquids can result in a
       flammable solution. Therefore, refrigerants should never be mixed with any flammable
       gas or liquid. Refrigerants should not be exposed to open flames or electrical heating
       elements. Though most refrigerants are not flammable at ambient temperatures and
       atmospheric pressure, tests have shown some types to be combustible at pressures as low
       as 5.5 psig at 177 °C (351 °F) when mixed with air at volumetric concentrations of
       generally more than 60 percent air. At lower temperatures, higher pressures are required
       for combustibility. Refrigerants should not be used or allowed to be present with high
       concentrations of air above atmospheric pressure.
       A4.5.3.2. When storing A2, B2, A3, and B3 refrigerants, the room must meet
       requirements of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70, National Electrical
       Code (NEC), Class I, Division I. Per ASHRAE 15-2007, the total of all Groups A2, B2,
       A3, and B3 refrigerants other than R-717 (ammonia), shall not exceed 1100 pounds (500
       kilograms [kg]) without approval by the authority having jurisdiction.
A4.6. Disposable and Reusable Refrigerant Cylinders. Refrigerants are contained in
disposable and reusable shipping containers or cylinders. Since the refrigerant-containing
cylinders can be pressurized, they are considered pressure vessels. They must comply with
federal and state laws regulating transportation and usage of such containers. Specific guidance
on the storage and handling of refrigerant cylinders is found in DLAI 4145.25, Storage and
Handling of Liquefied and Gaseous Compressed Gasses and their Full and Empty Cylinders.
   A4.6.1. Identifying Containers.
       A4.6.1.1. Both disposable and reusable cylinders are painted (or otherwise marked) in a
       color code system. This code was voluntarily established by refrigerant manufacturers to
       identify their products. Common refrigerant colors and identification are set out in Figure
       A4.1.
 68                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


Figure A4.1. Color Code System.
                                R-11         orange
                                R-12         white
                                R-12/114     light gray
                                R-13         light blue
                                R-13b1       pinkish-red
                                R-22         light green
                                R-23         light blue-gray
                                R-113        dark purple
                                R-114        navy blue
                                R-123        light blue-gray
                                R-124        dot green
                                R-134a       light blue (sky)
                                R-401a       pinkish-red
                                R-401b       yellow-brown
                                R-402a       light brown
                                R-402b       green-brown
                                R-403b       light gray
                                R-404a       orange
                                R-407c       brown
                                R-408a       medium purple
                                R-409a       medium brown
                                R-410a       rose
                                R-414b       medium blue
                                R-416a       yellow-green
                                R-417a       green
                                R-500        yellow
                                R-502        light purple
                                R-503        blue-green
                                R-507        aqua blue
                                R-508b       dark blue
                                R-717        silver
                                NH3          silver
      A4.6.1.2. The shade of color may vary from one manufacturer to another. Verify
      contents by means other than color. Every refrigerant cylinder is silk-screened with
      product, safety, and warning information. Manufacturer technical bulletins and MSDSs
      are available upon request. Even though cylinders are designed and manufactured to
      withstand the saturated pressure of R-502 (the base refrigerant), it is not recommended
      that any cylinder be repainted with a different color and used with another refrigerant.
      Refer to Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigerating Institute (AHRI) Guideline N, 2008
      Guideline for Assignment of Refrigerant Container Colors.
   A4.6.2. Container Pressure. All refrigerant cylinders come equipped with either a
   pressure-relief valve or relief plug designed to prevent the cylinder from being over-
   pressurized, either while filling the cylinder with refrigerant or during storage of the cylinder
   due to possible exposure of the cylinder to elevated temperatures. If the refrigerant pressure
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                        69


   inside the cylinder exceeds the preset pressure of the pressure relief valve, the pressure-relief
   valve allows the automatic venting of refrigerant to reduce the pressure in the cylinder.
   Pressure-relief safety devices are frangible (rupture) disc style or spring-loaded relief
   integrated into the valve stem of the cylinder. Never adjust or tamper with the pressure-relief
   valves.
   A4.6.3. Refrigerant Cylinders.
       A4.6.3.1. Reusable cylinders meet 49 CFR 178.35, Subpart C, General Requirements for
       Specification Cylinders, and DOT Specification 4BA-300, 49 CFR 178.51, Subpart C,
       Specification 4BA welded or brazed steel cylinders, with a water capacity of 122.7
       pounds (55.6 kg). Low-boiling-point, high-vapor-pressure refrigerants such as R-13 and
       R-503 are supplied in cylinders with DOT Specification 3AA-1800, 49 CFR 178.37,
       Specification 3AA and 3AAX seamless steel cylinders, and DOT Specification 3AA-2015,
       49 CFR 178.37, Subpart C, Specification 3AA and 3AAX seamless steel cylinders,
       respectively. These cylinders are characterized by a combined liquid/vapor valve located
       at the top of the cylinder. A dip tube feeding the liquid valve is immersed to the bottom to
       allow liquid removal without inverting the tank. Refrigerant can be removed in either the
       gas or liquid phase by selecting the gas or liquid valve. The large, reusable cylinders bear
       a stamp on the shoulder that provides the following information: owner's name
       (abbreviated); DOT specification number for the cylinder; serial number of the tank; test
       date (month and year); manufacturer's symbol; and water capacity (in pounds weight).
       A4.6.3.2. Disposable Refrigerant Cylinders. DOT Specification 39, 49 CFR 178.65,
       requires disposable refrigerant cylinders to be rated for a service pressure of 260 pounds
       per square inch (psi). Under laboratory tests, one cylinder per thousand produced is
       pressurized to the point of failure. The cylinder must not rupture below 650 psi. These
       cylinders are constructed of common steel, which is prone to oxidation (rust). Rust can
       weaken the wall and seams of the cylinder to the point where the cylinder can no longer
       tolerate the pressure of the refrigerant inside. On top of disposable cylinders is a single-
       acting plastic valve. Handles are provided, which can serve as rests for inverted liquid
       access from the cylinder. Disposable cylinders will be stored in dry locations to prevent
       corrosion and transported carefully to prevent abrasion of painted surfaces. They are not
       to be refilled. (The penalty for transporting a refilled disposable cylinder is a fine up to
       $25,000 and five years of imprisonment per 49 CFR 178.65.) When the cylinder is
       empty, ensure all pressure is released to 0 psi. The cylinders should be rendered useless
       for any purpose by breaking off the valve or puncturing the cylinder. After the cylinder
       has been rendered incapable of containing any compressed gas under pressure, it shall be
       disposed of as scrap metal.
A4.7. Labels and Markings (DOT Requirements). Specific container labeling and marking
requirements apply for all DOT-regulated hazardous materials. DOT hazardous materials
designations should not be confused with EPA hazardous materials. They are solely concerned
with material transportation issues, not environmental issues. For instance, DOT regulates
material as hazardous if it is capable of causing injury or property damage due to an accidental
release or failure of its packaging during shipment on public roads, railways, and airways. There
are nine classes of DOT hazards. Only Class 2, Division 2.2 (non-flammable gases), is pertinent
to common refrigerants. This rating is attributable to the pressurized nature of the refrigerant in
its container. The applicable AC/R refrigerants are R-12, R-22, R-134a, R-401a, R-401b, R-
 70                                                                 AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


402a, R-402b, R-404a, R-410a, R-407a, R-407c, R-408a, R-409a, R-423a, R-437a, R-417a, R-
422a, R-438a, R-500, R-502, and R-507 shipped in cylinders and ton tanks. They require
marking and labeling. R-11, R-113, R-114, and R-123 are not DOT-regulated hazardous
materials; therefore, DOT labeling and marking requirements do not apply.
   A4.7.1. Labeling. Each cylinder shall display a DOT diamond (square-on-point)
   "Nonflammable Gas" label. The 4-inch by 4-inch (102-millimeter by 102-millimeter) green
   diamond-shaped label may be printed on a tag and securely attached to the cylinder's valve
   protection cap before shipment. Ton tanks require two DOT nonflammable gas labels, one on
   each end.
   A4.7.2. Marking. Each container shall be marked with a proper DOT shipping name and
   appropriate United Nations (UN) four-digit chemical or hazard class identification number.
   Markings must be stamped plainly and permanently in any of the following locations on the
   cylinder:
      A4.7.2.1. On shoulders and top heads when they are not less than 0.087 inch (2.2
      millimeters) thick.
      A4.7.2.2. On a metal plate attached to the top of the cylinder or permanent part thereof;
      sufficient space must be left on the plate to provide for stamping at least six retest dates;
      the plate must be at least 0.0625 inch (1.6 millimeters) thick and must be attached by
      welding or brazing. The brazing rod will melt at a temperature of 593 °C (1100 °F).
      Welding or brazing must be along all edges of the plate.
      A4.7.2.3. On the neck, valve boss, valve protection sleeve, or similar part attached to the
      top of the cylinder.
      A4.7.2.4. On the foot ring permanently attached to the cylinder, provided the water
      capacity does not exceed 25 pounds (11.3 kg).
   A4.7.3. Precautionary Labels. Each container shall display a precautionary label prepared
   in accordance with American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Z400.1/Z129.1-2010,
   Hazardous Workplace Chemicals - Hazard Evaluation and Safety Data Sheet and
   Precautionary Labeling Preparation, and Compressed Gas Association (CGA) C-7, Guide to
   the Preparation of Precautional Labeling and Marking of Compressed Gas Containers. This
   label will include:
      A4.7.3.1. Product identity;
      A4.7.3.2. Antidotes;
      A4.7.3.3. Signal word;
      A4.7.3.4. Notes to physicians;
      A4.7.3.5. Statement of hazards;
      A4.7.3.6. Instructions in case of contact or exposure;
      A4.7.3.7. Precautionary measures;
      A4.7.3.8. Instructions in case of fire, spill, or leak; and
      A4.7.3.9. Instructions for container handling and storage.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                          71


   A4.7.4. Warning Labels. Since May 1993, warning labels have been required on
   containers of DOT Class 2, Division 2.1 (flammable gases) and Division 2.2 substances, and
   products containing or made with either substance.
A4.8. Transporting Refrigerants. The shipper of recovered refrigerant is responsible for
determining if there is any state or local regulations restricting transportation, such as classifying
recovered refrigerant and oil mixtures as hazardous waste. The EPA does not classify these
materials as hazardous waste.
   A4.8.1. Shipping Papers. Shipping papers are required whenever refrigerant is transported
   using public roadways, railroads, and airways. This includes transferring refrigerants
   between Air Force bases. The shipper is required to properly fill out the shipping papers
   when returning the recovered refrigerant. The shipping papers must always contain the
   following information (Note: For material not regulated by DOT as a hazardous material, the
   words "Not Regulated by DOT" are recommended, but not required.):
       A4.8.1.1. The quantity and type of container used (for example, "2-RETURNABLE
       CYLINDERS");
       A4.8.1.2. The total gross weight of recovered refrigerants;
       A4.8.1.3. The shipping name (for example, “Chlorodifluoromethane Mixture”);
       A4.8.1.4. The DOT hazard class (for example, "NONFLAMMABLE GAS"); and
       A4.8.1.5. The UN identification number (for example, "UN1018").
   A4.8.2. Shipping Tags and Placards. When a full or partially full container is shipped, the
   shipper will be required to affix a DOT hazard label to the container. Typically, this is a
   green, 4-inch-square (102-millimeter) tag, reading "NONFLAMMABLE GAS," tied to the
   valve cover. If a container is empty and has no residual pressure, a DOT hazard tag is not
   required. If the shipper is sending 1,000 pounds (453 kg) (gross weight) or more of a
   hazardous material on the truck, DOT regulations require the shipper to provide the motor
   carrier with four nonflammable gas placards. For materials being transported in ton tanks, the
   placards must also include the appropriate UN four-digit identification number. Affixing the
   placards to the truck is the responsibility of the motor carrier.
   A4.8.3. DLA ODS Reserve. All CFC ownership is retained by the government and all
   excess CFCs are shipped to the DLA (Defense Logistics Agency). The DLA is responsible
   for managing the DOD ODS Reserve for weapons system support. The material manager of
   the Reserve is DLA’s Defense Supply Center Richmond (DSCR) and operational support and
   storage are provided by the co-located Defense Distribution Depot, Richmond, Virginia
   (DDRV). Contact phone numbers for the ODS Reserve Program Management Office are
   DSN 695-5203, -5202, -5004 and -3064, or COMM (804) 279-5202, -5203, -5004 and -3064.
   The email address to contact the ODS Reserve is dscr.odsreserve@dla.mil. Additional
   information about the ODS Reserve can be found at the following website:
   http://www.aviation.dla.mil/userweb/aviationengineering/OZONE/. Also see Department
   of Defense Ozone Depleting Substances Turn-in Procedures.
A4.9. Additional References. An additional reference is provided as a suggested source where
more in-depth information can be found: DuPont Booklet No. P-HP, SUVA® HP Refrigerants -
Properties, Uses, Storage, and Handling.
 72                                                              AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                          Attachment 5
          REFRIGERANT LEAK DETECTION METHODS AND EQUIPMENT

A5.1. Introduction. The EPA created regulations (40 CFR Part 82 [1993]) in response to the
CAAA. There is greater emphasis on reducing refrigerant leak losses. This attachment provides
an overview of methods and technologies currently available to help service technicians locate
refrigerant leak sources.
A5.2. Background. A large amount of refrigerant used to be lost during normal chiller
operation. Fortunately, losses of this kind have been reduced significantly. Presently, high-
efficiency purge units on low-pressure chillers lose as little as 0.05 pound (0.02 kg) of refrigerant
per pound of air. Older chillers and older purge units experienced losses as high as 7 pounds (3.1
kg) of refrigerant per pound of air. Refrigerant leakage occurs in high-pressure chillers and DX
systems. Normally, these losses occur because of mechanical failures in piping systems, pressure
vessels, and gasket materials. Refrigeration equipment manufacturers believe that approximately
40 percent of emissions occur during normal operation and from common wear and tear. Leaks
are usually found in tubing, flanges, O-rings, and other connections. Gasket and O-ring
improvements and better manufacturing techniques have significantly reduced leaks in AC/R
equipment. An ongoing program for detecting leaks is the best solution for managing refrigerant
losses during normal operations. The program requires equipment knowledge, awareness of
available methods, and knowledge of the advantages the equipment and the methods offer.
A5.3. Leak Test Methods: High-Pressure Refrigerants. There are several methods available
for leak-testing equipment containing high-pressure refrigerants. These methods depend on the
refrigerant charge and the equipment’s operational status. The following paragraphs describe
these methods.
   A5.3.1. Operating Equipment with Refrigerant Charge. A positive-pressure refrigerant
   has sufficient pressure within all components of the system to make most external leaks
   detectable using leak detectors. Use caution whenever leak-testing equipment is operating;
   moving and rotating parts present hazards.
   A5.3.2. Idle Equipment with Refrigerant Charge. A positive-pressure refrigerant can be
   found using leak detectors if the mechanical room or air pressures are under normal ambient
   conditions. There is only one method to check for evaporator or condenser tube leaks that use
   water to transfer heat. The equipment must be isolated from the water piping with the tubes
   drained and tube sheet access plate removed. Use an eddy current analysis or leak detector
   (electronic or ultrasonic) to locate leaks.
   A5.3.3. Equipment without Refrigerant Charge.
       A5.3.3.1. There are situations in which leak-testing needs to take place after all
       refrigerant is lost. Do not pressurize the system with refrigerant to see if the leaks were
       repaired. There are also situations where using system refrigerant may be inadequate to
       detect leaks. The refrigerant charge may have to be evacuated from the entire system or a
       single component. When leak-testing a system or component where refrigerant has been
       removed, refer to the guidelines below.
           A5.3.3.1.1. Do not use a refrigerant as a tracer gas. If this cannot be avoided, use
           only HCFC-22 refrigerant; never use another refrigerant. Use only a small quantity of
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       73


           the tracer gas in combination with nitrogen to pressurize the system and inspect for
           leaks. Never use air or oxygen to pressurize the tracer gas, per EPA Section 608 of
           the CAA.
           A5.3.3.1.2. Use compressed dry nitrogen to pressurize the system. WARNING:
           Never use compressed air, oxygen, or a flammable gas to pressurize the system!
           This could cause an explosion. Always use a regulator when adding nitrogen to a
           system. Small amounts of R-22 mixed with nitrogen can be used as tracer gas and
           then vented. Add nitrogen slowly for better mixing with the tracer gas and prevent
           sweeping the tracer gas away from the access port. To ensure that the rating of the
           relief valve is not exceeded, a maximum test pressure of 200 psig is recommended.
           A5.3.3.1.3. Whenever possible, isolate and pressure-test only that part of the system
           that requires testing.
       A5.3.3.2. After a system is pressurized with nitrogen, allow it to stand for 12 to 24 hours,
       if possible, to allow the tracer gas to disperse uniformly throughout the system. Once
       fully dispersed, use any of the methods described in paragraph A5.7 to identify leaks.
A5.4. Leak Test Methods: Low-Pressure Refrigerants. Leak-testing equipment containing
low-pressure refrigerants is more difficult than high-pressure refrigerants. The methods available
are discussed in the following paragraphs.
   A5.4.1. Operating Equipment. There is no way to completely leak-test a low-pressure
   refrigerant system during operation because a large part of the system is under a vacuum. The
   compressor discharge pipe, condenser, and piping leading to the refrigerant flow control
   valve are all slightly above atmospheric pressure and can be checked using leak detectors.
   Use caution when leak-testing operating equipment; be aware of moving and rotating parts.
   Evaporator and condenser tube leaks typically include water leaking into the refrigerant
   rather than the reverse. This happens because refrigerant pressure is lower compared to
   chilled and condenser water system pressures.
   A5.4.2. Offline Equipment Testing. A thorough leak check can be performed on a low-
   pressure refrigerant system only if the system is not operating. Base maintenance personnel
   should schedule a maintenance shut-down period of at least 48 hours before a leak test. The
   test should be timed to negate the test’s impact on the facility. A leak check is not a simple
   process even when the equipment is offline. The refrigerant pressure will usually be under a
   vacuum at room temperature. With CFC-11, equipment is under a vacuum when the
   refrigerant temperature drops below 23 °C (74 °F). With HCFC-123 and CFC-113,
   equipment is under a vacuum below 28 °C (82 °F) and 47 °C (117 °F), respectively.
       A5.4.2.1. The refrigerant pressure must be increased above atmospheric pressure to
       detect leaks. Equipment containing refrigerant can no longer be pressurized using a non-
       condensable gas such as dry nitrogen. The only method to increase the refrigerant
       pressure above atmospheric pressure is to increase the temperature of the refrigerant. In a
       constant-volume system, this will create a corresponding pressure increase. Increasing the
       temperature of CFC-11 to 38 °C (100 °F) will produce system pressure of 9 psig.
       A5.4.2.2. There are two pressure equalization system types used to increase refrigerant
       temperature to achieve the desired pressure: the blanket heater (see paragraph A6.6.1)
       and the water heater system (see paragraph A6.6.2).
 74                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


      A5.4.2.3. Use caution when heating the refrigerant charge. The pressure cannot exceed
      the pressure relief valve and/or rupture disk setting, which is normally set at 15 psig. This
      will allow refrigerant to escape to the atmosphere. Stop adding heat when 8 to 10 psig is
      reached.
      A5.4.2.4. Leak-check all gaskets, fittings, and penetrations using the leak detection
      equipment or substances described in paragraph A5.7.
   A5.4.3. Idle/Standby Equipment. A low-pressure system will usually be in a vacuum at
   typical room or ambient temperature when it is not operating. Any leaks will be due to air
   and water vapor entering the chiller instead of refrigerant. An integral pressure equalization
   system, as described in paragraphs A5.4.2.2.1 and A5.4.2.2.2, can be used for refrigeration
   equipment that operates intermittently, especially if the equipment remains on standby. Use
   these two methods for either pressure equalization or leak testing. It will control the pressure
   automatically; its internal pressure is always equal to atmospheric pressure when the chiller
   is idle. This reduces or eliminates refrigerant loss. Another option involves removing the
   chiller’s refrigerant charge when chillers are idle for long periods. The refrigerant will be
   stored in a leak-tight tank capable of withstanding a pressure range from 29.8 inches of
   mercury vacuum to 15 psig. While idle, the chiller should be charged with dry nitrogen to a
   pressure of 1 to 2 psig to prevent moisture accumulation inside the chiller vessels.
   A5.4.4. Equipment Without Refrigerant Charge. Two steps are involved in leak-testing a
   low-pressure chiller without its charge. The first step involves pressurizing the system to
   pinpoint leaks. Once completed, a vacuum is applied to ensure the equipment does not leak
   under its normal negative-pressure operating conditions. Follow these two steps:
      A5.4.4.1. Step 1. Pressurize the chiller to 10 to 13 psig with dry nitrogen and use a
      soap-and-water solution to check all joints. Leaks will appear when the soap solution
      bubbles.
      A5.4.4.2. Step 2. Evacuate the chiller, using a vacuum pump capable of achieving 1000
      microns of mercury absolute. Once that level is reached, allow the chiller to stand idle for
      12 hours. Some pressure rise from microscopic, unpreventable leaks is acceptable. The
      Trane Company suggests that if the pressure does not rise above 2500 microns, the unit’s
      condition is acceptable and may be charged with refrigerant. If the vacuum rises above
      2500 microns, the unit’s condition is unacceptable and further leak-testing is required.
      Repeat Step 1 and the pull the vacuum again.
   A5.4.5. Spectrographic Oil Analysis. Routine spectrographic oil analyses will detect
   moisture inside the refrigerant circuit. Moisture indicates a leak has occurred. This technique
   will not indicate where the leak is or its severity. Refer to Attachment 7 for detailed
   information on spectrographic oil analysis. Recommended moisture ceiling values for oil
   samples are included in Attachment 7.
A5.5. Potential Refrigerant Leak Areas.
   A5.5.1. During inspections, leak-check the leak-prone system areas for integrity. These areas
   include all area penetrations where refrigerant is used and all non-welded connections.
   Inspect the following areas:
      A5.5.1.1. Motor terminals;
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       75


       A5.5.1.2. Sight glasses;
       A5.5.1.3. Shaft seals;
       A5.5.1.4. Schrader cores;
       A5.5.1.5. Service, solenoid, and relief valves;
       A5.5.1.6. Flare fittings;
       A5.5.1.7. Gasket joints;
       A5.5.1.8. Filter dryers.
   A5.5.2. Oil stains on positive-pressure equipment or components indicate leak paths.
A5.6. Leak Detection Equipment Terminology. The following section describes refrigerant
sensor and detection terminology comparison criteria: sensitivity, detection limits, and
selectivity. These are applicable to portable pinpoint detectors and permanently mounted area
monitors.
   A5.6.1. Sensitivity.
       A5.6.1.1. The device sensitivity is the amount of input needed to change an output
       signal. For refrigerant sensors, the refrigerant vapor concentration being measured is
       displayed on a panel meter, a voltage output, or other display. Highly sensitive refrigerant
       sensors require little material to generate a large change in output signal. Low-sensitivity
       sensors need large amounts of material to change the output signal. The sensitivity is
       affected by the detection method and the material under consideration.
       A5.6.1.2. An ionization sensor that is highly sensitive to CFC-12 may have little
       sensitivity for HCFC-123 and even less for HFC-134a. Sensor comparisons for HCFC
       blends like 410a and 406 can be found in Table A5.1. Reductions in easily ionized and
       detected chlorine content created from CFC to HCFC to HFC class compounds account
       for changes in sensor sensitivity. Sensitivity differences ranging from 100x to 1000x
       were found after comparing CFC-12 to HFC-134a using ionization-based sensors.
       Infrared-based sensors have roughly the same sensitivity to CFC-12, HCFC-123, and
       HFC-134a.
   A5.6.2. Detection Limit. Sensitivity values are well defined but refrigerant sensor
   sensitivity values do not exist. The most common measure of sensor performance is the
   detection limit. Detection limit is the minimum amount of material a unit can sense that
   returns a signal at least two times stronger than the background noise level. A sensitive
   device does not necessarily have a low-detection limit, but that is usually the case. Area
   monitoring application detection limits are measured in ppm. Area monitors have detection
   limits as low as 1 ppm but are typically 3 to 4 ppm for most compounds. A highly sensitive
   detector may be able to accurately record vapor concentration levels ranging from 1 ppm to 2
   ppm while a low-sensitivity detector may record the same vapor using 20 ppm or higher
   increments. A refrigerant sensor must match the intended application. For example, an
   ionization detector that boasts a 2-ppm CFC-12 detection limit will not work as well when
   detecting HFC-134a. Conversely, an ionization detector designed specifically for HFC-134a
   may be too sensitive to monitor CFC-12.
   A5.6.3. Selectivity.
 76                                                              AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       A5.6.3.1. Selectivity is the ability to detect only one refrigerant of interest without
       interference from other compounds. Area monitoring selectivity requirements vary with
       specific installations. This is an important issue because monitors must work
       continuously and they become exposed to refrigerants with potentially more interference
       in a wider concentration range over a long period.
       A5.6.3.2. Area monitors require selectivity if other refrigerants present have vastly
       different TLV. ASHRAE Standard 15-2007 requires that an alarm activate the
       mechanical ventilation system when a value not exceeding the TLV-TWA is reached. A
       TLV is the maximum chemical vapor air concentration workers can chronically be
       exposed to (defined as an 8-hour work day making up a 40-hour work week) without
       suffering adverse health effects during their career. TWA is the time-weighted average
       for the TLV. Workers can be exposed to concentrations greater than the TLV, but the
       average exposure during a day will not exceed the average exposure level. These values
       were created by the ACGIH. A monitor’s selectivity feature allows the alarm to activate
       for a specific chemical and identify it. This helps maintenance technicians determine
       worker exposure.
A5.7. Leak Detection Sensors and Fluorescent Dyes. There are several methods available to
pinpoint refrigerant leaks, ranging from simple fluorescent dyes to more complex electronic
detectors. Electronic detection sensors belong in one of three categories using selectivity criteria:
(1) nonselective; (2) halogen-selective; and (3) compound-specific.
   A5.7.1. Nonselective Sensors. These equipment sensors can detect any emission or vapor
   present, regardless of its chemical composition. Detectors in this category are based on
   electrical ionization, thermal conductivity, ultrasonic, or metal-oxide semiconductors. These
   detectors are simple to use, very rugged, and typically inexpensive. Nonselective sensors
   excel at pinpointing leaks.
   A5.7.2. Halogen-Selective Sensors. Halogen-selective sensors use a specialized sensor that
   allows the monitor to detect compounds containing fluoride, chloride, bromide, and iodide
   without interference from other chemicals. These sensors reduce the number of false alarms
   generated by non-refrigerant compounds such as paint or gas fumes. These very durable
   detectors are easy to use and have a higher sensitivity than nonselective detectors (detection
   limits are typically < 5 ppm). The detector’s partial specificity makes calibration easy.
   A5.7.3. Compound-Specific Sensors. Compound-specific sensors are complex and
   expensive. They can detect a single compound variety without suffering interference from
   other compounds. Compound-specific sensors are IR-based. Newer types use IR-PAS
   technology. They have detection limits around 1 ppm, depending upon the compound
   detected. Although compound-specific sensors are more expensive, technological
   improvements have reduced prices, but expect to pay between $3,500 to $4,000 for a
   compound-specific detector.
   A5.7.4. Fluorescent Dyes. Fluorescent dyes are used in refrigeration systems to detect leaks
   that are invisible under ordinary lighting but visible under ultraviolet (UV) light. Fluorescent
   dyes are available for all refrigerants in use today. The dyes are placed in the refrigeration
   lubricant when the system is serviced. Select a dye compound compatible with the
   lubricating oil in the refrigeration system. Contact the refrigerant supplier for
   recommendations on appropriate dyes to ensure compatibility with the refrigerant. Leaks are
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    77


   detected by using a UV light to search for dye that has escaped from the system. The color of
   the dye when subjected to UV light is normally an easily visible bright green or yellow.
   Fluorescent dyes work very well because large areas can be rapidly checked by a single
   individual.
   A5.7.5. Comparing Sensors and Fluorescent Dyes. Table A5.1 provides considerations
   when comparing sensors and fluorescent dyes for selecting leak detection options.

Table A5.1. Comparison of Refrigerant Sensors and Fluorescent Dyes.
 Comments      Nonselective    Halogen-Selective        Compound-            Fluorescent
                                                        Specific             Dyes
 Advantages    Simplicity      Simple/rugged            Virtually            Low price
                                                        interference-free
               Ruggedness      Can be calibrated        Can be calibrated    Rapid detection
                               Good sensitivity         Good sensitivity     Interference-free
                               Low maintenance
 Disadvan-     Poor            Not        compound- Complexity/              Potential
 tages         detection       specific             maintenance              lubricant
               limits                                                        compatibility
                                                                             problems
               Cross-          Detector                 Stability            Difficult to use
               sensitive to lifetime/stability          questionable         in direct sunlight
               other varieties
               Most cannot
               be calibrated
 Refrigerant   All CFCs        All CFCs                 Not recommended All        currently
 s detected                                             due to high price available
                                                                          refrigerants
               HFC-134a        All HCFCs
               HCFC-123,       HFC-134a, blends
               blends
A5.8. Additional References. Additional references are provided as suggested sources where
more in-depth information can be found: Modern Refrigeration and Air Conditioning (Althouse,
Turnquist); DuPont #ARTD27, Leak Detection for Alternative Refrigerants.
 78                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                         Attachment 6
  EQUIPMENT TO REDUCE REFRIGERANT RELEASE DURING MAINTENANCE
  AND OPERATION OF AIR-CONDITIONING AND REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS

A6.1. Introduction. The EPA requires AC/R equipment owners and maintenance technicians
to engage in practices that reduce refrigerant loss. This attachment discusses equipment that can
be added to or used to service AC/R equipment to meet these requirements, explains EPA
equipment performance requirements, and addresses EPA requirements for reusing refrigerant
removed from AC/R equipment.
A6.2. Recovery and Recycling Equipment. Recovery equipment must meet certain
evacuation standards to reduce refrigerant losses when a service call requires opening the
refrigeration system. The EPA is grandfathering equipment manufactured or imported before 15
November 1993, as long as it meets the evacuation requirements listed in Table A6.1. Currently,
there are no requirements to retrofit or replace grandfathered equipment. Recovery and recycling
equipment manufactured or imported on or after 15 November 1993 must be tested and certified
by a third-party EPA-approved testing laboratory or organization. The EPA is requiring
performance verification for vapor recovery and non-condensable purge devices on recycling
machines. All certified recycling and recovery equipment must have a manufacturer's or
importer's label that indicates it was certified and who certified it (see Attachment 2).

Table A6.1. Required Levels of Evacuation for Appliances Except for Small Appliances,
MVACS, and MVAC-Like Appliances.
                                                    Inches of Hg Vacuum
                                                    (relative to standard atmospheric
                                                    pressure of 29.9 inches Hg)
                                                    Using recovery Using recovery or
                                                    or       recycling recycling
Type of Appliance
                                                    equipment           equipment
                                                    manufactured or manufactured or
                                                    imported before imported on or
                                                    November       15, after November
                                                    1993                15, 1993
Very high-pressure appliance                        0                   0
High-pressure appliance, or isolated component of 0                     0
such appliance normally containing 200 pounds of
refrigerant
High-pressure appliance, or isolated component of 4                     10
such appliance normally containing 200 pounds or
more of refrigerant
Medium-pressure appliance or isolated component of 4                    10
such appliance normally containing less than 200
pounds of refrigerant
Medium-pressure appliance, or isolated component of 4                   15
such appliance normally containing 200 pounds or
more of refrigerant
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    79


                                                          Inches of Hg Vacuum
                                                          (relative to standard atmospheric
                                                          pressure of 29.9 inches Hg)
                                                          Using recovery Using recovery or
                                                          or       recycling recycling
Type of Appliance
                                                          equipment           equipment
                                                          manufactured or manufactured or
                                                          imported before imported on or
                                                          November       15, after November
                                                          1993                15, 1993
Low-pressure appliance                                    25                  25     mm Hg
                                                                              absolute
   A6.2.1. Evaluation Criteria. Many manufacturers offer a variety of recovery equipment.
   When selecting equipment, consider the following:
       A6.2.1.1. Safety. Look for high-pressure, low-pressure, and high-temperature sensors for
       system safety shutdowns or lockouts.
       A6.2.1.2. Underwriters Laboratory (UL) approval.
       A6.2.1.3. Job function versatility.
       A6.2.1.4. Cylinder or tank capacity of the container that holds the refrigerant during
       servicing.
       A6.2.1.5. The recovery rate (one hour maximum).
       A6.2.1.6. Filter replacement prices.
       A6.2.1.7. Tanks: proprietary or non-proprietary.
       A6.2.1.8. Fitting designed for low-loss.
A6.3. Recovery, Recycling, and Reclaiming Definitions. Removing refrigerant from a
refrigeration system is known as recovery. When equipment operation shows signs of
contamination or refrigerant deficiency, refrigerant can be recovered and recycled on base. If
severe contamination occurs or exacting standards must be met, refrigerant must be reclaimed off
base. Once refrigerants are contaminated or mixed, complicated procedures must be used for
separation. Reclamation by refrigerant distillation can separate some refrigerants. If the
refrigerant is so contaminated that distillation is ineffective, it must be disposed of at an
authorized treatment facility.
   A6.3.1. Recovery. Recovery involves removing refrigerant, regardless of its condition,
   from a refrigeration system either actively or passively. It is later stored in an external
   container. Recovery is mandatory if the system is opened to the atmosphere. If an equipment
   component that requires service is isolated, only the isolated equipment section needs to be
   evacuated. Internal refrigerant storage should become the standard.
   A6.3.2. Recycling. Recycling reduces refrigerant contaminants by separating it from the oil
   with single and multiple passes through devices such as replaceable filter core driers. These
   devices reduce moisture, acidity, and particulate matter. Recycling can be useful for drying
   refrigerants that contain moisture instead of water or for removing particulate matter.
 80                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


   A6.3.3. Reclamation. Reclamation purifies, tests, and certifies used refrigerant to new
   product specifications using distillation or other methods. Refrigerant chemical analysis is
   required to assure that appropriate product specifications are met. Refrigerant reclamation
   from a system undergoing repairs is not required in most cases. Reclamation is required if,
   for example, free water stands in the system due to a tube failure or because a motor burned
   out. Recovered refrigerants from the equipment must be reclaimed if ownership is
   transferred. Bases are not considered owners in this context. The Air Force is considered a
   single owner so reclamation is not necessary given inter-base transfers. If reclamation is
   required (e.g., to salvage phased-out CFC), it must be accomplished by a vendor under
   contract with the Air Force.
A6.4. Low-Loss Fittings. In 40 CFR Part 82, the EPA defines a low-loss fitting as any device
meant to establish a connection between hoses, AC/R equipment, and recovery/recycling
machines. They are designed to close automatically or manually after being disconnected to
reduce refrigerant loss from hoses, AC/R equipment, and recovery/recycling machines. The EPA
requires that recovery or recycling machines manufactured or imported after 15 November 1993
have low-loss fittings. Low-loss fittings should be added to refrigeration equipment connection
points and service equipment hoses.
A6.5. High-Efficiency Purge Units. Purge units are used with low-pressure chillers and
refrigerant recovery equipment to remove non-condensable material that entered the system. All
low-pressure chillers (R-11 or R-123) should have high-efficiency purges either by retrofit or
when they are purchased. All new low-pressure chillers include a high-efficiency purge as
standard equipment. Traditional purge unit designs could expel large amounts of refrigerant.
High-efficiency purge units allow non-condensable material to be vented while leaking very little
refrigerant. There are two high-efficiency levels: (1) discharges of approximately 0.7 to 1 pound
of refrigerant per pound of non-condensable material and (2) an ultra-high-efficiency discharge
of 0.0005 pound of refrigerant per pound of non-condensable material. Most low-pressure
chillers are equipped with ultra-high-efficiency purge units. Given information about runtime
and the refrigerant amount lost per unit of non-condensable matter during purges, maintenance
technicians can determine the amount of runtime that would result in refrigerant losses that
exceed EPA limits. Choose a purge unit with a safety system to prevent excessive purging
resulting from malfunctions or large leaks. These safety systems limit the time that a purge unit
operates so a control malfunction will not cause a complete refrigerant purge.
   A6.5.1. Low-Pressure Chiller Purge Units. The EPA has not established any requirements
   for chiller purge units. However, the Air Force replaces older purge units with new, high-
   efficiency purge units equipped with runtime meters.
   A6.5.2. Recycling Equipment Purge Units. The EPA’s maximum purge-loss limit for
   recycling equipment purge units is 3 percent of the total refrigerant being recycled.
   A6.5.3. Servicing Purge Systems. Most purge systems require regular service: purge tanks
   and oil separators must be cleaned; gasket materials must be renewed; purge compressors
   must be overhauled. Servicing should be performed according to the purge system
   manufacturer's guidelines. To open the purge system for service, isolate it from the chiller
   refrigeration system and recover the refrigerant from the purge unit. To provide a convenient,
   efficient means of accomplishing this on an ongoing basis, permanent access and isolation
   valves should be installed in the system whenever a new high-efficiency unit is introduced.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                        81


A6.6. Low-Pressure Systems Pressurization Methods. Low-pressure systems can be under a
vacuum when they are not in operation. Their purge systems remain in operation to keep air and
moisture out of the system. If the machine leaks, it will cause the purge to discharge refrigerants
and non-condensable materials more often. Installing a pressurization system can solve this
problem. There are two types of systems: blanket heater and water heater/pump. Both operate on
the principle of increasing system pressure through heat added to the refrigerant.
   A6.6.1. Blanket Heater. The most common pressurization system is an electric-resistant
   blanket heater installed between the evaporator’s outer shell and its insulation jacket.
   Because it is mounted on the underside of the shell, it is commonly known as a belly heater.
   A blanket heater is used to prevent refrigerant air infiltration by heating the refrigerant until
   the pressure is at or nearly at atmospheric level. The blanket heater can also be used to raise
   the system pressure above atmospheric pressure to allow leak testing. Typically, temperature
   or pressure sensors monitor the condenser conditions and control the blanket heater. To
   prevent system over-pressurization and refrigerant loss, temperature and pressure sensors
   should be checked before energizing the blanket heater.
   A6.6.2. Water Heater/Pump. The second system type uses a small electric water heater
   and circulating pump package. It heats and circulates water through the evaporator tubes to
   raise the refrigerant temperature. This raises the system pressure. Before beginning the
   heating process, isolate the evaporator from the distribution piping system. The heat added to
   the water is typically controlled by monitoring the water temperature once it has left the
   evaporator. To prevent system over-pressurization and any resulting refrigerant loss, the
   temperature sensor should be checked before starting the water heater/pump system.
A6.7. Re-use of Recovered Refrigerants. The EPA allows refrigerant remaining onsite to be
returned to the AC/R equipment or transferred between equipment owned by the Air Force with
or without being recycled or reclaimed.
A6.8. Additional References. Additional references are provided as suggested sources where
more in-depth information can be found: AHRI 740-2006, Refrigerant Recovery/Recycling
Equipment; 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Recycling and Emissions Reduction.
 82                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                         Attachment 7
  REFRIGERANT LEAK MITIGATION THROUGH EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE
                     AND SERVICE PRACTICES

A7.1. Background. Refrigeration service and maintenance practices commonly used in the past
resulted in the routine release of significant amounts of refrigerant to the atmosphere. In
response, the EPA issued new regulations in response to CAAA, Title 6, which are designed to
minimize the refrigerant loss. These laws and regulations have serious implications for AC/R
owners, operators, and maintenance personnel. Given these implications, persons servicing AC/R
equipment must adhere to 40 CFR 82.156, Required practices, to minimize refrigerant losses.
   A7.1.1. Technician Training. Training chiller operators and maintenance and service
   personnel is the first line of defense against refrigerant loss. Service and maintenance
   personnel should be familiar with refrigerant emission-reduction procedures, safety
   equipment uses, and techniques for proper refrigerant handling.
   A7.1.2. Technician Certification.
       A7.1.2.1. Any person who performs maintenance, service, or repair to AC/R equipment
       must be a certified technician unless they are serving as an apprentice in an approved
       program under the supervision of a certified technician.
       A7.1.2.2. The EPA requires all individuals who maintain, install, service, or repair AC/R
       equipment to be certified. It has created four technician certification categories based on
       the ability to handle and service refrigerants and any applicable equipment. Three
       categories are for specific equipment types and the fourth is a universal category.
       Technicians must be certified by an EPA-approved organization. For more information,
       see Chapter 2 and Attachment 2.
A7.2. Minimizing Maintenance and Service Emissions. A lot of refrigerant has been lost due
to inefficient methods for maintaining and servicing equipment. Routine operating logs (which
are required by the EPA for equipment containing 50 pounds or more of refrigerant charge)
should be kept so that the operator or technician knows how much refrigerant and oil are used.
At a minimum, any equipment requiring daily attention should have maintenance logs of basic
operating parameters completed during shift intervals. Use the RMS to collect and organize
maintenance and operating data for all refrigeration systems. The RMS Refrigerant Service
Report can assist base maintenance personnel to identify adverse trends and predict future
refrigerant needs.
   A7.2.1. Service Practices.
       A7.2.1.1. Current service practices revolve around containing refrigerant within the
       system. Service practices that keep refrigerants isolated from the environment to the
       greatest extent possible are now required. In addition, certain service practices are
       prohibited by the EPA, including the following:
          A7.2.1.1.1. Knowingly venting refrigerants during the maintaining, servicing,
          repairing, or disposing of AC/R equipment. This is extended to HFCs included by the
          EPA.
          A7.2.1.1.2. Opening refrigerant drums to the atmosphere.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      83


        A7.2.1.1.3. Using refrigerants as cleaning solvents.
        A7.2.1.1.4. Leak-testing with nitrogen when the system contains a refrigerant charge.
        A7.2.1.1.5. Running systems in under-charged or over-charged modes.
        A7.2.1.1.6. Changing oil filters at intervals more frequently than required by
        manufacturers' recommendations or as indicated by spectrographic oil analyses.
     A7.2.1.2. The EPA requires low-pressure systems undergoing minor servicing, such as
     oil changes, to be pressurized to atmospheric pressure to minimize air intrusion and the
     need to purge it later. Methods that do not require system purging (e.g., heat) must be
     used.
     A7.2.1.3. Purge runtime should be monitored. Many manufacturers suggest that purge
     systems operating in excess of one hour of runtime per week indicate excessive loss.
     A7.2.1.4. For proper operation, purge systems require regular maintenance and service:
     purge tanks and oil separators must be cleaned; gasket material must be renewed; purge
     compressors must be overhauled. These tasks must be performed with little or no
     refrigerant loss by installing permanent access and isolation valves that guarantee
     minimal losses. Such valves should be installed the next time the machine is serviced.
     When servicing the purge unit, the liquid and vapor refrigerant must be evacuated before
     opening the unit to the atmosphere.
     A7.2.1.5. Specified high-efficiency purge units should be installed on older chillers. The
     purge units should be standard equipment on new replacement chillers. Some high-
     efficiency purge units on the market include high-maintenance components like floats
     and regulating valves. Additional maintenance requirements should be considered in the
     specification development process for purge systems. See Attachment 6, paragraph A6.5,
     for more information on purge units and maximum purge-loss limits.
     A7.2.1.6. Oil should not be changed arbitrarily; instead, oil samples should be checked
     for contamination on a regular, scheduled basis. The result may indicate the need for an
     oil and filter change. These tasks must be completed with minimal refrigerant loss. An oil
     sample port and isolation valves should be installed around the filter when the unit is first
     serviced.
     A7.2.1.7. Isolate equipment subcomponents for service and repair by installing isolation
     valves. Replace missing system connections and refrigerant cylinder caps. Check the
     seal’s condition. Personnel using Schrader core replacement can replace a leaking
     Schrader core without opening the system or isolating the refrigerant charge.
     A7.2.1.8. The refrigeration gauge sets should be rebuilt, if necessary, with new seals,
     valve seats, and packing to reduce refrigerant losses. Additional features that reduce
     refrigerant loss include:
        A7.2.1.8.1. Quick-connect hose fittings.
        A7.2.1.8.2. Four-valve manifolds to reduce hose and manifold refrigerant purging
        amounts.
        A7.2.1.8.3. Quality, high-strength hoses to prevent ruptures.
 84                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


           A7.2.1.8.4. Separate refrigeration gauge sets for each refrigerant that will prevent
           cross-contamination.
       A7.2.1.9. Equipment service requiring refrigerant charge removal can be completed with
       either an active pump-out or a passive pump-down method.
           A7.2.1.9.1. The pump-out method is used for system refrigerant removal. It involves
           using a self-contained recovery unit that is often referred to as a recovery/recycling
           machine. These machines are capable of both liquid and vapor removal. Remove as
           much of the refrigerant in its liquid form as possible. This equipment removes liquid
           at a much higher rate than vapor. The vapor charge must be removed using the
           recovery/recycle unit. The system or isolated section must be evacuated to the level
           shown in Table A6.1. A higher ambient temperature decreases recovery time because
           of increased system internal vapor pressures.
           A7.2.1.9.2. The pump-down process uses the refrigeration system's compressor to
           remove the refrigerant from a component and move it to an integral receiver or
           another system component where it is stored during maintenance. The isolated section
           must be evacuated to the level shown in Table A6.1.
       A7.2.1.10. All preventative maintenance work plans should be modified to include leak-
       checks of leak-prone system areas. The following items should be checked regularly:
           A7.2.1.10.1. Flanges and gaskets.
           A7.2.1.10.2. Connections with screwed piping.
           A7.2.1.10.3. Compressor seals.
           A7.2.1.10.4. O-rings.
           A7.2.1.10.5. Valves and cylinders.
           A7.2.1.10.6. Valves with missing caps.
           A7.2.1.10.7. Purge systems.
           A7.2.1.10.8. Receivers.
           A7.2.1.10.9. Flare fittings.
           A7.2.1.10.10. Schrader cores.
           A7.2.1.10.11. Sight glasses.
       A7.2.1.11. Before opening a system, certified technicians should clearly understand the
       type of service work required. Previous service records obtained from the RMS or
       operating logs can provide equipment background. This information can be used to
       develop a work plan that ensures refrigerant losses are minimal and identifies areas to
       check for possible leaks.
A7.3. Spectrographic Oil Analysis. Laboratory analysis of chiller oil is a method of analyzing
the mechanical condition of equipment and pinpoints locations when tear-down and visual
inspections are required. A spectrographic oil analysis is inexpensive and typically has a quick
turn-around time. Each analysis costs approximately $150. An analysis should be performed for
comfort cooling applications twice a year or for every 2,000 to 2,500 hours of operation. Before
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                         85


obtaining an oil sample for analysis, a chiller must operate for at least one hour; otherwise, any
metals in the oil will not have enough time to be re-entrained from the machine bottom and will
go undetected during analysis. With complete and accurate laboratory oil analysis testing
recommendation actions will become more reliable.
   A7.3.1. Particulate Evaluation. The oil filter is an important source of information.
   Technicians can spot debris trapped on the filter material, remove it, and send it to the
   spectrographic oil analysis laboratory to identify the sediments and further evaluate the
   system’s condition. This evaluation can be just as important as testing the liquid oil sample.
   When laboratory analysis of chiller oil is required, select a qualified laboratory that can
   perform a full range of tests.
   A7.3.2. Analysis Readings.
       A7.3.2.1. Chiller oil laboratory analyses should include the following information:
           A7.3.2.1.1. Water suspension.
           A7.3.2.1.2. Acid level.
           A7.3.2.1.3. Metal content by source.
           A7.3.2.1.4. Viscosity.
           A7.3.2.1.5. Total acid number (TAN).
           A7.3.2.1.6. Dielectric strength.
           A7.3.2.1.7. Color.
           A7.3.2.1.8. Interfacial tension.
           A7.3.2.1.9. Equipment condition assessment.
       A7.3.2.2. The amount of water suspended in a lubricant is measured in ppm. Sample
       chiller oil water content should not exceed 40 ppm in reciprocating systems or 50 ppm in
       centrifugal and rotary screw systems.
       A7.3.2.3. The viscosity, reported in centistoke (cSt) at 40 °C (104 °F), measures a fluid's
       internal resistance to flow at a given temperature in relation to time. Changes in viscosity
       can indicate dilution, oxidation, improper servicing, or lubricant break-down. Viscosity
       increases are normally a result of lubricant oxidation and degradation or contamination
       with higher-grade oil. Viscosity decreases are almost always a result of contamination,
       either with fuel (in the case of engine oils) or product (in the case of industrial oils). The
       viscosity index is a calculated number that indicates the rate of viscosity change as the
       lubricant is heated. The less the viscosity change, the higher the viscosity index number.
       The lubricant's viscosity is determined at two different temperatures, usually 40 °C (104
       °F) and 100 °C (212 °F), and using an American Petroleum Institute (API) formula, the
       viscosity index is calculated. Viscosity indexes of 95 to 105 are normal for most
       industrial mineral oils.
       A7.3.2.4. The TAN indicates how much of a lubricant’s acidic product is present.
       Generally, increase in TAN greater than that of a new product indicates oil oxidation or
       acidic product contamination. Total acid should not exceed 0.150 milligram (mg) KOH
       (potassium hydroxide) per gram.
 86                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


      A7.3.2.5. Dielectric strength measures a fluid’s insulating ability. A low value can
      indicate water or other conducting compounds.
      A7.3.2.6. A fluid's color can indicate contaminants and system operating conditions.
      A7.3.2.7. The interfacial tension analysis indicates whether compounds with a strong
      affinity for water are present.
   A7.3.3. Analysis of Metal Content.
      A7.3.3.1. Chiller oil spectrographic analysis shows the oil’s metal content and should
      indicate the possible source of the metal. Elements typically discovered during analyses
      and available sources are listed in Table A7.1.

Table A7.1. Elements and Sources.
                 Element                  Possible Sources
                 Iron                     Shell/supports/cylinder/tube sheet
                 Chromium                 Rings/cylinder/crankshaft
                 Nickel                   Tubes/crankshaft
                 Aluminum                 Pistons/bearings/impeller
                 Lead/Tin                 Bearings
                 Copper                   Bearings/tubes/oil lines
                 Silver                   Solder/cooler
                 Silicon                  Dirt/sealant/coolant
                 Boron                    Additive/coolant
                 Sodium                   Brine/coolant
                 Potassium                Additive
                 Zinc                     Anti-wear additive
                 Calcium/Magnesium        Brine/detergent additive
                 Barium                   Detergent additive
      A7.3.3.2. Oil analysis results should be included in the maintenance history. In many
      cases, rapid changes in values may indicate more problems than the value’s magnitude at
      any given point in time. In fact, the real strength of spectrographic analysis is the ability
      to spot excessive wear rates indicated by rapidly increasing concentrations of the
      elements listed in Table A7.1 relative to the number of operating hours between samples.
      To properly spot these trends, the analytical laboratory performing the tests must have
      historical test data.
   A7.3.4. Disposing of Contaminated Oil.
      A7.3.4.1. Federal, state, and local regulations must be observed when disposing of
      contaminated oil. Per 40 CFR Part 261, Subpart A, Section 261.3, Definition of
      hazardous waste, used refrigerant oils are not classified as hazardous waste if the
      following conditions are met:
         A7.3.4.1.1. The used refrigeration oils are not mixed with other hazardous waste.
         A7.3.4.1.2. The used refrigeration oils will be recycled or reclaimed for future use.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      87


           A7.3.4.1.3. The used refrigeration oils are not mixed with used oils from other
           sources.
           A7.3.4.1.4. The used refrigeration oils do not contain any contaminants, such as
           heavy metals, which will render it a characteristic waste when analyzed using the
           toxicity characteristic leaching procedure per 40 CFR Part 261, Subpart A, Section
           261.24, Toxicity characteristic.
       A7.3.4.2. Those who dispose of contaminated refrigerant oil must determine whether the
       material should be classified as hazardous waste per paragraph A7.3.4.1. Local and state
       codes may be even more stringent than federal regulations; therefore, the base
       environmental office should be consulted before disposing of any potentially hazardous
       waste.
       A7.3.4.3. When oil analysis indicates that the refrigerant oil should be replaced, avoid an
       atmospheric release of the refrigerant which may be present in the oil solution. This can
       be achieved by pumping the oil into a sealed and reusable container. A refrigerant
       recovery system can then be used to pull a vacuum on the head space above the oil in this
       container. This configuration will cause the refrigerant to "outgas" from the oil. The out-
       gassed refrigerant will then be captured by the refrigerant recovery system. This
       recovered refrigerant can be returned to the refrigeration system or placed in proper
       storage containers. Under no circumstances should refrigerant oil be pumped into a
       vented container. This will allow an uncontrolled loss of refrigerant into the atmosphere.
A7.4. Chiller Tube Testing.
   A7.4.1. Chiller Tube Testing Program. A vital element of a successful preventive
   maintenance program that minimizes emissions is a regularly scheduled chiller tube-testing
   program. It ensures tube integrity and efficiency and can provide early warnings.
   A7.4.2. Eddy Current Tube-Testing. Eddy current tube testing measures the thickness of
   the tube as the probe passes from one end to the other. This method can identify potential
   leak areas before they occur. It can prevent unscheduled chiller downtime, lost production,
   lost cooling, major chiller damage, and refrigerant charge contamination. Refrigerant
   contaminated with water in-leakage requires reclamation. To protect the refrigerant charge, a
   chiller requires eddy current tube-testing at least once every three years. This analysis, when
   performed by an outside contractor, costs approximately $1,500 per analysis. An eddy
   current tube-testing device can be purchased from most refrigeration equipment suppliers for
   $20,000 to $30,000.
A7.5. Additional EPA Requirements. The EPA requires equipment service and refrigerant
usage records to be maintained for three to five years, depending upon the EPA tier level. This
applies to all comfort cooling and refrigeration equipment with an operating charge of 50 pounds
or more.
   A7.5.1. Refrigerant Management System (RMS). The RMS will provide equipment
   refrigerant usage and servicing history as required by the EPA. The RMS will also track
   refrigerant inventory and consumption as required by the BRMP. Information about using the
   RMS can be found in the Refrigerant Management System User’s Guide.
 88                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


   A7.5.2. Repairing Leaks. Commercial and industrial process refrigeration equipment with
   50 pounds or more of refrigerant (for example, cold storage plants) must have all leaks
   repaired within 30 days if the equipment is leaking at a rate that exceeds 35 percent of the
   total charge during a 12-month period. Other equipment, including comfort cooling and all
   other appliances containing 50 or more pounds of refrigerant, must have all leaks repaired
   within 30 days if the unit leaks at a rate exceeding 15 percent of the total charge, prorated
   over a 12-month period. Equipment does not require repair if, within 30 days after leak
   identification (as described above), a plan is developed for retiring the equipment within one
   year. A copy of the plan must be available at the equipment site and submitted to the EPA.
   Leaking equipment repaired under this plan must have an initial and follow-up verification
   test at the conclusion of any repair efforts. Some state or local regulations, codes, and
   ordinances may impose more stringent requirements than EPA regulations. Before engaging
   in major leak repairs, evaluate the condition and age of the equipment to determine whether it
   is more cost-effective than replacing the equipment. Include in the evaluation the potential
   increase in energy savings from installing new equipment. 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F,
   Section 82.152, and 40 CFR Part 82, Subpart F, Section 82.156, call for verification tests
   within 30 days of normal operation to confirm that the leak has been fixed.
A7.6. Additional References. An additional reference is provided as a suggested source on
leak detection where more in-depth information can be found: DuPont #ARTD-27 (H-31753-2),
Leak Detection for Alternative Refrigerants.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      89


                                         Attachment 8
    APPLICATION OF ASHRAE EQUIPMENT ROOM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS

A8.1. Introduction. All new mechanical rooms must be designed to meet ASHRAE 15-2007
requirements. ASHRAE 15-2007 requires upgrading current mechanical rooms to comply with
its standards after current equipment is either retrofitted or replaced. ASHRAE 15-2007 defines a
set of minimum requirements to keep personnel safe while working inside equipment rooms.
This standard describes the requirements that help preserve the operability and maintainability of
the equipment stored in these rooms. The Refrigerant Quantity Rules referenced in earlier
versions of ASHRAE Standard 15 have been superseded by Sections 7 and 8 of ASHRAE 15-
2007. Most equipment rooms located in Air Force facilities will fall under the ASHRAE 15-2007
requirement because of the quantity and type of refrigerants found there. This standard applies to
all low-probability and high-probability systems for all occupancy classifications using either a
Group A1 or B1 refrigerant. A low-probability system is any system in which the basic design or
location of the components prevents leaking refrigerant from a failed connection, seal, or
component from entering the occupied space. Typical low-probability systems are indirect closed
systems, double-indirect systems, and indirect open-spray systems. A high-probability system is
any system in which the basic design or the location of components guarantees that leaking
refrigerant from seals or components will enter the occupied space. Typical high-probability
systems are direct systems or indirect open spray systems where the refrigerant can produce
pressure greater than the secondary coolant (see Table A4.1). Other mechanical equipment room
operational requirements, such as safety equipment and the placement of leak-detection devices,
are discussed in greater detail in Attachment 3.
A8.2. Refrigeration System Placement.
   A8.2.1. Chiller placement inside mechanical equipment rooms depends on various factors
   that include service work access, proximity to other equipment inside the mechanical
   equipment room, and airflow ventilation through the mechanical equipment room. Consider
   all clearances to be minimum requirements for normal operation, maintenance, service, and
   repair. ASHRAE 15-2007 calls for a clear head room of 7.25 feet (2.2 meters) below
   equipment situated over passageways. This requirement is designed to prevent piping and
   equipment from being installed in a location that will present a physical hazard to people or
   equipment moving through the aisles. While these clearances are guiding factors for
   positioning the chillers in the mechanical equipment room, to avoid stagnant areas attention
   must be paid to airflow patterns resulting from the interaction between the ventilation system
   and equipment inside the room.
   A8.2.2. Chillers should be positioned between the ventilation inlet and outlet. Areas with
   stagnant air should be avoided. Figure A8.1 shows both good and bad configurations for
   multiple-chiller mechanical equipment rooms. Arrangement A shows optimally placed
   equipment. Arrangement B shows equipment creating stagnant areas between the chillers.
 90                                                         AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


Figure A8.1. Multiple Chiller Equipment Room Layouts.




A8.3. Ventilation Volume Requirements. Mechanical equipment room volume requirements
are covered in ASHRAE 15-2007. This standard splits ventilation air requirements into natural
and mechanical ventilation, based on equipment location.
   A8.3.1. Natural Ventilation.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       91


      A8.3.1.1. ASHRAE 15-2007 states: “When a refrigeration system is located outdoors
      more than 20 feet from any building opening and is enclosed by a penthouse, lean-to or
      other open structure, natural or mechanical ventilation shall be provided.” Natural
      ventilation requirements are provided by the formula in ASHRAE 15-2007, Section
      8.11.5c. Figure A8.2 shows an example of a remote mechanical equipment room.

Figure A8.2. Remote Mechanical Equipment Room.




      A8.3.1.2. ASHRAE 15-2007 states that the free-aperture cross-section for ventilating
      machinery rooms should amount to at least F = G0.5, where F = the free opening area in
      square feet, and G = the weight of refrigerant in pounds in the largest system, any part of
      which is located in the machinery room. The opening or openings are located with
      respect to the refrigerant density. For example, if the refrigerant being used is heavier
      than air (the specific gravity of the refrigerant is greater than 1) the opening(s) should be
      located flush or nearly level with the floor. If the refrigerant is lighter than air, the
      opening(s) should be located close to the mechanical room ceiling for maximum
      ventilation effect. For example, consider a chiller with an 800-pound charge. The free
      opening area in square feet (ft2) would be calculated this way: F = 8000.5 = 28 ft2. Thus, a
      5-foot by 6-foot opening would slightly exceed this square-footage requirement.
   A8.3.2. Mechanical Ventilation.
      A8.3.2.1. The ventilation system must be operable to not exceed either an 8 °C (18 °F)
      temperature rise from outside air maximum temperature or 50 °C (122 °F). Regarding
      mechanical ventilation, ASHRAE 15-2007 states that the minimum mechanical
      ventilation required to exhaust potential refrigerant accumulation from leaks or system
      ruptures must be sufficient to remove refrigerant from the machinery room using the
      following airflow (purge ventilation rate): Q = 100 x G0.5, where Q = the airflow in cubic
92                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


     feet per minute (cfm) in purge mode, and G = the refrigerant weight in pounds in the
     largest system, any part of which is located in the machinery room. Using an 800-pound
     charge, the airflow in cfm would be calculated as follows: Q = 100 x 8000.5 = 2800 cfm.
     Q represents the minimum airflow the ventilation system must provide to remove
     refrigerant vapors from the mechanical room. According to ASHRAE 15-2007, it is
     unnecessary to continuously run the ventilation at this volume if the following conditions
     are met:
        A8.3.2.1.1. Ventilation is provided when occupied of at least 0.5 cfm per square foot
        of machinery room area or 20 cfm per person.
        A8.3.2.1.2. Operable, if necessary for operator comfort, at a volume required to
        maintain a maximum temperature rise of 8 °C (18 °F) based on all heat-producing
        machinery in the room.
        A8.3.2.1.3. Ventilation must be designed to remove sensible heat loads generated by
        the equipment in the room. This flow rate should be designed to maintain room
        temperature no greater than 8 °C (18 °F) above the outdoor ambient temperature.
        Most electrical devices (e.g., motors and switchgears) are designed to operate in an
        environment where the ambient temperature does not exceed 40 °C (104 °F). This
        requirement must be met whether or not the equipment room is occupied and it may
        impose the higher ventilation flow rate requirement than those required for ventilating
        refrigerant gases following dilution.
     A8.3.2.2. There are two distinct ventilation rates defined for the mechanical equipment
     room:
        A8.3.2.2.1. Normal ventilation at a rate of 0.5 cfm per square foot or more if the
        room generates excessive heat. It is required any time the mechanical equipment
        room is occupied.
        A8.3.2.2.2. The purge ventilation rate, based on the weight of refrigerant in the
        refrigeration system (Q = 100 x G0.5).
     A8.3.2.3. If the mechanical equipment room is occupied, the ventilation system must be
     operated to produce the normal ventilation rate of 0.5 cfm per square foot or more. This
     can be achieved by running the fan continuously, starting it automatically with a motion
     detector, or by providing a fan switch near the mechanical equipment room entrance(s). If
     a switch is provided, a posted sign or other prompt should display the ventilation
     requirement for occupancy. To assure purge ventilation system operation, interlock the
     ventilation system with the room’s lighting.
     A8.3.2.4. The purge ventilation rate is required whenever a refrigerant build-up occurs
     inside the mechanical equipment room. This is indicated by the refrigerant vapor (or
     oxygen) monitor. Ventilation at purge volume must be initiated by the monitor's alarm
     contacts. A switch for manual control should be outside the mechanical equipment
     room’s main entrance.
     A8.3.2.5. A single ventilation system can serve both purge ventilation and normal
     ventilation requirements. If the required normal ventilation flow rate is higher than the
     required purge ventilation flow rate, no additional purge requirement is needed since the
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       93


       ventilation system will operate constantly when the room is occupied. If the purge
       ventilation flow rate is higher than the normal ventilation flow rate, the flow rate can be
       increased from the normal ventilation flow rate to approach the purge ventilation flow
       rate when the mechanical room is occupied with two-speed fan motors, variable-speed
       fan motors, or additional exhaust fans. This higher flow rate can be achieved with motion
       detectors or by interlocking the fans with the local lighting circuits.
A8.4. Location of Vents. The ventilation system's inlet and discharge must be properly
positioned for efficient mechanical equipment room ventilation. ASHRAE 15-2007 addresses
this requirement as follows: Provision shall be made for inlet air to replace that being exhausted.
Openings for inlet air shall be positioned to avoid recirculation. Air supply and exhaust ducts to
the machinery room shall serve no other area. Discharge of the air shall be to the outdoors in
such a manner as not to cause a nuisance or danger.
   A8.4.1. Separate Ventilation System. Equipment room ventilation must be separate from
   ventilation systems devoted to other building areas. The equipment room fans and ductwork
   should not ventilate other areas. The ventilation system discharge cannot feed other fresh air
   intakes. Because some fans may not run continuously, it is important to keep the fan
   discharge from being blocked while the fan is off. Make-up or outside air must be properly
   conditioned to prevent damage caused by large, rapid temperature swings or freezing
   temperatures.
   A8.4.2. Exhaust Fan Provides Purging. The exhaust fans must purge refrigerant from the
   equipment room. To remove heavier-than-air refrigerants, the exhaust fan inlet should be
   located near the equipment and the floor whenever possible. Refrigerants released into an
   equipment room drop to the floor and fill the room from the bottom up unless it is disturbed
   by air turbulence. The equipment room occupants are safest when the exhaust fan intake is
   below the normal breathing zone as shown in Figure A8.3. It is important for the ventilation
   to create an air sweep across all of the refrigeration equipment.

Figure A8.3. Suggested Exhaust Fan Location.




       A8.4.2.1. When exhaust fans are used to keep the equipment room cool or remove
       smoke from accidental fires, they are typically installed in the ceiling because heat and
 94                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


      smoke both rise. However, if the ventilation system exhausts refrigerants and/or
      combustion products and removes heat from the mechanical equipment room, inlets
      should be present at the floor and ceiling levels. This can be achieved by using either
      separate fans or a ducted fan with inlets at the floor and ceiling levels, as shown in Figure
      A8.4.

Figure A8.4. Dual Duct Exhaust.




      A8.4.2.2. The total ventilation volume required during refrigerant purging could be
      provided by the ceiling-level and floor-level fans. The most effective refrigerant purge
      includes a floor-level fan capable of meeting the calculated refrigerant purge rate. A
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    95


     ducted system can be used with or without flow-control dampers. If dampers are used,
     they should be designed and controlled to provide maximum exhaust from the floor-level
     inlet after a refrigerant alarm condition occurs. The fan inlet should be near a potential
     leak source and away from the fresh air intake. This arrangement will produce a
     sweeping action that draws fresh air across the leaking refrigerant toward the exhaust fan.
     A8.4.2.3. Figure A8.5 is a sketch of a mechanical equipment room in a building corner.
     In Arrangement A, ventilation is provided via six louvered service doors along one wall
     (the fresh air inlet) and an exhaust fan mounted 4 feet (1.2 meters) above the floor in an
     adjacent wall. Continuous ventilation is provided at the refrigerant purge volume. While
     this arrangement provides adequate air movement across the chiller, it also creates a
     stagnant area in one corner. Ducting the exhaust fan inlet across the opposite wall, as
     depicted by Arrangement B, would provide better airflow across the entire room.
 96                                                              AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


Figure A8.5. Modifying an Existing Ventilation System.




A8.5. Mechanical Equipment Room Doors, Passageways and Access. ASHRAE 15-2007
requires that, with the exception of access doors and panels in the air ducts and air-handling units
conforming to ASHRAE 15-2007, Section 8.11.7, each refrigerating machinery room shall have
a tight-fitting door or doors opening outward, self-closing if they open into the building, and
adequate in number to ensure freedom for persons to escape in an emergency. Doors
communicating with the building shall be approved, self-closing, tight-fitting fire doors. Access
to the refrigerant machinery room shall be restricted to authorized personnel. Doors shall be
clearly marked or permanent signs shall be posted at each entrance to indicate this restriction.
The louvered doors shown in Figure A8.5 are used to provide the required service clearance for
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     97


the chillers and a direct exit leading outdoors. Machinery room access is specifically restricted
by ASHRAE 15-2007 to authorized personnel only.
A8.6. Open Flame Devices.
   A8.6.1. Machinery Room Combustion Air and Refrigerants.
       A8.6.1.1. ASHRAE 15-2007 states that no open flames that use combustion air from the
       machinery room shall be installed where any refrigerant is used. Combustion equipment
       shall not be installed in the same machinery room with refrigerant-containing equipment
       except under one of the following conditions:
           A8.6.1.1.1. Combustion air is ducted from outside the machinery room and sealed in
           such a manner as to prevent any refrigerant leakage from entering the combustion
           chamber; or
           A8.6.1.1.2. A refrigerant detector, conforming to ASHRAE 15-2007, Section
           8.11.2.1, is employed to automatically shut down the combustion process in the event
           of refrigerant leakage.
       A8.6.1.2. Exceptions are available for machinery rooms that use only carbon dioxide or
       ammonia for refrigerant and internal combustion engines are the prime mover for
       compressors. There shall be no flame-producing device or continuously operating hot
       surface over 426 °C (800 °F) permanently installed in the room. Erecting a partition wall
       to isolate the flame-producing device from the refrigerant-containing device is no longer
       an option.
   A8.6.2. Machinery Room and Storage Room Special Requirements.
       A8.6.2.1. The total of all groups A2, B2, A3 and B3 refrigerants, other than R-717
       ammonia, shall not exceed 1100 pounds (500 kg) without approval by the authority
       having jurisdiction.
       A8.6.2.2. Walls, floor, and ceiling shall be tight and of noncombustible construction.
       Walls, floor, and ceiling separating the refrigerant machinery room from other occupied
       spaces shall be of at least one-hour fire-resistive construction.
       A8.6.2.3. The refrigerant machinery room shall have a door that opens directly to the
       outside or through vestibules equipped with self-closing, tight-fitting doors.
       A8.6.2.4. Exterior opening, if present, shall not be under any fire escape or any open
       stairway.
       A8.6.2.5. All pipes piercing the interior walls, ceiling, or floor of such rooms shall be
       tightly sealed to the walls, ceiling, or floor through which they pass.
       A8.6.2.6. If refrigerant groups A2, A3, B2, and B3 are used, the machinery room shall
       conform to Class I, Division II of the NEC. If refrigerant groups A1 and B1 are used, the
       machinery room is not required to meet Class I, Division II, of the NEC.
A8.7. Pressure-Relief Piping.
   A8.7.1. ASHRAE 15-2007 states that refrigeration systems shall be protected by a pressure-
   relief device or other approved means to safely relieve pressure due to fire or other abnormal
   conditions. ASHRAE 15-2007 also includes very specific descriptions for determining when
98                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


  pressure-relief devices are necessary and how to size them. The original equipment
  manufacturer provides such devices on packaged systems and on major system components
  built-up in the field. However, ASHRAE 15-2007 should be reviewed in all cases to ensure
  compliance with that standard.
  A8.7.2. Piping Rupture Devices. After the equipment is installed, each rupture device must
  be piped to a safe location according to the following ASHRAE 15-2007 guidelines:
  Pressure-relief devices and fusible plugs on any system containing a group A3 or B3
  refrigerant; and on any system containing more than 6.6 pounds of a group A2, B1, or B2
  refrigerant; and on any system containing more than 110 pounds of a group A1 refrigerant
  shall discharge to the atmosphere at a location not less than 15 feet (4.5 meters) above the
  adjoining ground level and not less than 20 feet (6 meters) from any window, ventilation
  opening, or exit in a building. The discharge shall be terminated in a manner that will prevent
  the discharge refrigerant from being sprayed directly on personnel in the vicinity and for
  material or debris from entering the discharge piping. Discharge piping connected to the
  discharge side of the fusible load or rupture member should have provisions to prevent
  plugging the pipe in the event the fusible plugs or rupture member functions. If a pressure
  relief valve is used in series with a rupture disc, the rupture disc should be a non-shattering
  type. A metallic non-fragmenting rupture disc is normally specified in this situation. A list of
  refrigerants in groups A1, A2, A3, B1, B2, and B3 can be found in Attachment 4, Table
  A4.1.
     A8.7.2.1. It is critical that the materials used in the pipe and joints of the relief device
     piping are compatible with the vented refrigerant. Acceptable materials like steel or
     copper pipe are commonly used. Polyvinylchloride (PVC) piping is not recommended.
     Many adhesives and flexible connection devices that isolate vibration are untested for
     refrigerant compatibility with these types of piping constructions. A flexible stainless-
     steel pump connector or its equivalent is recommended.
     A8.7.2.2. Vent pipes should be equipped with a drip leg capable of holding up to 1
     gallon (3.8 liters) of liquid. Use a standard 0.25 inch FL by 0.25 inch NPT capped
     refrigerant service valve to remove the liquid. Accumulated liquid should be removed
     from the drip leg as part of a regular maintenance schedule once every six months. When
     draining the vent, use recommended refrigerant oil-handling procedures. Refrigerant oil
     may be discharged from the purge unit’s exhaust. This oil may, over time, accumulate
     inside the drip leg. A correctly piped vent pipe is shown in Figure A8.6. Note: 1 gallon =
     231 cubic inches. The following equation should be used to find the amount of L, the
     pipe length in inches, required for the drip leg: L = 294/d2, where d = pipe’s inside
     diameter in inches.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    99


Figure A8.6. Suggested Refrigerant Vent Piping.




A8.8. Purge Discharge.
   A8.8.1. Purge units that remove non-condensable gas from the refrigeration system should
   have their discharge lines piped in accordance with relief piping requirements (see paragraph
   A8.7). The most convenient way to properly exhaust the purge discharge to the atmosphere is
   to route it into the valve (rupture disc) vent pipe. The purge discharge line must be free of
   liquid traps and sloped away from the purge unit to prevent liquid from collecting near it.
   Additionally, do not allow liquid to collect at the pressure-relief valve or rupture disc.
   Connect the purge discharge pipe on the chiller side of any vibration isolation as shown in
   Figure A8.6. Consult the purge equipment manufacturer about properly sizing the purge
   discharge line.
 100                                                         AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


   A8.8.2. Minimize Loss. Low purge-related refrigerant loss minimizes atmospheric
   refrigerant discharge and reduces refrigerant replacement costs. To minimize purge-related
   refrigerant loss:
       A8.8.2.1. Choose a purge unit with a low refrigerant-to-non-condensable-gas discharge
       ratio that can operate while the chiller is off. The EPA has not defined high-efficiency
       with respect to purge units. However, several commercially available units are now
       capable of achieving 0.0005 pound of refrigerant discharged per pound of air purged. See
       Attachment 6 for more details about purge systems.
       A8.8.2.2. Routinely check for and repair refrigeration system leaks. Routine logs of
       purge operations and chiller runtimes provide excellent information about system
       integrity.
A8.9. Occupied Space Contamination. There shall be no airflow to or from an occupied space
through a machinery room unless the air is ducted and sealed to prevent any refrigerant leakage
from entering the airstream. Access doors and panels in ductwork and air-handling units shall
have gaskets and be tightly fitted.
A8.10. Additional Reference. An additional reference is provided as a suggested source where
more in-depth information can be found: Trane APP-APM001-EN, Refrigerating Systems and
Machinery Rooms – Application Considerations for Compliance with ASHRAE Standard 15.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       101


                                          Attachment 9
          FUNDAMENTALS OF COOLING LOAD AND ENERGY ANALYSIS

A9.1. Introduction. Energy conservation measures and building function changes made since
the design of the current cooling system may have changed the maximum required cooling load
the air-conditioning equipment must meet. Future conservation measures may create more
changes. These changes must be kept in mind when selecting air-conditioning equipment for
replacement. Equipment size should be analyzed to correctly meet present and future demands.
Load and energy analyses are needed for buildings that have undergone a significant change
since the chiller’s installation. If the building function has not changed but the chiller was never
fully loaded or remained overloaded for a substantial time, analysis is needed to accurately size
an affordable new chiller. By performing a detailed cooling load and energy analysis, a clear
understanding of the building's cooling needs can be determined. Accurate load matching of the
chiller(s) will reduce initial capital cost and annual energy usage.
   A9.1.1. Building Survey. To properly analyze a building and determine its cooling load, a
   physical survey of the building is required. It is necessary to know the following: building
   material; type and quantity of heat-generating equipment; occupancy; orientation; air-
   handling system types; and zoning. This information is determined by both reviewing
   construction drawings and physically surveying the building.
   A9.1.2. Cooling Load Calculation. To determine the maximum cooling capacity required
   from the chiller, a building peak cooling load calculation must be performed. This analysis
   can be completed by following the guidelines in the latest edition of the ASHRAE
   Handbook, Fundamentals. Cooling load and energy analysis calculations range from the
   simple to the complex.
   A9.1.3. Energy Analysis.
       A9.1.3.1. An energy analysis determines the annual energy consumption, usually on an
       hourly basis. System part-load requirements can be summarized in a cooling-load profile.
       These data are used to determine the best available alternative for cooling. The three
       elements that define annual energy usage are:
           A9.1.3.1.1. Space Load: The energy required to maintain thermal comfort in the
           space.
           A9.1.3.1.2. Equipment Load: The energy required by the equipment that
           distributes the heating or cooling medium to the conditioned space (e.g., air handling
           units, pumps, fans).
           A9.1.3.1.3. Plant Load: The energy required by the central plant equipment that
           converts fuel or electricity to cooling effects (e.g., chillers and cooling towers).
       A9.1.3.2. Many computer programs are available to model energy and financial impacts.
       Some of the most common are Trane’s Trace, Carrier’s HAP, and eQUEST. eQUEST
       was developed by DOE and is free to use and download online at
       http://www.energydesignresources.com/resources/software-tools/equest.aspx. Other
       DOE-sponsored         energy       analysis       tools     are       found        at
       http://apps1.eere.energy.gov/buildings/tools_directory/doe_sponsored.cfm.
 102                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       A9.1.3.3. A cooling load profile provides information allowing optimization of the
       chiller selection. The profile will identify the amount of time the chiller is at 100 percent
       (peak), 75 percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of a full load. These values, along with
       energy cost data, are used to estimate the annual energy cost for the system. Because
       part-load efficiency varies between chiller types, these values should be used when
       selecting a chiller. Matching chiller characteristics to the load profile increases overall
       system efficiency.
   A9.1.4. Procedure. The following information is required when using manual calculation
   or an energy/economic analysis program. The following sections outline the basic steps to
   determine the design load and annual cooling load profile for a given building. This analysis
   determines:
       A9.1.4.1. The required capacity of the chiller(s).
       A9.1.4.2. The total annual energy usage.
       A9.1.4.3. The number of hours at part-load conditions, defined as 100 percent (peak), 75
       percent, 50 percent, and 25 percent of peak load.
A9.2. Conduct Building Survey. Before conducting the survey, obtain the building’s
construction drawings. While performing the physical survey, talk with the building occupants
and the building manager or maintenance technician to obtain information not shown on the
drawings. A building cooling load survey includes the activities listed and discussed below.
   A9.2.1. Indoor and Outdoor Conditions. Record the desired temperature and humidity for
   all spaces. These values may appear on the construction drawings but they should be verified
   before proceeding. Use Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-400-02, Design: Engineering
   Weather Data, for outdoor design conditions.
   A9.2.2. Wall, Roof, Glass, and Partition Data. Record the construction, dimensions, and
   orientation. Shaded or glazed glass may have been added and should be noted. Much of this
   information can be found on the drawings but conduct a spot-check to verify the information.
   A9.2.3. Occupancy. Record the number of people who occupy each space and their activity
   level. Determine the schedule of occupants since this can impact the cooling load.
   A9.2.4. Lighting. Record the number of fixtures, type, watts per fixture, and the usage
   schedule, if applicable. Determine if fluorescent lighting system lamps or ballasts may have
   been upgraded from the original installation. Lower wattage lamps or new T-8 style lamps
   may have been installed. Remember that wattage ratings on T-8 lamps do not correlate with
   actual input power. For example, a four-lamp, 32-watt (W) T-8 lamp fixture with ballasts
   draws approximately 110W of power.
   A9.2.5. Other Internal Heat Sources. These sources include, but are not limited to,
   computers, monitors, photocopying machines, coffee makers, refrigerators, vending
   machines, and cooking equipment. Record the number of heat sources found, the type, and
   the amount of heat entering the space. Consider both latent heat and heat that can be sensed.
   This information can be determined from amp-meter readings or estimated from nameplate
   data. Use caution when taking nameplate data; these values are peak current requirements
   and may not represent steady-state current draw.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      103


   A9.2.6. Ventilation. Measure and record the rate of outside air entering the building
   through the air-handling systems. Design values will probably be shown on the drawings,
   but, if possible, the value(s) should be field-verified. The ventilation quantity should conform
   to ASHRAE 62.1-2007, Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality, and any local
   requirements.
   A9.2.7. Infiltration. It is practically impossible to record infiltration rates; however, they
   can be estimated by surveying for in-leakage and building pressure differences. An engineer
   who understands ASHRAE methods for estimating infiltration can accurately survey a
   building.
   A9.2.8. System Operational Characteristics. Determine if:
       A9.2.8.1. The chiller(s) are shut down during the winter months and the length of the
       shutdown period;
       A9.2.8.2. The air handling systems use air-side economizers;
       A9.2.8.3. The air handling systems use night set-back or shutdown;
       A9.2.8.4. The chiller(s) are integrated with an operation schedule for duty-cycling.
A9.3. Conduct Cooling Load Calculation. The method used to determine the cooling load is
detailed in the latest edition of the ASHRAE Handbook, Fundamentals. The cooling load can be
calculated manually for small buildings. Calculating the peak cooling load may also be estimated
by taking measurements at the appropriate time on an existing system. A computer program
should be used for large buildings.
   A9.3.1. Computer Software.
       A9.3.1.1. Developing load calculations for buildings of moderate or greater complexity
       can become laborious. Using a computer program can be of great benefit. In addition to
       saving time, computer programs for large building analysis provide additional
       calculations that would be impractical to perform manually. For example, the cooling
       load may be calculated for each hour of the design day so a load profile may be plotted
       for that particular day. Some energy calculations are simply an extension of the load
       calculation. The loads are calculated for each hour of each day for an entire year or
       another representative time period. Building cooling loads are accumulated over an
       annual period.
       A9.3.1.2. Any computer programs used to conduct cooling load calculations should use
       the latest ASHRAE methods. Check with your base communications squadron for
       approved cooling load software to install on Air Force computer systems.
   A9.3.2. Simplified Cooling Load Calculation. The building maximum cooling load
   calculation is presented in a simplified manner in Figure A9.1. (Details of each equation are
   published in the latest edition of the ASHRAE Handbook, Fundamentals.)
   A9.3.3. Measure/Validate Maximum Cooling Load. The calculated maximum cooling
   load may be validated by taking measurements on an existing system. For this method to be
   accurate, measurements should be taken on a day that closely represents a design cooling day
   with maximum load conditions. For most systems, the peak load occurs on a hot, humid,
   sunny day with full internal occupancy and equipment usage.
 104                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       A9.3.3.1. Peak cooling weather conditions are usually easily recognized. Be careful to
       consider the wet-bulb temperature. Internal conditions may be more difficult to identify
       but can be accurately estimated. When design-day conditions occur, measuring chiller
       loading will define the maximum building cooling load. Measure and record:
          A9.3.3.1.1. The chiller voltage across all phases;
          A9.3.3.1.2. The chiller amperage readings of all phases;
          A9.3.3.1.3. The outdoor conditions at the time of readings (dry-bulb and wet-bulb
          temperatures, cloudiness, date, and time of day);
          A9.3.3.1.4. The chilled water entering-and-leaving conditions and the flow, if
          available.
       A9.3.3.2. This information can be compared to the chiller’s rated capacity to determine
       maximum cooling load. For example, if the chiller is 95 percent loaded (electrically), the
       actual heat transfer can be determined from the manufacturer's data. Alternatively, the
       chilled water flow, entering temperature, and leaving temperature will define the heat
       transfer in Btu/hr by: Q = Flow (gal/min) x (TENTERING – TLEAVING) x 500. If
       desired, additional data may be gathered for part-load weather conditions to estimate the
       cooling load profile.

Figure A9.1. Cooling Load Calculation.
1) The overall building cooling load (Q) can be expressed as:
        Q = QSPACE + QRA + QSA
               Where:
               QSPACE = heat gain to the conditioned space
               QRA = heat gain to the return air side of airflow
               QSA = heat gain to the supply side of airflow
Each element of this equation may have both sensible and latent heat gain components.
2) QSPACE can be further defined as:
        QSPACE = QW&R + QGLASS + QPAR + QINT
               Where:
               QW&R = heat gain through walls and roofs, both conduction and solar effects
               QGLASS = heat gain through glass, both conduction and solar effects
               QPAR = heat gain through partitions
               QINT = heat gain internal to the space
The elements of this equation, with the exception of QINT, will have sensible heat components
only. If the space under consideration has several zones (separately controlled areas), then
QSPACE will be a summation of all zone space loads.
Furthermore, QINT can be expressed as:
        QINT = QPEOPLE + QLIGHTS + QEQUIP + QINFIL
               Where:
               QPEOPLE = heat gain from people within the space
               QLIGHTS = heat gain from lighting within the space
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       105


                QEQUIP = heat gain from equipment within the space
                QINFIL = heat gain from infiltration
Each element of this equation, with the exception of QLIGHTS, may have both sensible and
latent heat gain components.
3) Heat gain to the return side of airflow can be expressed as:
        QRA = QPLENUM + QRAFAN + QVENT
                Where:
                QPLENUM = heat gain to any return plenums or ductwork
                QRAFAN = heat gain from any return air fans and motors
                QVENT = heat gain from fresh air ventilation
Heat gain to return air plenums may include additional wall, roof, or floor heat gain, as well as a
percentage of lighting heat gain. Heat gain to return air ductwork may also be present, although
the significance is usually small.
Heat gain from fresh air ventilation is usually a very significant heat gain and should be carefully
considered. Although minimizing the amount of outside air can reduce the cooling load, extreme
caution must be exercised because of problems that may develop with indoor air quality. (For
additional information regarding indoor air quality, refer to ASHRAE 62.1-2007.)
4) Heat gain to the supply side of air flow may be expressed as:
        QSA = QPLENUM + QSAFAN
                Where:
                QPLENUM = heat gain to any supply plenums or ductwork
                QSAFAN = heat gain from the supply fan and motor
Heat gain to supply air plenums may include additional wall, roof, or floor heat gain. Heat gain
to supply air ductwork may also be present, although the significance is usually small.
Note: For non-air systems (for example, packaged terminal air conditioners), QSA and QRA do
not apply.
 106                                                          AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


                                           Attachment 10
                               CHILLER SELECTION GUIDE

A10.1. Introduction. This attachment is a guide for engineers who select and optimize water
chillers. Chiller selection is the most important component when optimizing chilled-water
systems. All options must be examined and a selection made based on the lowest life-cycle cost
(LCC). Because of site-specific conditions—no waste-heat source or low-cost electricity relative
to natural gas—some alternatives can be eliminated immediately. Figure A10.1 illustrates a
broad summary of the chiller selection process. Table A10.1 provides a summary of various
chiller types, including typical costs, sizes, and efficiencies.

Figure A10.1. Chiller Selection Flowchart.




Table A10.1. Chiller Selection Guide.
Equipment Type                 Available      Equipment      Full          Load   Coefficient
                               Tonnage        Cost           Efficiency           of
                               Range          (Chiller Only)                      Performance
                                              $/Ton                               (COP)
Single-stage           steam   100–1800       350–650        15–20 lb/hr/ton      0.85–0.63
absorption
Two-stage steam absorption     100–1800       475–700        5–10 lb/hr/ton       0.95–1.05
Direct-fired absorption        100–1100       600–880        10–15 Mbh/ton(1)     1.2–0.80
Electric scroll                20–60          350–450        0.85–2.0 kW/ton      4.0–1.8
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       107


Electric reciprocating(3)   N/A             N/A                N/A                   N/A
Electric rotary screw(2)    60–400          300–600            0.75–0.85 kW/ton      4.7–4.1
Electric centrifugal        350–1500        260–330            0.45–0.80 kW/ton      6.4–4.4
Natural gas engine-driven   100–500         750–1200+          8–9 Mbh/ton(1)        1.4–1.3
(1) Mbh = 1000 Btu/hr
(2) Available with ammonia refrigerant in 30 to 300 tons
(3) Available with ammonia refrigerant in 20 to 400 tons
   A10.1.1. Applicability. The selection process discussed in this attachment applies to chilled
   water systems with single or multiple chiller installations. Chiller types under consideration
   should include steam, hot water, and direct-fired absorption chillers; scroll, reciprocating,
   rotary screw, and centrifugal electric chillers; ammonia chillers; and natural gas engine-
   driven (GED) chillers.
   A10.1.2. Selection Procedure. The guidelines for selecting the most effective chiller(s)
   contain two parts:
       A10.1.2.1. Part one describes various types of chillers, including their advantages and
       disadvantages, and suggests when each chiller type should be considered. The chiller
       information in this attachment is general. More detailed information should be sought
       from chiller manufacturers.
       A10.1.2.2. Part two describes a general selection procedure.
       A10.1.2.3. Chiller efficiency is expressed by the ratio of energy input divided by cooling
       capacity. Refrigeration capacity is expressed as kilowatts per ton (kW/ton) or pounds of
       steam per hour per ton (steam/hr/ton).
       A10.1.2.4. Chillers are heat pumps that transfer heat from one source to another. The
       energy required to "pump" the heat is usually less than the available cooling capacity.
       Because this concept is somewhat different from the traditional definition of efficiency,
       the term coefficient of performance (COP) is often used to express efficiency. COP is
       simply the cooling capacity divided by the energy input. When equivalent units are used,
       the COP will be a dimensionless number, usually greater than 1.
       A10.1.2.5. Chiller efficiency and performance cannot always be evaluated for peak load.
       Most cases require that chillers be evaluated based on part-load performance. Part-load
       performance is the mechanical efficiency of the machine operating at less than a full load.
A10.2. Chiller Descriptions and Performance Characteristics. The following paragraphs
describe the commonly available chiller types and their applications. Of the chiller types
discussed below, absorption chillers are rarely used unless there is an available significant source
of waste heat nearby.
   A10.2.1. Single-Stage Steam or Hot Water Absorption Chiller (Water-Lithium
   Bromide Solution). Consider single-stage steam or hot water absorption chillers only when
   there is enough excess steam or hot water available. Steam inlet pressures at the chiller
   cannot exceed 12 to 14 psig with maximum temperatures of 171 °C (340 °F). Hot water must
   be available at 93 °C (200 °F) to 188 °C (370 °F). Cooling capacities range from 100 to 1700
   tons, with chilled water supply temperatures in the range of 4 °C (40 °F) to 10 °C (50 °F).
 108                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       A10.2.1.1. A single-stage steam or hot water absorption chiller uses heat energy to boil a
       dilute solution of lithium bromide and water. The resulting refrigerant vapor is condensed
       in the condenser section. The liquid refrigerant then passes through a throttling device
       and enters the evaporator as a saturated liquid at approximately 4 °C (40 °F). The liquid
       refrigerant is collected within and continuously sprayed over the evaporator tube bundles,
       thereby cooling the water. The resulting refrigerant vapor migrates to the absorber section
       where it is again condensed on the absorber tube bundles. Cooling tower water is used to
       remove heat from the absorber tubes. The diluted solution is then pumped back into the
       concentrator.
       A10.2.1.2. Single-stage absorption chillers are approximately 20 percent more expensive
       than a comparable electric centrifugal chiller. However, if excess waste heat energy is
       available, energy cost savings may be gained. Waste heat energy should be available
       year-round to obtain the maximum cost benefit.
       A10.2.1.3. Single-stage absorption chillers cost between $260 to $650 per ton of
       refrigeration capacity. Their efficiencies range from 15 to 20 pounds per hour per ton
       (lb/hr/ton) with COPs ranging from 0.85 to 0.63. Figure A10.2 shows that a single-stage
       absorption machine can operate as low as 10 percent of its maximum capacity. The
       chiller is most efficient at 50 to 80 percent of maximum capacity.

Figure A10.2. Single-Stage Steam Absorption Chiller Part-Load Performance.




   A10.2.2. Two-Stage Steam or Hot Water Absorption Chillers (Water-Lithium Bromide
   Solution). Two-stage steam or hot water absorption chillers are similar to single-stage
   models, except that a two-stage machine uses higher steam pressures or hot water
   temperatures in two concentrator stages. For these machines, steam pressures between 60 to
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     109


   115 psig and hot water temperatures up to 188 °C (370 °F) can be used. Cooling capacities
   range from 100 to 1500 tons.
      A10.2.2.1. Two-stage absorption chillers cost between $460 to $600 per ton. They
      require cost-effective waste heat energy and are approximately two to two-and-one-half
      times as expensive as a comparable electric centrifugal chiller.
      A10.2.2.2. Full-load efficiencies range from 5 to 10 lb/hr/ton, with COPs ranging from
      2.7 to 1.3. Figure A10.3 shows that a two-stage absorption machine can operate with 10
      percent of its maximum capacity. The chiller is most efficient at 60 to 80 percent of its
      maximum capacity.

Figure A10.3. Two-Stage Steam Absorption Chiller Part-Load Performance.




   A10.2.3. Direct-Fired Absorption Chiller (Water-Lithium Bromide Solution). Direct-
   fired chillers use natural gas, fuel oil, or waste heat in the form of clean exhaust gases (T >
   316 °C [600 °F]) from sources such as gas turbines and diesel engines. Direct-fired gas
   absorption chillers are available only in two-stage configurations. They burn approximately
   10 to 15 cubic feet of natural gas per hour per ton of cooling. These machines range in size
   from 100 to 1500 tons.
      A10.2.3.1. In general, direct-fired absorption chillers have the same configuration and
      processes as two-stage steam or hot water absorption chillers except for the input energy
      source. A unique feature of most direct-fired absorption chillers is that they can also
      provide heat. Most manufacturers refer to direct-fired absorption chillers as a chiller-
      heater.
 110                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       A10.2.3.2. The heater portion of the direct-fired chiller operates when the first-stage
       generator energy source heats the diluted lithium bromide solution. This drives off
       refrigerant vapor and leaves a concentrated solution. The hot refrigerant vapor's heat is
       transferred to the building's hot water system via an auxiliary heat exchanger or through
       the unit’s internal heat exchanger. The condensed refrigerant liquid returns to the first-
       stage generator and completes the cycle.
       A10.2.3.3. A direct-fired absorption chiller is approximately two-and-one-half times
       more expensive than a comparable-capacity electric centrifugal chiller, but it remains
       competitive with two-stage steam or hot water absorption chillers.
       A10.2.3.4. Direct-fired absorption chillers range in price from $530 to $860 per ton of
       refrigeration capacity. Their full-load efficiencies are approximately 12,000 Btu per hour
       per ton (12 Mbh/ton) of refrigeration capacity, with COPs ranging from 1.2 to 0.80.
       Figure A10.4 shows that a direct-fired machine can operate at as low as 25 percent of its
       maximum capacity. The chiller is most efficient between 70 to 90 percent of its
       maximum capacity.

Figure A10.4. Direct-Fired Absorption Chiller Part-Load Performance.




   A10.2.4. Electric Scroll Chiller. The electric scroll chiller is the smallest of the electrical
   chillers. It is available in both water-cooled and air-cooled configurations. Sizes range from
   20 to 80 tons of refrigeration capacity. Due to their small size, scroll chillers should not be
   considered for central plant applications. Good applications for scroll chillers include areas
   that have special temperature and humidity requirements that packaged DX equipment
   cannot meet.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     111


      A10.2.4.1. Its general operating characteristics are similar to a reciprocating chiller. The
      main difference is that the scroll chiller uses a rotary-type compressor. The compressor
      operates by rotating a spiral-shaped scroll that compresses the vapor as it is forced
      through the scroll.
      A10.2.4.2. Scroll chillers can be manifolded together to provide multiple staging and
      load-matching capabilities. Manifolded scroll chillers can be an alternative to
      reciprocating units. This is most effective when the maximum load exceeds a single-
      scroll chiller capacity but falls in the range of a reciprocating chiller capacity.
      A10.2.4.3. Scroll chillers cost $340 to $380 per ton of refrigeration capacity. Their full-
      load efficiencies range from 0.85 to 2.0 kW/ton, with COPs in the range of 4.0 to 1.8.
      Figure A10.5 shows that an electric scroll machine can operate at 25 percent of its
      maximum capacity. The chiller is most efficient at 25 to 50 percent of its maximum
      capacity.

Figure A10.5. Electric Scroll Chiller Part-Load Performance.




   A10.2.5. Electric Reciprocating Chiller.
      A10.2.5.1. The reciprocating chiller has the lowest first cost and the lowest efficiency of
      the chillers considered in this pamphlet. Initial cost is between $340 to $470 per ton, with
      full-load efficiencies from 0.90 to 1.10 kW/ton. Reciprocating chillers are available only
      with HFC-134a, HCFC-410A, or ammonia refrigerants. Reciprocating chillers are
      available in either air-cooled or water-cooled configurations.
      A10.2.5.2. Air-cooled reciprocating chillers range in capacity from 20 to 130 tons.
      Water-cooled chillers range in capacity from 50 to 200 tons. The full-load efficiency of
 112                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       an air-cooled system is usually less than a water-cooled system despite the energy
       required by the condenser water pump. An air-cooled system requires more space than a
       water-cooled system due to the larger condenser surface areas and clearances needed for
       circulation air. Figure A10.6 shows an electric reciprocating machine operating at 15
       percent of its maximum capacity. The chiller is most efficient between 30 to 50 percent
       of its maximum capacity.

Figure A10.6. Electric Reciprocating Chiller Part-Load Performance.




   A10.2.6. Electric Rotary Screw Chiller. The rotary screw chiller is similar to the scroll
   chiller; neither type uses piston compressors. The rotary screw chiller uses two rotors for the
   compression cycle. A male rotor is driven by the motor that compresses refrigerant gas
   between a female rotor.
       A10.2.6.1. Rotary screw chillers offer higher efficiencies than reciprocating chillers of
       equal capacity. They are more expensive than reciprocating chillers. Screw chillers are
       available only with HFC-134a or ammonia refrigerants.
       A10.2.6.2. Screw chillers are available in either air-cooled or water-cooled
       configurations. The air-cooled machines range in capacity from 70 to 400 tons. The
       water-cooled type ranges in capacity from 100 to 500 tons. The full-load efficiency of a
       screw chiller is generally around 0.80 kW/ton, with COPs ranging from 4.7 to 4.1.
       Among comparable-sized machines, the part-load efficiency of a screw chiller is better
       than the part-load efficiency of a reciprocating chiller. When load-matching cannot be
       achieved through staging individual chillers, this favorable efficiency characteristic of the
       screw chillers should be considered. Based on energy efficiency, a water-cooled screw
       chiller is a better selection than an air-cooled chiller. Figure A10.7 shows that an electric
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    113


      screw machine can operate at 10 percent of its maximum capacity. The chiller is most
      efficient between 35 to 55 percent of maximum capacity.

Figure A10.7. Electric Rotary Screw Chiller Part-Load Performance.




   A10.2.7. Electric Centrifugal Chiller.
      A10.2.7.1. Electric centrifugal chillers use hermetically sealed or open-drive
      compressor/motor assemblies. They come with one-stage, two-stage, or three-stage
      compression cycles. Refrigerant vapor is accelerated through the impeller, increasing
      both pressure and temperature. The high-temperature vapor enters the condenser (a shell
      and tube heat exchanger) where it is cooled to saturation by condenser water passing
      through the tubes. The liquid refrigerant then passes through a metering device, such as
      an orifice plate, which lowers the pressure. The low-pressure liquid refrigerant enters the
      evaporator (a shell and tube heat exchanger) where it evaporates by heat transfer from the
      chilled water passing through the tubes; this chills the water. Finally, the low-pressure
      refrigerant vapor returns to the compressor.
      A10.2.7.2. Electric centrifugal chillers have the highest full-load efficiency of the
      electric chillers discussed in this pamphlet. The average full-load efficiency is
      approximately 0.45 to 0.80 kW/ton, with COPs ranging from 6.4 to 4.4, depending on
      capacity and water temperatures. First cost of electric chillers ranges from $260 to $330
      per ton. Centrifugal chillers can operate with many environmentally friendly refrigerants,
      such as HCFC-123 and HFC-134a. Electric centrifugal chillers range in size from
      approximately 100 to 1500 tons. Only water-cooled configurations are available. Figure
      A10.8 shows that an electric centrifugal machine can operate at 10 percent of its
      maximum capacity. The chiller is most efficient at 55 to 85 percent of its maximum
 114                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       capacity. An emerging technology is the Turbocor® chiller with frictionless magnetic
       bearings. It is currently offered by McQuay and is available in the 110- to 175-ton range.
       It uses HFC-134a for refrigerant. The Turbocor has an integrated part-load efficiency of
       0.4 kW per ton.

Figure A10.8. Electric Centrifugal Chiller Part-Load Performance.




   A10.2.8. Natural Gas Engine Chiller. Natural gas engine-driven chillers use a natural gas-
   fired engine rather than an electric motor. Engine-driven chillers are currently only available
   with screw compressors but may soon be available with reciprocating compressors. These
   chillers are water-cooled and range in size from 100 to 500 tons. The refrigerant used is
   HFC-134a. The efficiency is approximately 9 cubic feet/hour of natural gas per ton of
   cooling capacity. Natural gas engine-driven chillers can be used to control peak electrical
   demand during high summer electrical use periods. Engine-driven chillers are more
   expensive than motor-driven chillers of comparable capacity and require more maintenance.
A10.3. Chiller Selection Procedure. This section outlines a step-by-step procedure for
selecting chiller(s).
   A10.3.1. Cooling Load Profile. It is essential that the cooling load profile be determined
   (see Attachment 9, paragraph A9.1.3.3). The site should be surveyed for available utilities.
       A10.3.1.1. Step 1. Determine available input energy sources. There are four potential
       input energy sources that should be evaluated:
          A10.3.1.1.1. Waste heat energy:
              A10.3.1.1.1.1. Low-pressure steam (< 60 psig).
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     115


            A10.3.1.1.1.2. High-pressure steam (≥ 60 psig.
            A10.3.1.1.1.3. Hot water (93 °C [200 °F] to 188 °C [370 °F]).
            A10.3.1.1.1.4. Hot gas (> 316 °C [600 °F]).
        A10.3.1.1.2. Plant-generated steam:
            A10.3.1.1.2.1. Low-pressure steam (12 to 15 psig).
            A10.3.1.1.2.2. High-pressure steam (60 to 115 psig).
        A10.3.1.1.3. Natural gas.
        A10.3.1.1.4. Electric.
        A10.3.1.1.5. Survey the site and find all available energy sources, including natural
        gas, steam, and electric from adjoining sites. The cost of extending utility services
        from distant sites may be too great.
     A10.3.1.2. Step 2. Because some energy sources may be unavailable, some chillers can
     be eliminated after analyzing their costs based on the utility rate structure. Examples:
        A10.3.1.2.1. If natural gas is unavailable, natural gas direct-fired absorption and
        natural gas engine-driven chillers should not be considered.
        A10.3.1.2.2. If waste heat energy in the form of steam, hot gas, or hot water is
        unavailable, additional chiller types, such as single- and two-stage absorption chillers
        can be eliminated.
     A10.3.1.3. Step 3. Consider all possible alternatives and compare each chiller's
     capabilities with load-matching needs, space requirements, and special humidity and
     temperature requirements. This process will eliminate certain chillers. See the following
     examples below.
        A10.3.1.3.1. Example: If the load profile shows a peak load requiring 1000 tons, the
        use of scroll or reciprocating chillers would not be affordable. Using this criterion in
        Figure A10.1, a single refined chiller system selection cannot be determined but a set
        of possible alternatives will be available.
        A10.3.1.3.2. Example: The chiller must support a retrofit or replacement of a single
        250-ton centrifugal chiller. The only available input source is electric. The available
        chiller options are limited to a single electric centrifugal, rotary screw, reciprocating,
        or a multiple-chiller installation using rotary screws and reciprocating chillers.
        A10.3.1.3.3. A proper chiller selection matches the performance of single or multiple
        chillers to the required load profile. Load matching requires profile scrutiny and
        attention to detail to achieve optimum chiller load performance.
            A10.3.1.3.3.1. Example: If the load profile reflects a 1000-ton peak load, but a
            constant base load of 250 tons exists, multiple chillers should be considered. In
            this example, assume electric chillers are the only available alternatives.
            Therefore, potential chiller selections could be a single centrifugal or rotary used
            to match the constant 250 tons and two 375-ton centrifugal or rotary chillers to
            match the remaining 750 tons.
 116                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


           A10.3.1.3.4. When selecting and matching chillers to load profiles, consider part-
           load performance, peak-load performance, initial cost, space requirements, utility rate
           structures, and the availability of alternative energy input sources.
               A10.3.1.3.4.1. Example: If natural gas is available and the electric utility rate
               structure is such that high electrical rates and demand charges are imposed,
               natural gas becomes attractive. However, in areas where the electric utility rate
               and demand charges are low, relative to other energy sources, natural gas or fuel
               oil becomes less attractive.
A10.4. Recommendations for Further Study. To further optimize chiller selection, there are
several areas to consider. Some gas and electric utilities offer rebates and purchase incentives for
selecting a chiller and chiller plant accessories with high-efficiency performance.
   A10.4.1. Gas Utility Rebates. Some gas utility companies provide rebates and incentives
   for converting from electric-driven chillers to natural gas engine-driven chillers.
   A10.4.2. Chiller Heat Recovery. Heat dissipated from a natural gas engine-driven chiller
   should be considered for heat recovery. The available heat from the engine cooling fluid
   could be used to preheat domestic water or process heating water. Using this waste heat can
   significantly reduce LCC.
A10.5. Additional Reference. An additional reference is provided as a suggested source where
more in-depth information can be found: AHRI Standard 550/590-2011, Performance Rating of
Water Chilling Packages Using the Vapor Compression Cycle.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       117


                                         Attachment 11
       HEAT RECOVERY ALTERNATIVES FOR REFRIGERANT CHILLERS

A11.1. Introduction. The purpose of this attachment is to optimize water chiller selection by
considering heat recovery to convert waste heat into useful energy. This analysis should be
performed by an engineer familiar with the building’s mechanical systems and should include a
cost-benefit analysis.
   A11.1.1. Applicability.
       A11.1.1.1. This evaluation procedure is applicable to chiller installations where heat-
       recovery chillers may be financially feasible. Before heat recovery can be considered a
       viable alternative, the following questions must first be answered: Is there heat to
       recover? Can the recovered heat be used? A building is a likely candidate for heat
       recovery if it can pass this two-part test. However, a building may not be a good
       candidate for heat recovery even if it does satisfy the two criteria. An in-depth analysis of
       the heating and cooling load profiles of the building, as well as the equipment used, may
       be necessary. Recovered heat from chillers can provide the following:
          A11.1.1.1.1. Reheat for process air-conditioning systems.
          A11.1.1.1.2. Reheat for comfort air-conditioning systems.
          A11.1.1.1.3. Perimeter zone heating for comfort air-conditioning systems.
          A11.1.1.1.4. Outdoor air preheating.
          A11.1.1.1.5. Domestic hot water (HW) for systems in dormitories, dining halls,
          kitchens, shower rooms, and locker rooms.
          A11.1.1.1.6. Preheat for boiler make-up water systems.
          A11.1.1.1.7. Provide heat for any HW process or comfort load.
       A11.1.1.2. A cooling load must exist for heat-recovery systems to work. Buildings with
       simultaneous heating and cooling loads are candidates. Buildings with high internal loads
       are generally the best suited for this application. This situation requires the chilled water
       system to operate year-round, increasing the feasibility of heat-recovery systems.
   A11.1.2. Advantages/Disadvantages. A potential advantage of heat recovery is the reduced
   energy cost gained by recovering waste heat from the refrigerant loop within the chiller and
   converting it into useful energy. A heat-recovery chiller operates at a lower efficiency (higher
   kW/ton) than a cooling-only chiller. The total energy required for providing both heating and
   cooling from a single piece of equipment can be significantly less than the energy required
   from two separate pieces of equipment.
       A11.1.2.1. The initial cost of a heat-recovery chiller is higher than a cooling-only chiller.
       This is due to the increased refrigerant pressures and temperatures required to elevate the
       condenser water temperatures. Another added cost of a heat-recovery chiller is a second
       condenser shell that must be dedicated to the heat-recovery loop.
       A11.1.2.2. Heat-recovery systems may not eliminate the need for an auxiliary heat
       source. This will depend on the required HW temperature. Because of the special
 118                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       construction requirements of a heat-recovery chiller, manufacturers typically do not
       support the retrofit of an existing cooling-only chiller to a heat-recovery chiller. Even if a
       retrofit is being performed on a cooling-only chiller to convert to a new refrigerant,
       retrofitting to add heat recovery is not often cost-effective.
A11.2. Analysis. This section helps determine whether a heat-recovery system should be
incorporated into a potential chilled-water system. Each chilled-water system using heat-
recovery chillers that has a lower LCC than the current or proposed cooling-only chilled-water
system should be considered for implementation.
   A11.2.1. Obtain Data. Determine the total cooling load on the chilled-water system being
   considered for heat recovery. More information and building evaluations are typically
   necessary to determine its HW daily needs along with the actual usage schedule. If a given
   chilled-water system is not a candidate for the heat-recovery evaluation, it may be a
   candidate for thermal energy storage.
   A11.2.2. Engineering Analysis. The engineering analysis should consist of comparing the
   LCC analysis of the existing or potential chilled-water system to the proposed chilled-water
   system that will use heat recovery. The analysis should include engineering and construction
   cost estimates and additional costs for HW pumps, piping, equipment room modifications,
   energy usage controls, and projected annual maintenance costs for the proposed heat-
   recovery system.
   A11.2.3. Perform LCC. Perform an LCC estimate for the chilled-water system using heat
   recovery. Compare it to the total LCC of the existing or potential chilled water systems. The
   following items outline the procedure to follow to perform the LCC analysis.
       A11.2.3.1. Equipment Pricing. Contact the chiller manufacturer to obtain the cost of
       the proposed heat-recovery chiller, heat-recovery rating (heat dissipation), and chiller
       performance efficiencies at 100, 75, 50, and 25 percent of full loading. Gather further
       cost information for all additional or modified equipment that will support the heat-
       recovery distribution system. Consider items like heat exchangers, pumps, and HW
       storage tanks.
       A11.2.3.2. Annual Energy Cost. Determine the annual energy costs by calculating the
       requirements for cooling and recovered heat. See paragraph A11.3 for an evaluation
       example on calculating the annual energy cost for replacing chillers.
       A11.2.3.3. Heat-Reclaim Energy Savings. Determine the heat-reclaim energy savings
       ($BOILER-ENERGY). The savings from usable reclaimed energy will depend largely on
       the hourly cooling load profile compatibility and the hourly heating load profile as
       discussed in Attachment 9. Typically, the cooling load profile estimates are based on
       groups of hours representing 25, 50, 75, and 100 percent of part-load conditions. The
       annual heating load profile must be estimated similarly. The evaluator will need to group
       the annual hourly heating demand into estimated groups of hours matching those
       included in chiller operations. Once the bins of operation have been determined, contact
       the chiller manufacturer and request the part-load heat reclaim performance of each
       chiller under evaluation. Request the part-load performances that match the cooling-only
       chiller. Once the amount of reclaimed usable heat has been determined, annual energy
       savings can be calculated.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     119


       A11.2.3.4. Calculate the present value ($PV) of the LCC. The LCC’s $PV is an
       equivalent cost, calculated to compare mutually exclusive alternatives.
       A11.2.3.5. If the proposed heat recovery chilled water system has a lower LCC than the
       proposed chilled water system, the heat recovery chilled water system should be
       considered for implementation.
A11.3. Evaluation Example. The following assumptions, figures, and Table A11.2 provide the
necessary information to assess whether a chiller slated for replacement is a candidate for a heat
recovery chiller in lieu of a cooling-only chiller.
   A11.3.1. Assumptions. The following assumptions have been made to develop a
   representative example of heat recovery chiller engineering and LCC analyses.
       A11.3.1.1. Average energy cost for this example is $0.07/kWh.
       A11.3.1.2. The replaced chiller is part of an existing central plant, but it is the only
       chiller in the plant being considered for replacement. Total central plant peak cooling
       load is 1,000 tons with a constant year-round base cooling load of 400 tons. The central
       plant previously had two 500-ton chillers based on the LCC analysis. The heat will be
       recovered nine hours per day and five days per week (2,340 hours/year). The rest of the
       year the chiller will operate in a cooling-only mode (6,420 hours/year). The proposed
       heat-recovery chiller will produce a base cooling load of 400 tons. A nominal 500-ton
       heat-recovery chiller will be selected based on the given system parameters.
       A11.3.1.3. The annual process heating load is 5,300 Mbh (Mbh = 1,000 Btu/hour). This
       load is present nine hours a day and five days a week (2,340 hours/year). This load will
       be supplied by the reclaimed heat from the heat-recovery chiller.
       A11.3.1.4. An electric HW boiler is the existing heat source for the process load. The
       boiler provides the required 5,300 Mbh load nine hours a day, five days a week. The
       boiler’s electrical demand is 1,550 kW.
       A11.3.1.5. The heat-recovery water loop and the process-heating water loop will be
       independent circuits. Heat will be transferred between them through a plate-and-frame
       type heat exchanger.
       A11.3.1.6. The present value ($PV) for the cooling-only replacement chiller is
       $1,510,000.
       A11.3.1.7. Estimate the initial cost of the heat-recovery system. See Table A11.1.

Table A11.1. Heat-Recovery System Cost Estimate.
          Description                     Cost Estimate       Source
          500-ton       heat-recovery     $180,000            Manufacturer
          chiller
          Pump                            $1,400              Manufacturer
          Heat exchanger                  $4,200              Manufacturer
          Controls                        $12,000             Manufacturer
          Piping and specialties          $8,000              Cost estimate guide
          Labor                           $65,000             Cost estimate guide
 120                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


          Total Initial Cost: $270,600
   A11.3.2. Heat-Recovery Chiller Annual Energy Cost ($ENERGY). The first step in the
   evaluation is to calculate the annual energy cost ($ENERGYHeat Recovery) for the proposed
   heat-recovery chiller. This calculation is shown in Figure A11.1.

Figure A11.1. Calculate $ENERGY.
$ENERGYHeat Recovery = Σ{(EFFxx%)(HRSxx%)(LOADxx%)} × ($/kWh)
             Where:
             $ENERGYHeat Recovery = estimated annual energy cost for heat-recovery chiller
             operation ($/year)
             EFFxx% = chiller efficiency at xx% of maximum capacity (kW/ton)
             HRSxx% = hours of chiller operation at xx% of maximum capacity (hours/year)
             LOADxx% = cooling load at xx% of maximum capacity (tons)
             $/kWh = average cost of electricity from the utilities data sheets ($/kWh)
The chiller in this example is operating at a constant base load of 400 tons year-round, with xx%
= 80%.
$ENERGYHeat Recovery = {(0.645)(6,420)(400) + (0.750)(2,340)(400)} × (0.07)
$ENERGYHeat Recovery = $165,000/year
   A11.3.3. Boiler Annual Energy Costs. Calculate the energy costs to provide the required
   process heat output with the existing electric HW boiler ($BOILER-ENERGY). This
   calculation shows money saved by producing the required heat from the heat-recovery chiller
   instead of the electric boiler. Figure A11.2 illustrates this calculation.

Figure A11.2. Calculate $BOILER-ENERGY.
    $BOILER-ENERGY = Σ(INPUTxx%)(HRSxx%)($/kWh)
             Where:
             $BOILER-ENERGY = annual energy cost to operate boiler ($/year)
             INPUTxx% = electrical input at xx% of maximum capacity (kW)
             HRSxx% = hours of boiler operation at xx% of maximum capacity
             (hours/year)
             $/kWh = average cost of electricity from the utilities data sheets ($/kWh)
    The boiler is operating at a constant load 9 hours/day, 5 days/week (2,340 hours/year).
             $BOILER-ENERGY = (1,550)(2,340)(0.07)
             $BOILER-ENERGY = $253,800/year
   A11.3.4. Chiller and Boiler $PV. Calculate the LCC for the cooling-only replacement
   chiller and HW boiler and compare it to the calculated heat recovery option, as shown in
   Figure A11.3.

Figure A11.3. Calculate Chiller and Boiler $PV.
           $PVReplacement        = $BOILER-ENERGY(P/A,i%,N) + $PVChiller
                                 = (253,800)(13.36) + 1,510,000
                                 = 3,390,800 + 1,510,000
           $PVReplacement        = $4,900,800
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                   121


Table A11.2. Heat-Recovery Chiller Energy Consumption Analysis.
 Cooling Capacity         Cooling-only               Heat-Recovery Operation(2)
                          Operation(1)
 % Load       Tons        kW           kW/ton           Heat         kW            kW/ton
                                                        Recovered
                                                        (Mbh)(3)
 100           500        328            0.656          -0-          -0-           -0-
 90            450        291            0.647          6605         337           0.749
 80            400        258            0.645          5875         300           0.750
 70            350        226            0.646          5159         267           0.763
 60            300        197            0.657          4451         236           0.787
 50            250        169            0.676          3746         206           0.824
 40            200        142            0.710          -0-          -0-           -0-
 30            150        115            0.767          -0-          -0-           -0-
 20            100        89             0.896          -0-          -0-           -0-
 (1) Water entering condenser shell at 29 °C (85 °F) at maximum capacity. Entering condenser
 water temperature decreases as load decreases to a minimum temperature of 21 °C (70 °F).
 (2) Water entering heat recovery shell at 35 °C (95 °F) and maximum amount of heat is
 extracted. Leaving water temperature from this shell is 40.4 °C (104.8 °F) at 450 tons and
 decreases to 38.5 °C (101.3 °F) at 250 tons.
 (3) Where "- 0 -" appears, no heat is available to be recovered.
 Note: This table is based on 1500-gpm evaporator flow leaving the evaporator at 7 °C (44 °F)
 and returning at 12 °C (54 °F). Condenser flow rate and heat recovery flow rate is 1200 gpm
 each circuit.
   A11.3.5. Present Value ($PV) Formula. A present value formula review is presented
   before it is applied to the heat-recovery chiller LCC. This analysis assumes a 20-year study
   period and an expected 20-year equipment lifespan. The useful equipment lifespan is
   assumed to be the same across the study’s length ($REMAIN is zero). No capital equipment
   is replaced during the study period ($REPLACE is zero). Heat-recovery system maintenance
   is approximately $2,000 more per year compared to chiller/boiler combinations. A portion of
   the maintenance cost is attributed to the plate-and-frame heat exchanger. A simplified $PV
   formula is used to perform the calculation. This formula is shown in Figure A11.4.

Figure A11.4. Present Value ($PV) Formula.
$PV = $INITIAL + $REPLACE(P/F,i%,N) + ($ENERGY + $MAINT)(P/A,i%,N) -
$REMAIN(P/F,i%,N)
       Where:
       $PV = present value of the life-cycle costs associated with a particular alternative ($)
       $INITIAL = total initial cost of a particular alternative ($), including the cost for
       upgrading the mechanical room
       $REPLACE = future replacement cost, assumed as zero ($)
       (P/F,i%,N) = present value of a future cash flow at an interest rate of i% for N years1,2
       (P/A,i%,N) = present value of an annually recurring cash flow at an interest rate of
       i% for N years1,2
       i% = interest rate (discount rate) for federal energy conservation projects (%)1
 122                                                         AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


           N = study period (years)
           $ENERGY = estimated annual energy cost of chiller operation ($/year)
           $MAINT = annual maintenance costs ($)
           $REMAIN = remaining value of equipment at the end of N years, assumed to be zero
           ($)
1. This factor is obtained from standard engineering economics
2. NISTR 85-3273-26, Energy Price Indices and Discount Factors for Life-Cycle Cost Analysis
   A11.3.6. Calculate Present Value of LCC for Heat-Recovery Chiller ($PV). Calculate
   the present value of the heat-recovery chiller’s life-cycle costs ($PV). This calculation is
   shown in Figure A11.5.

Figure A11.5. Calculate $PV.
       $PV = $INITIAL + ($ENERGY + $MAINT)(P/A,i%,N) - ($REMAIN)(P/F,i%,N)
       For the heat-recovery chiller system
       $PVHeat Recovery       = $270,600 + ($120,280 + $2,000)(P/A,4.2%,20)
                              = $270,600 + $122,280(13.36)
                              = $270,600 + $1,633,700
       $PVHeat Recovery       = $1,904,300
   A11.3.7. Comparison and Selection. Compare the LCC of the heat-recovery chiller with
   the LCC for the cooling-only chiller system. Select the alternative with the least LCC.

Figure A11.6. LCC Comparative Analysis Results.
                           $PVReplacement        = $4,042,400
                           $PVHeat Recovery = $1,932,400
                           Select the heat-recovery chiller.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                    123


                                        Attachment 12
 ALTERNATIVE REFRIGERANTS FOR RETROFIT APPLICATIONS: LONG-TERM
                   AND INTERIM REFRIGERANTS

A12.1. Introduction. The Montréal Protocol (1987) was amended in 1992 to halt production of
all CFCs by 1996, HCFC-22 by 2020, and HCFC-123 by 2030. Manufacturers responded by
introducing an assortment of alternative refrigerants. Some confusion resulted from
manufacturers marketing the same alternatives by one trade name before receiving an ASHRAE
“R” designation and then by a different trade name after the designation was granted.
Alternatives may have similar properties but careful consideration is required to make the proper
selection. Consider four issues before choosing an alternative refrigerant: (1) the long-term or
interim nature; (2) lubrication; (3) chemical stability of refrigerant blends; and (4) equipment
operation and maintenance. These factors are explained in the following sections.
   A12.1.1. Long-Term Versus Interim Alternative Refrigerants. Some refrigerants are
   scheduled for phase-out before others. Equipment using interim refrigerants was scheduled to
   be manufactured until 2010. Interim refrigerant production will continue until 2020.
   Equipment using R-123 will be produced until 2020. R-123 will be produced until 2030. At
   this time, production phase-out of R-123 is not an issue. An increasing number of refrigerant
   alternatives means market acceptance will be dictated largely by availability rather than
   phase-out dates.
       A12.1.1.1. Long-term alternative refrigerants are HFC refrigerants or blends (mixtures)
       of HFC refrigerants which have 0 ozone-depleting potential (ODP) and do not face a
       foreseeable phase-out. However, EPA rules for venting CFC and HCFC refrigerants also
       apply to HFCs; no one can knowingly release an HFC. Sometimes a long-term alternative
       refrigerant can be installed with a simple oil change. However, most HFC alternatives
       require a polyol ester (POE) lubricant and a system 95 percent free of mineral oil.
       Choosing a long-term alternative relieves concern about refrigerant supplies after HCFCs
       are phased out. This is not an issue for equipment expected to last less than 25 to 30
       years—HCFC refrigerants will still be produced during this time. The 2009 meeting of
       the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen focused on the issue of
       global warming but conference members were not able to reach a global agreement that
       would have limited the future availability of refrigerants with higher global warming
       potential (GWP).
       A12.1.1.2. Interim refrigerant alternatives are refrigerant blends with one or more HCFC
       refrigerants. HCFCs and any refrigerant blends with HCFCs are scheduled for phase-out
       between 2020 and 2030. Therefore, any equipment retrofitted for HCFCs or HCFC
       blends may have to be retrofitted again or replaced during the HCFC phase-out. Interim
       refrigerants make retrofitting CFC equipment financially feasible. It is also possible to
       use them to retrofit equipment ill-suited for long-term alternative refrigerants. Many
       interim alternatives can be installed during maintenance by removing the CFC refrigerant
       and adding the alternative. However, most interim alternatives require a mineral
       oil/alkylbenzene lubricant mixture; lubricant adjustments may be necessary.
   A12.1.2. Mineral Oil or Polyol Ester (POE) Lubricants? Lubricants play a major role in
   the selection of a long-term or interim alternative refrigerant. Typically, long-term
124                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


  alternatives require a POE lubricant and interim alternatives require an alkylbenzene/mineral
  oil mixture. Equipment using mineral oils should not be retrofitted to a POE lubricant unless
  absolutely necessary
      A12.1.2.1. Long-term alternatives require POE lubricants because they are not miscible
      in mineral oil. Therefore, a system must be free of mineral oil before a long-term
      alternative is used. Expensive POE is used to flush the system of mineral oil with the
      current refrigerant still in place. At least three flushings are required. Since POEs cost
      $50 or more per gallon, flushing a system requiring large quantities of lubricant can
      become quite expensive. The lubricant used to flush the system must be properly
      disposed of. Lubricant disposal must be coordinated with the environmental flight. POEs
      work like a cleaning agent: they can free up and suspend wear particles, metal fragments,
      etc., and carry them through the system. This can damage the compressor(s) or obstruct
      system parts. For this reason, systems using mineral oil lubricants which had mechanical
      difficulties or are over four years old should not be converted to POE lubricants. It is
      virtually impossible to flush all the mineral oil from a hermetic compressor. For this
      reason, hermetic compressors cannot be converted to long-term refrigerants.
      A12.1.2.2. Most interim alternatives require an alkylbenzene/mineral oil lubricant
      mixture. Using an alternative refrigerant compatible with a lubricant mixture of mineral
      oil/alkylbenzene is simpler and less expensive than converting to a POE. The mixing
      ratio of alkylbenzene to mineral oil varies from 50/50 to 80/20 depending on the
      application, refrigerant type, etc. Different mixing ratios are recommended by different
      refrigerant and compressor manufacturers. Always consult the compressor manufacturer
      for the proper lubrication requirements.
  A12.1.3. Refrigerant Blends.
      A12.1.3.1. Azeotropic refrigerant blends are mixtures of two or more refrigerants that
      behave as a pure fluid. In short, during evaporation or condensation, the liquid and vapor
      components of the blend do not change composition; this happens only at a given
      temperature and pressure. With other temperatures and pressures, deviation from this
      behavior is virtually undetectable. Like a pure fluid, azeotropic refrigerant blends can be
      charged in their liquid or vapor state. If the evaporator or condenser leaks, it can simply
      be topped off with new refrigerant following the leak repair. Azeotropic blends like R-
      500 and R-502 have been available for years.
      A12.1.3.2. Zeotropic refrigerant blends are mixtures of two or more refrigerants that
      have different vapor pressures and boiling points. During a phase change, the vapor and
      liquid states will have different compositions and exhibit different properties. This is
      known as fractionation. When using a zeotropic blend, the equipment must be charged
      only with liquid. If a large leak occurs with vapor and liquid refrigerant present, the
      components of the refrigerant blend will leak in different proportions because of
      fractionation. The result will be a refrigerant blend that has different operating
      characteristics than the original blend. This will cause a shift in the refrigerant’s
      temperature-pressure curve, making accurate recharging difficult and affecting system
      efficiency. Consequently, after a large refrigerant leak or an accumulation of many minor
      leaks, the total charge may have to be removed and disposed of as required by EPA
      regulations. After the old refrigerant is evacuated, the system has to be completely
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                   125


     recharged. Zeotropic blends display a characteristic known as “temperature glide” or
     “glide.” Glide classifies how much the zeotropic blend’s behavior is different from an
     azeotropic blend. Glide temperatures range from below -17 °C (1 °F) to above -11 °C (12
     °F). Higher glide numbers mean worse fractionation.
        A12.1.3.2.1. The liquid and vapor components of a zeotropic blend have different
        compositions and properties during evaporation and condensation. In a pure vapor
        form with no liquid present or in a pure liquid form with no vapor present, the
        zeotropic blend is completely mixed and its properties are uniform throughout the
        mixture. However, in phase change areas of a system where both vapor and liquid are
        present, the vapor and liquid will have different compositions. Consider a zeotropic
        blend with only two components: one will have a higher boiling point. When a liquid-
        to-vapor phase change begins, the component with the lowest boiling point begins to
        evaporate. The temperature at which this component reaches its boiling point and
        forms a vapor is called the bubble point. Bubble point is defined as the temperature at
        which bubbles first appear in the refrigerant. The vapor is rich and grows richer in the
        low-boiling-point (higher vapor pressure) component. This enrichment or difference
        in composition is fractionation. At the same time, the liquid is becoming rich with the
        higher-boiling-point (lower vapor pressure) component. The higher-boiling-point
        component eventually begins to evaporate. The point at which the last drop of the
        higher-boiling-point component evaporates is the dew point. It is also the temperature
        at which the first drop of liquid appears during condensation. Condensation takes
        place in the reverse order.
        A12.1.3.2.2. In the evaporator and the condenser, two phases of refrigerant exist: a
        liquid phase and a gas phase. Since each component of the refrigerant goes from the
        liquid phase to the vapor phase at different times due to each component’s different
        boiling point, phase composition is constantly changing. The evaporation and
        condensation temperatures of each refrigerant component are not constant. As the
        phase composition changes from constant pressure, the evaporation and condensation
        temperatures of each refrigerant component actually fluctuate. These temperatures
        may increase or decrease as each refrigerant component changes in each phase. This
        change in temperature during constant pressure phase change is called temperature
        glide. Simply put, temperature glide is the difference between the dew point and
        bubble point temperatures. It varies with the refrigerant component percentage
        composition and pressure. The amount of glide a mixture exhibits is a measure of
        deviation from being an azeotrope. Unfortunately, glide is defined differently by
        different organizations and companies. For example, ICI Americas, Inc. (ICI) uses the
        term “boiling range” instead of temperature glide. Glide or system glide is defined by
        ICI as the difference between the inlet and outlet temperatures in a DX evaporator or
        condenser. When looking for glide in product literature, be certain you know how the
        term is defined.
     A12.1.3.3. The alternative refrigerants discussed in this attachment are either azeotropic
     or zeotropic blends. Azeotropic refrigerant blends are the easiest to maintain and use.
     When selecting an alternative refrigerant, choose an azeotrope over a zeotrope, if
     possible. Since most CFC alternatives are zeotropes and alternative azeotropes require
     POE lubricants, it is likely that most retrofits will be completed with a zeotrope. A
126                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


      technically significant factor about zeotropes is glide. Since most of the alternative
      refrigerants are relatively new, opinions differ about their glide severity. DuPont states:
      “After a series of large leaks followed by topping off, a system could show a few percent
      loss in capacity.” In Elf Atochem’s opinion, systems using a low glide temperature of -17
      °C (1 °F) that do not lose over 50 percent of their charge during a leak can be topped off.
      Copeland states they have not witnessed a leaking system that required a total charge
      removal followed by a system recharge. The systems they dealt with were topped off
      after leaking. ICI’s opinion is that topping off a system which has leaked is acceptable
      and presents no real problems. Their experience shows that after topping off a system a
      couple of times, the composition of the refrigerant does change, but it reaches a point of
      consistency that is unaffected by future top-offs. AlliedSignal’s opinion is that if a system
      suffers a leak and loses over 10 percent of its charge, the remaining refrigerant should be
      removed and the system totally recharged. They believe that if a system suffers one or
      two leaks of less than 10 percent, the system can be topped off, but following a third leak
      the system should be completely recharged. To reduce the effects of glide, an alternative
      with a low glide temperature should be selected. Although most of these manufacturers
      do not believe glide poses a problem, technicians should be aware of possible refrigerant
      temperature changes. Systems can be topped off after a leak occurs. Still, there are no
      concrete procedures for dealing with temperature glide and zeotropic refrigerant leaks.
      Glide will be solved only with time and experience.
      A12.1.3.4. Charging a system using a zeotropic refrigerant is different than doing so with
      a pure fluid. A system that uses a zeotropic refrigerant must be charged/topped off with
      liquid refrigerant. If the entire cylinder is used during charging, the vapor may be charged
      after the liquid has been charged. Based on the refrigerant type being replaced, the
      alternative refrigerant will have a larger or smaller charge requirement. Consult the
      refrigerant’s manufacturer for information about proper charge capacities for alternative
      refrigerants. Most refrigerant manufacturers recommend that measuring operating
      conditions—e.g., discharge and suction pressures, suction line temperature, compressor
      amps, superheat—is the best way to charge a system. Sight glass charging can be
      completed for most systems. If the sight glass is located too close to the condenser exit or
      if there is a little sub-cooling before the sight glass, bubbles may be present in the sight
      glass even after the system is properly charged. To determine the appropriate suction
      pressure for an alternative refrigerant, the suction pressure for the refrigerant being
      replaced must be known. Using a pressure/temperature chart, determine the evaporator
      temperature for the current refrigerant. Adjust the evaporator temperature as instructed by
      the manufacturer to get the new evaporator temperature for the alternative refrigerant.
      Using a pressure/temperature chart for the alternative refrigerant, the suction pressure can
      now be found. Consult the refrigerant’s manufacturer for proper charging and topping-off
      procedures.
  A12.1.4. Operation/Maintenance Issues. Operation and maintenance of equipment using a
  large number of different refrigerants can be problematic. As the number of base refrigerants
  increase, the complications tend to increase. Proper refrigerant handling can be an issue. A
  large number of refrigerants require diverse handling and storage needs. All refrigerants must
  be properly inventoried and tracked. It becomes difficult to keep track of what is entering
  storage, what is being issued to technicians, and what refrigerants the technicians are
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       127


   returning. Refrigerants with different purities have to be tracked, including good,
   contaminated, or reclaimable refrigerant. A large number of containers are needed.
   Containers require more storage space. Properly marking and separating these containers by
   refrigerant type and purity can become difficult and time-consuming. There must be an
   MSDS maintained for each refrigerant. All machinery using refrigerants must be properly
   marked so that the wrong refrigerant is not introduced into the wrong system. Proper color-
   coding of refrigerant cylinders according to AHRI Guideline N is helpful to ensure proper
   separation of stored refrigerants and to avoid mixing.
A12.2. Alternative Refrigerants That Replaced CFCs. Refrigerant R-11 was replaced by
HCFC-123 (R-123). A pure fluid, R-123 is an interim HCFC (Class II) alternative; therefore,
new long-term refrigerant alternatives must be developed. At this time, no suitable alternative
refrigerant has been developed. It was used in retrofits and is currently used in new, low-pressure
chillers. AFI 32-7086 requires Class II refrigerants to be part of the RMP. The Air Force will not
centrally stockpile CFC and purchasing equipment using Class I refrigerants is prohibited. The
BCE can approve exceptions to this prohibition. The BCE is allowed to purchase equipment with
Class II refrigerant as long as the refrigerant is included on the EPA list of Significant New
Alternatives Policy (SNAP) -approved refrigerants (see paragraph A12.3.1.1.). The BCE must
document how the equipment will be supported following the phase-out, update the RMP
initially, and update the support plan annually. Trane is currently the only manufacturer that still
offers chillers using R-123. Most manufacturers use HFC-134a (R-134a) primarily for their
large, centrifugal chillers. Chillers that use R-123 are generally more efficient. R-123 has a 93
GWP compared to R-134a’s 1300 GWP, but R-123 has a 0.02 ODP compared to R-134a’s 0
ODP. There are very few R-123 refrigerant leaks because R-123 chillers operate at below-
atmospheric pressure. If leaks do occur during normal operation, air leaks in rather than R-123
refrigerant leaking out. Because of the low leakage rate of its chillers, the year of its phase-out
(2030), and because stockpiles of recycled/recovered/reclaimed R-123 can be used after 2030, R-
123 supplies should be readily available throughout the useful life of centrifugal chillers. R-11,
the predecessor to R-123, was phased out in 1996, and low-cost supplies of that refrigerant are
still readily available. Trane has requested that R-123 be excluded from the required 2030 phase-
out because of its high-efficiency, very low GWP, very low ODP, and low toxicity. There are
apparently no exceptions for R-123 being considered. The BCE should consider these issues
before allowing R-123 use in new equipment purchases for the base. R-123 should remain on the
SNAP-approved refrigerant list for new equipment until 2020. Equipment purchased up to 2020
should have R-123 supplies available for service.
A12.3. Alternative Refrigerants for HCFCs.
   A12.3.1. Alternate Refrigerant Evaluation and Approval.
       A12.3.1.1. The EPA SNAP program was developed to meet the requirements of Section
       612 of the CAA. The SNAP program describes the procedure for submitting safe
       alternative refrigerants that replace Class I and Class II refrigerants. The current approved
       SNAP list is available at http://www.epa.gov/ozone/snap.
       A12.3.1.2. These refrigerants were evaluated for their toxicity, flammability, efficiency,
       GWP, stable blends, and many other properties. The manufacture of CFC refrigerants has
       been phased-out since 1996. The current focus of the Montréal Protocol and the EPA is
128                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


      the phase-out of Class II (HCFC) refrigerants, which include HCFC-22 (R-22) and R-
      123. R-22 has a 0.055 ODP and a 1700 GWP. R-123 has a 0.02 ODP of and a 93 GWP.
      A12.3.1.3. Each year, the list of approved and unapproved chemicals is published in the
      Congressional Federal Register. The list of approved chemicals from the Congressional
      Federal Register, updated in 2008, was used to develop a comprehensive list of approved
      refrigerants, the applications they are approved for, and their various chemical properties.
      Some of the proposed substitutes have been available before SNAP began. Some
      refrigerant replacements are intended for only new equipment. For instance, R-410a is
      used as a substitute for R-22 but is used only in newly manufactured equipment because
      its condensing pressure is much higher than that required by R-22. HFC-410a (R-410a)
      has a 0 ODP and a 1725 GWP.
      A12.3.1.4. When evaluating alternative refrigerants for a particular application, the GWP
      is considered along with the refrigerant’s performance properties. GWP is a measure of
      how much a given mass of greenhouse gas is estimated to contribute to global warming.
      It is a relative scale that compares the gas in question to a carbon dioxide mass with 1
      GWP. GWP is calculated over a specific time interval (usually 100 years) and the time
      interval must be revealed when a GWP is quoted; otherwise, the value is meaningless.
      A12.3.1.5. GWP should be considered for a direct case or indirect case. A direct case
      involves venting refrigerant directly into the atmosphere. The refrigerant works like a
      blanket to hold in heat. Indirect GWP involves the refrigerant manufacturing process or
      the energy required to operate the equipment the refrigerant serves. For every additional
      kWh used by equipment, greenhouse gas emissions are generated by electric utility
      power plants. This is the indirect effect of global-warming refrigerants. Even small
      changes in chiller energy use have an environmental impact. The use of refrigerants that
      minimize both ODP and GWP address global environmental concerns. HCFC R-123 and
      HFC R-134a are the primary refrigerants used in chillers. R-134a has 0 ODP and a 1300
      GWP. R-123 has a 0.02 ODP and a 93 GWP. Chillers using R-123 are generally more
      efficient than those using R-134. The indirect GWP of a chiller using R-134a may be
      higher than a chiller using R-123.
      A12.3.1.6. Due to the Kyoto Protocol and the 2009 United Nations Climate Change
      Conference in Copenhagen, GWP is getting a lot of attention. The global regulation of
      greenhouses gas emissions failed after delegates were unable to reach an agreement.
      Based on the earlier Kyoto Protocol, Europe is trying to rapidly reduce greenhouse
      emissions. R-134a has replaced CFC R-12 in many applications, including chillers and
      automotive air-conditioning. Although R-134a performs adequately, it is being phased
      out for automotive air-conditioning in Europe by 2013 because of its 1300 GWP. The
      leading refrigerant to replace it is R-744 or CO2. HFO-1234yf is Honeywell’s latest
      offering to meet the American auto industry’s need for a cost-effective, commercially
      viable, and environmentally friendly R-134a refrigerant replacement. Although HFO-
      1234yf is flammable, the benefits of HFO-1234yf are lower lifetime greenhouse gas
      emissions; dramatically shorter atmospheric lifetime; compatibility with current
      automotive air-conditioning systems; superior cooling efficiency; ease of adoption; and
      safety for mobile applications.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                  129


     A12.3.1.7. As HFCs come under continued pressure from environmental regulations, it
     is expected that the HFOs will replace the HFCs in heating, ventilation, and air-
     conditioning (HVAC) applications. Manufacturers are testing and evaluating these
     options today.
     A12.3.1.8. Another key refrigerant property that must be considered is safety. The safety
     code for refrigerants is ASHRAE 15-2007, Standard Safety Code for Mechanical
     Refrigeration. Each refrigerant is categorized A1, A2, A3 or B1, B2, B3. As the A-scale
     increases from A1 to A3, refrigerant flammability increases. As the B-scale increases
     from B1 to B3, the refrigerant toxicity increases. An A1 refrigerant is not flammable
     under test conditions and B1 is only slightly toxic. B3 is highly toxic and highly
     flammable. As discussed in paragraph A12.1.3, the blend properties also influence
     refrigerant selection.
  A12.3.2. Alternatives to R-22. R-401A, made by both AlliedSignal and DuPont, is a
  retrofit alternative for R-12 in medium-temperature refrigeration applications. It is a
  zeotropic blend. Since R-401A is a blend of refrigerants involving HCFC, it is considered an
  interim replacement. It will be phased out with R-22 in 2020. Using R-401A in systems
  where the evaporator temperatures are -23 °C (-10 °F) and above should produce capacities
  and efficiencies similar to R-12. R-401A is suitable for walk-in coolers, food and dairy
  display cases, beverage dispensers, beverage vending machines, and home refrigerators.
  Refrigerant alternatives have differing compressor lubrication requirements, depending on
  the manufacturer. Always consult the compressor manufacturer for proper lubrication
  requirements since the manufacturer provides the warranty. Seek out original equipment
  manufacturer (OEM) assistance when attempting retrofits. Precautions must be taken to
  assure material and refrigerant compatibility. DuPont’s SUVA® HP refrigerants are not
  recommended for flooded evaporators. Consult the OEM before choosing a refrigerant
  replacement or determining material compatibility.
     A12.3.2.1. R-407C.
         A12.3.2.1.1. HFC-407c (R-407c) is a zeotropic blend refrigerant that closely matches
         the properties of R-22. R-407c is a blend of R-32, R-125, and R-134a. This
         refrigerant can be used in several air-conditioning applications, including new
         residential and commercial DX air-conditioning equipment, or as a drop-in
         replacement for R-22. R-407C is not good for equipment using flooded evaporators
         such as chillers because of its zeotropic properties. The glide is -10.3 °C (13.3 °F).
         A12.3.2.1.2. R-407c requires an approved POE lubricant where it replaces R-22.
         This replacement affects refrigerant performance.
         A12.3.2.1.3. Temperature glide is a concern when using R-407C. It can become a
         serious issue if a leak develops. Performance diminishes because different
         components have different rates of boiling and condensation. If a leak occurs, the
         refrigerant ratio may be changed. Due to this factor, refrigerant cannot simply be
         added—the system has to be completely evacuated and recharged with the proper
         component ratio. Service duties will require more training and caution because of the
         refrigerant’s nature. R-407C has a 1600 GWP, slightly lower than R-22 with a GWP
         of 1730. Its operating pressures are similar to R-22.
130                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


      A12.3.2.2. R-417a.
         A12.3.2.2.1. NU-22 (R-417a) is another possible drop-in replacement for R-22.
         There are several different applications where this refrigerant can replace R-22. This
         drop-in refrigerant has several qualities like R-22. R-417a is able to replace it without
         any unit modification or oil change. R-417a can be used with mineral and alkyl
         benzene oils and new POE lubricants. This makes transitioning between the two
         refrigerants easy. It is an effective zeotropic 3-component. R-417a works well in
         higher temperature applications.
         A12.3.2.2.2. This refrigerant has 0 ODP and can be used as a drop-in replacement or
         in new equipment. There have been tests performed by other refrigerant
         manufacturers on R-417a and it has been compared to R-22. The test results reported
         a decrease in compressor oil levels. Another reported finding was a 27 percent lower
         cooling capacity than R-22. A 15 percent lower COP was also reported between R-
         417a and R-22. The 1938 GWP for R-417a is higher than R-22 at 1700 GWP. It has a
         temperature glide of 10, and an A1 ASHRAE safety classification.
      A12.3.2.3. R-410a. HFC-410a (R-410a) is a substitute for R-22 but it is used only in
      newly manufactured equipment because the condensing pressure is much higher than that
      required by R-22. R-410a has a 0 ODP and a 1725 GWP, which is slightly higher than R-
      22. R-410a is one of the easier refrigerants to work with because it is a near-azeotropic
      blend with a glide less than 1. It works like a single chemical. R-410A is not suitable as a
      drop-in for R-22 because of differences in the high-pressure operating point. R-410a
      operates at over 400 psi while R-22 operates at about 260 psi. R-410a is the most widely
      used replacement for R-22 in new equipment by all the major manufacturers of AC/R
      equipment, including Trane, Carrier, McQuay, and York.
  A12.3.3. R-123 Substitute and Other Alternative Refrigerants.
      A12.3.3.1. Refrigerant manufacturers and manufacturer groups are working continuously
      to develop safe, efficient, stable and environmentally friendly refrigerants. R-123 is, by
      most of these measures, a very good refrigerant. R-123 was the replacement for CFC R-
      11. R-123 has a 93 GWP and a 0.02 ODP. Because R-123 has a very slight ODP and is a
      HCFC, it is being phased out by 2030. No completely suitable replacement has been
      developed that operates as efficiently and safely as this refrigerant or at such a low GWP.
      A12.3.3.2. R-245fa closely matches R-123’s capabilities. R-245fa is a propane-based
      refrigerant but has a B1 ASHRAE safety classification. It is non-flammable and slightly
      toxic. R-245fa operates at below-atmospheric pressure inside the evaporator but operates
      at a higher pressure than R-123 inside the condenser. This may require modifications to
      current equipment. It has a 920 GWP. R-245fa is not currently being offered by
      refrigeration equipment manufacturers.
  A12.3.4. Alternative Refrigerant Issues.
      A12.3.4.1. Other refrigerants used in the air-conditioning industry are less efficient and
      have a much higher GWP: R-134a has a 1300 GWP, R-410a has a 1725 GWP, and R-
      407c has a 1600 GWP. These three refrigerants represent most of the alternative
      refrigerants in use by Trane, Carrier, McQuay, York, and Lennox. Trane is the only
      manufacturer still using R-123 in their chillers. Because of R-123, Trane chillers have the
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       131


       highest efficiency in the industry. R-123 evaporates at a pressure below atmospheric
       pressure so the chillers’ design must be changed if the substitute refrigerant operates at a
       positive pressure. There has been some discussion in the past of giving HCFC R-123 an
       exemption in the HCFC phase-out in light of its very low ODP and GWP, but there is no
       progress evident at this time.
       A12.3.4.2. As mentioned above, R-744 is considered a likely replacement for R-134a in
       European automobile air-conditioning systems. In the United States, R-152a is being
       considered for automotive air-conditioning systems. Both refrigerants cause concern. At
       over 1000 psi, R-744 has over five times the operating pressure of R-134a. R-152a is
       being considered for automotive air-conditioning in the United States and is considered
       flammable, with an A2 ASHRAE safety classification and a GWP of 140. R-123 is
       slightly toxic, with a B1 ASHRAE rating. R-744 has an A1 ASHRAE safety
       classification. R-152a has an A2 ASHRAE refrigerant classification, which indicates
       slight flammability.
       A12.3.4.3. Some hydrocarbons have similar characteristics as refrigerants. Three
       hydrocarbon blends have been created to serve in the same capacity as common
       refrigerants. These are HC-12a, HC-22a, and HC-502a. However, these are not
       considered acceptable refrigerants because of their high flammability.
A12.4. Best Alternative Refrigerants.
   A12.4.1. Considerations on Alternative Refrigerants. This attachment recommends
   alternative refrigerants based on literature from refrigerant and compressor manufacturers.
   The pursuit of an ideal refrigerant alternative for HCFCs constantly produces new data on
   existing alternatives and future alternatives. Therefore, always consult the OEM for approved
   recommendations that will not void warranties.
   A12.4.2. Use POE Sparingly. It is recommended that unless a system is already using a
   POE lubricant, an alternative that requires such a lubricant should not be the first choice for
   retrofit. In other words, any system using mineral oil should not be retrofitted to use a POE
   unless absolutely necessary. It can be quite expensive and troublesome to retrofit a system to
   a refrigerant that requires a POE lubricant. Using an alternative that requires mineral oil or a
   mineral oil/alkylbenzene mixture is less expensive, simpler, and just as efficient with the
   proper refrigerant. The three alternative refrigerants listed for R-12 do not require a POE
   lubricant and should be the first choice in refrigeration equipment retrofits. R-401b is the best
   choice when retrofitting R-500 refrigeration equipment. If an R-502 system is currently using
   a POE lubricant, R-507 should be the first consideration for an alternative refrigerant.
   However, if the system is not using a POE, R-408a is suggested as the first choice for retrofit.
A12.5. Handling Alternative Refrigerants. Most alternative refrigerants are stored like CFC
and HCFC refrigerants. Storage areas must meet ASHRAE 15-2007 requirements. They should
be stored away from heat sources in an area where the temperatures are below 51 °C (125 °F).
Under certain conditions, some refrigerants are flammable or pose other hazards. Alternative
refrigerants mixed with the HCFC refrigerants they replace create no real danger but system
performance is probably adversely affected. The combined refrigerants cannot be separated and
must be incinerated after use. Exposure levels, hazards for humans, toxicity, etc., vary for each
refrigerant. Always refer to the MSDS for proper handling and storage procedures for all
refrigerants.
 132                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


   A12.5.1. Mixing Refrigerants. Refrigerants should not be mixed. Each refrigerant should
   be segregated into at least three categories: good refrigerant, refrigerant awaiting
   reclamation, and contaminated refrigerants requiring destruction. The fewer refrigerants
   maintained on a base, the simpler the storage and inventory requirements and the fewer the
   number of MSDS on file. In addition, limiting the number of refrigerants reduces the
   possibility of contaminating refrigerants through accidental mixing.
   A12.5.2. Refrigerant Tracking, Marking, and Storage. All bases should minimize the
   number of refrigerants. As detailed in paragraph A12.1.4, the more refrigerants on base, the
   more difficult it is to maintain the refrigerants. All refrigerants must be properly marked by
   refrigerant type and purity level. MSDS must be maintained for all refrigerants. Tracking
   refrigerant movement in and out of storage can be difficult and time-consuming. Lots of
   refrigerant requires large storage facilities. By reducing the number of base refrigerants, the
   refrigerant manager simplifies the already difficult tasks of controlling and maintaining air-
   conditioning and refrigeration operations.
A12.6. Conclusions. The information in this attachment is based on refrigerant and compressor
manufacturers' data and their case studies. Retrofits should be performed using OEM guidance.
Precautions must be taken to assure material and refrigerant compatibility. The OEM will know
if certain equipment materials are incompatible with alternative refrigerants and be able to
supply retrofit guidelines. Although the refrigerant manufacturers also have retrofit guidelines,
always consult the OEM before retrofitting refrigerants. Measures should be taken to track
refrigerant usage, minimize refrigerant leaks, and maintain the equipment to operate at its peak
efficiency.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                       133


                                         Attachment 13
                       NATURAL GAS COOLING TECHNOLOGIES

A13.1. Introduction.
   A13.1.1. New, more efficient and reliable gas cooling products made by U.S. manufacturers
   illustrates how natural gas cooling technology and equipment has improved tremendously in
   the past few years. This is one of the reasons that interest in gas cooling has been renewed.
   Interest in natural gas cooling has also been prompted by desires to reduce energy costs and
   avoid electric peak-demand charges, financial incentives such as rebates, and creative
   financing from the gas industry. Gas cooling equipment with high efficiencies and
   microprocessor controls are available for commercial facilities such as hotels, office
   buildings, supermarkets, and industrial facilities. Equipment suitable for residential
   applications also exists.
   A13.1.2. Basic Types of Gas Cooling Systems.
       A13.1.2.1. The three basic types of gas cooling systems are absorption systems, gas
       engine-driven (GED) systems, and desiccant systems. Absorption systems and desiccant
       systems can be matched with cogeneration systems that provide the heat needed to
       operate the cooling systems. The heat source that powers these systems can be in the
       form of steam, hot water, or high-temperature gases.
       A13.1.2.2. In many cases, the heat source may be a byproduct of another operation, as in
       the case of a cogeneration system whose primary purpose is the generation of electricity,
       but from which a “waste” heat source in the form of low-pressure steam is available to
       power the absorption refrigeration cycle or to regenerate a desiccant. An absorption
       cooling system is one that uses condensation and evaporation of two liquids—an
       absorbent and a coolant—to produce cooling. The process uses heat instead of
       mechanical means to operate. Absorption systems may be direct-fired or indirect-fired.
       There are two basic types of absorption systems: chillers and chiller/heaters. There are
       also two types of chiller systems: single-stage/single-effect (referred to as single-stage by
       this attachment) and double-stage/double-effect (referred to as double-stage by this
       attachment). GED systems use the same refrigeration cycle as electric systems. The
       difference is simply the replacement of the electric motor in a conventional vapor
       compression refrigeration system with a natural gas-fueled internal combustion engine as
       the prime mover for the compressor(s). Desiccant cooling systems directly control
       humidity by absorbing water vapor from an airstream. This allows for separation of the
       latent cooling load from the sensible cooling load. Simply put, desiccants are used to dry
       the air before it is cooled.
A13.2. Absorption Chiller Systems. Both single- and double-stage chillers are used in various
operations. Double-stage chillers are the more efficient of the two. Single-stage absorption
chillers provide a lower initial cost.
   A13.2.1. General Advantages. Gas absorption systems help to avoid electrical peak-
   demand charges by reducing electrical consumption. There are few moving parts with an
   absorption system, allowing for quiet, vibration-free, low-maintenance operation. This makes
   absorption systems ideal for applications where quiet operation is a necessity, such as
134                                                              AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


  hospitals, libraries, churches, schools, and office buildings. Absorption chiller systems are
  classified by single-, double-, or triple-stage effects, which indicate the number of generators
  in a given system. The greater the number of stages, the higher the overall efficiency.
  Double–effect absorption chillers typically have a higher first cost but significantly lower
  energy cost than single-effect chillers. Absorption systems range in size from 3 to 1,700 tons.
  These systems may be either chiller systems or chiller/heater systems that provide heat as
  well as cooling. Advantages of absorption systems over electrical systems include low
  operating costs; no fluorocarbon-based (CFC, HFC, or HCFC) refrigerants; safe, quiet
  operation due to few moving parts and low-pressure operation; reduced space requirements
  because absorption systems can also provide heat, eliminating the need for boilers; and
  reliability and low maintenance.
  A13.2.2. General Disadvantages. The biggest disadvantage with any gas cooling
  equipment is the first cost. This first cost is substantially higher than that of electric systems.
  Currently, the initial cost per ton of a double-stage, direct-fired absorption machine is
  approximately one-and-one-half to two times the cost of an electrically driven centrifugal
  machine.
  A13.2.3. Technological Advances. The development of a triple-stage (triple-effect)
  absorption chiller system and the generator/absorber heat exchange (GAX) system are the
  latest technological advances in the area of absorption refrigeration. The triple-stage
  absorption chiller works like the double-stage. A third stage has been added to increase
  efficiency and performance. A COP of 1.5 is expected. When they become commercially
  available, triple-stage absorption systems should provide a 40 to 50 percent increase in
  performance over today’s systems. It is also projected that triple-stage systems can be
  produced at only a 25 percent cost increase over double-stage systems. The GAX system is
  being developed as a low-cost, highly efficient (COP = 0.8) system for use in residential
  applications. Presently no triple-effect absorption chillers are offered, but with the increased
  efficiency from the double-effect systems it is approaching the efficiency capabilities of the
  triple-effect. When Trane and York did triple-effect testing in the 1990s, COPs were in the
  range of 1.52 to 1.58. The double-effect presently offered has a COP of 1.35 for steam and
  1.2 for direct-fired. GAX heat pumps, which boost efficiency by recovering heat when
  ammonia is absorbed into water, are now available for small commercial applications and
  large residential homes.
  A13.2.4. Single-Stage Absorption Systems. Absorption chillers, like electric chillers, use a
  condensation-evaporation cycle to provide cooling. However, absorption chillers usually use
  water as the refrigerant and an absorbing material which can be a liquid or salt. Figure A13.1
  shows the main components of a single-stage absorption cycle. The single-stage absorption
  process is described below.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                        135


Figure A13.1. Main Components of Single-Stage Absorption Cycle.




      A13.2.4.1. The evaporator (1) operates identically to an evaporator in a standard
      refrigeration cycle. Liquid refrigerant enters the evaporator and absorbs the heat picked
      up from the building by the chilling medium.
      A13.2.4.2. Concentrated absorbent or working fluid is in the absorber (2). At this point,
      it has a strong affinity for the refrigerant, causing it to readily absorb the refrigerant vapor
      from the evaporator. As the working fluid absorbs the refrigerant vapor, a vacuum is
      created. In turn, this low-pressure situation allows the refrigerant to evaporate at low
      temperatures. This causes the liquid refrigerant to vaporize and migrate into the absorber
      (2).
      A13.2.4.3. The absorbent’s affinity for the refrigerant diminishes as it absorbs more and
      more refrigerant. This solution, referred to as the weak solution due to its weak affinity
      for the refrigerant, is pumped (3) through the liquid-to-liquid heat exchanger (5) to the
      generator (4). Heat is added to the generator, causing the refrigerant to evaporate. This
      refrigerant vapor moves on to the condenser (6), but the newly concentrated solution
      (strong solution) returns to the absorber.
      A13.2.4.4. Heat is recovered from the strong solution by a liquid-to-liquid heat
      exchanger (5). This heat is used to preheat the weak solution before it enters the
      generator.
 136                                                            AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


       A13.2.4.5. The condenser cools and condenses the hot refrigerant vapor from the
       generator. This liquid refrigerant passes through the expansion valve (7) back into the
       evaporator.
   A13.2.5. Double-Stage Absorption Systems. The double-stage (double-effect) cycle is the
   system preferred by most chiller users today. It uses two generators to more efficiently
   harness energy from the heat source. Figure A13.2 shows the more efficient double-stage
   cycle. The main differences between the double-stage and the single-stage systems are:
       A13.2.5.1. The low-temperature generator (4B) uses the high-temperature generator (4A)
       as its heat source. The low-temperature generator is used to produce additional refrigerant
       vapor. A double-stage system generates around 30 to 40 percent more refrigerant vapor
       than a single-stage system.
       A13.2.5.2. One additional liquid-to-liquid heat exchanger is used with the double-stage
       system; this is the high-temperature heat exchanger (5B). This additional device improves
       the efficiency of the system heating the weak solution with heat recovered from the
       strong solution leaving the high-temperature generator.

Figure A13.2. Main Components of Double-Stage/Double-Effect Absorption Chiller.




   A13.2.6. Driving Force for Absorption Systems. Absorption chillers can use virtually any
   source of heat as a driving force, as long as the heat provided is of sufficient temperature. For
   a single-stage system using water and lithium bromide, the heat source should provide heat at
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     137


   a minimum of 93 °C (200 °F) for optimum performance. Low-pressure steam, around 15
   psig, is a common driving force for single-stage absorption systems. Heat sources generating
   temperatures as low as 72 °C (162 °F) can and have been used to drive single-stage systems.
   However, capacity and efficiency drop as the temperature of the driving force drops. Double-
   stage absorption systems require heat sources to provide temperatures of approximately 149
   °C (300 °F). This means that double-stage systems are either direct-fired by natural gas or oil
   or use high-pressure steam of 120 psig and above as a driving source. Steam at pressures as
   low as 45 psig have been used to drive double-stage systems at reduced capacity.
   A13.2.7. Applications. In the private sector, direct-fired absorption systems are most
   commonly applied where high peak electrical rates concurrent with low natural gas rates
   create a favorable economic climate for their operation. Additionally, the unique ability of
   these machines to be configured to simultaneously provide chilled water and hot water is
   often an advantage where the equipment room space is limited and the cost of expanding an
   equipment room is prohibitive. Indirect-fired single- and double-stage absorption systems are
   particularly well-suited to applications where a waste energy source in the form of hot water
   or steam from an industrial process or cogeneration plant is available. Steam-powered
   absorption systems are often used in hospitals where steam boilers must be fired year-round
   to support typical hospital operations. In these circumstances, the steam consumption of the
   absorption system helps provide a base load to the existing boiler, thus making boiler
   operation more efficient during the summer months.
A13.3. Gas Engine-Driven (GED) Systems. GED systems are vapor compression refrigeration
systems that use a natural gas-fueled internal combustion engine instead of an electric motor as
the prime mover for the compressor. The engines used to power these systems can be automotive
derivatives, industrial diesel engine derivatives, or stationary industrial engines specifically
designed to operate with natural gas as a fuel source. Even rotary (Wankel) engines have been
adapted to serve as prime movers for GED systems. Centrifugal, rotary screw, and reciprocating
compressors can be used in GED systems. GED systems can be chillers, packaged rooftop DX
systems, and even residential packaged heat pump systems.
   A13.3.1. General Advantages. GED systems have been in use for several decades. In the
   past, they were not economically feasible for general use due to the combination of high first
   cost and high fuel costs. The deregulation of the gas industry in the 1980s caused the cost of
   natural gas to drop considerably for the commercial and industrial consumer. GED systems
   are now becoming economically viable alternatives to conventional electrically driven
   systems in many locations. GED systems can also be used for peak shaving in circumstances
   where utility rate structures impose severe time-of-use penalties to discourage electrical
   consumption during peak electrical demand periods.
       A13.3.1.1. Using a GED system allows for recovery of most of the engine’s waste heat.
       This heat can be used to generate domestic hot water or low-pressure process steam. Hot
       water at 121 °C (250 °F) and 30 psig or steam at 112 °C (235 °F) and 8 psig can be
       produced when using a forced engine jacket cooling system. Steam at 121 °C (250 °F)
       and 15 psig can be produced by ebullient cooling of the engine. Up to 75 percent of the
       exhaust gas heat can also be recovered. The hot water or steam produced can be used for
       domestic purposes or industrial purposes. This recovered energy can also be used to
       operate a single-stage absorption chiller system or as the regeneration energy source for
       desiccant cooling systems.
138                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


      A13.3.1.2. GED systems offer higher efficiencies than current absorption systems.
      Depending upon equipment size, thermal COPs range from 1.3 to as high as 1.9. If an
      effective use for the recoverable waste energy produced by the engine is available, the
      effective COP of these systems can be increased even further.
      A13.3.1.3. GED systems offer very efficient part-load performance. These systems have
      variable speed capabilities. Cooling capacity can be controlled by varying the engine
      speed. A low operating cost and a high degree of flexibility can be achieved by
      combining engine speed variation with conventional capacity-reduction techniques such
      as inlet guide vane operation in centrifugal systems and cylinder unloading in
      reciprocating systems. Variations of 30 to 50 percent of the rated engine speed are
      possible. However, to avoid problems with lubrication and fuel economy, engine speed
      should not be reduced below the operating range recommended by the engine
      manufacturer.
  A13.3.2. General Disadvantages. The biggest disadvantage of using GED systems is the
  first cost. Currently, the initial cost per ton of a GED chiller is approximately one-and-one-
  half to two times the cost of an electrically driven centrifugal machine. In fact, the cost per
  ton of these machines is very similar to the cost per ton of direct-fired absorption machines.
  GED machines do, however, offer higher efficiencies than direct-fired absorption machines,
  particularly when engine jacket and exhaust heat recovery can be used. The maintenance cost
  for these machines is higher than either absorption or conventional electrically driven
  chillers. Currently, the additional maintenance cost for the internal combustion engines that
  drive these machines is approximately $0.01/ton-hour of cooling load when compared to
  similar electrically driven machines. This maintenance cost should cover scheduled periodic
  maintenance (oil and filter changes at 750 run-hour intervals), minor engine overhauls at
  12,000 to 15,000 run-hour intervals, and major engine overhauls or engine replacements
  (with automotive-derivative engines) at 25,000 to 30,000 run-hour intervals. Actual
  maintenance intervals will vary from unit to unit. Manufacturers should be consulted for up-
  to-date costs. In contrast, electrically driven machines can be expected to operate for upwards
  of 100,000 hours without a motor failure with only periodic lubrication and annual checks of
  the motor winding insulation.
  A13.3.3. Technological Advances. Current advances in GED systems are in the engine
  area. The engines have better automated controls. The maintenance requirements have been
  minimized by installing high-performance spark plugs, plug wires, distributor cap, and rotor
  buttons. Supplemental oil systems extend the oil change interval. Continued advancements
  will be in the areas of reducing emissions, increasing engine performance, and reducing first
  cost.
  A13.3.4. Gas Engine-Driven (GED) Chillers. Methods of operation for chillers range
  from combustion and steam turbines to automotive-derivative engines. Automotive-
  derivative engines are commonly used to power GED chillers and they work well for both
  large and small systems. Industrial engines manufactured by companies such as Caterpillar
  and Waukesha are also being used with large systems. The major maintenance distinction
  between automotive-derivative engines and industrial engines is that the automotive engines
  are typically replaced at 15,000 to 20,000 hours rather than being overhauled as in the case of
  industrial engines. GED systems are currently being produced with capacities between 30
  and 2100 tons with COPs of up to 1.9. Periodic maintenance of these systems can be simple.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                      139


   Many building operators choose to send only one representative to a manufacturer’s training
   program. This representative then returns to conduct an in-house training program for other
   technicians. Maintenance contracts, where an outside contractor maintains the system, are
   also popular with users of GED systems. Oil-change procedures are being simplified. A
   standard oil change may take less than an hour. If a remote oil system (such as a 55-gallon
   drum type) is being used, oil changes can sometimes be accomplished in 15 minutes. With
   the continuing advancement in GED systems, maintenance is simpler.
   A13.3.5. Gas Engine-Driven (GED) Direct Expansion (DX) Equipment. GED packaged
   rooftop systems are the same as electric packaged rooftop systems except they use small,
   reciprocating natural gas engines as a driving force. Also, small four-cycle engines have been
   adapted to provide efficient operation for residential systems. It is common to see small
   engines driving DX systems. The York Triathlon is a perfect example of a residential
   packaged DX system using a small engine as a driving force. It uses a one-cylinder, four-
   stroke engine. Rotary engines of the Wankel configuration are also being used to drive DX
   systems. Small GED natural gas systems have not proven to be as economically viable as
   originally thought in the 1990s.
   A13.3.6. Applications. Larger GED systems have been successfully tested and applied in a
   wide range of cooling applications where the comparative fuel cost between electricity and
   natural gas is sufficient to offset the difference in first cost and maintenance cost. In areas
   where electric utility rates and demand charges are high, the natural gas engine-driven
   chillers may be an excellent choice, depending on the economics. Since GED chillers operate
   in essentially the same manner as conventional electrically driven chillers, they are often
   integrated into existing chilled water plants. Their operation can be staged to provide cooling
   only at times when peak electrical demand and consumption charges are in effect. The ability
   to rapidly start one of these machines and bring its capacity online makes GED machines
   particularly well-suited for this type of mission. In situations where a beneficial use for the
   waste heat rejected from these machines is present, GED operation as a baseline cooling
   source may become an attractive proposition. GED chillers have been successfully used in
   schools, hospitals, apartment buildings, office buildings, ice rinks, nursing homes, hotels,
   retailers, and industrial facilities.
   A13.3.7. Additional GED Applications. A common situation found on many bases is a
   complex of dormitories that can potentially be served by a district cooling system. In addition
   to cooling, dormitories are also large consumers of domestic hot water. In many cases, dining
   halls are also concurrently located next to dormitory complexes, providing yet another
   significant user of domestic hot water. Using a GED chiller to supply the chilled water for a
   district cooling system for a hypothetical dormitory complex, the waste heat rejected from
   the engine jacket and the engine exhaust can be recovered and used as the energy source to
   heat this domestic hot water. Since domestic hot water consumption is not uniform
   throughout the day, the recovered waste heat energy can be stored in the form of heated
   domestic water in an insulated storage tank located adjacent to the chilled water plant. This
   heated domestic water can then be piped to individual dormitories and the dining hall. If the
   potentially recoverable waste heat is fully utilized, the effective thermal COP for this type of
   operation may be as high as 2.25.
A13.4. Desiccant Cooling Systems. Desiccants are ideal for applications that require low
humidity such as hotels, offices, and medical facilities. Desiccant dehumidification systems have
 140                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


been in use for a number of years. In the past, their use was limited to industrial applications
where extremely low humidity levels were required to support process needs. In these systems,
desiccants are used to remove water vapor from an airstream by absorption rather than by
cooling the airstream to condense the moisture. The desiccant material becomes saturated with
moisture and must be “regenerated” by heating to force the moisture to be released. This
regeneration process can occur by alternatively passing the airstream through one of two or more
desiccant-filled containers while the other desiccant-filled container(s) are being regenerated.
Another approach, more commonly used in comfort cooling/dehumidification applications, uses
a porous desiccant-impregnated wheel placed perpendicular to the airstream. Approximately 30
percent of the wheel surface area is exposed to the airstream while the remaining surface area is
subjected to a heated airstream, thus regenerating this portion of the desiccant. The saturated side
of the desiccant wheel, which is in the main air supply stream, rotates to the regenerative side.
Here, hot air—heated either by direct-fired natural gas or an indirect source, such as a gas-fired
heater or boiler—can be used to regenerate or dry the desiccant. Hot water or steam generated
from the engine of a GED chiller system may also be used for desiccant regeneration. Two
examples of solid desiccants are lithium salt and silica gel. The desiccant which dries the air
becomes saturated with water. The other type of desiccant is a liquid. The liquid is sprayed
through the airstream to remove moisture from the air. Desiccants do not cool the air; the air
actually heats up when moisture is removed. However, by removing the moisture, the latent
cooling is converted into sensible cooling.
   A13.4.1. Advantages to Desiccant Cooling. There are many benefits in using a desiccant
   system. First, desiccants, unlike standard dehumidification systems, do not freeze. They are
   also available in standard factory-assembled configurations of up to 60,000 cfm of airflow.
   Sizes larger than this can be constructed onsite. Desiccants also come in packaged assemblies
   with downstream cooling coils that allow these systems to provide dehumidification and
   cooling in one packaged unit. Some systems use mechanical cooling while others use
   evaporative cooling. Other benefits of using desiccants include the following:
       A13.4.1.1. With the moisture removed from the air, condensation is virtually eliminated
       on the system’s cooling coils. Drip pans are relatively dry. Also, the moisture in the
       ductwork is dramatically reduced; therefore, mildew, fungus, and bacterial growth are
       practically eliminated.
       A13.4.1.2. Since the processed air is dry, the humidity in the cooled space is lower. This
       allows the temperature in the space to be raised while comfort is maintained. Since less
       cooling is required, cooling set points can be raised, lowering operating cost.
       Additionally, since space humidity levels are kept lower, mold and mildew growth can be
       reduced significantly in humid environments. In the hotel and motel industry, this
       reduction in mold and mildew growth has allowed the replacement interval for carpets,
       bedding, and furnishings to be greatly extended, thus reducing this significant cost to
       operate these facilities while improving the comfort and satisfaction of the occupants.
       A13.4.1.3. Up to half of the energy used by a cooling system can go toward latent
       cooling. Since the moisture in the air has been removed and the cooling system is not
       responsible for the latent cooling, the load on the cooling system is greatly reduced. This
       allows for downsizing cooling systems in new operations.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                   141


     A13.4.1.4. Desiccants also allow for the addition of extra load to an existing cooling
     system. When the load increases on a cooling system, a desiccant, by removing the latent
     cooling load, could prevent the cooling system capacity from being insufficient and
     having to replace the system.
  A13.4.2. Disadvantages to Desiccant Cooling. Disadvantages with desiccants vary with
  the type of desiccant and the type of system being used. Packed-tower systems allow high
  and low spikes in humidity to occur during changing of the desiccant chambers. The rotating
  beds require large amounts of regenerative energy due to the massive amounts of desiccant
  being used. The desiccant breaks down and settles in the bottom of the beds, causing uneven
  airflow. Also, due to the settling of the desiccant, the beds must be topped off, thus
  increasing maintenance costs. These systems are also quite heavy. The new-generation
  desiccant wheels are relatively trouble-free but do require regular maintenance of seals and
  drive belts. Some maintenance is required to maintain the desiccant wheels. Sometimes these
  wheels can become obstructed and may need back-flushing to clear the obstruction. To
  minimize these problems, filters should be installed upstream of both the supply and
  regeneration side of the wheel to prevent dirt accumulation. Due to the corrosive nature of
  some processes, the seals of a desiccant wheel may need replacing at regular intervals. The
  replacement period is a function of the type of desiccant used, the airflow velocity, and the
  degree of saturation of the desiccant. The system manufacturer should be consulted for
  guidance on predicted service intervals on a case-by-case basis.
  A13.4.3. Technological Advances. New and improved desiccants have been developed.
  New desiccants have allowed for reducing the system size by up to 50 percent. Also, new
  desiccants such as Engelhard titanium silicate (ETS) can remove up to 100 percent more
  water than older desiccants. Desiccant systems are constantly being improved so their size
  can be decreased. These new desiccants are less corrosive and more stable than their
  predecessors.
  A13.4.4. Applications. Desiccant cooling systems have found great acceptance in two
  private sector applications. In humid climates, the hotel and motel industry has experienced
  problems with the growth of mold and mildew on carpets, furnishings, and bedding
  materials. In the past, the common practice to prevent this deterioration was to operate the
  HVAC systems at reduced temperatures to mechanically remove this moisture. This resulted
  in unreasonably high energy costs to operate the HVAC systems and oversized mechanical
  equipment. In some cases this situation was made worse by overcooling, which resulted in
  condensation forming on exterior walls. With the use of desiccant systems to control
  humidity levels, space temperatures can be raised several degrees, saving cooling energy and
  eliminating the need to oversize mechanical systems while simultaneously providing a more
  comfortable environment for guests. The deterioration of carpets and furnishings is also
  dramatically reduced, providing additional cost savings. The associated lower humidity
  levels reduce mold and mildew growth and metal corrosion. These same benefits are directly
  applicable to military housing units. A second application for desiccant systems has been
  found in the retail grocery business. High humidity levels in grocery stores result in
  condensation and ice buildup on frozen food items in open display cabinets, increased latent
  cooling loads on the refrigeration systems for these display fixtures, and condensation on the
  glass doors of closed frozen and refrigerated food display cases. The doors of closed display
  cases are usually equipped with heaters to prevent this condensation buildup from occurring
 142                                                             AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


   as it inhibits product visibility and may eventually freeze the doors shut. After the installation
   of desiccant systems, the condensation is practically eliminated, usually to the extent that the
   continued operation of the door heaters is no longer necessary. Space temperature can be
   raised several degrees, saving cooling energy. Additionally, the latent cooling load on the
   display case refrigeration systems is nearly eliminated, again reducing energy consumption.
   At the same time, the appearance of the products is enhanced and the customers are provided
   a more comfortable environment. Most military bases have a commissary and other outlets
   for the sale of frozen foods that will benefit in the same fashion from this technology. In both
   of the aforementioned scenarios, profit motivation drove the use of this technology. Unlike
   absorption and GED technology, some of the cost savings realized from the application of
   desiccant technology are derived from sources not traditionally included in an analysis of the
   cost impact of a cooling system on overall facility operation costs. Credit should be taken for
   the cost reductions associated with the extended service life of bedding materials, carpets,
   and furnishings in military housing units. Additionally, the reduction in mold and mildew
   growth in ductwork may produce some maintenance cost savings resulting from extended
   filter life and eliminate the need to periodically clean interior ductwork surfaces in high-
   mold-growth areas. These factors should be considered in an economic analysis of this
   technology along with energy cost savings and savings resulting from a reduction in required
   cooling capacity.
A13.5. Operation and Maintenance of Gas Cooling Equipment. Due to advances in gas
cooling technology, operating and maintaining gas cooling equipment can be as simple as
maintaining an electric cooling system. Due to advances in automated controls, the ability to
remotely monitor equipment, and increased system reliability, gas cooling technology is
becoming an important part of the cooling industry. Absorption systems are simple to maintain
and have few moving parts, making them more reliable today than in the past. By using high-
performance parts and remote oil systems, maintenance intervals have been increased. Desiccant
systems are smaller and more efficient. As with any other equipment, operating and maintaining
gas cooling equipment has its advantages and disadvantages.
   A13.5.1. Advantages of Gas Cooling Equipment. One of the most obvious advantages of
   gas cooling systems is that they use little electricity, which allowed avoiding electrical peak-
   demand rates. For example, if a chilled-water system is composed of several electrical
   chillers that incur large peak demand charges, replacing one or more chillers with a GED
   chiller may reduce the electrical demand, thus avoiding peak demand charges. However, the
   cost feasibility of chiller replacement and gas options must be determined. If electric rates are
   high and gas rates low, it is sometimes more cost-effective to replace an electric cooling
   system with a gas cooling system. The replacement cost can sometimes be recovered in as
   little as two to three years due to savings in energy cost. Also, many gas companies offer
   rebates to customers who choose to cool with natural gas, helping to offset first cost. Gas
   equipment is also very dependable. Absorption chillers have few moving parts and therefore
   seldom need maintenance. With so few moving parts, there is little vibration that can damage
   or weaken other systems. The engines used in GED equipment have been proven to be
   reliable and durable. With preventive maintenance such as proper oil changes, these systems
   seldom incur downtimes. Gas engines can be overhauled to extend the life of the system.
   Desiccant systems are also very reliable; they need little maintenance. Overall, gas cooling
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                          143


   equipment is simple to operate, can be low-maintenance when operated properly, and can
   provide substantial energy savings when properly applied.
   A13.5.2. Disadvantages of Gas Cooling Equipment. The sole disadvantage of gas cooling
   equipment is the first cost. Initial investments can be several times more than that of
   electrical equipment. A primary energy source is converted to produce cooling onsite; this
   requires specialized equipment. With an electric system, the primary energy is converted at a
   central location. The electric system is a simple converter of secondary energy (electricity)
   into cooling and is not as complex as a natural gas system. The first cost of gas equipment is
   usually offset by energy savings. Based on utility rates, it can be much less expensive to
   operate than electrical equipment.
A13.6. Choosing between Natural Gas and Electric Systems. The choice between natural gas
or electric cooling systems is usually an economic decision. A computer program should be used
to model buildings, cooling loads, and cooling systems for several different scenarios. The
program should be able to generate energy usage based on the models. Cooling systems can be
modeled using all-electric equipment, systems using all-gas equipment, and systems using a
combination of the two. Modeling cooling systems does not have to be limited to the three
situations mentioned, but should include them. Gas suppliers will commonly provide incentive
programs to offset a portion of the first cost of the natural gas cooling systems. Using the energy
usage and total costs determined by a computer model, along with annual maintenance cost and
first cost, a life-cycle cost can be performed for each scenario. The economic analysis can then
be used to select the best option. Other factors must also be considered when trying to decide
between electric and gas cooling, such as the overall dependability of the systems or the
criticality of the facilities being served by a system. For example, is the facility part of a critical
operation that must always be cooled and therefore cannot suffer a power outage? This may be a
situation where a dual-fuel system is needed, regardless of the cost. Air quality situations are
another case where system operating conditions can take precedence over economic factors. For
example, if a specific facility needs low-humidity air to support production operations, then a
desiccant system may be the best system to provide the required space conditions. Additionally,
economic factors that are not a part of the usual set of parameters typically analyzed when
evaluating competing cooling technologies should be considered when developing an overall
economic comparison of gas cooling technologies versus conventional systems. For example, the
ability of a desiccant system to provide year-round low humidity levels may result in a
significant reduction in cost for replacing bedding, carpeting, and furnishings in a housing
complex. The inclusion of this factor has largely contributed to the acceptance of this technology
in the hotel and motel industry, where these costs constitute a significant portion of the operating
cost of these facilities. All of these factors and more must be considered when choosing between
gas and electric cooling options.
A13.7. Operations and Maintenance Training Sources. Many of the technologies described
in this attachment are unfamiliar to facilities design and maintenance personnel. This lack of
familiarity should not prevent an organization from installing systems that employ new
technologies, such as gas cooling. For example, in the case of GED systems, the refrigerant side
of these systems is essentially identical to conventional electrically driven systems. Only the
maintenance and operation of the natural gas-fueled engines are different from existing
conventional systems. The engines can be maintained either in-house by power production
personnel or this service can be contracted through outside vendors. Additionally, the local
 144                                                           AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013


manufacturer’s representative for engine-driven, absorption, and desiccant systems can provide
assistance to maintain these systems either by providing contracted maintenance and/or
technician-level training or by assisting in the development of an in-house maintenance training
program. The Gas Research Institute and the American Gas Cooling Center are also available to
provide assistance in developing maintenance and operations training programs.
A13.8. Natural Gas Summary. Natural gas cooling technologies will continue to find
acceptance within the broad spectrum of available cooling technologies. The initial costs of this
equipment will drop as these technologies become more widely accepted and production rates
for the equipment increase. The manufacturers of mechanical cooling equipment have made a
significant commitment to research and development to advance and create new applications for
natural gas cooling technology. Many institutions and government agencies, including DOE, the
Gas Research Institute, the American Gas Cooling Center, major refrigeration equipment
manufacturers, and gas utilities are working together to promote acceptance of these
technologies. All potential users of this technology should continually evaluate the usefulness
and economic viability of this growing family of technologies that is becoming more cost-
effective.
AFPAM32-7089 14 JUNE 2013                                                                     145


                                         Attachment 14
                          COMMISSIONING HVAC EQUIPMENT

A14.1. Commissioning HVAC Equipment. The successful operation of any cooling system
requires that all components of the system fulfill design requirements. To ensure proper
operation, a process known as “commissioning” should be undertaken prior to accepting the
system. Commissioning should not be confused with the usual component-level startup testing
ordinarily performed by the installing contractor. Rather, commissioning is an organized process
that begins during the design phase of a project and describes, executes, and documents a series
of tests designed to ensure that all components in a system are properly installed so the system
completely fulfills design requirements. This testing program will be designed to ensure that all
components are properly installed and are operated throughout their complete performance
range, that all system alarms and safety systems are fully operational, and that all components in
the system are properly assembled to allow the individual components to function together as a
system. Unfortunately, too many systems have been installed that, although capable of operating
at a minimally acceptable level of performance, have never achieved the efficiency or capacity of
operation sought by the system designer and the facility operator. The commissioning process
should uncover problems (obstructed flow paths, improper component installation, improper
control set point adjustment, and improper refrigerant charges) that can affect system
performance, while still allowing the system to marginally operate.
   A14.1.1. During the design of a mechanical system, care should be exercised to ensure that
   all critical operating parameters can be evaluated during the commissioning process. The
   design should include provisions to accurately measure flow rates, temperatures, pressures,
   electrical currents, and other parameters. The designer should establish testing procedures
   that describe the modifications necessary to isolate individual components or control loops so
   that each function can be tested independently. Additionally, the designer should strive to
   ensure that ductwork and piping systems are configured in a manner to allow flow rates to be
   accurately measured. The installation of inexpensive pressure/temperature taps, or “Pete’s
   Plugs,” can be specified throughout piping systems to allow these parameters to be verified at
   locations where the cost of permanent instruments are not justified but where verification of
   these parameters could be useful during the commissioning process and aid system
   maintenance.
   A14.1.2. Although the commissioning process should begin during the design phase of a
   project, the commissioning/testing process occurs during the construction phase. Unified
   Facilities Guide Specification (UFGS) 23 08 00.00 10, Commissioning of HVAC Systems,
   can be used as a basis for developing a commissioning specification for inclusion in the
   construction specification package. UFGS 23 08 00.00 10 describes who should participate in
   the commissioning process, the scope of the testing, the responsibilities of the commissioning
   team members, and provides a draft format for documenting the required testing. Selecting
   the actual tests to be run, their sequence, and where the sensors should be located is
   dependent on the individual installation.
