BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE PAMPHLET10-243
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             1 AUGUST 2002
                                                            SHEPPARD AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           Supplement
                                                                         7 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                   Operations

                                                                   AUGMENTATION DUTY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                     e-publishing web site at: www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPXJ           (Mr. Ray)                            Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX
                                                                            (Maj Gen Speigel)
                                                                                   Pages: 11
                                     (SHEPPARDAFB)
OPR: 82 FSS/FSOXI                                                    Certified by: 82 FSS/CL
                                                            (GS-13 VIOLET C. BRANTLEY)
Supersedes:   SAFBI 10-243, 26 Jun 2006                                               Pages:4


This pamphlet compliments AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAF/DPFJ, 1540 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1540 on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. The privacy act of 1974 affects this publication. The authority to collect and
maintain the data prescribed in this pamphlet is Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section
8013. System of Records Notice Numbers, F036 HQ AFPC, Military Personnel Records Systems
and F036 HQ AFPC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS), apply. Ensure that all records created by
this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.”

The former Resource Augmentation Duty (READY) program, AFI 10-217, has been replaced
with a more flexible, commander directed augmentation program. As such, this pamphlet
contains a compilation of processes and procedures to help implement an effective program. The
contents of this pamphlet are recommendations only and may be used entirely or in part.

(SHEPPARDAFB) This instruction provides guidance, establishes procedures, and defines
responsibilities for the administration of the Augmentation Duty Program at Sheppard Air Force
Base, Texas. These procedures apply to all host and tenant organizations. The Privacy Act of
 2                             AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013


1974 applies to this publication. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at

(SHEPPARDAFB) https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.


Section A—Mission

1. An augmentation program can assist commanders in validating, approving and documenting
the need for additional personnel resources to support installation-level requirements. It can also
aid commanders in identifying, training, and tracking personnel to meet short-term augmentee
needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations/scenarios.
Use of an augmentation program is optional, and each installation should review its plans and
requirements appropriately.

Section B—Responsibilities

2. The Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander should
determine if an installation augmentation program is required. If a program is required, it’s a
local decision how it will be implemented and managed. Should it be determined a program is
required, the processes and procedures in this pamphlet are offered as a structural framework for
an effective program and may be used entirely or in part.

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program

3. Processes and procedures
     3.1. If the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander
     determines an augmentation program is required, recommend only one program for an
     installation.
     3.2. Tenant units, at the discretion of the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or
     equivalent GSU Commander, should be encouraged to participate in and receive benefits of
     the Host Installation augmentation program.
     3.3. All non-Air Force organizations (i.e., DoD, other Services, etc.) residing on Air Force
     installations are strongly encouraged to participate in the augmentation program. Individual
     volunteers should be utilized after they obtain approval from their immediate commander.
     3.4. Recommend appointment of an installation augmentation program OPR (generally the
     installation Vice Commander). The OPR should be responsible for establishing an
     augmentation review board (ARB) and appointing members.
        3.4.1. The ARB should manage all local augmentation programs. The augmentation
        program OPR should be the board chairperson and the approval authority for all
        augmentee call-ups.
AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                 3


     3.4.2. The ARB should be made up of two groups of people: the board members
     (paragraph 3.4.2.1) who represent the command structure at the group/wing level and
     those who function as board advisors (paragraph 3.4.2.2) because of their unique
     positions in manning and requirements management. Board members and advisors should
     provide the Host Installation Commander with advice on decisions needed to meet the
     temporary augmentation needs of the installation. Advisors are an integral part of the
     board and represent the base functions that provide key information for ARB action.
         3.4.2.1. Board Members: The Installation Vice Commander (or appointed
         augmentation program OPR) should be the chairperson. The Operations Group
         Commander (equivalent or deputy); Maintenance Group Commander (equivalent or
         deputy), Mission Support Group Commander (equivalent or deputy), Medical Group
         Commander (equivalent or deputy) and other commanders as applicable, should act
         as board members. The ARB Chairperson may designate key members from other
         installation organizations as required (i.e., tenant organizations and staff functions
         such as Staff Judge Advocate, Safety, etc.).
         3.4.2.2. Board Advisors: At a minimum, advisors should consist of the servicing
         Manpower Office (MO) representative (requirements and shortfall/reclama advisors)
         and a designated military/civilian personnel availability advisor. The chairperson may
         appoint additional advisors to attend the ARB as required.
         3.4.2.3. The ARB should be responsible for ensuring all local augmentation
         requirements are identified and met, and local training programs are established to
         meet those needs. The board should convene at least annually or more often, as
         directed by the chairperson, to revalidate requirements and prioritize exercise,
         contingency, wartime, or other emergency augmentation needs, and identify available
         resources to fill them. The board validates and approves augmentation requirements
         and exemptions based on the servicing MO representative’s advice. The ARB has
         overall responsibility for tasking installation units to meet augmentation
         requirements.
         3.4.2.4. The servicing MO representative to the ARB, using approved management
         engineering methods, should assist units in determining total augmentation
         requirements under locally defined scenarios. The MO should advise units regarding
         documenting augmentee shortfall/reclama requests, attend all ARB meetings, and
         review all augmentation requirements and exemptions forwarded to the ARB for
         action. The MO should advise the ARB based on their assessment of the need for and
         utilization of augmentees, and recommend solutions to augmentee reclama/shortfall
         actions.
  3.5. The augmentation program OPR should appoint an installation augmentation program
  Manager for the day-to-day overall administration of the installation’s program. Specific
  responsibilities should be:
     3.5.1. Schedule ARB meetings, provide agendas, minutes and other documents to all the
     members.
     3.5.2. Brief the augmentation program OPR on all actions and recommendations of the
     ARB as required.
 4                              AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013


        3.5.3. Maintain a database of all augmentation requirements and augmentee training
        status.
        3.5.4. Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented and validated by
        the manpower office before being sent to the ARB for action.
        3.5.5. Publish a local operating instruction (OI) to establish procedures and define
        responsibilities for the administration of the installations augmentation program. At
        locations where an Air Reserve Component (ARC) and active duty are co-located, the OI
        should be coordinated through each component’s senior commander prior to finalization.
        The OI should include such things as:
            3.5.5.1. The procedures for determining exemptions, requesting exemptions,
            establishing requirements, tasking personnel, determining fair share taskings,
            replacing augmentees, and reporting shortfalls.
            3.5.5.2. The roles and responsibilities of the installation commander, augmentation
            program OPR, augmentation program manager, ARB members, and unit
            augmentation coordinators.
            3.5.5.3. Procedures to activate the augmentation program and what missions it would
            support.
            3.5.5.4. Procedures for identifying and tracking the training of augmentees.
            3.5.5.5. Any unique needs of the installation augmentation program.
     3.6. Each organization using or providing augmentation should appoint a unit augmentation
     coordinator to manage the unit augmentation program.
     3.7. The Installation Plans Office should ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios
     include ARB approved personnel augmentation requirements.
4. How to Use Augmentees.
     4.1. Augmentation means using people in other than their assigned Control Air Force
     Specialty Code (CAFSC) duties. After unit commanders (who are seeking augmentees)
     exhaust their military personnel resource pool, recommend they look within their
     organization to see if there are skilled and/or trained Department of the Air Force (DAF)
     civilian members who can perform the duty prior to seeking assistance from other
     organizations through the ARB (see paragraph 5.2 and Section C, paragraph 7).
     4.2. Establishing and Implementing Augmentation Requirements:
        4.2.1. Consider local needs and conditions when determining augmentation
        requirements. Augmentation requirements are used primarily to support temporary, short-
        term workload surges during wartime, contingency, natural disaster, and exercise
        situations. Sustained use of augmentees should not be used to offset normal manpower
        shortfalls.
        4.2.2. Units using augmentees decide augmentee duties and train the augmentees to
        perform those duties. Augmented units should fund for required training, necessary
        equipment, uniform items (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed
        boots, leatherwork gloves, reflective belts, etc.). The augmented unit tracks all required
AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                    5


      training and coordinates training with the augmentees’ unit augmentation program
      coordinator.
      4.2.3. Prior to augmentees departing for PCS, reassignment, separation, or retirement,
      the augmented unit augmentation program coordinator should assure replacements are
      identified and trained. Personnel who have established retirement or approved separation
      dates should not be selected for augmentation duties. Close coordination between using
      and providing units and the augmentation program manager should be established to
      ensure there are no shortfalls in providing augmentee replacements.
      4.2.4. When relieved from augmentation duty, members should be given any
      documentation reflecting the state of their training, qualification, and/or certification.
5. Identifying Augmentees.
   5.1. Members assigned to a Unit Type Code (UTC), primaries and alternates, generally
   should not be assigned augmentation duties until all other eligible resources are exhausted. In
   the event eligible resources are not available, commanders may assign personnel on UTCs.
   The augmentation duties of UTC personnel should not conflict with their UTC training and
   deployment/on-call timeframe. Members assigned to a UTC are subject to deploy in support
   of an Operations Plan (OPLAN) that takes priority over local augmentation requirements.
   Augmentation program duties should not be grounds for a shortfall or reclama of a
   deployment tasking.
   5.2. In addition to military personnel, commanders are highly encouraged to consider the use
   of DAF civilians, ARC, and contractor personnel in filling augmentation requirements.
      5.2.1. Before DAF civilian employees are used for augmentation duties all legal,
      regulatory and bargaining agreement stipulations should be followed closely.
      5.2.2. Collocated ARC units may be utilized to fill known augmentee requirements.
      Close coordination and scheduling with the ARC units is required to ensure availability
      of personnel and funding to meet the augmentation needs.
      5.2.3. Prior to placing contractor personnel in augmentation, the duty should be
      documented appropriately in the employee’s contract.
   5.3. Types of augmentation performed by members assigned to a UTC should not require
   extensive or recurring training and should be for short-term usage.
   5.4. Augmentation trained people should not deploy in their augmentation duty. They may
   be dispatched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emergencies
   whenever the use of DoD personnel has been properly authorized. In overseas areas, they
   may also be dispatched to those locations where the commander has a co-located operating
   base (COB) or forward operating location (FOL) base reception responsibilities.
   5.5. In an emergency, deployed commanders should consider forming a Site augmentation
   program and use deployed personnel for those duties.
   5.6. Restrictions apply when individuals and selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) recipients
   perform duty outside their CAFSC. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, paragraph
   3.34, and AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, paragraph 2.13, should
 6                              AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013


     be reviewed and complied with if required. Suggest no more than 120 days (90 days for SRB
     specialties) per year for augmentation duty.
     5.7. Trained augmentees should remain in the program for a minimum of one year after
     having been trained in their augmentation duties.
6. Augmentee Tracking and Training.
     6.1. The augmentation program manager and unit augmentation program coordinators
     should track all augmentees and the status of the augmentees’ training.
     6.2. Locally devised spreadsheets and/or databases and their contents can be locally
     determined. Recommend they contain, as a minimum, the name, grade, unit of assignment,
     UTC (if applicable), dates of deployment vulnerability (if applicable), type of augmentation,
     date assigned, date qualified, and other information needed to track the training status.
7. Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation.
(Note: IAW Title 5 USC (Chapter 71), statutory, regulatory, collective bargaining agreements
and obligations must be following before using civilian employees.)
     7.1. Employee participation.
        7.1.1. Augmentation duties assigned to civilian employees should be assigned to those
        whose official position description requires them to perform similar tasks. Management
        should look for civilian volunteers within their own organization, then volunteers from
        other organizations prior to tasking civilians to accomplish augmentation duties.
        7.1.2. Key and Emergency-Essential (EE) employees are identified as such because their
        job skills are critical during emergencies. Also, certain other Air Force civilians are
        subject to military recall. Therefore, it’s anticipated these categories of civilians would
        not be identified as augmentees for contingency/wartime operations.
        7.1.3. Upon determining that augmentation needs require the skills and qualifications of
        Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees or resources, the installation or other
        commander concerned should take necessary action to contract with the “owning” NAFI
        (Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality) for those services or resources. Such contracts
        with NAFIs are permissible under the circumstances addressed in AFM 64-302,
        Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, paragraph 5.15. Prior to
        executing a contract, the 63- and 64- series Air Force directives should be reviewed and
        complied with if appropriate.
        7.1.4. Local National employees paid from Appropriated Funds may participate insofar
        as allowed by the Status of Forces Agreement of that country.
        7.1.5. Because of legal, regulatory, bargaining agreement and financial concerns, other
        than those already in like positions, civilian employees should not be allowed to perform
        duties where there is an inherent possibility of danger to life or limb, such as firefighters
        or security police.
     7.2. Official Credit for Augmentation. The augmentation duty to be performed by civilian
     employees should be described in a letter addressed to each employee and signed by the
     supervisor of the augmentee, with an informational copy to the employee’s supervisor of
     record. The supervisor’s employee brief should be annotated to reflect each time the
AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                  7


   employee is assigned to perform the augmentation duty. If assignment of duties is anticipated
   to be for 30 or more consecutive calendar days and if the augmentation duties differs
   sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant a different classification,
   assignment should be handled as an official detail in compliance with the competitive
   process as outlined in AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions. Standard Core Personnel
   Documents (SCPDs) from the AF SCPD Library (http://www.afpc.af.mil) should be used to
   document augmentation duties whenever there is an SCPD that provides an accurate
   statement of the augmentation work assignment. Also, if during a 12-month period, the
   employee should accumulate 20 or more workdays performing augmentation and the duties
   differ sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant a different
   classification, credit can be obtained by submitting proper documentation to the CPF. The
   request should indicate duties performed, the period of time they were performed, and
   certification by the augmentation supervisor the employee performed those duties in a
   satisfactory manner. These duties should be coded into the DCPDS as a detail. Details are
   considered when determining qualifications for vacant positions. (See AFM 36-505, Skill
   Coding)
   7.3. Additional Information. The augmentee should meet all requirements of the
   augmentation duties. The augmentation supervisor should ensure the employee is properly
   trained to perform these duties by providing on-the-job training or formal training.
      7.3.1. Physical Qualifications. The augmentation duty supervisor needs to work with the
      CPF to determine if the augmentee duties require any physical qualifications other than
      those required by the employee’s regular job. If so, a physical examination should be
      conducted at no expense to the employee.
      7.3.2. Security Clearance. Augmentees selected for duties requiring special security
      clearances should be selected from those already possessing such a clearance.
      7.3.3. Compensation. Civilian employees required to work more than 8 hours a day or 40
      hours a week are usually compensated appropriately either in the form of compensatory
      time off or payment of overtime (paid from either owning or using organization funds).
      Premium pay for work performed on a Sunday or a holiday plus shift differential could
      be a factor, depending on hours worked. Determination of funds to be used should occur
      prior to overtime being performed. (See AFI 36-802, Pay Setting and AFI 36-807, Weekly
      and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observations)
      7.3.4. Local Collective Bargaining Obligations. Prior to implementation of local
      procedures for the assignment of civilian employees to augmentation duties, appropriate
      local bargaining obligations must be satisfied IAW Title 5 USC, Chapter 71.

Section C (SHEPPARDAFB)—RECOMMENDATIONS FOR AN EFFECTIVE PROGRAM

3.4. (SHEPPARDAFB) The installation commander will appoint the installation
augmentation program OPR. The Program OPR will be the Command Chief unless the
installation commander appoints a different member in writing.
      3.4.1. (SHEPPARDAFB) The Augmentation Review Board (ARB) is responsible for
      ensuring all local augmentation requirements are identified and met and local training
      programs are established to meet the installation's needs. The board will convene semi-
 8                              AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013


        annually or more frequently if directed by the OPR to revalidate requirements and
        prioritize exercise, contingency, wartime, and other emergency augmentation needs, and
        identify available resources to fill them. The board validates and approves augmentation
        requirements and exemptions based on the servicing Manpower Offices (MO) manning
        calculations (with inputs from board advisors). The ARB has the overall responsibility
        for tasking installation organizations to meet augmentation requirements.
            3.4.2.1. (SHEPPARDAFB) ARB members will consist of the Command Chief
            (ARB Chairperson) and all installation group Chiefs or equivalent as board members.
     3.5. (SHEPPARDAFB) The Installation Program manager will be an individual assigned to
     82 FSS/FSOXI.
4. How to Use Augmentees.
     4.1. (SHEPPARDAFB) Augmentation means using people in other than their assigned
     Control Air Force Specialty Code (CAFSC) duties. Unit commanders seeking augmentation
     must first look at other military members available within their unit to perform augmentation
     duties. Once their military population is exhausted, they should look within their
     organization to see if there are skilled and/or trained Department of the Air Force (DAF)
     civilian members who can perform the duty prior to seeking assistance from other
     organizations through the ARB (NOTE: IAW Title 5 USC Chapter 71, statutory, regulatory,
     collective bargaining agreements and obligations must be followed before using civilian
     employees for augmentee duties).
        4.1.1. (SHEPPARDAFB) Each organization utilizing augmentees will appoint a
        primary and alternate Augmentation Program Coordinator. The program coordinator will
        identify and gain approval from the ARB for their augmentation requirements.
        4.2.2. (SHEPPARDAFB) Program coordinator will develop a comprehensive training
        program to ensure augmentees accomplish all required training. Augmented units will
        fund all training and equipment requirements. Coordinator will provide a monthly report
        of the status of augmentee training to the installation program manager not later than the
        10th of each month.
     4.3. (SHEPPARDAFB) Group Augmentation Program Coordinator. Each group tasked to
     provide augmentees will appoint a primary and alternate group Augmentation Program
     Coordinator to manage the requirements assigned to their group.
     4.4. (SHEPPARDAFB) Group coordinators will identify people for augmentation duty and
     provide a listing of personnel assigned augmentee duty to the augmented organization and
     the installation program manager. The group coordinator will update the list at least
     annually, or whenever new personnel are identified to fill augmentation duties.
     4.5. (SHEPPARDAFB) Ensure augmentees attend scheduled training and coordinate the
     release of augmentees for authorized activations.
     4.6. (SHEPPARDAFB) Ensure augmentees meet eligibility requirements to perform
     specific augmentation duties as approved by the ARB.
     4.7. (SHEPPARDAFB) Group coordinators will identify augmentee replacements prior to
     the member’s departure for Permanent Change of Station (PCS), Permanent Change of
AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                                9


  Assignment (PCA), separation, retirement or lengthy absence/medical condition that would
  prevent them from performing augmentee duties.
  4.8. (SHEPPARDAFB) Augmentation requirements will vary between Air Expeditionary
  Force (AEF) Cycle. MO will determine the total E-1 thru E-6 group population. Installation
  Personnel Readiness/Installation Deployment Officer (IPR/IDO) will provide MO with the
  current and upcoming real-world deployment taskings. Services will provide MO with
  Honor Guard taskings. MO will subtract the real-world deployment taskings and Honor
  Guard taskings from the E-1 to E-6 population and come up with a new eligible population.
  Groups will be fair shared from this new eligible population.
  4.9. (SHEPPARDAFB) Units using augmentees decide what duties the augmentees will
  perform; however, they must provide documented training on the duties prior to augmentees
  performing the duties. A simple spreadsheet or sign-in log listing areas the augmentees were
  trained on is sufficient. Augmented units will fund and provide proper protective gear and
  any other items and equipment each augmentee requires to safely and effectively perform
  augmentee duties (e.g., cold weather gear, reflective belts, leather gloves, etc.).




                                          CHARLES F. WALD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS/Air & Space Operations

                                          (SHEPPARDAFB)

                                          SCOTT A. KINDSVATER, Brigadier General,
                                          USAF
                                          Commander
 10                           AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Overtime
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions
AFM 36-505, Skill Coding
AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures
(Added-SHEPPARDAFB) Adopted Forms
(Added-SHEPPARDAFB) AFPAM10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002
(Added-SHEPPARDAFB) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
(Added-SHEPPARDAFB) AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CSS—Commanders Support Staff
COB—Co-located Operating Base
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DIN—Data Identification Number
DoD—Department of Defense
DPXJ—Readiness and Joint Matters Division
DPW—Director of Personnel Accountability
DPX—Division of Personnel and Systems
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EE—Emergency-Essential
FOA—Field Operating Activities
AFPAM10-243_SHEPPARDAFBSUP_I 7 NOVEMBER 2013                                     11


FOL—Forward Operating Location
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
(Added-SHEPPARDAFB) IPR/IDO—Installation          Personnel   Readiness/Installation
Deployment Officer
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MO—Manpower Office
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
OI—Operating Instruction
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-SHEPPARDAFB) PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PC-III—Personnel Concept III
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
READY—Resource Augmentation Duty
SCPD—Standard Core Personnel Documents
SRB—Selective Reenlistment Bonus
TNG-YR-MO—Training-Year-Month
(Added-SHEPPARDAFB) USC—United States Code
UTC—Unit Type Code
YYMM—Year Year Month Month (9812)
