BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 10-243
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             1 AUGUST 2002
                                                          MCCONNELL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                          Supplement
                                                                            25 AUGUST 2010

                                                                                   Operations

                                                                   AUGMENTATION DUTY


ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                     e-publishing web site at: www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPXJ (Mr. Ray)                   Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX (Maj Gen Speigel)
                                                                                Pages: 29

                                   (MCCONNELLAFB)

OPR: 22 ARW/XP                               Certified by: 22 ARW/DS (Lt Col James Wurzer)
                                                                                 Pages: 18



This pamphlet compliments AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAF/DPFJ, 1540 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1540 on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. The privacy act of 1974 affects this publication. The authority to collect and
maintain the data prescribed in this pamphlet is Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section
8013. System of Records Notice Numbers, F036 HQ AFPC, Military Personnel Records Systems
and F036 HQ AFPC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS), apply. Ensure that all records created by
this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.”

The former Resource Augmentation Duty (READY) program, AFI 10-217, has been replaced
with a more flexible, commander directed augmentation program. As such, this pamphlet
contains a compilation of processes and procedures to help implement an effective program. The
contents of this pamphlet are recommendations only and may be used entirely or in part.


(MCCONNELLAFB) AFPAM 10-243, dated 1 August 2002 is supplemented as follows:
This supplement establishes the McConnell AFB system to provide additional manpower for key
functional areas during real world or exercise contingencies, emergencies or operational
conditions warranting the reallocation of manpower to sustain operations. This supplement
2                                   AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010

applies to all military members assigned to the 22d Air Refueling Wing, 184th Intelligence Wing,
and 931st Air Refueling Group. It clarifies Augmentation Review Board (ARB), Installation
Augmentation Program Manager (IAPM) ,Group Superintendent (GP/CCC), Unit Augmentation
Coordinator (UAC), and member responsibilities .Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Section A—Mission                                                                                                                 3
       1.     An augmentation program .......................................................................................     3
       1.     (MCCONNELLAFB) The McConnell AFB Augmentation Duty Program ..........                                               3

Section B—Responsibilities                                                                                                        4
       2.     The Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) ......................................................                    4

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program                                                                                4
       3.     Processes and procedures .......................................................................................    4
       4.     How to Use Augmentees. ......................................................................................      10
       5.     Identifying Augmentees. ........................................................................................   11
       6.     Augmentee Tracking and Training. .......................................................................           13
       7.     Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation. ..........................................                      13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                   16

Attachment 1 (MCCONNELLAFB)—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
              INFORMATION                                                                                                        18

Attachment 2—(MCCONNELLAFB) TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                                                                20

Attachment 3 (MCCONNELLAFB—SECURITY FORCES AUGMENTATION
              REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                       23

Attachment 4 (MCCONNELLAFB)—AUGMENTATION REQUIREMENT REQUEST                                                                     25

Attachment 5 (MCCONNELLAFB)—AUGMENTATION EXEMPTION REQUEST
              LETTER                                                                                                             26
Attachment 6 (MCCONNELLAFB)—EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR EACH MISSION
              AREA                                                  27

Attachment 7 (MCCONNELLAFB)—AUGMENTEE EXEMPTIONS                                                                                 28

Attachment 8 (MCCONNELLAFB)—“DO NOT ARM” MFR TEMPLATE                                                                            29
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                                     3




Section A—Mission

1. An augmentation program can assist commanders in validating, approving and documenting
the need for additional personnel resources to support installation-level requirements. It can also
aid commanders in identifying, training, and tracking personnel to meet short-term augmentee
needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations/scenarios.
Use of an augmentation program is optional, and each installation should review its plans and
requirements appropriately.
1. (MCCONNELLAFB)The McConnell AFB Augmentation Duty Program is established
to provide a system for identifying, training, and placing personnel in assignments other than
their primary Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) to meet the needs created by installation-level
contingencies, wartime or emergency situations/scenarios. The intent is short term (or as
deemed necessary by the Installation Commander, coordinated with tenant commanders)
augmentation of approved wing functions for optimal operational sustainment to meet real-world
emergencies or operational conditions in support of base plans.
   1.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Upon implementation of the augmentee plan, it is
   incumbent of the 22 ARW/CC to establish what losses, in terms of Wing services, may be
   sacrificed in order to man the augmentee positions. The following paragraphs list areas that
   could be closed and the approximately number of manned positions this would add to the
   augmentee pool [this information will be used to aid the commander in determining which, if
   any, offices should be closed]:
       1.1.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) MSG: MSG can maintain the entirety of its
       augmenting force without closure of any services.
       1.1.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) OG: During mobility, contingency, deployment
       or OPLAN generation activities, OG is exempt from providing additional personnel for
       augmentation duty.     During non-mobility, contingency, deployment or OPLAN
       generation emergencies, the following agencies can provide support as described:
           1.1.2.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) 22 OSS/OSF (HARM/SARM/CSOC/
           Scheduling):
               1.1.2.1.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) HARM: 2 personnel. If HARM (Host
               Aviation Resource Management) is tasked, flying records, training verification
               and sortie verification will be impacted. HARM is the primary pool of
               augmentees.
               1.1.2.1.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) SARM:                  3 personnel. If SARM
               (Squadron Aviation Resource Management)is tasked, flying records, training
               verification and sortie verification will be impacted.
               1.1.2.1.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) CSOC:               3 personnel.      If CSOC
               (Consolidated Squadron Operations Center) is tasked, flying order generation will
               be impacted.
               1.1.2.1.4. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Scheduling:          2 personnel.      If
               Scheduling is tasked, mission scheduling and Operations coordination with
4                            AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010

              Maintenance (Mx) will be impacted, as will Global Decision Support System II
              (GDSS2) input.
           1.1.2.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) 22 OSS/OSC (Crew Communications): 10
           personnel. If Crew Comm is tasked, Crew COMSEC & Flight publication
           distribution impacted.
           1.1.2.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) 22 OSS/OST: 2 personnel. If training is
           tasked, boom operator and navigator training documentation is impacted.
           1.1.2.4. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) 22 OSS/OSK: 3 personnel. If tactics is
           tasked, tactics testing, Isolated Personnel Report (ISOPREP) review, tactics training,
           aircrew survival/capture training and OPLAN 8010 support is impacted.
       1.1.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) MXG: 10-15 personnel. The MXG could close
       down Maintenance Qualification Training Program (MQTP) training. Depending on the
       size of the student body this would provide between 10-15 personnel for the augmentee
       program. The delays caused by using these bodies would have a ripple effect for all of
       the following classes causing serious delays in training for a significant amount of time.
       1.1.4. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) MDG. The MDG can provide the number of
       personnel identified in Table 2.1., under all circu
       1.1.5. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) DS: 12-15 personnel. The Director of Staff’s
       Agencies and Comptroller Squadron could close customer service operations, providing
       an essential number of personnel to operational requirements and support an additional
       12 – 15 personnel for augmentee uses.

Section B—Responsibilities

2. The Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander should
determine if an installation augmentation program is required. If a program is required, it’s a
local decision how it will be implemented and managed. Should it be determined a program is
required, the processes and procedures in this pamphlet are offered as a structural framework for
an effective program and may be used entirely or in part.

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program

3. Processes and procedures
    3.1. If the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander
    determines an augmentation program is required, recommend only one program for an
    installation.
    3.2. Tenant units, at the discretion of the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or
    equivalent GSU Commander, should be encouraged to participate in and receive benefits of
    the Host Installation augmentation program.
    3.2. (MCCONNELLAFB) The 22 ARW/CC will encourage installation partners, and non-
    Air Force organizations to participate in and receive benefits of the host installation
    augmentation program.
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                                 5

  3.3. All non-Air Force organizations (i.e., DoD, other Services, etc.) residing on Air Force
  installations are strongly encouraged to participate in the augmentation program. Individual
  volunteers should be utilized after they obtain approval from their immediate commander.
  3.4. Recommend appointment of an installation augmentation program OPR (generally the
  installation Vice Commander). The OPR should be responsible for establishing an
  augmentation review board (ARB) and appointing members.
  3.4. (MCCONNELLAFB) The OPR for the Installation Augmentation Program is the 22d
  Air Refueling Wing Vice Commander, who will chair the Augmentation Review Board
  (ARB). 22 ARW/CV will serve as the approval authority (or designated representative) for
  all augmentee recalls.
     3.4.1. The ARB should manage all local augmentation programs. The augmentation
     program OPR should be the board chairperson and the approval authority for all
     augmentee call-ups.
     3.4.2. The ARB should be made up of two groups of people: the board members
     (paragraph 3.4.2.1) who represent the command structure at the group/wing level and
     those who function as board advisors (paragraph 3.4.2.2) because of their unique
     positions in manning and requirements management. Board members and advisors should
     provide the Host Installation Commander with advice on decisions needed to meet the
     temporary augmentation needs of the installation. Advisors are an integral part of the
     board and represent the base functions that provide key information for ARB action.
     3.4.2. (MCCONNELLAFB) 1Board Members are: 22 ARW/CV, 22 ARW/XP, 184
     IW/XP, 931 ARG/LGRR, 22 ARW/CCC, 184 IW/CCC, 931 ARG/CCC, 22 OG/CCC, 22
     MXG/CCC, 22 MSG/CCC, 22 MDG/CCC, 22 ARW/DSS
         3.4.2.1. Board Members: The Installation Vice Commander (or appointed
         augmentation program OPR) should be the chairperson. The Operations Group
         Commander (equivalent or deputy); Maintenance Group Commander (equivalent or
         deputy), Mission Support Group Commander (equivalent or deputy), Medical Group
         Commander (equivalent or deputy) and other commanders as applicable, should act
         as board members. The ARB Chairperson may designate key members from other
         installation organizations as required (i.e., tenant organizations and staff functions
         such as Staff Judge Advocate, Safety, etc.).
         3.4.2.2. Board Advisors: At a minimum, advisors should consist of the servicing
         Manpower Office (MO) representative (requirements and shortfall/reclama advisors)
         and a designated military/civilian personnel availability advisor. The chairperson may
         appoint additional advisors to attend the ARB as required.
         3.4.2.2. (MCCONNELLAFB) Board Advisors are: Installation Augmentation
         Program Manager (IAPM), a representative from Manpower (22 FSS/FSMM),
         Installation Deployment Officer (22 LRS/LGRDX), 22 CES/CC, 22 SFS/CC, 22
         LRS/CC, 22 ARW/XPI, 184 MUNS. Tenant units, First Sergeants and all local
         commanders are encouraged to attend ARBs.
         3.4.2.3. The ARB should be responsible for ensuring all local augmentation
         requirements are identified and met, and local training programs are established to
         meet those needs. The board should convene at least annually or more often, as
6                            AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010

           directed by the chairperson, to revalidate requirements and prioritize exercise,
           contingency, wartime, or other emergency augmentation needs, and identify available
           resources to fill them. The board validates and approves augmentation requirements
           and exemptions based on the servicing MO representative’s advice. The ARB has
           overall responsibility for tasking installation units to meet augmentation
           requirements.
              3.4.2.3.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) The ARB will convene semi-annually
              or more often if deemed necessary by the 22 ARW/CV or Board members.
              3.4.2.3.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) The 22 ARW/CC will prioritize
              requirements when there are insufficient resources to perform all augmentation
              taskings.
              3.4.2.3.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) The ARB will confirm fair share
              distribution and revalidate on an annual or as- needed basis. Fair share
              distribution will be determined by subtracting AFI-directed and locally approved
              exemptions from unit assigned strength (Airman (E-1) through Technical
              Sergeant (E-6)). See paragraph 5.10.3 for locally approved exemptions.
           3.4.2.4. The servicing MO representative to the ARB, using approved management
           engineering methods, should assist units in determining total augmentation
           requirements under locally defined scenarios. The MO should advise units regarding
           documenting augmentee shortfall/reclama requests, attend all ARB meetings, and
           review all augmentation requirements and exemptions forwarded to the ARB for
           action. The MO should advise the ARB based on their assessment of the need for and
           utilization of augmentees, and recommend solutions to augmentee reclama/shortfall
           actions.
    3.5. The augmentation program OPR should appoint an installation augmentation program
    Manager for the day-to-day overall administration of the installation’s program. Specific
    responsibilities should be:
    3.5. (MCCONNELLAFB) The 22 ARW/CV will appoint, in writing, the 22 ARW IAPM
    and an alternate. Specific responsibilities will include:
       3.5.1. Schedule ARB meetings, provide agendas, minutes and other documents to all the
       members.
       3.5.2. Brief the augmentation program OPR on all actions and recommendations of the
       ARB as required.
       3.5.3. Maintain a database of all augmentation requirements and augmentee training
       status.
       3.5.4. Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented and validated by
       the manpower office before being sent to the ARB for action.
       3.5.5. Publish a local operating instruction (OI) to establish procedures and define
       responsibilities for the administration of the installations augmentation program. At
       locations where an Air Reserve Component (ARC) and active duty are co-located, the OI
       should be coordinated through each component’s senior commander prior to finalization.
       The OI should include such things as:
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                                  7

         3.5.5.1. The procedures for determining exemptions, requesting exemptions,
         establishing requirements, tasking personnel, determining fair share taskings,
         replacing augmentees, and reporting shortfalls.
         3.5.5.2. The roles and responsibilities of the installation commander, augmentation
         program OPR, augmentation program manager, ARB members, and unit
         augmentation coordinators.
         3.5.5.3. Procedures to activate the augmentation program and what missions it would
         support.
         3.5.5.4. Procedures for identifying and tracking the training of augmentees.
         3.5.5.5. Any unique needs of the installation augmentation program.
     3.5.6. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Act as the 22 ARW/CV’s administrative authority
     for the augmentation program.
     3.5.7. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Coordinate with the tenant units and 22 ARW/DS
     to schedule and facilitate the ARB semi-annual augmentation review boards
     3.5.8. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Coordinate               with    each   Unit     Augmentation
     Coordinator (UAC) to revalidate requirements.
     3.5.9. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Develop and post the annual augmentee training
     and installation exercise schedule to alert units of upcoming augmentee requirements.
     3.5.10. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Administratively                   coordinate         training
     requirements and appointments coordinated by the ARB.
     3.5.11. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Maintain an augmentee pool database.
     3.5.12. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Ensure UACs are informed of all augmentation
     program developments.
  3.6. Each organization using or providing augmentation should appoint a unit augmentation
  coordinator to manage the unit augmentation program.
  3.6. (MCCONNELLAFB) Unit Deployment Managers will perform UAC duties, unless a
  specific UAC is appointed in writing and submitted to the IAPM and Group Augmentee
  POC. UACs will:
     3.6.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Using UACs will establish and clearly define
     detailed augmentee requirements to the IAPM.
     3.6.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Using UACs will establish and clearly define
     augmentee duties to providing UAC.       Each providing UAC will maintain an
     augmentation duty program folder with appropriate documentation for each augmentee
     (electronic documentation suffices).
     3.6.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Using UACs will create and distribute reporting
     instructions and requirements to providing UACs upon notification of activation for duty.
     3.6.4. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Using UACs will provide augmentees with
     required training and unique equipment other than specified safety and protective
     equipment listed in Attachment 6. Training may be conducted during semiannual
8                             AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010

       training events or during quarterly scheduled exercises. All training will be tracked by
       the using UAC in the Wing augmentee pool database.
       3.6.5. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Providing UACs are responsible for maintaining
       the data in the Wing augmentee pool database.
       3.6.6. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Using UACs will ensure augmentees are fully
       utilized in required support duties or returned back to units.
    3.7. The Installation Plans Office should ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios
    include ARB approved personnel augmentation requirements.
    3.8. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) The Vice Commander, 22d Air Refueling Wing (22
    ARW/CV) will:
       3.8.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Identify available resources to equip augmentees,
       fill such needs and equitably allocate augmentation support taskings throughout wing
       organizations.
       3.8.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Ensure a viable augmentation program is
       established to ensure installation-level needs are identified and met; personnel are
       provided adequate training and equipment to perform augmentation duties.
       3.8.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Serve as champion of the Augmentation Program,
       coordinating ARB decisions with tenant unit leadership and providing the 22 ARW/CC
       with advice on decisions to meet the temporary exercise, contingency, wartime, or
       emergency requirements of McConnell AFB.
    3.9. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Tenant Commanders, Group Commanders and Director
    of Staff will:
       3.9.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Ensure                     appointed            augmentee
       personnel/subordinate units comply with established augmentation program procedures,
       attend    annual/semi-annual    training   and     maintain    duty-required   issued
       clothing/equipment.
       3.9.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Empower Group Superintendents for the overall
       management of their respective group’s augmentation program. Each group will manage
       their programs internally.
    3.10. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Group Augmentee POC, filled by the Group
    Superintendent or other designated agent, will:
       3.10.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Ensure each providing or using unit has an
       appointed UAC, as required.
       3.10.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Aid unit commanders in ensuring all augmentees
       are properly trained and equipped in order to perform their duties with short-notice
       notification.
       3.10.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Ensure personnel identified meet eligibility
       requirements to perform augmentation duty IAW paragraph 5. Supporting units will not
       utilize individuals with permanent medical or other disqualifying conditions as
       augmentees.
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                               9

    3.10.4. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Monitor availability status of augmentees and
    ensure 100 percent report for wartime contingency support or emergency situations as
    required. Ensure augmentee pool is capable of supplying required number of augmentees
    identified in Attachment 2, to include staggering leave authorizations, etc.
    3.10.5. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Communicate program requirements and
    relevant issues to their respective Group Commanders. They will come to meetings
    armed with Group/CC’s intent and direction to resolve issues quickly. If more time is
    needed to resolve issues, Group Superintendents will reconvene within 1 week of
    problem identification and resolve the issue.
    3.10.6. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Resolve, at group level, any difficulties
    squadrons may be having with maintaining a sufficient augmentee pool due to Air
    Expeditionary Force (AEF) rotations or other deployments. The group may rearrange
    taskings among their squadrons; however, the Group remains responsible for filling all
    assigned taskings regardless of deployments. NOTE: Augmentee program duties are not
    grounds for a shortfall or reclama of a Unit Type Code (UTC) AEF tasking.
    3.10.7. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Forward the name and contact information for
    their Group Augmentee POC, if the position is not held by the Group Superintendant, to
    the IAPM.
  3.11. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Unit Commanders will:
    3.11.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Be responsible for filling their assigned
    augmentee taskings when called upon. Units should ensure they have enough personnel
    trained to cover scheduled deployments and TDYs, normal leave, and PME. In the event
    of extenuating circumstances which prevent units from filling their taskings (e.g. Large
    deployment of assigned personnel), the 22 ARW/CC will set augmentation priorities.
    3.11.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Ensure the augmentee pool is outfitted
    appropriately with required clothing and safety equipment to perform duties. Reference
    Attachment 6 for complete listing.
    3.11.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Notify the Group Augmentee POCs when
    augmentee is unavailable for duty and aid him/her in resolving internal Group manning
    issues to fulfill installation requirements at all times.
    3.11.4. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Ensure                 members      undergoing  personal,
    administrative, or medical issues that preclude them from accomplishing augmentee
    duties (e.g. carrying a firearm), are not required to do so (follow Do Not Arm [DNA]
    procedures, see sample MFR at Attachment 8).
  3.12. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Each Augmentee will:
    3.12.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Ensure compliance with training requirements,
    maintain proficiency for assigned augmentation duties, and report any problems
    regarding ability or availability to perform augmentation duties to their Unit Commander.
    Augmentee should understand the mission demands of the supported unit may make it
    impossible to accommodate special needs.
10                             AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010

        3.12.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Maintain issued supply/equipment items in a
        serviceable condition. If replacement items are needed, contact Unit Commander for
        reissue.
4. How to Use Augmentees.
     4.1. Augmentation means using people in other than their assigned Control Air Force
     Specialty Code (CAFSC) duties. After unit commanders (who are seeking augmentees)
     exhaust their military personnel resource pool, recommend they look within their
     organization to see if there are skilled and/or trained Department of the Air Force (DAF)
     civilian members who can perform the duty prior to seeking assistance from other
     organizations through the ARB (see paragraph 5.2 and Section C, paragraph 7).
     4.2. Establishing and Implementing Augmentation Requirements:
        4.2.1. Consider local needs and conditions when determining augmentation
        requirements. Augmentation requirements are used primarily to support temporary, short-
        term workload surges during wartime, contingency, natural disaster, and exercise
        situations. Sustained use of augmentees should not be used to offset normal manpower
        shortfalls.
        4.2.1. (MCCONNELLAFB) ARB will consider OPLAN and Mission DOC statement
        requirements when determining augmentation needs. Each supported plan will be
        evaluated individually for augmentation requirements considering local, general and
        OPLAN-specific assumptions.
            4.2.1.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) If able, the augmented commander should
            attempt to request the use of augmentees at least 24 hours prior to duty to minimize
            the impact on augmentees and their units. However, it must be understood that
            contingencies by nature may dictate immediate call for augmentees via the Crisis
            Action Team (CAT) or 22 ARW/CC’s direction to fulfill mission taskings (e.g.
            implementation of FPCON Charlie measures).
            4.2.1.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Mission areas requiring augmentation will
            submit requests in writing via Unit Augmentation Coordinators in accordance with
            Attachment 4, with the Squadron Commander’s endorsement, as well as any other
            supporting documentation to the Group Commander. If the Group Commander
            approves the request, it is forwarded to the IAPM for consideration by the ARB.
            4.2.1.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Requests can be forwarded at any time, but
            no later than 14 days prior to the next scheduled ARB. In rare cases, Standard Air
            Munitions Package / Standard Tank, Rack, Adaptor and Pylon Package
            (STAMP/STRAPP) may require a shorter request timeframe due to mission
            requirements. These requests will be accepted within 14 days of the next ARB, but
            every effort should be made to send the request as early as possible. The IAPM and
            the Group Superintendents will review the request and present their recommendation
            to the ARB at the next scheduled meeting, or sooner if necessary. Unit Augmentation
            Coordinators will be present at the ARB to advocate their position and answer any
            questions from the ARB.
        4.2.2. Units using augmentees decide augmentee duties and train the augmentees to
        perform those duties. Augmented units should fund for required training, necessary
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                                   11

      equipment, uniform items (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed
      boots, leatherwork gloves, reflective belts, etc.). The augmented unit tracks all required
      training and coordinates training with the augmentees’ unit augmentation program
      coordinator.
      4.2.2. (MCCONNELLAFB) Augmented units must provide necessary equipment to be
      returned at the end of augmentation period. Items the unit is responsible for include
      generic equipment in various sizes (work gloves, ponchos, steel toe boot covers, etc.).
      Individuals are required to bring standard cold weather uniform items (wool cap, thermal
      underwear, etc.). The Wing will help fund initial cold weather gear (e.g. thermal
      underwear, ABU appropriate coat, etc.) upon completion of FTAC, as necessary.
      4.2.3. Prior to augmentees departing for PCS, reassignment, separation, or retirement,
      the augmented unit augmentation program coordinator should assure replacements are
      identified and trained. Personnel who have established retirement or approved separation
      dates should not be selected for augmentation duties. Close coordination between using
      and providing units and the augmentation program manager should be established to
      ensure there are no shortfalls in providing augmentee replacements.
      4.2.4. When relieved from augmentation duty, members should be given any
      documentation reflecting the state of their training, qualification, and/or certification.
5. Identifying Augmentees.
   5.1. Members assigned to a Unit Type Code (UTC), primaries and alternates, generally
   should not be assigned augmentation duties until all other eligible resources are exhausted. In
   the event eligible resources are not available, commanders may assign personnel on UTCs.
   The augmentation duties of UTC personnel should not conflict with their UTC training and
   deployment/on-call timeframe. Members assigned to a UTC are subject to deploy in support
   of an Operations Plan (OPLAN) that takes priority over local augmentation requirements.
   Augmentation program duties should not be grounds for a shortfall or reclama of a
   deployment tasking.
   5.2. In addition to military personnel, commanders are highly encouraged to consider the use
   of DAF civilians, ARC, and contractor personnel in filling augmentation requirements.
      5.2.1. Before DAF civilian employees are used for augmentation duties all legal,
      regulatory and bargaining agreement stipulations should be followed closely.
      5.2.2. Collocated ARC units may be utilized to fill known augmentee requirements.
      Close coordination and scheduling with the ARC units is required to ensure availability
      of personnel and funding to meet the augmentation needs.
      5.2.3. Prior to placing contractor personnel in augmentation, the duty should be
      documented appropriately in the employee’s contract.
   5.3. Types of augmentation performed by members assigned to a UTC should not require
   extensive or recurring training and should be for short-term usage.
   5.4. Augmentation trained people should not deploy in their augmentation duty. They may
   be dispatched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emergencies
   whenever the use of DoD personnel has been properly authorized. In overseas areas, they
12                              AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010

     may also be dispatched to those locations where the commander has a co-located operating
     base (COB) or forward operating location (FOL) base reception responsibilities.
     5.5. In an emergency, deployed commanders should consider forming a Site augmentation
     program and use deployed personnel for those duties.
     5.6. Restrictions apply when individuals and selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) recipients
     perform duty outside their CAFSC. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, paragraph
     3.34, and AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, paragraph 2.13, should
     be reviewed and complied with if required. Suggest no more than 120 days (90 days for SRB
     specialties) per year for augmentation duty.
     5.7. Trained augmentees should remain in the program for a minimum of one year after
     having been trained in their augmentation duties.
     5.8. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Sourcing personnel. The IAPM will calculate the fair
     share distribution (see paragraph 3.4.2.3.3) and communicate it to the Group
     Superintendents. Group Superintendents will then confer with their respective commanders
     for overall approval. Once all approvals are complete, the IAPM will give the distribution to
     the IAPM and Group Superintendents for follow on appointment of personnel. Assignment
     rosters (when required) will be given to the IAPM within 30 days of fair share distribution.
     5.9. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Shortfall Requests.
        5.9.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Units that can no longer support some or all of its
        augmentation taskings will submit a justified shortfall request to the Group Augmentee
        POCs via memorandum. If the memorandum is sufficient, it must first be determined if
        the shortfall can be filled from elsewhere in the group. If not, the request will be resolved
        among the Group Augmentee POCs. If still unable to resolve the shortfall, the issue will
        be arbitrated through the 22 ARW/CCC until resolved.
        5.9.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) If other than a temporary shortfall, the affected
        Group Augmentee POCs will notify the IAPM for adjustment to the fair share
        distribution. The shortfall will then be reconsidered at the following ARB meeting.
     5.10. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Requesting Exemptions.
        5.10.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Units will request an exemption through
        command channels using the format in Attachment 5. If disapproved, the request will be
        returned to the requesting unit with appropriate rationale. If recommending approval, the
        command function will forward to the IAPM. The IAPM will confer with the Group
        Superintendents for validation.
        5.10.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Once validated, the augmentation fair share
        distribution will be reevaluated and adjusted to accommodate the approved exemption.
        This new distribution will be communicated to the groups via the Group Superintendents
        for group adjustment. These changes will be made to Attachment 2.
        5.10.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Augmentation Exemptions Approved                            for
        McConnell AFB. See Attachment 7 for current McConnell AFB Exemptions.
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                                   13

6. Augmentee Tracking and Training.
   6.1. The augmentation program manager and unit augmentation program coordinators
   should track all augmentees and the status of the augmentees’ training.
       6.1.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) UACs will provide augmentees with initial
       training during FTAC, and recurring training at either semiannually scheduled training
       events or quarterly exercises, as required. Group Augmentee POCs will ensure the Wing
       Augmentee Training Database is current and complete. Group Augmentee POCs will
       devise internal procedures for tracking training requirements for accuracy and currency.
   6.2. Locally devised spreadsheets and/or databases and their contents can be locally
   determined. Recommend they contain, as a minimum, the name, grade, unit of assignment,
   UTC (if applicable), dates of deployment vulnerability (if applicable), type of augmentation,
   date assigned, date qualified, and other information needed to track the training status.
       6.2.1. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Each Group Augmentee POC will devise internal
       procedures to track the status of their augmentees to ensure availability for their
       augmentation taskings. The IAPM will conduct quarterly reviews of augmentation data
       with Group Superintendents to ensure accuracy of the data.
       6.2.2. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) UACs will schedule preliminary and refresher
       training for augmentees.
   6.3. (Added-MCCONNELLAFB) Group Augmentee POCs will coordinate requirements
   for AF Form 1199, restricted area badges, and flightline driving training with owning units.
   Unit Augmentation Coordinators will ensure individuals appointed as SF augmentees are
   issued and maintain possession of AF Form 1199 and flightline driving certification.
7. Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation.
(Note: IAW Title 5 USC (Chapter 71), statutory, regulatory, collective bargaining agreements
and obligations must be following before using civilian employees.)
   7.1. Employee participation.
       7.1.1. Augmentation duties assigned to civilian employees should be assigned to those
       whose official position description requires them to perform similar tasks. Management
       should look for civilian volunteers within their own organization, then volunteers from
       other organizations prior to tasking civilians to accomplish augmentation duties.
       7.1.2. Key and Emergency-Essential (EE) employees are identified as such because their
       job skills are critical during emergencies. Also, certain other Air Force civilians are
       subject to military recall. Therefore, it’s anticipated these categories of civilians would
       not be identified as augmentees for contingency/wartime operations.
       7.1.3. Upon determining that augmentation needs require the skills and qualifications of
       Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees or resources, the installation or other
       commander concerned should take necessary action to contract with the “owning” NAFI
       (Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality) for those services or resources. Such contracts
       with NAFIs are permissible under the circumstances addressed in AFM 64-302,
       Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, paragraph 5.15. Prior to
14                              AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010

        executing a contract, the 63- and 64- series Air Force directives should be reviewed and
        complied with if appropriate.
        7.1.4. Local National employees paid from Appropriated Funds may participate insofar
        as allowed by the Status of Forces Agreement of that country.
        7.1.5. Because of legal, regulatory, bargaining agreement and financial concerns, other
        than those already in like positions, civilian employees should not be allowed to perform
        duties where there is an inherent possibility of danger to life or limb, such as firefighters
        or security police.
     7.2. Official Credit for Augmentation. The augmentation duty to be performed by civilian
     employees should be described in a letter addressed to each employee and signed by the
     supervisor of the augmentee, with an informational copy to the employee’s supervisor of
     record. The supervisor’s employee brief should be annotated to reflect each time the
     employee is assigned to perform the augmentation duty. If assignment of duties is anticipated
     to be for 30 or more consecutive calendar days and if the augmentation duties differs
     sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant a different classification,
     assignment should be handled as an official detail in compliance with the competitive
     process as outlined in AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions. Standard Core Personnel
     Documents (SCPDs) from the AF SCPD Library (http://www.afpc.af.mil) should be used to
     document augmentation duties whenever there is an SCPD that provides an accurate
     statement of the augmentation work assignment. Also, if during a 12-month period, the
     employee should accumulate 20 or more workdays performing augmentation and the duties
     differ sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant a different
     classification, credit can be obtained by submitting proper documentation to the CPF. The
     request should indicate duties performed, the period of time they were performed, and
     certification by the augmentation supervisor the employee performed those duties in a
     satisfactory manner. These duties should be coded into the DCPDS as a detail. Details are
     considered when determining qualifications for vacant positions. (See AFM 36-505, Skill
     Coding)
     7.3. Additional Information. The augmentee should meet all requirements of the
     augmentation duties. The augmentation supervisor should ensure the employee is properly
     trained to perform these duties by providing on-the-job training or formal training.
        7.3.1. Physical Qualifications. The augmentation duty supervisor needs to work with the
        CPF to determine if the augmentee duties require any physical qualifications other than
        those required by the employee’s regular job. If so, a physical examination should be
        conducted at no expense to the employee.
        7.3.2. Security Clearance. Augmentees selected for duties requiring special security
        clearances should be selected from those already possessing such a clearance.
        7.3.3. Compensation. Civilian employees required to work more than 8 hours a day or 40
        hours a week are usually compensated appropriately either in the form of compensatory
        time off or payment of overtime (paid from either owning or using organization funds).
        Premium pay for work performed on a Sunday or a holiday plus shift differential could
        be a factor, depending on hours worked. Determination of funds to be used should occur
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                            15

    prior to overtime being performed. (See AFI 36-802, Pay Setting and AFI 36-807, Weekly
    and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observations)
    7.3.4. Local Collective Bargaining Obligations. Prior to implementation of local
    procedures for the assignment of civilian employees to augmentation duties, appropriate
    local bargaining obligations must be satisfied IAW Title 5 USC, Chapter 71.




                                        CHARLES F. WALD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                        DCS/Air & Space Operations

                                        (MCCONNELLAFB)

                                        JAMES W. CROWHURST, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
16                            AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Overtime
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions
AFM 36-505, Skill Coding
AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CSS—Commanders Support Staff
COB—Co-located Operating Base
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DIN—Data Identification Number
DoD—Department of Defense
DPXJ—Readiness and Joint Matters Division
DPW—Director of Personnel Accountability
DPX—Division of Personnel and Systems
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EE—Emergency-Essential
FOA—Field Operating Activities
FOL—Forward Operating Location
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010   17

MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MO—Manpower Office
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
OI—Operating Instruction
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PC-III—Personnel Concept III
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
READY—Resource Augmentation Duty
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
SCPD—Standard Core Personnel Documents
SRB—Selective Reenlistment Bonus
TNG-YR-MO—Training-Year-Month
UTC—Unit Type Code
YYMM—Year Year Month Month (9812)
18                           AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010


                            Attachment 1 (MCCONNELLAFB)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-207, Command Posts
AFI 10-215, Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO)
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations
AFI 11-301 Vol 1, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program
AFI 13-204, Functional Management of Airfield Operations
AFI 13-213, Airfield Management
AFI 15-128, Air and Space Weather Operations – Roles and Responsibilities
AFI 23-201, Fuels Management
AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
AFI 32-3001, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Program
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program
AFI 36-2301, Professional Military Education
AFI 36-2624, The Career Assistance Advisor, First Term Airmen Center and Enlisted
Professional Enhancement Programs
AFI 41-105, Medical Training Programs
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty Program
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AFIMS—Air Force Incident Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AMC—Air Mobility Command
CC—Commander
CCC—Command Chief
COMSEC—Communications Security
DRF—Disaster Response Force
EM—Emergency Management
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                    19

EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
FMT—Fuels Management Team
FSS—Force Support Squadron
GDSS2—Global Decision Support System II
HARM—Host Aviation Resource Management
IAPM—Installation Augmentation Program Manager
IAW—In Accordance With
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MDG—Medical Group
MQTP—Maintenance Qualification Training Program
MOBEX—Mobility Exercise
OWS—Operational Weather Squadron
POC—Point of Contact
PSM—Personnel Systems Management
SARM—Squadron Aviation Resource Management
SSN—Social Security Number
S&R—Search and Recovery
STAMP/STRAPP—Standard Air Munitions Pkg/Standard Tank, Rack, Adaptor and Pylon Pkg
TDY—Temporary Duty
UAC—Unit Augmentation Coordinator
20                            AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010


                        Attachment 2 (Added-MCCONNELLAFB)
                              TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. The following table depicts the number of augmentees each group must have trained for
the respective duties. For further details on each mission area’s duties, see the follow on
attachments. This is for planning purposes only. Varied situations may require different
requirements. In this case, the 22 ARW/CC will prioritize the augmentee requirements. Refer to
each contingency plan for details.

Table A2.1. Augmentee Distribution

Exercise/Contingency Function      Total   DS       MSG       MXG      MDG       OG

Security Forces                    52      3        16        31       0         2

Large Conventional Deployment      50*     4        31        0        15        0

TOTAL                              102     7        47        31       15        2

* CDF (STAMP/STRAPP) augmentees come from the Large Conventional Deployment
pool.
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                                                                                                                                                 21


Table A2.2. Large Conventional Deployment Make Up




                                                                                                                                                                                rs)




                                                                                                                                                                                  e
                                                                                                                                                                            icens
                                                                       ment




                                                                                                                                                                            (4hr)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2hr)
                                                                                                                                             ED



                                                                                                                                                                            (1hr




                                                                                                                                                                           e (4h
                                                                      arge




                                                                                                 rted




                                                                                                                                                                           BT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ncy
                                                                                                                                         QUIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             eiw (
                                                                                                                                                                      ent L
                                                                 eploy




                                                                                                                                                                      ction


                                                                                                                                                                      ction




                                                                                                                                                                          d
                                                                                                                                                                    Cours


                                                                                                                                                                     ler C
                                                                 el: L




                                                                                                                     ntee
                                                                                             uppo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        pente
                                                                                                                                                                    taine




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                     g
                                                                                                                                                                     ge




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Overv
                                                                                                                                                                                               rainin
                                                                                                                                                               vernm




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      andli
                                                                                                                ugme




                                                                                                                                                               Instru


                                                                                                                                                               Instru
                                                           nal D




                                                                                                                                   G RE
                                                            sonn




                                                                                                                                                               Hand
                                                            orted




                                                                                                               orted




                                                                                                                                       )




                                                                                                                                                               -Bad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ing
                                                                                       ific S




                                                                                                                                                             d/ Ob
                                                                                                                                   (Y/N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Com
                                                                                                                                                              d-up




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Train
                                                                                                                                                                                                               sive H
                                                                                                                                                                                         Job t
 FUNTION




                                                       l Per




                                                                                                                                                                                                               Team
                                                                                                           DY A




                                                                                                                                                         nt Go
                                                      Supp




                                                                                                                                                        t Line
                                                      entio




                                                                                                           Supp


                                                                                                                               ININ



                                                                                                                                                        room


                                                                                                                                                        room


                                                                                                                                                       t Buil


                                                                                                                                                        rdous
                                                                                   Spec




                                                                                                                                                       Issue




                                                                                                                                                                                                              tline
                                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                   Tota




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Explo
                                                                                                                                                  Curre




                                                                                                                                                                                      On th
                                                  Conv




                                                                                                                                                  Class


                                                                                                                                                  Class




                                                                                                                                                  Fligh




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Fligh
                                                                                                        REA



                                                                                                                            TRA




                                                                                                                                                  Haza




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Load
                                                                                                                                                  Palle
                                                  LRS



                                                                              Unit




                                                                                                                                                  PPE
                           POSITION
DCC        IDO                                     2              2            0                           0                   N
DCC        IDONCO (2G0 AFSC)                       2              2            0                           0                   N
DCC        DSOE Scheduler (2G0 AFSC)               2              2            0                           0                   N
DCC        LOG REP (2G0 AFSC)                      2              2            0                           0                   N
DCC        Pre-Load Planner (2G0/2T2 AFSC)         2              2            0                           0                   N
DCC        Trans Rep (2T1 AFSC)                    4              4            0                           0                   Y                  Y                            Y      Y
DCC        Supply Rep (2S0 AFSC)                   2              2            0                           0                   Y                  Y                            Y      Y
DCC        MSG Group Rep                           2              0            2                           0                   Y
DCC        MXG Group Rep                           2              0            2                           0                   Y
DCC        Pers Rep                                2              0            2                           0                   Y                                               Y      Y
DCC        IPR                                     2              0            2                           0                   Y                                               Y      Y
DCC        DCC Admin                               2              0            0                           2                   Y                  Y                            Y      Y
DCC        Boom (-135 airlift only)                2              0            2                           0                   N
CDF        Gate Keeper                             2              0            0                           2                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y
CDF        Board Controllers                       2              0            0                           2                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y
CDF        QC                                      2              0            0                           2                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y
CDF        Rampco                                  4              2            0                           2                   Y                      Y    Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y        Y         Y
CDF        Cargo Marshallers                       8              2            0                           6                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y        Y
CDF        CDF Officer                             2              2            0                           0                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y        Y
CDF        Yard Boss                               2              2            0                           0                   Y                      Y    Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y                  Y
CDF        In-Check                                6              6            0                           0                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y
CDF        Load Team Chief                         4              4            0                           0                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y        Y         Y
CDF        Load Team Driver/K-Loader               4              4            0                           0                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y        Y         Y
CDF        Load Team Members                      12              0            0                          12                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y        Y         Y
CDF        10K Forklift                            6              6            0                           0                   Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y        Y
CDF        Cargo Manifest (2T0 AFSC)               2              2           0                           0                    Y                  Y        Y    Y    Y    Y    Y      Y
CDF        Load Planner (2T2 AFSC)                 2              2            0                           0                   N
CDF        Joint Inspector (2T2 AFSC)              4              4            0                           0                   N
CDF        HAZDEC QC (2T0/2 AFSC)                  2              2            0                           0                   N
PDF        PDF OIC                                 2              0            2                           0                   N
PDF        PDF/APT PAX Manifester (2T0 AFSC)       4              4            0                           0                   N
PDF        PDF/APT Pax Handler                     8              2            0                           6                   Y                                          Y           Y
IPE        Pax Baggage Pallet Build Up             8               4           0                           4                   Y                           Y    Y         Y           Y
PDF        Eligibility Checkin                     2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
PDF        Medical Station                         2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
PDF        Emergency Data Station                  2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
PDF        Orders Preparation                      2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
PDF        Identification Station                  2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
PDF        Financial Station                       2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
PDF        Chaplain Station                        2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
PDF        Family Support Center Station           2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
PDF        Legal Counseling Station                2              0            2                           0                   Y                  Y
VDF        Chief Dispatcher (2T1 AFSC)             2              2            0                           0                   N                                          Y
VDF        Dispatch Controller (2T1 AFSC)          2              2            0                           0                   N                                          Y
VDF        Vehicle Operator (2T1 AFSC)            16              16           0                           0                   N                                          Y
VDF        Bus Operator (2T1 AFSC)                 6              6            0                           0                   Y                                     Y    Y    Y                                  Y
VDF        Tractor Operator (2T1 AFSC)             4              4            0                           0                   Y                                     Y    Y    Y                                  Y
VDF        Fork/Lift (2T1 AFSC)                    4              4            0                           0                   Y                                     Y    Y    Y                                  Y
IPE        IPE NCOIC (2S0 AFSC)                    2              2            0                           0                   N                                          Y
IPE        MICAS(2S0 AFSC)                         8              8            0                           0                   N                                          Y
IPE        Weapons (2S0 AFSC)                      3              3            0                           0                   N                                          Y
IPE        IPE Bag Inspectors                      8              0            0                           8                   N                                          Y           Y
IPE        9 and/or 3 Ton Drivers                  4              2            0                           2                   Y                      Y              Y    Y    Y      Y                  Y        Y
IPE        IPE Pallet Build Up                     4              2            0                           2                   N                           Y              Y           Y
                                          TOTAL   195            115          30                          50
22                            AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010


Table A2.3. Augmentee training on specified unit Training Days.

Function:                    Jan   Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec

SFS                                                          X                                 X

Lg         Conventional X                X             X            X           X        X
Deployment/CDF

NOTES:
1. Training in all exercise and conventional mission areas will also be conducted during quarterly
exercises or as agreed upon between Group Augmentee POC’s and Unit Augmentation Coordinators.
2. All SFS Augmentees require Restricted Area Badges, Gas Mask, Flightline Drivers’ license, and M-
16A2 training. Security Forces numbers in table based on 2 shifts per day.
3. All LRS Augmentees require Restricted Area Badges & Flightline Drivers’ training.
4. Explosives Handling Training Required during two of the LCD/CDF training periods
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010                                            23


                           Attachment 3 (Added-MCCONNELLAFB
                  SECURITY FORCES AUGMENTATION REQUIREMENTS

A3.1. The following tables depict the number of augmentees required in order to augment SFS
during FPCON Charlie or higher (Table A3.1), and LRS requirements for Large Conventional
Deployment (Table 3.2)

Table A3.1. Security Forces Augmentation Requirements (FPCON Charlie/Delta)

Post Position         FPCON         Number   FPCON       Number    Weapons     Flightline
                      Charlie Req   Req’d    Delta Req   Req’d     Req’t       Driver/RAB
                                                                               Req

Commercial Search     X             2        X           3         M-16A2      N

East Gate             X             1        X           1         M-16A2      N

West Gate             X             1        X           1         M-16A2      N

Internal  Security X                1        X           1         M-16A2      Y
Response Team

External Security X                 1        X           1         M-16A2      Y
Response Team

Security Patrol       X             1        X           1         M-16A2      Y

Housing Gate          X             1        X           1         M-16A2      Y

East Gate Search      X             2        X           3         M-16A2      N

Housing           Gate X            1        X           2         M-16A2      N
Search

East              Gate X            1        X           1         M-16A2      N
Overwatch

West              Gate X            1        X           1         M-16A2      N
Overwatch

Housing           Gate X            1        X           1         M-16A2      N
Overwatch

RAM Team              X             2        X           2         M-16A2      Y

Installation Patrol   X             4        X           4         M-16A2      Y
24                         AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010


FMC          Entry X            3         X           3         M-16A2     N
Controller

NOTE: In the case of simultaneous Large Conventional Deployment and heightened FPCONs,
LRS individuals will not be called for SFS augmentation duty.
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010         25


                 Attachment 4 (Added-MCCONNELLAFB)
              AUGMENTATION REQUIREMENT REQUEST
26           AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010


         Attachment 5 (Added-MCCONNELLAFB)
     AUGMENTATION EXEMPTION REQUEST LETTER
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010            27


                 Attachment 6 (Added-MCCONNELLAFB)
         EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR EACH MISSION AREA
28                     AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010


                  Attachment 7 (Added-MCCONNELLAFB)
                          AUGMENTEE EXEMPTIONS

     Duty                               Reference

     Tower                              AFI 13-204 (para 2.5.)

     Airfield Managment                 AFI 13-213 (para 2.7.2.2.)

     Weather                            AFI 15-128 (para 1.3.1.2.)

     Aircrew Flight Equipment           AFI 11-301V1 (para 2.10.8)

     Fire Dept, Readiness, & EOD

     Emergency Responders               AFI 10-2501 (para 2.4.2.7.)

     EOD                                AFI 32-3001 (para 1.5.3.)

     Fire Emergency                     AFI 32-2001 (para 3.1.3.)

     Airman    Leadership       School AFI 36-2301 (para 2.8.9.2.)
     Personnel

     PRU                                AFI 10-215 (para 2.12.7.)

     First Term Airman Center Team AFI 36-2624 (para 1.6.2.)
     Leader

     Search & Recovery (S&R) Team       AFI 34-242 (para 6.5.1.)

     Command Post                       AFI 10-207 (para 2.2.11.)

     Safety                             AFI 91-202 (para 2.1.)

     Fuels                              AFI 23-201(para 1.9.3.)
AFPAM10-243_MCCONNELLAFBSUP_I 25 AUGUST 2010         29


                 Attachment 8 (Added-MCCONNELLAFB)
                   “DO NOT ARM” MFR TEMPLATE
