BY ORDER OF THE                                              AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 14-111
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                19 JUNE 2014

                                                                                   Intelligence

                                                              INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT TO
                                                                          ACQUISITION


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A2DS                                                              Certified by: AF/A2D
                                                                    (Brig Gen Donald J. Bacon)
                                                                                       Pages: 93




This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance,
and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and Operations, and is consistent with
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI)
Protection Within the Department of Defense, AFPD 10-6, Capabilities Based Planning &
Requirements Development, AFPD 65-5, Cost and Economics, and guidance portions in
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data
(IMD) in DoD Acquisition, and AFI-14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-Cycle.
This publication should be used in conjunction with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-601,
Operational Capability Requirements Development, AFI 63-101/20-101, Acquisition and
Sustainment Life Cycle Management, AFI 63-114, Quick Reaction Capability Process, AFI 65-
508, Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures, AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and
Evaluation. This publication applies to all Air Force (AF) active duty members and civilian
employees, the Air Force Reserve, and the Air National Guard. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS). Submit change recommendations using an AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). This publication may
be supplemented, but all supplements must be coordinated with the OPR prior to certification
and approval. Upon publication, MAJCOMS will ensure copies are provided to the OPR.
 2                                                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014




       1.     OVERVIEW. .........................................................................................................           3
Figure 1.1.   Generic Acquisition and Procurement Milestones and Decision Points ................                                           3
       2.     LINKAGE TO REQUIREMENTS, PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING. .......                                                                    4
Figure 2.1.   DoD Decision-Support Systems. ...........................................................................                     5
       3.     INTELLIGENCE SUPPORTABILITY ANALYSIS (ISA) PROCESS. ..............                                                            5
Figure 3.1.   ISA Process Flow Chart. ........................................................................................              7
Table 3.1.    Types of Requirements. .........................................................................................             15
       4.     PLANNING, PROGRAMMING, BUDGETING AND EXECUTION (PPBE)
              PROCESS. .............................................................................................................       22
       5.     JOINT CAPABILITIES INTEGRATION AND DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM
              (JCIDS). .................................................................................................................   24
Figure 5.1.   CFMPs. ..................................................................................................................    26
       6.     THE DEFENSE ACQUISITION SYSTEM. .........................................................                                    27
Figure 6.1.   MSA Phase. ...........................................................................................................       30
Figure 6.2.   Technology Maturation & Risk Reduction Phase. .................................................                              34
Figure 6.3.   EMD Phase. ...........................................................................................................       38
Figure 6.4.   PD Phase. ...............................................................................................................    40
Figure 6.5.   OS Phase. ...............................................................................................................    41
Table 6.1.    Acquisition Life Cycle Tasks. ................................................................................               41
       7.     Acquisition Document Development and Management (ADDM). .......................                                              42

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             44

Attachment 2—RISK MATRIX                                                                                                                   75

Attachment 3—INTELLIGENCE HEALTH ASSESSMENT QUAD CHART TEMPLATE
                                                                                                                                           76

Attachment 4—SAMPLE INTELLIGENCE HEALTH ASSESSMENT MEMORANDUM
             FOR RECORD                                                                                                                    78

Attachment 5—ISP FORMAT                                                                                                                    79

Attachment 6—INTELLIGENCE SENSITIVITY SURVEY/INTELLIGENCE
             SENSITIVITY TIER MATRIX                                                                                                       80

Attachment 7—ORIENTATION GUIDE FOR THE AFMC SIPRNET AI DATABASE                                                                            92
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                           3


1. OVERVIEW. This publication is a reference tool for acquisition, operations and intelligence
personnel who manage, sponsor or provide support for intelligence-sensitive acquisition
programs. This applies to all aspects of the acquisition life cycle, from the conception and initial
development of the requirement, through development, acquisition, fielding, and sustainment,
until the time the capability is either consumed in use or disposed of as being excess to all known
materiel requirements. This document includes changes introduced by Interim DoDI 5000.02,
Operation of the Defense Acquisition System. While the names for some acquisition processes
and phases have been changed in DoDI 5000.02, the general processes remain unchanged.
Figure 1.1 depicts generic acquisition and procurement milestones and decision points under the
Interim DoDI 5000.02. This document includes a link to checklists that specify best practices for
accomplishment of specific tasks. These “how-to” checklists include references to additional
support material to ensure traceability with governing policy and guidance. Acquisition
intelligence (AI) specialists are trained in the application of these practices and can help program
managers and action officers utilize the AI tools and processes that would add greatest value,
based upon program attributes. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) acquisition intelligence
personnel maintain a website to provide extensive information associated with intelligence
support        to      acquisition         activities      at      the       following       address:
http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx.

Figure 1.1. Generic Acquisition and Procurement Milestones and Decision Points
4                                                                   AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


    1.1. Intelligence Supportability Analysis (ISA). ISA is the principal process by which Air
    Force (AF) intelligence personnel analyze proposed weapon system performance capabilities,
    determine optimum intelligence solutions, and formally submit associated requirements into
    intelligence planning and requirements systems. ISA is directed per AFI-14-111,
    Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-Cycle. This document and corresponding
    checklists are intended to help readers execute intelligence supportability analysis and ensure
    intelligence is effectively addressed within life cycle acquisition processes.
    1.2. Design, Analysis, Planning, Testing, Risk Mitigation and Making Resource
    Decisions. These are the activities that are essential to successful AF capabilities
    development. They provide the analytical framework that is essential to successful
    requirements development.
2. LINKAGE TO REQUIREMENTS, PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING.
    2.1. DoD Decision-Support Systems. Requirements derived through ISA are known as
    derived intelligence requirements (DIRs). They flow into standard requirements, planning
    and programming systems through the Department of Defense (DoD) Decision Support
    Systems (Figure 2.1). There are three principal DoD decision-support systems that can be
    used to develop intelligence capabilities: the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and
    Execution (PPBE) Process; the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
    (JCIDS); and the Defense Acquisition System. Together, the three systems provide an
    integrated approach to strategic planning, identification of needs for military capabilities,
    systems acquisition, and program and budget development. This pamphlet characterizes the
    way outputs from acquisition intelligence processes may be used by each of these systems.
    2.2. Identifying and Correcting Deficiencies. The formal submission of derived
    intelligence requirements into the AF, Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), National
    Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), National Security Agency (NSA) and JCIDS
    requirements processes prompts the DoD Decision Support Systems to address deficiencies
    identified in the submission. Requirements submission is the first step; however, this act
    alone does not always result in programmatic action to address deficiencies. It is important
    for acquisition intelligence specialists to highlight the impact of deficiencies by explaining to
    acquisition and operations personnel the potential impact on the required capability at Initial
    Operational Capability (IOC) and beyond if the required intelligence support is not fully
    provided, and engaging in appropriate planning and programming processes to address each
    deficiency. PEMs in SAF/AQ capability directorates are a primary entity in the AF, along
    with their equivalents in Joint & interagency departments, to facilitate coordination of
    Multiple Funding Sources.
    2.3. Deficiencies and the Funding of their Solutions. Identifying a funding source to
    address deficiencies is not always an easy, straight-forward task. If deficiencies are to be
    addressed within the AF programming process, action must be initiated through the
    appropriate Core Function Lead (CFL), whereas those to be addressed within the National
    Intelligence Program (NIP) must be submitted through AF/A2 into NIP programming
    processes. Some requirements could be appropriately supported through multiple funding
    sources, thus necessitating a planning effort across multiple communities to resolve the
    deficiency. In a current development program there was a deficiency case where much of the
    required production is supported within the NIP whereas some production is supported
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                      5


   through AF funding. AF requirements were initiated through the Global Integrated CFL
   planning and programming process into the AF corporate process; NIP requirements
   followed a path through AF/A2 into NIP processes. In this case, program, operations and
   intelligence stakeholders are working across requirements, planning and programming
   communities of the AF, DoD and the National Intelligence Community to build effective
   funding approaches for the IMD deficiency.

Figure 2.1. DoD Decision-Support Systems.




3. INTELLIGENCE SUPPORTABILITY ANALYSIS (ISA) PROCESS.
   3.1. Requirements and Risk. ISA is the process by which AF intelligence, acquisition and
   operations analysts identify, document and plan the best strategy to meet requirements
   necessary to successfully acquire and employ AF capabilities. ISA is typically initiated by
   the supporting A2 using organic resources to manage the process. This process must
   consider a wide range of disciplines that could ultimately impact mission effectiveness.
   These disciplines include doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership & education,
   personnel and facilities and are represented throughout the DoD acquisition community by
   the acronym DOTMLPF. ISA results provide stakeholders with the information necessary to
   compare a capability’s derived intelligence (data and infrastructure) requirements (DIRs)
   with the intelligence that has already been planned for delivery throughout that capability’s
   life cycle. Deficiencies, along with their associated impacts to both acquisition and
   operational capability, can then be understood and managed within acquisition processes as a
6                                                                  AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


    component of program risk. Deficiencies can be caused by a variety of factors, including,
    but not limited to: lack of system availability, trained personnel, necessary energy supplies,
    and enemy counterintelligence activities. For the purpose of the ISA section of this
    document, the term “effort” refers to any project, program, modification/upgrade to system,
    research and/or development projects, demonstrations, feasibility/acquisition studies, concept
    development, Special Access Program (SAP), Quick Reaction Capability (QRC), capability
    concepts, or any other activity at any point leading into, or contained within, the acquisition
    cycle. As such, the term “effort manager” refers to the manager of the overall lead
    program/project/etc.
    3.2. ISA Activities and Documentation. The ISA process is depicted in the form of a
    flowchart in Figure 3.1. The rest of this section describes each ISA-associated task,
    identifies roles and responsibilities, and states policy and guidance associated with each task
    in the flowchart. A file structure for storing documents that pertain to the tasks of the ISA
    process can be found on the AFMC SIPRNET Acquisition Intelligence Intelink webpage at
    http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx.         Note:     Intelink
    Passport access is required. Whenever ISA is initiated, the file structure can be followed to
    document ISA and stored under the applicable organizational tab. It is recommended that
    other major commands (MAJCOMs) document ISA results in a similar fashion. Websites
    identified throughout this section of the document are used by AFMC to post ISA-related
    documents. These sites may also be used by other MAJCOMs as a vetted structure/guide for
    developing additional ISA tools. This guide describes an unconstrained ISA process. All
    ISA process elements may be tailored by users to best support their needs. The outcomes of
    ISA principally support documentation of DIRs within service and joint IC requirements
    systems. Authoritative documentation for purposes of recording the results of ISA includes
    all documentation approved by an intelligence support working group, Center Intelligence
    Office (CIO), Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO), or MAJCOM/A2.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                      7


Figure 3.1. ISA Process Flow Chart.




   3.3. Initiating ISA. ISA should begin as early as possible and continue through all phases
   of the system life cycle for intelligence-sensitive efforts. As a minimum, ISA should
   identify, as specifically and completely as possible, projected requirements for intelligence
   products, the infrastructure needed to produce or consume intelligence, and the enablers
   (such as energy) necessary to achieve the operational objective. Intelligence, Surveillance,
   and Reconnaissance Capabilities Planning and Analysis (ISR CP&A), Core Function Master
   Plan (CFMP), Development Planning (DP), and Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA)
   processes look at the early stages of acquisition that generally lead to Materiel Development
8                                                                  AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


    Decisions (MDDs) and Analysis of Alternatives (AoAs). ISA helps shape the trade space for
    these efforts by ensuring the AF reviews viable options and associated planning and
    direction, Collection, Processing and exploitation, Analysis and Dissemination (PCPAD)
    impacts for system-of-systems capability development. Based upon requirements established
    by MAJCOMs through the JCIDS process, AFMC and AFSPC Centers support programs of
    record that execute acquisition requirements and support planning for future defense
    programs. Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) activities generally support pre-
    acquisition projects, programs, and pure research that do not always transition into future
    programs of record and, thus, rarely utilize JCIDS. Nevertheless, many AFRL activities are
    intelligence-sensitive and require ISA to ensure sufficient lead time to effectively manage the
    effects of DIRs on programmatic cost, schedule, and performance. This is especially
    pertinent for AFRL activities that seek to transition to a JCIDS program of record.
    Technologies with a Technology Readiness Level (TRL) of six or higher are priorities for
    ISA, since lower TRL levels are not considered ready for transition. While many AFRL
    activities never mature to a program of record, the lessons learned can influence future
    development of research activities and acquisition programs.
    3.4. ISA Roles and Responsibilities. Center leadership, Joint, Headquarters Air Force
    (HAF), MAJCOM, or representatives from the acquisition, intelligence and/or operational
    communities can initiate an evaluation to determine if an effort is intelligence-sensitive and
    requires ISA. SIOs or their acquisition intelligence representatives for the affected operating
    commands/programs will coordinate on the evaluation and identify the appropriate effort
    manager for the ISA. Notification to start ISA can be done by email, phone call, video
    teleconference, memo, or almost any format.
    3.5. ISA Policy and Guidance. ISA must be completed for efforts determined to be
    intelligence-sensitive. ISA is conducted to provide inputs to concept development, early
    acquisition decisions, risk assessments, JCIDS documents, Milestone Decisions,
    development requirements needs, test and evaluation requirements needs, new modifications,
    AF-level Program Objective Memorandum (POM) and funding drills, capability studies, etc.
    Other doctrine that supports such actions includes DoDD 5000-series documents, CJCSI
    3170.01H , Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, CJCSI 3312.01B, Joint
    Military Intelligence Requirements Certification, CJCSI, AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life
    Cycle Management, AFI 10-601, and other documents. There is currently no mandate for
    when an ISA is initiated; however, it is best accomplished as early as possible in an effort’s
    life cycle to allow appropriate planning and programming processes to be initiated that
    support closure of identified deficiency.
    3.6. ISA Outcome. Requirements identified through ISA are documented in relevant
    requirements systems. ISA results are also reflected within intelligence and program
    activities and documents, such as program reviews, intelligence health assessments,
    development of Capability Concept Technology Descriptions (CCTDs), JCIDS documents,
    etc.
    3.7. Gather/Review Reference Materials. The Gather/Review Reference Materials step
    depicted in Figure 3.1 includes a top-level familiarization of the effort and an assessment of
    basic functionality, data needs, and interoperability requirements to support the effort.
    Depending on the stage of the effort, there may be only top-level data available. Data can be
    gathered from PowerPoint presentations, JCIDS documents, white papers, individual
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                          9


  research, transition plans (either from lab to product center or product center to sustainment),
  capability demonstration documents, feasibility studies, concept development QRCs,
  capability concepts, previously completed ISAs, etc. This can also require contacting effort
  managers, previous intelligence support analysts, subject matter experts (SMEs) from the
  operational community, engineering community, academia, IC, support contractors,
  Federally-Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDC), security classification
  guide, etc. To find data for early acquisition-stage efforts, it could be necessary to focus on a
  concept or technology rather than on a more tangible weapon, platform or system. For
  AFRL efforts, contact AFRL/XP2 if assistance is needed to identify and gather reference
  materials.
     3.7.1. Gather/Review Roles and Responsibilities. The acquisition intelligence analyst
     leads a team of operations, acquisition, and intelligence stakeholders who are responsible
     for gathering, reviewing and researching relevant data using available resources, some of
     which are outlined above. It is critical to gather enough information regarding the effort
     to start answering the questions in Attachment 6 (Intelligence Sensitivity
     Survey/Intelligence Sensitivity Tier Matrix); future steps in the ISA process require more
     in-depth analysis than this step in order to identify specific intelligence needs. Since it is
     not unusual to encounter information during this stage of ISA that is associated with
     experimental or developmental technologies, great care must be taken to protect sensitive
     or proprietary information, particularly if individuals who work for different contractors
     are involved in the same effort or work in spaces that share access. Reference materials
     collected should be stored as outlined in the “AFMC ISA Process” paragraphs in Section
     3, on the AFMC SIPRNET Acquisition Intelligence Intelink webpage at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx,           or    another
     designated repository.
     3.7.2. The supporting acquisition intelligence analyst is most commonly an analyst
     assigned to the intelligence office established to support the organization managing the
     effort. If there is no intelligence office supporting the effort, then the senior intelligence
     officer of the sponsoring MAJCOM should designate an acquisition intelligence
     specialist to execute the function. For programs transitioning across organizations, the
     implementing command (AFMC or AFSPC) A2 organization is responsible for
     coordinating with the gaining and losing acquisition intelligence organizations to ensure
     that available materials are provided to the gaining acquisition intelligence analyst.
  3.8. Determine Intelligence Sensitivity. The Intelligence Sensitivity Survey (ISS) is a top-
  level, first-look used to help assess whether an effort is intelligence-sensitive. A definition of
  intelligence-sensitive can be found in Attachment 1 of this document.
     3.8.1. ISS Roles and Responsibilities. The supporting acquisition intelligence analyst
     can use Attachment 6 (Intelligence Sensitivity Survey) to conduct an initial interview
     with the Chief Scientist, Program Manager, Lead Engineer, or designated representative
     for a given effort. The completed ISS should be stored as recommended in the “AFMC
     ISA Process” paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC SIPRNET Acquisition Intelligence
     Intelink                                  webpage                                    at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx,     or       other
     designated repository.
10                                                              AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     3.8.2. ISS Policy and Guidance. IAW AFI 14-111, the first step in the acquisition
     intelligence process is determination of intelligence sensitivity of the program by the
     implementing command A2 or delegate. If management (higher HQ, center-level, etc.)
     mandates that ISA be conducted, completing the ISS is not necessary; however,
     completing the ISS could assist in identifying intelligence supportability needs that might
     not otherwise be considered (i.e., DOTMLPF or PCPAD). Efforts determined not to be
     intelligence-sensitive do not require a Life Cycle Mission Data Plan. The ISS in
     Attachment 6 outlines how to determine whether an effort is intelligence-sensitive.
     3.8.3. ISS Outcome. If an intelligence sensitivity determination is needed, analysts
     should utilize and tailor the Intelligence Sensitivity Tier (IST) Matrix in Attachment 6,
     and determine priority to support. If no intelligence sensitivity determination is needed,
     the acquisition intelligence analyst should document the rationale that leads to a decision
     that a system is not intelligence-sensitive. Documentation associated with the decision is
     not standardized; however, the recommended method is to generate a memorandum for
     record to be signed by the MAJCOM/A2 or delegate and forwarded to the office
     managing the initiative. This documentation will be needed as the initiative moves
     through various stages of the acquisition process. Refer to paragraph 3.2.
  3.9. Determine if the Effort is a Priority to Support. Intelligence-sensitive efforts should
  be evaluated to determine the degree of intelligence sensitivity (high/medium/low). This
  helps to determine the amount of resources required to support the effort. High-priority
  efforts usually need a full-time analyst assigned, medium priority may receive support from
  part-time analysts and low priority efforts may not warrant support depending upon resource
  availability.
     3.9.1. Priority Support Determination Roles and Responsibilities. The acquisition
     intelligence analyst should use the IST Matrix (Attachment 6) to determine the effort’s
     relative priority when compared to other portfolio efforts. The CIO/SIO can use the
     grades across the entire portfolio to determine resource allocation. However, the
     determination may be made at a higher functional level, organizational level, or
     operational MAJCOM. Additionally, IST level can change based on shifting priorities or
     technology maturity and should be reviewed as needed and documented. Levels of
     support based upon intelligence sensitivity should be coordinated between the SIO and
     the effort manager as part of acquisition planning and risk management processes. The
     SIO should document the decision as to whether the effort is a high enough priority to
     receive acquisition intelligence support with existing resources. Documentation
     associated with the decision is not standardized and should be decided by the SIO;
     however the recommended option is a memorandum for record which is maintained in a
     location designated by the SIO. The documented decision should be stored as
     recommended in the “AFMC ISA Process” paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC
     SIPRNET           Acquisition        Intelligence      Intelink      webpage         at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx,     or      other
     designated repository.
     3.9.2. Priority Support Determination Policy and Guidance. The IST Matrix in
     Attachment 6 is a tool for assessing high/medium/low sensitivity. Centers may have their
     own tools/procedures to determine prioritization of those efforts, including how to
     support review boards (i.e., Air Force Review Board (AFRB), Program Support Review
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                      11


     (PSR), Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC), Air Force Requirements
     Oversight Council (AFROC), Acquisition Strategy Panel [ASP]) that could influence
     portfolio prioritization.
  3.10. Intelligence Sensitivity Tier Prioritization. To determine prioritization of a program,
  conduct ISS and IST. If the effort is determined to be intel-sensitive, then conduct remaining
  steps of ISA.
  3.11. Conducting Requirements Analysis. This phase is the most critical aspect of the
  process. The goal is to further understand and decompose the effort in order to identify DIRs
  for incorporation into the effort’s overall requirements analysis and risk assessment. Several
  tools and techniques can be employed to perform this task. Some of the techniques are
  described in this section. Decomposition is the primary responsibility of acquisition
  intelligence analysts who support the effort, but requires active participation and support
  from the acquisition and operations stakeholders to achieve accurate decomposition and
  derivation of intelligence requirements.
     3.11.1. The information from the Gather/Review Reference Material phase of ISA
     should be leveraged as a primary resource for decomposing a system. Access to
     appropriate personnel (engineers, program managers, contractors, etc.) is essential, as
     they provide the performance documentation and design approach that enable the
     acquisition intelligence analyst to perform in-depth analysis.
     3.11.2. DIRs identified for pre-Milestone A (MS-A) activities such as lab efforts,
     development planning efforts and AoAs, are often less defined than those found in later
     parts of the acquisition life cycle. Decomposition of these efforts is still possible, but
     would be macro level, based on the limited amount of detail available. In such cases,
     ISA could support development of the trade space and assessing the risks of potential
     deficiencies driven by technology limitations and a lack of alternatives. These
     deficiencies should be defined sufficiently so that they can be included in total life cycle
     cost estimates for efforts entering the PPBE and JCIDS processes.
     3.11.3. Requirements Analysis Workbook (RAW) is a tool developed by the 21st
     Intelligence Squadron (21 IS) and used by acquisition intelligence analysts to accomplish
     decomposition of the effort and conduct ISA. RAW uses a systems engineering analysis
     drill-down through a list of questions to identify DIRs. The RAW should be applied as
     early as possible, then updated as needed throughout the life cycle to ensure intelligence
     supportability requirements remain current. The RAW checklists to identify the tasks
     needed to accomplish effort decomposition are available on the AFMC SIPRNET
     Acquisition              Intelligence             Intelink         webpage              at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx.         The RAW
     checklists can also be accessed by using the link to the Acquisition Document
     Development & Management (ADDM) SharePoint site in Chapter 7.AFMC/A2,
     AFLCMC, AFSPC/A2 and SMC/IN should continue to create and employ RAWs for
     intelligence-sensitive system attributes as acquisition intelligence processes newly
     identify intelligence-sensitive system attributes.
     3.11.4. Requirements Analysis Roles and Responsibilities. IAW AFI 63-101/20-101, the
     program manager (PM) must identify and document derived intelligence requirements in
     collaboration with the SIO. Acquisition intelligence specialists help PMs accomplish this
12                                                              AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     work and may be assigned to intelligence organizations or to the office that leads the
     effort. Support contracted to execute acquisition intelligence functions should be under
     the purview of the SIO. Air Force ISR Agency (AFISRA), MAJCOMs, and other
     acquisition, test, and operational communities may provide additional support.
     Documents associated with intelligence requirements analysis (RAWs, Technical
     Exchange Meeting (TEM) materials, Intelligence Support Working Group (ISWG)
     materials, etc.) should be stored as recommended in the “AFMC ISA Process” paragraphs
     in Section 3, on the AFMC SIPRNET Acquisition Intelligence Intelink webpage at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx,        or     other
     designated repository. All DIRs should be documented in the DIR repository on the
     AFMC          SIPRNET           Acquisition    Intelligence       Intelink     webpage:
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx,        or     other
     designated repository.
     3.11.5. The following forums are used to identify and understand the details associated
     with an effort’s DIRs:
        3.11.5.1. Intelligence Support Working Group (ISWG). The ISWG brings together
        functional representatives from the intelligence, operations and acquisition
        communities to conduct and document ISA and to assess their collaborative ability to
        adequately support each effort at a level that will enable mission success.
        Responsibilities of an ISWG are to derive requirements and verify their traceability,
        assess deficiencies and shortfalls; research and develop potential solutions to the
        deficiencies; create action plans to accomplish those solutions; estimate solution
        costs; and document results. The frequency of face-to-face or virtual ISWG meetings
        can vary, depending on the intelligence sensitivity of the effort, the visibility of the
        effort, Congressional oversight, etc. Depending on intelligence sensitivity, ISWG
        meetings are usually held at least annually; however, the ISWG team members
        continually interact between formal meetings to identify, refine, clarify requirements
        and discuss potential solutions. ISWG meetings are typically held more frequently as
        an effort matures, particularly prior to major acquisition life cycle milestones, or
        when directed by the SIO or effort manager. This can be accomplished either
        virtually or face-to-face, time permitting. A link to the checklist that identifies tasks
        to complete, ISWG attendees, and responsibilities is included in the ISWG section of
        the Intelligence Working Groups checklist. The checklist can be accessed by using
        the link to the Acquisition Document Development & Management (ADDM)
        SharePoint Site in Chapter 7.
        3.11.5.2. Technical Exchange Meetings (TEMs). TEMs are the most common
        working-level forum for face-to-face fact-finding, problem-solving and coordination
        of Threat Working Group (TWG), ISWG, and Threat Steering Group (TSG) action
        items. A typical TEM could be squadron-level mission planners meeting with
        software developers to clarify system compatibility issues or a meeting of acquisition
        and IC SMEs to discuss the gap between data needed to fully support the mission and
        the data the provider can supply and seek potential solutions. TEMs may also be held
        to discuss intelligence supportability of one specific DIR versus an ISWG where all
        the effort’s DIRs are identified and discussed. TEMs are held as needed throughout
        the effort. A link to the TEM checklist that identifies tasks to complete and lists TEM
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                       13


         attendees and responsibilities can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM
         SharePoint Site in Chapter 7.
     3.11.6. Requirements Analysis Policy and Guidance. IAW 63-101/20-101, the program
     manager (PM), in collaboration with the Center Intelligence Office and other
     stakeholders, develops and documents requirements and level of intelligence support
     required for the life cycle of intelligence-sensitive programs. A link in Chapter 7 can be
     used to connect to the ADDM SharePoint site that hosts checklists that may be used to
     complete RAWs and support working group meetings (i.e., TEMs, ISWGs, etc.). Centers
     may create their own tools/procedures to support these efforts.
     3.11.7. Requirements Analysis Outcomes. Requirements identified through ISA are
     documented in relevant requirements systems. They are also reflected in intelligence and
     program activities and documents such as program reviews, intelligence health
     assessments, development of Capability Concept Technology Descriptions (CCTDs),
     JCIDS documents, etc.
  3.12. Initial Intelligence Cost Estimation. An integral part of addressing deficiencies
  identified through ISA is the estimation of costs associated with the intelligence resources
  required to resolve them. Failure to consider these within program life cycle cost estimates
  can result in requirements creep, scheduling delays, costly work-arounds, and, ultimately,
  unplanned adjustments to operational budgets.
     3.12.1. Cost Estimation Roles and Responsibilities. The Acquisition Intelligence
     Lifecycle Cost Estimating Structure (AILCES) was developed by the AF Intelligence
     Cost Working Group as a tool to systematically identify intelligence cost requirements
     throughout the life cycle of the effort (to include capabilities development, research and
     development, testing, fielding, operations and support). It is also referred to as a work
     breakdown structure for intelligence activities that are required to support an effort.
     MAJCOM cost analysts use AILCES tool to determine and document the costs associated
     with DIRs. This activity is accomplished through coordination between the supporting
     acquisition intelligence analyst and effort personnel. The acquisition intelligence analyst
     should contact the MAJCOM cost analysts to discuss the DIRs and work through the
     necessary details as appropriate for the program. The 21 IS oversees AILCES activities.
     Proper application of AILCES early in the life cycle of an acquisition program could help
     avoid program delays and additional costs caused by failure to consider all DIRs
     supporting testing, fielding, and sustainment of the effort. Documents associated with
     intelligence cost estimates should be stored as recommended in the “AFMC ISA Process”
     paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC SIPRNET Acquisition Intelligence Intelink
     webpage at http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx, or
     other designated repository.
     3.12.2. Cost Estimation Policy and Guidance. The acquisition intelligence cost
     estimating process is iterative. Early in the life cycle of the effort, only a rough order of
     magnitude can be achieved; later in the life of the effort, the estimate will become more
     detailed and accurate as the DIRs, concept of operation/employment, and other effort
     documentation are better understood. AFI 14-111 requires that intelligence costs be
     included in life cycle cost estimates and program budgets. Documents require
     intelligence cost estimates at the earliest possible time according to the AFMC Office of
14                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     Aerospace Studies (OAS) Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) Handbook and the AFMC
     OAS Pre-MDD Analysis Handbook. Consult DoD 5000.4M, Cost Analysis Guidance
     and Procedures; AFPD 65-5; AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors;
     AFI65-508 Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures; AF Cost Analysis Handbook and the
     DTM-09-027 Letter on Implementation of the Weapons System Acquisition Reform Act
     of 2009 for cost estimation.
     3.12.3. Cost Estimation Outcomes. The intelligence cost estimating process results in
     cost data to be incorporated into overall effort cost estimates, thus providing a more
     realistic estimate of the total cost of the effort.
 3.13. DIRs.
     3.13.1. Proper handling of DIRs. As DIRs are identified, the supporting acquisition
     intelligence analyst needs to determine whether each DIR can be satisfied using existing
     resources. If the DIR is unable to be fully satisfied with available or programmed future
     resources, it is considered a deficiency or shortfall, as long as a solution is in the pipeline
     and been programmed for. If no solution has been identified and programmed for, the
     DIR is considered a shortfall and must receive particularly close attention as the initiative
     develops. It is critical that all categories of DIR be properly documented and tracked
     throughout the effort, since changes in the effort can quickly impact the intelligence
     requirements process. Although it is faster to only document deficiencies and shortfalls,
     many products are driven by requirements. If efforts fail to document all DIRs,
     continued production of the products they depend on to perform their mission could be
     terminated if those products no longer have any recorded DIRs because the other efforts
     that initially required them could be terminated. Deficiencies and shortfalls should be
     documented as the first step in solving or mitigating an effort's risk because of that need.
     Requirements and deficiencies are used to drive the IC to prioritize the collection and
     production of needed intelligence data.
     3.13.2. DIR Roles and Responsibilities. The supporting acquisition intelligence analyst
     should conduct research to determine if the DIRs can be satisfied. Depending on the type
     of DIR, research websites (Intelink, COLISEUM), internet searches, interviews, etc. are a
     good place to start. Intelligence analysts remain engaged in technical discussions where
     intelligence supportability concerns arise. If the DIR is a DOTMLPF need, it should not
     go into COLISEUM; proceed to the “Document Deficiency” task to document the need.
     Documents associated with researching intelligence needs should be stored as
     recommended in the “AFMC ISA Process” paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC
     SIPRNET          Acquisition          Intelligence       Intelink        webpage       at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx,         or     other
     designated repository. A separate folder should be used for each program’s DIRs. When
     intelligence product gaps are identified that cannot be satisfactorily overcome through
     research, the acquisition intelligence analyst submits a request for information (RFI) or
     production requirement (PR) in the appropriate requirements database (e.g., COLISEUM
     on Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System (JWICS) at
     http://coliseum.dia.ic.gov/). The tasked production agency will research intelligence
     sources and task collectors to answer the question or establish that the RFI/PR cannot be
     answered. Specific procedures for RFI/PR submission and maintenance should be
     addressed through local or MAJCOM requirements managers or MAJCOM COLISEUM
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                        15


      managers. Because a RFI/PR is a formal requirement for performance of analytical
      work, creation of new RFIs/PRs relevant to an effort prepares the IC to address the
      acquisition community’s needs. If the derived requirement is the responsibility of
      another organization and is a deficiency, it needs to be submitted to the organization (i.e.,
      NGA) in the preferred format (See Table 3.1).

Table 3.1. Types of Requirements.




   3.14. Cross Program Analysis (CPA) Level 0. CPA is designed to look across intel-
   sensitive programs and their related shortfalls to identify and consolidate like deficiencies.
16                                                                 AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


  The results of CPA can guide identification and development of common solutions to the
  documented deficiencies. Synergies between programs and cost savings may be realized
  when common solutions are identified that support multiple programs. Cross CPA Level 0 is
  conducted locally at center, labs, etc.
     3.14.1. CPA Level 0 Goals. The goal of CPA level 0 is to identify requirements of a
     similar nature that are shared among programs. CPA Level 0 involves researching other
     efforts in the local portfolio to identify efforts that have similar intelligence requirements.
     This effort is valuable to the programs involved because it provides some shielding for a
     specific program from paying for new solutions as a sole requirements holder.
     Identification of common requirements also raises the priority and visibility of
     deficiencies gained by tying multiple AF and joint capabilities to the same requirement.
     If a solution to a shared requirement has already been produced by another program or
     initiative, the effort in question could potentially avoid associated costs entirely.
     3.14.2. CPA Level 0 Roles and Responsibilities. It is the acquisition intelligence
     analyst’s responsibility to work with center/center-level analysts to determine if the effort
     has DIRs in common with other programs or initiatives in the center’s portfolio. For
     efforts with common requirements, it is the responsibility of each effort’s supporting
     acquisition intelligence analyst and customer to work together to determine whether the
     commonality between the requirements is extensive enough that it could allow a common
     solution. TEMs are a common way to gather the appropriate stakeholders to accomplish
     this task. Including the intelligence data producer in the discussions is essential. Notify
     program manager and MAJCOM/A2 if CPA leads to a common solution .Like the
     “Gather/Review Reference Material” task, data can come from many sources.
     Documents associated with conducting CPA should be stored on the AFMC SIPRNET
     Acquisition              Intelligence           Intelink             webpage               at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx,          or       other
     designated repository. The 21 IS conducts cross-program analysis among all programs
     and initiatives being managed through the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
     (AFLCMC) and AFRL.
     3.14.3. CPA Level 0 Determination of Differences/Commonalities Among Deficiencies.
     Once similar deficiencies have been identified, details associated with them need to be
     researched to determine if the same product can satisfy multiple deficiencies. The details
     of the requirements may prove different enough to warrant two products (i.e., efforts “X”
     and “Y” have the need for a signature of target “A”; however, effort “X” requires the
     signature in Ka-band and effort “Y” requires the signature in X-band. The difference in
     bandwidths means these two requirements cannot be fulfilled with one product).
     3.14.4. CPA Level 0 Policy and Guidance. The COLISEUM handbook can be found on
     JWICS on the COLISEUM website at http://coliseum.dia.ic.gov/ to assist in submitting
     a PR. 21 IS has also developed a User’s Guide, that can be requested through the AFMC
     COLISEUM Manager.
  3.15. DIRs and Supported/Not-Supported Decisions.
     3.15.1. For supported decisions, document the decision as to the supportability of the
     derived requirement in the DIR template. If desired, reference supported DIRs in
     program and requirements documents.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                    17


     3.15.2. For not-supported decisions, conduct “Document Deficiency/Refine Intelligence
     Cost Estimate” documentation. It is not required to fully document DIRs more than once
     for a program.
  3.16. Document Deficiency/Refine Intelligence Cost Estimate.
     3.16.1. When DIRs have not been satisfied, a deficiency exists. Once a DIR is identified
     as a deficiency, the DIR should be integrated into the appropriate JCIDS requirement
     and/or program documents IAW DoD, Joint and AF guidance. To better enable other
     ISA and CPA efforts, the DIR should also be entered/updated as a deficiency on the
     SIPRNET            Acquisition        Intelligence     Intelink      webpage          at:
     http://www.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx for AFMC efforts, or
     designated repository for other MAJCOMs. If the deficiency was documented, the
     acquisition intelligence analyst can coordinate with MAJCOM cost analysts to refine the
     intelligence cost estimate to reflect the additional information gathered about the
     deficiency.
     3.16.2. Deficiency-Handling Roles and Responsibilities. Once the program/MAJCOM
     stakeholders have formally acknowledged the DIR as being valid for their program, the
     supporting acquisition intelligence analyst can enter the deficiency into the MAJCOM-
     designated repository as appropriate. Each MAJCOM can establish routing and quality
     standards for submitting DIRs and deficiencies IAW DoD, Joint and AF guidance. For
     AFMC efforts, the supporting acquisition intelligence analysts should task the 21st IS via
     the webpage to review and validate the DIR. For AFSPC efforts, the supporting
     acquisition intelligence analysts should work with AFSPC/A2 and their intelligence cost
     analysts to determine the level of detail needed to validate DIRs and refine the
     intelligence cost estimate. The Acquisition, Operations, and Intelligence stakeholders are
     responsible for providing the MAJCOM cost analyst the details needed to cost out the
     deficiency. Once the cost details are determined, they will be reviewed by the
     stakeholders and then entered into the appropriate DIR. It is the responsibility of the
     MAJCOM-level intelligence analysts and cost analysts to validate or provide feedback on
     each DIR within 5 days of notification of receipt. AFSPC/A2 will create a repository on
     SIPRNET for tracking DIRs and deficiencies related to space and cyber programs. The
     supporting acquisition intelligence analyst should enter all DIRs and deficiencies in this
     repository to help track the status of these items and support CPA.
  3.17. CPA Level 1.
     3.17.1. Identify Common Deficiencies. CPA level 1 is conducted by the implementing
     MAJCOM. The MAJCOM focuses on the identification of efforts that have common
     intelligence requirements. This effort is valuable to the programs and enterprises
     involved. First, grouping requirements provides some shielding for a specific program
     from paying for the solution as a sole requirements holder. Additionally, a cross-program
     requirement raises the priority for resolution by tying multiple AF capabilities to the
     same requirement.
     3.17.2. CPA Level 1 Roles and Responsibilities. MAJCOM-level analysts lead the task
     to identify MAJCOM-wide efforts that have common requirements. The primary
     resources used to research common requirements are various ISA repositories and
     requirements databases (for AFMC, the repository is located on the AFMC SIPRNET
18                                                             AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     Acquisition              Intelligence            Intelink          webpage             at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx) and COLISEUM
     on JWICS at http://coliseum.dia.ic.gov/. However, like the “Gather/Review Reference
     Material” task, data can also come from PowerPoint presentations, JCIDS documents,
     white papers, individual research, transition plans (either from lab to product center or
     product center to sustainment), capability demonstration documents, feasibility studies,
     concept development QRCs, previously completed ISAs, etc. Documents associated with
     conducting CPA should be stored in the applicable ISA repository. For AFMC, the
     repository is located in the “AFMC ISA Process” paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC
     SIPRNET           Acquisition         Intelligence        Intelink     webpage         at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx.
     3.17.3. Determine Differences/Commonalities Among Deficiencies. Once common
     deficiencies have been identified, details associated with the deficiencies need to be
     researched to determine if the same product can satisfy multiple deficiencies. The details
     of the deficiencies may reveal differences enough to require two products (i.e., efforts
     “X” and “Y” have the need for a signature of target “A”; however, effort “X” requires the
     signature in Ka-band and effort “Y” requires the signature in X-band. The difference in
     bandwidths means these two deficiencies cannot be fulfilled with one product).
     3.17.4. CPA Level 1 Roles and Responsibilities. For efforts with common deficiencies,
     the MAJCOM or designated personnel is responsible for establishing and leading a team
     that includes each effort’s supporting acquisition intelligence analyst and customer to
     work together to determine if the common deficiencies are indeed the same. Including
     the intelligence data producer in the discussions is highly recommended. TEMs are a
     common way to gather the appropriate people (acquisition intelligence analysts,
     customers, and data producers) to flesh-out details of the intelligence needs and
     determine if one product can satisfy multiple intelligence needs. Cross program
     deficiencies have multiple avenues for documentation which will feed the request for
     advocacy (see paragraph 3.24) through acquisition and functional channels (including
     AFISRA’s Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance – Capabilities and
     Requirements Tool (ISR-CART) (see AFISRA’s ISR-CART at SIPRNET URL
     http://isr-cart.afisra.af.smil.mil/templates/index.cfm) for AF-level requirements).
     3.17.5. The ISR Capabilities, Planning and Analysis (CP&A) is the Air Force’s method
     of documenting Air Force ISR capability deficiencies and identifying potential solutions.
     Capability decomposition is necessary in order to determine intelligence supportability
     needs. The scope of solutions will be larger than one effort, because the ISR CP&A
     examines broad areas of multiple gaps. However, decomposition of each solution is
     similar to that of other efforts. This process feeds or influences the CFL Core Function
     Master Plans (CFMPs).
     3.17.6. CPA Level 1 Policy and Guidance. IAW AFI 63-101/20-101, PMs must identify
     and document intelligence requirements. Guidance on the 21 IS SIPRNET Intelink site is
     available to assist in determining what mandatory information is needed in the DIR
     fields. MAJCOM-level cost analysts use the AILCES guide to project costs associated
     with the DIR.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                        19


  3.18. DIR Risk Assessment. After a DIR is assessed to be a deficiency, the next step is to
  determine the potential impact to the capability if the deficiency is not satisfied. This must
  be done for managers of the effort to make resource prioritization decisions. Additionally,
  the IC needs to understand the impact so they can prioritize their support based on customer
  needs. Risk is analyzed by assessing the impact to cost, performance, and schedule.
  Depending on the risk, management may decide to assume the risk, employ more resources
  to reduce the risk, employ a different tactic or product design, or find another way to mitigate
  the risk.
     3.18.1. Risk Assessment Roles and Responsibilities. IAW AFI 63-101/20-101, it is the
     effort manager’s responsibility to assess the risk for their efforts. It is the responsibility
     of the supporting acquisition intelligence analyst to assist by collaborating with the effort
     manager/lead engineer or scientist, the MAJCOM-level intelligence analysts, subject
     matter experts, and the operational community to determine the impact associated with
     not having the DIR satisfied. Documents associated with risk analysis should be stored,
     as recommended, in the “AFMC ISA Process” paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC
     SIPRNET           Acquisition         Intelligence        Intelink         webpage          at
     http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx,            or      other
     designated repository.
     3.18.2. Risk Assessment Policy and Guidance. The Risk Management Guide for
     Acquisition provides the terminology and guidance for risk analysis.
  3.19. Developing a Deficiency Resolution Action Plan. An action plan depicts a timeline
  of activities that should occur to satisfy the deficiency. Included in the plan are the
  organizations and personnel who are expected to perform each activity. This may include
  agreements for budgeting, reallocating resources, holding TEMs with potential deficiency
  suppliers to determine a course of action (COA), working with other organizations to resolve
  the deficiency, etc.
     3.19.1. Deficiency Resolution Action Plan Roles and Responsibilities. IAW AFI 14-
     111, it is the effort manager’s responsibility to develop and implement a plan or course of
     action. With the CIO/SIO’s concurrence, the supporting acquisition intelligence analyst
     can assist the effort’s action officer, user command, acquisition, test, and intelligence
     communities, etc. to get their support and inputs to develop, refine, and implement the
     action plan. MAJCOM/A2s should provide feedback on possible COAs based on lessons
     learned across the command and/or feedback from other efforts. Previously developed
     action plans are posted on the AFMC SIPRNET Acquisition Intelligence Intelink
     webpage at http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx and
     can be used as examples to follow.
     3.19.2. Deficiency Resolution Action Plan Documentation. Depending on the action
     plan, implementation documentation may include producing a white paper, advocacy
     briefing, ISR-Capabilities Analysis and Requirements Tool (ISR-CART) input,
     Intelligence Health Assessment (IHA), content for requirements documents (CDD/CPD
     Paragraph 9), an ISP (Issues section or, if necessary, Intelligence Appendix), and/or other
     program products (such as a Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP), ASP briefing,
     etc.).
20                                                             AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     3.19.3. Deficiency Resolution Action Plan Roles and Responsibilities. Depending on the
     documentation needed, different people/organizations could be responsible for
     documenting the deficiency.
     3.19.4. Deficiency Resolution Action Plan White Paper. The supporting acquisition
     intelligence analyst should produce a white paper if needed or directed. The white paper
     should contain enough background information to familiarize the reader with the issue.
     A clear statement of the issue and its impact must also be included. Finally a
     recommendation for potential solutions should be included. The white paper should be
     written concisely and in plain language so a reader with no prior exposure to the subject
     matter is able to comprehend the information. White papers are often collaborative
     efforts requiring information from published sources with direct input from subject
     matter experts.
 3.20. ISR CP&A. For AFMC, the 21 IS is responsible for entering deficiencies in ISR-
 CART, with details provided by the supporting acquisition intelligence analyst and
 program/MAJCOM stakeholders. For AFSPC, AFSPC/A2 is responsible for entering the
 deficiency in ISR-CART, with details provided by the supporting acquisition intelligence
 analyst and program/MAJCOM stakeholders Additionally, a data call goes out prior to ISR
 CART data cutoffs to request any additional deficiencies that intelligence analysts believe
 should be highlighted in the ISR CP&A process. ISR CART entries are submitted for
 inclusion in the ISR CP&A process. The supporting acquisition intelligence analyst remains
 listed as the deficiency’s point of contact (POC), responsible for the overall management of
 actions aimed at obtaining a solution. The MAJCOM-level intelligence analysts interact with
 the owners of ISR-CART (currently AFISRA) and advocate for MAJCOM’s entries.
 Intelligence professionals from all MAJCOMs prioritize ISR-CART entries and participate in
 capability teams to find solutions for selected needs.
 3.21. Intelligence Health Assessment (IHA). The supporting acquisition intelligence
 analyst is responsible for completing an IHA on the effort, if required/requested by
 management seniors. The IHA can be used to advocate to acquisition, intelligence, and/or
 operational management for resolution of the DIR-related issues, potentially including
 additional resources or reprioritization of existing resources. The IHA can be in the form of
 a briefing or memorandum for record (MFR) (Refer to Attachment 4). Bullet Background
 Papers (BBP) may provide additional detail associated with each of the issues. BBPs should
 contain enough background information to familiarize the reader with the issue; the level of
 detail depends on the intended audience. A clear statement of the issue and its impact must
 also be included. BBPs are often collaborative efforts requiring information from published
 sources with direct input from SMEs.
 3.22. Memorandum For Record (MFR). The supporting acquisition intelligence analyst is
 responsible for writing an MFR to support Defense Acquisition Boards (DABs), JROCs,
 AFROCs, and Review Boards, as required. The MFR should contain enough background
 information to familiarize the reader with the issue; the level of detail depends on the
 intended audience. A clear statement of the issue and its impact must also be included and
 potential solutions should be recommended. The MFR should be written concisely and in
 plain language so a reader with no prior exposure to the subject matter would be able to
 comprehend the information. MFRs are often collaborative efforts that require information
 from published sources with direct input from SMEs. MFRs are intended to provide
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                    21


  decision-makers with enough detail to determine if the deficiency is an issue that requires
  resolution and is worthy of advocating for resolution. MFRs are a useful way to document
  ongoing analysis for early, pre-acquisition efforts (i.e., technologies) and for programs in
  sustainment that do not have acquisition documents. Finally, MFRs are a useful way to
  prepare for self-assessments if no formal applicable programmatic documents are under
  development (refer to Attachment 4).
  3.23. ISP Intelligence Appendix. If the PM decides to create an intelligence annex to the
  program’s Information Support Plan (ISP), the acquisition analyst assists the effort. The
  acquisition analyst can follow the lead of the PM to document the intelligence needs in the
  format that best suits the program. The intelligence appendix to the ISP is not a required
  program document; however, it can be a useful tool if used to support day-to-day
  management of intelligence support within the effort.
  3.24. Advocating to IC/Acquisition/Ops Community Leadership. Once an action plan is
  developed and documented, inform the applicable intelligence, acquisition, test, and
  operational community leadership and obtain approval on the resolution plan. The
  acquisition intelligence analyst works with the action officers (AOs) who supported the
  “Developing a Deficiency Action Plan” task to inform their respective chains of commands
  of the deficiency and proposed action plan and receive support to proceed or receive
  redirection. In consultation with the supporting acquisition intelligence analyst, the
  MAJCOM staff AO should lead the advocacy effort. Respective AOs need to maintain
  communication with each other on the progress of leadership approval. The supporting
  acquisition intelligence analyst needs to keep the program office appraised of status.
  Documents associated with resolution advocacy should be stored as recommended in the
  “AFMC ISA Process” paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC SIPRNET Acquisition
  Intelligence                      Intelink                     webpage                     at
  http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx, or other designated
  repository. The acquisition analyst typically has two avenues of support to pursue—through
  the supporting center chain of command (acquisition) and functional (intelligence channels).
  The center staff is typically the next level in the chain of command for a field intelligence
  unit. Each center has processes to move information through their channels for advocacy to
  the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) and the larger acquisition
  community. Likewise, efforts in the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) typically follow
  the chain of command for advocacy. For AFMC, 21 IS assists the field units to provide the
  pertinent information to AFMC-level intelligence analysts if requested. AFMC/A2 is the
  Intelligence Functional lead for AFMC and should work with HAF/A2, operating command
  A2s and impacted CFIs to gain advocacy and support from the applicable AF and national-
  level intelligence organizations. AFSPC/A2 is the intelligence functional lead for space and
  cyber efforts and should work with HAF/A2 and impacted CFL offices to advocate for
  support from AF and national-level organizations.
  3.25. Pursuit of Resolution. Once a resolution is agreed upon to satisfy the deficiency, the
  decision needs to be acted on and the effort managers/leadership need to be informed of the
  plans and kept apprised of the status. Responsibility for resolving the deficiency is shared
  among all organizations involved in the effort. Ultimately, it must be remembered that all
  requirements must be satisfied for fielded capabilities if they are to be expected to perform
  their mission. Intelligence requirements are no less important than other requirements and
 22                                                                 AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


   are the overall responsibility of the office leading the effort. However, it is commonly the
   case that many operations and acquisition personnel are unfamiliar with the nature of
   intelligence and to not understand why intelligence is essential to their effort. It is incumbent
   upon the intelligence personnel to inform personnel involved in the effort why intelligence
   requirements are essential and what the impact on their effort would be if DIRs are not
   resolved. Then, intelligence personnel must provide the expertise to obtain the intelligence
   support that will enable the effort to achieve success. Acquisition and Operations
   stakeholders should work with the supporting acquisition intelligence analyst to keep track of
   the status of each DIR's resolution and ensure that action plans are kept on schedule.
   Everyone in the advocacy chain should also remain engaged until a solution is determined or
   a program decides to assume the risk caused by the deficiency. Documents associated with
   pursuing DIR resolution should be stored as recommended in the “AFMC ISA Process”
   paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC SIPRNET Acquisition Intelligence Intelink webpage
   at http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx, or other designated
   repository.
   3.26. DIR Resolution. For DIRs that are satisfactorily resolved, document resolution as
   recommended in the “AFMC ISA Process” paragraphs in Section 3, on the AFMC SIPRNET
   Acquisition               Intelligence            Intelink              webpage            at
   http://www.intelshare.intelink.sgov.gov/sites/acqintel/default.aspx, or other designated
   repository, and continue to “Complete.” For DIRs that are not resolved (or partially
   resolved), whether the deficiency is partially supported or not supported at all, something
   might have changed that could fully or partially satisfy the need (i.e., new technologies may
   be in development, another effort may have the same requirement that you can leverage off
   of, etc.). Therefore, return to paragraph 3.7 “Does Capability to Satisfy DIR Exist?” to
   continue the cycle of trying to get the need supported.
   3.27. ISA Completion. The ISA is complete at this time. However, intelligence sensitivity
   of the program should be revisited each time there is a major change to the effort, including
   modifications/upgrades, or if there is a significant change in the threat environment or
   intelligence infrastructure throughout the operational life of the effort. ISA is a continuous
   process; supportability requirements need to be monitored and refined throughout the entire
   acquisition life cycle. It is the supporting acquisition intelligence analyst’s responsibility to
   revisit the program to determine intelligence sensitivity and supportability at the discretion of
   the SIO.
4. PLANNING, PROGRAMMING, BUDGETING AND EXECUTION (PPBE)
PROCESS. Air Force intelligence, planning, programming, requirements, operations, and
acquisition communities must work together to ensure derived intelligence requirements and
intelligence deficiencies are identified early in the acquisition life cycle of new systems to ensure
support is available, sustainable, suitable, and affordable. Resource implications of proposed
solutions must be clearly understood and incorporated within corporate planning and
programming efforts. Acquisition Intelligence ensures appropriate intelligence requirements are
captured and input into the USAF PPBE process. These inputs must include non-material and
downstream impacts to organizations/entities within and external to MAJCOMs and the USAF.
The PPBE process is the strategic planning, program development, and resource determination
process for the Department of Defense. The process is used to craft plans and programs that
satisfy the demands of the National Security Strategy, National Defense Strategy, and the
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                        23


National Military Strategy within resource constraints. The purpose of this process is to allocate
resources within the DoD and the IC. It is important for PMs and their staffs to be aware of the
nature and timing of each of the events within this process, since they may be called upon to
provide critical information that could be important to program funding and success. In the
PPBE process, the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence
(USD[I]), and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) establish policies, strategy, and
prioritized goals for both the Department of Defense and the IC. They are used to guide resource
allocation decisions that balance the guidance with fiscal constraints. The PPBE process consists
of the following four distinct but overlapping phases. Air Force Intelligence, planning,
programming, requirements, operations, and acquisition communities must work together to
ensure DIRs and intelligence deficiencies are identified early in the acquisition life cycle of new
systems to ensure support is available, sustainable, suitable, and affordable. Resource
implications of proposed solutions must be clearly understood and incorporated within CFL
planning and programming processes. Acquisition Intelligence ensures appropriate intelligence
requirements are captured and input into the AF PPBE process. These inputs must include non-
materiel and downstream impacts to organizations/entities within and external to MAJCOMs and
the AF. AFMC uses the AILCES to facilitate cost estimating for PPBE purposes.
   4.1. Planning. The planning phase of the PPBE, which is a collaborative effort by the
   Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), (USD[I]), and the Joint Staff, begins with a
   resource informed articulation of national defense policies and military strategy known as the
   Strategic Planning Guidance. The Strategic Planning Guidance is used to lead the planning
   process, now known as the Enhanced Planning Process. This process results in fiscally
   constrained guidance and priorities - for military forces, modernization, readiness and
   sustainability, and supporting business processes and infrastructure activities - for program
   development in a document known as the Joint Programming Guidance. The Joint
   Programming Guidance is the link between planning and programming, and it provides
   guidance to the DoD components (military departments and defense agencies) for the
   development of their program proposal, known as the Program Objective Memorandum
   (POM). The AF POM is developed annually by the CFLs and integrated by AF/A8. It is
   important to note that proposed programmatic changes are presented to the OSD leadership
   for review, and decisions are documented in the Resource Management Decision (RMD)
   document. DoD Components use the RMD to update their POM data sets which are then
   incorporated into the Department’s Budget and Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) and
   submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) as part of the President’s budget
   request
   4.2. Programming. The programming phase begins with the development of a Program
   Objective Memorandum (POM) by each DoD component. This development seeks to
   construct a balanced set of programs that respond to the guidance and priorities of the Joint
   Programming Guidance within fiscal constraints. When completed, the POM provides a
   fairly detailed and comprehensive description of the proposed programs, including a time-
   phased allocation of resources (forces, funding, and manpower) organized by program and
   projected five years into the future. In addition, the DoD component may describe important
   programs not fully funded (or not funded at all) in the POM, and assess the risks associated
   with deficiencies. The senior leadership in OSD and the Joint Staff review each POM
   submission to help integrate the DoD component POMs into an overall, coherent defense
 24                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


   program. In addition, the OSD staff and the Joint Staff can raise issues with selected portions
   of any POM or any funding deficiencies in the POM, and propose alternatives with marginal
   adjustments to resources. Issues not resolved at lower levels are forwarded to the Secretary
   for decision, and the resulting decisions are documented in the Program Decision
   Memorandum.
   4.3. Budgeting. The budgeting phase of PPBE occurs concurrently with the programming
   phase; each DoD component submits its proposed budget estimate simultaneously with its
   POM. The budget committee converts the programmatic view into the format of the
   Congressional appropriation structure, along with associated budget justification documents.
   The completed budget projects resources only one year into the future, but with considerably
   more financial detail than the POM. Upon submission, each budget estimate is reviewed by
   analysts from the office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and the Office of
   Management and Budget (OMB). The purpose of their review is to ensure that programs are
   funded IAW current financial policies, and are properly and reasonably priced. The review
   also ensures that the budget documentation is adequate to justify the programs presented to
   the Congress. Typically, budget analysts provide the DoD components with written
   questions in advance of formal hearings in which the analysts review and discuss the budget
   details. After the hearings, each analyst prepares a decision document (known as a Program
   Budget Decision [PBD]) for the programs and/or appropriations under his or her area of
   responsibility. The PBD proposes financial adjustments to address any issues or problems
   identified during the associated budget hearing. Proposed budget changes are presented to
   leadership for review and decisions are documented in the Resource Management Decision
   (RMD) document. DoD Components use the RMD to update their BES data sets which are
   then incorporated into the Department’s Budget and FYDP and submitted to OMB as part of
   the President’s budget request.
   4.4. Execution. The execution review occurs simultaneously with the program and budget
   reviews. The purpose of the execution review is to provide feedback to the senior leadership
   concerning the effectiveness of current and prior resource allocations. Over time, metrics are
   being developed to support the execution review that will measure actual output versus
   planned performance for defense programs. To the extent that performance goals of an
   existing program are not being met, the execution review may lead to recommendations to
   adjust resources and/or restructure programs to achieve desired performance goals.
   4.5. Core Function Master Plan (CFMP). The core function planning process assesses
   risk which, in turn, drives core function priorities and trade-space decisions, as articulated in
   the CFMP’s planning force proposals (PFPs). PFPs and priority risk areas focus and guide
   solutions analysis and associated science and technology (S&T) work. The solutions
   analysis and S&T efforts are captured in the CFMP in the form of capability development
   roadmaps and modernization and sustainment roadmaps. This is the essential homework
   required to help initiatives develop and mature to the point they are viable candidates for
   entering into the POM process. The thirteen CFMPs are listed in Figure 5.1.
5. JOINT CAPABILITIES INTEGRATION AND DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM
(JCIDS). JCIDS is a joint-concepts-centric capabilities identification process that allows joint
forces to meet future military challenges. The JCIDS process assesses existing and proposed
capabilities in light of their contribution to future joint concepts. JCIDS, supported by robust
analytic processes, identifies capability gaps and potential solutions. JCIDS acknowledges the
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                        25


need to project and sustain joint forces and to conduct flexible, distributed, and highly-networked
operations. JCIDS implements a capabilities-based approach that leverages the expertise of
government agencies, industry, and academia. JCIDS encourages collaboration between
operators and materiel providers early in the process, and enhances the ability of organizations to
influence proposed solutions to capability deficiencies. JCIDS defines interoperable, joint
capabilities that will best meet the future needs. The broader DoD acquisition community must
then deliver these technologically sound, sustainable, and affordable increments of militarily
useful capability to the warfighters. The revolutionary transformation to JCIDS, coupled with
the evolutionary emergence of a more flexible, responsive, and innovative acquisition process is
intended to produce better-integrated and more supportable military solutions; a better-prioritized
and logically-sequenced delivery of capability to the warfighters, despite multiple sponsors and
materiel developers; and an improved Science and Technology-community focus on future
warfighting capability needs. JCIDS informs the acquisition process by identifying, assessing,
and prioritizing joint military capability needs. The identified capability needs then serve as the
basis for the development and production of acquisition programs. Under JCIDS, once a
capability gap has been identified, a High-Performance Team (HPT) convenes to capture,
articulate, and document the operator’s requirements in minimum time, while achieving
stakeholder buy-in. Ideally, the HPT will consist of 7-11 core participants, which includes a lead
(the sponsor, during a requirements development HPT), a facilitator, AF SMEs (i.e., operators,
systems engineers, acquirers, testers, logisticians, acquisition intelligence professionals, etc.),
government agencies and other Services (as required), and support team members (not physically
present but available via phone or e-mail for reach-back). The HPT accelerates the
documentation process; improves the quality of the requirements document; and can provide an
enduring forum for developing, fielding, and sustaining warfighter capabilities. The HPT lead
maintains responsibility for the document throughout the review and approval process.
Acquisition intelligence participates in the JCIDS process by assessing intelligence
supportability needs associated with the solution to the capability need (i.e., threat environment,
intelligence data needed, infrastructure required, etc.) and incorporating that knowledge into all
parts of the JCIDS process (document development, HPTs, etc.). Checklists to guide the
acquisition intelligence analyst in supporting the tasks are included in Appendix A.
   5.1. Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA). CBA is the analytic basis of the JCIDS process.
   A CBA may be based on an approved joint concept; a concept of operations (CONOPS)
   endorsed by the JROC, a combatant command, Service, or defense agency; the results of a
   Senior Warfighter Forum (SwarF); or an identified operational need. It provides several key
   bits of information for the validation authority prior to approval: a description of the mission
   and military problem being assessed; identification of the tasks to be completed to meet the
   mission objectives; identification of the capabilities required; an assessment of how well the
   current or programmed force meets the capability needs; an assessment of operational risks
   where capability gaps exist; recommendations for possible non-materiel solutions to the
   capability gaps; recommendations for potential materiel approaches (if required); a well-
   defined baseline of capabilities; and a determination of whether the capability requires a
   materiel solution, a non-materiel solution, or a combination of both. The completed CBA
   becomes the basis for validating capability needs and results in the potential development
   and deployment of new or improved capabilities. A CBA checklist designed to guide
   analysts through the CBA process can be accessed by using a link to the ADDM SharePoint
   site in Chapter 7.
 26                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


Figure 5.1. CFMPs.




   5.2. JCIDS Documents.
      5.2.1. Initial Capabilities Document (ICD). The ICD establishes linkages between key
      characteristics and capabilities identified through the Capabilities Based Assessment
      (CBA) and supports the concept decision MSA phase and Milestone Development
      Decision (MDD). The ICD justifies the requirement for a materiel or non-materiel
      approach, or an approach that is a combination of materiel and non-materiel, to satisfy
      specific capability gaps for a given timeframe. It accomplishes this by identifying
      required capabilities and describing capability gaps that exist in joint warfighting
      functions, as described in the Joint Operations Concept (JopsC) or a CONOPS in terms of
      the functional area, the relevant range of military operations, desired effects, time and
      DOTMLPF and policy implications and constraints. The ICD describes the capability
      gaps in the lexicon established for the joint capability areas (JCAs) and summarizes the
      results of the DOTMLPF and policy analysis and the DOTMLPF approaches (materiel
      and non-materiel) that could deliver the required capability. Representatives from
      multiple DoD communities (including acquisition intelligence) normally participate in an
      HPT to assist in formulating broad, time-phased, operational goals, and describe requisite
      capabilities in the ICD that is usually approved at MS-A. The outcome of an ICD could
      be one or more joint DOTMLPF Change Recommendation (DCR) or recommendations
      to pursue materiel solutions. Analysts can access an Initial Capabilities Document
      checklist, designed to guide analysts through the process of creating an ICD by using the
      link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
      5.2.2. Capability Development Document (CDD). The CDD builds on the ICD, and
      states the system-specific, technical, and sustainment-related performance attributes
      necessary to provide the operational capabilities required by the warfighter – attributes so
      significant they must be verified by testing and evaluation or analysis. Key performance
      parameters (KPPs) are those attributes or characteristics that are considered essential to
      the development of an effective military capability that can make a significant
      contribution to the characteristics of the future joint force. The CDD is the sponsor’s
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                       27


     primary means of defining authoritative, measurable, and testable capabilities needed by
     the warfighters to support the Engineering and Manufacturing Development Phase of an
     acquisition program. The CDD captures the information necessary to deliver an
     affordable and supportable capability using mature technology within one or more
     increments of an acquisition strategy. The CDD must include a description of the
     DOTMLPF and policy impacts and constraints. The CDD must be validated, and
     approved, before Milestone B (MS-B). If the acquisition strategy calls for Preliminary
     Design Review (PDR) prior to MS-B, the primary content of the CDD should be
     completed and approved prior to release of the PDR Request for Proposal (RFP). An
     intelligence professional should work closely with the author of the CDD to ensure threat
     and intelligence issues, including deficiencies, are addressed in the document. A
     checklist designed to guide analysts through the ICD process can be accessed by using
     the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     5.2.3. Capability Production Document (CPD). The CPD is the final step in the
     capabilities refinement process, normally due at Milestone C (MS-C) and is the sponsor’s
     primary means of providing authoritative, testable capabilities for the Production and
     Deployment phase of an acquisition program. The CPD captures the information
     necessary to support production, testing, and deployment of an affordable and
     supportable increment within an acquisition strategy throughout a weapon system’s life
     cycle. It presents performance attributes, including KPPs, to guide the production and
     deployment of the current increment. The CPD refines the threshold and objective values
     for performance attributes and KPPs that were validated in the CDD for the production
     increment. Each production threshold listed in the CPD depicts the minimum
     performance the PM is expected to deliver for the increment based on the system design
     subsequent to the design readiness review. The refinement of performance attributes and
     KPPs is the most significant difference between the CDD and the CPD. An intelligence
     professional should work closely with the author of the CPD to ensure that it addresses
     specific intelligence support requirements for each capability discussed in the document.
     A checklist designed to guide analysts through the CPD process can be accessed by using
     the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
6. THE DEFENSE ACQUISITION SYSTEM.
  6.1. Role of Acquisition Intelligence. The Defense Acquisition System is the management
  process that guides all DoD acquisition programs. DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition
  System, provides the policies and principles that govern the defense acquisition system.
  Interim DoDI 5000.02, in turn, establishes the management framework that implements these
  policies and principles. The Defense Acquisition Management Framework provides an
  event-based process where acquisition programs proceed through a series of milestones
  associated with significant program phases, which are illustrated below. Acquisition
  intelligence participates in the Defense Acquisition System by identifying the intelligence
  supportability needs of the weapon system across the entire acquisition life cycle. The
  acquisition intelligence support needed by any program depends on the phase of the life cycle
  the program is in and what the task is. Checklists to guide the acquisition intelligence analyst
  in supporting the tasks can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in
  Chapter 7.
28                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     6.1.1. Pre-Materiel Development Decisions. Requirements identified through ISA could
     ultimately be the responsibility of the program, the AF, and/or the IC. An Intelligence
     Supportability Analysis checklist that can help make this determination can be accessed
     by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7. Since acquisition
     intelligence resources are limited, SIOs might need to allocate support for intelligence-
     sensitive efforts according to the priority and degree of intelligence sensitivity of those
     efforts. The intelligence sensitivity assessment is used to determine whether an effort
     requires intelligence support. Efforts are considered to be intelligence-sensitive if they
     require intelligence data during development or to perform their mission, will handle
     intelligence data or information, require the direct support of intelligence personnel, or
     influence intelligence data at any point in the PCPAD cycle. The more reliant the effort
     is on intelligence or the bigger the role it will play in intelligence-related matters, the
     more intelligence-sensitive it is. The effort could be an acquisition program/initiative,
     research lab initiative, maturing technology, AoA concept study, Advanced Concept
     Technology Demonstration (ACTD), upgrade to an existing weapon system, or other
     acquisition-related effort. Prioritization programs should also consider what the impact
     to cost, schedule and performance would be if acquisition intelligence support were not
     provided. Decisions relative to meeting needs of intelligence-sensitive efforts should be
     made by the SIO in collaboration with the effort’s acquisition leadership. This will aid in
     development of alternative approaches to ensuring acquisition intelligence functions are
     performed. The linked checklist and the supporting appendix provide the center and
     MAJCOM SIOs with tools to determine whether a program is intelligence-sensitive and
     prioritize those programs. Note: Chapter 7 contains a link to the ADDM SharePoint site
     that hosts checklists that can be used during the pre-Materiel Development Decision
     (MDD) and Materiel Solution Analysis (MSA) phases. It is likely that many of the
     questions contained in the checklists will not be fully known. The level of intelligence
     sensitivity will need to be revisited as the program matures. An Intelligence Sensitivity
     checklist to guide analysts through the process of assessing a program’s intelligence
     sensitivity is process can also be found on the ADDM web site.
     6.1.2. Requirements Analysis Workbook (RAW). The RAW is a strategy-to-task drill
     down through a list of questions to identify the intelligence supportability needs for a
     program (called DIRs). It can be conducted at any phase of the acquisition life cycle.
     The group of RAWs applicable to a program should be completed or updated multiple
     times throughout the life cycle to ensure intelligence supportability needs are identified
     and remain current. Every intelligence supportability task starts with identifying the
     effort’s intelligence supportability requirements by completion of the applicable RAWs.
     A Requirements Analysis Workbook checklist can be accessed by using the link to the
     ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.1.3. Intelligence Health Assessment (IHA). The IHA checklist described in this
     AFPAM is based on criteria identified in CJCSI 3312.01B to scrutinize
     programs/projects/initiatives, systems, and capabilities deemed to be intelligence-
     sensitive and to identify potential risks that, if left uncorrected, might result in program
     delays, cost overruns or degraded system capability. During the ISA process, the analyst
     should work with and provide risk assessments to the program office regularly. The IHA
     can be provided to the PM in the form of a briefing or MFR (Refer to Attachment 2, IHA
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                        29


     Quad Chart Templates and Sample IHA MFR). The IHA should be incorporated into the
     program’s overall risk assessment and address cost, schedule, and performance. The IHA
     checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.1.4. Independent Intelligence Assessment (IIA). IIA is an independent IHA initiated
     and accomplished at the MAJCOM level. IIA is the MAJCOM’s overall and independent
     functional assessment of how well a program is being supported. IIA development is led
     by the MAJCOM and draws upon SME expertise from the field units. It leverages the
     IHA work as a supporting document, but should also take other factors into
     consideration. IIA’s are used to support functional representation at requirements and
     program reviews, such as the AFROC, executive review boards, etc. It is also used to
     support AF intelligence certification as part of the JCIDS intelligence certification
     process.
     6.1.5. Intelligence Working Groups. A detailed analysis of the intelligence products,
     services, and infrastructures impact the program is accomplished via various working
     groups, such as ISWGs, TWGs, TSGs, Cross Integrated Product Teams, TEMs, and
     senior-level ISGs. These groups engage appropriate experts from throughout the IC to
     conduct threat, infrastructure and cost analysis. It is primarily through this process that
     derived requirements, deficiencies and resulting solutions are identified. An Intelligence
     Working Groups checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint
     site in Chapter 7.
  6.2. Threat Assessment. Threat assessments are usually required for all efforts, throughout
  the acquisition life cycle; the nature and level of intelligence support varies for each program.
  For pre-MS-A efforts, the initial threat assessment may be provided by the supporting
  acquisition intelligence office, the MAJCOM/A2 staff and/or the combatant command
  (CCMD)/J2 using authoritative intelligence threat references, while the National Air and
  Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) or other defense intelligence producers can support
  development of more in-depth threat reports, threat roadmaps, and/or threat portals. AFMC
  works with NASIC and the other service/Intelligence Production Centers to develop Threat
  Roadmaps, which can be used by pre-MS-A and post-MS-C programs to provide up-to-date
  information (Refer to Chapter 7, STA/STAR checklist). Upon request from organizations
  undertaking a Capability Based Assessment (CBA), or from JCIDS document sponsors, DIA
  will produce and validate an ITEA to support the development of an Initial Capabilities
  Document (ICD), the material development decision, and a subsequent material solution
  analysis via an analysis of alternatives (AoA). In coordination with DIA, DoD Components
  may produce ITEAs and submit them to DIA for validation.
  6.3. Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA). As described in paragraph 5.1, the CBA
  identifies capability needs and gaps and recommends non-materiel or materiel approaches to
  address gaps. A Capabilities-Based Assessment checklist can be accessed by using the link
  to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
  6.4. Materiel Solution Analysis (MSA) Phase. The MSA phase is the first phase of the
  acquisition process. The purpose of this phase is to assess potential materiel solutions as part
  of an Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) and to satisfy the phase-specific entrance criteria for the
  next program milestone designated by the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA). Entrance
  into this phase requires an approved ICD resulting from the analysis of current mission
 30                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


   performance and an analysis of potential concepts across the DoD components, international
   systems from allies, and cooperative opportunities. The phase begins with MDD review.
   The MDD review is the formal entry point into the acquisition process and is mandatory for
   all programs. The amount of time, resources and analysis required between ICD and MDD is
   based on the magnitude of the problem, previous analysis, knowledge of the potential
   concepts, and other considerations determined by the MDA. Intelligence analysts should
   provide assistance, as required, for all aspects related to MDD support. The Materiel
   Solution Analysis Phase ends when the AoA has been completed, materiel solution options
   for the capability need identified in the approved ICD have been recommended by the lead
   DoD component conducting the AoA, and the phase-specific entrance criteria for the initial
   review milestone have been satisfied. Figure 6.1 depicts where the MSA phase falls within
   the Defense Acquisition Management System.

Figure 6.1. MSA Phase.




   6.5. Analysis of Alternatives (AoA). AoA is a process used to assist in determining a
   preferred solution or solutions to identified deficiencies in operational capability. The
   purpose of the AoA is to assess the potential materiel solutions to satisfy the capability need
   documented in an approved ICD. The AoA is an analytical comparison of operational
   effectiveness and costs of proposed materiel solutions to needed operational capabilities.
   The AoA shall assess the critical technologies associated with each proposed materiel
   solution, including technology maturity, integration and manufacturing risk, and, where
   necessary, technology maturation and demonstration needs. It also provides the mechanism
   for documenting the rationale for determining a solution (or solutions) to capability
   deficiencies. To achieve the best possible system solution, emphasis shall be placed on
   innovation and competition. The AoA is statutory for all Major Defense Acquisition
   Programs (MDAP) (Acquisition Category (ACAT) and Major Automated Information
   Systems (MAIS) (ACAT IA, including National Security Systems (NSS)). IAW Interim
   DoDI 5000.02, all other acquisition programs require an AoA. AoAs are used to justify the
   need for starting, stopping or continuing acquisition programs. Threat changes, deficiencies,
   advances in technology or the obsolescence of existing systems can trigger the need for an
   AoA. An intelligence analyst should be included on the AoA team. An AoA checklist and
   an AoA Final Report checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint
   site in Chapter 7.
   6.6. Acquisition Strategy (formerly Technology Development Strategy). IAW Interim
   5000.02, an MDA-approved acquisition strategy is required to meet MS-A. The acquisition
   strategy is not a requirement at MS-B and beyond, but
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                      31


     6.6.1. The MDA determines who will prepare the acquisition strategy. AFRL will
     support the development of phased capabilities requirements by helping Program Offices
     and operators assess the maturity and viability of technologies being considered for
     incorporation in programs and assist, when appropriate, in the preparation of an
     acquisition strategy for MS-A. This process should result in higher fidelity requirements
     that are time-phased to a more realistic schedule with more accurate cost estimates.
     6.6.2. The acquisition strategy focuses specifically on the activities of the Technology
     Development (TD) Phase. The Technology Development Phase focuses on the
     development, maturation, and evaluation of the technologies needed to provide the
     required capability. Where feasible, the acquisition strategy should also discuss activities
     associated with the post-program-initiation phases of the planned acquisition. The
     acquisition strategy is updated at subsequent milestones and submitted into the
     Acquisition Strategy. Intelligence professionals will be asked to assist the PM with the
     completion/review of the acquisition strategy. IAW DoDD 5250.01, signature support
     requirements and funding must be incorporated into a program's acquisition strategy.
     The acquisition strategy summarizes the program’s anticipated signature support
     requirements (Refer to Interim DoDI 5000.02. Refer to Chapter 7, An Acquisition
     Strategy checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in
     Chapter 7.
  6.7. Life Cycle Mission Data Plan (LMDP). IAW DoDD 5250.01, the LMDP has replaced
  the Life Cycle Signature Support Plan (LSSP) and is required for all intelligence-mission-
  data-dependent programs. For the purposes of the LMDP, IMD is defined as DoD
  intelligence used for programming platform mission systems in development, testing,
  operations, and sustainment including, but not limited to, the following functional areas:
  Signatures, Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming (EWIR), Order of Battle (OB),
  Characteristics and Performance (C&P), and GEOspatial INTelligence (GEOINT). A
  program is considered IMD dependent in acquisition programs that require IMD (e.g.,
  programs that carry out combat identification, ISR, targeting using, but not limited to,
  Signatures, EWIR, OB, C&P, and GEOINT). The LMDP is the means by which action plans
  to address intelligence deficiencies are documented and included within program
  management processes. Specific requirements for mission data should be fully documented
  within relevant requirements systems and only referenced in the LMDP to minimize
  duplication in requirements documentation. The LMDP defines specific plans to address
  closure of deficiencies between acquisition, requirements, and intelligence communities. It
  should be maintained and updated as a function of program risk management as all three
  communities progress toward addressing deficiencies. PMs shall submit the most recent
  version of their LMDP through their Program Executive Officer (PEO) and respective
  service requirements coordination hierarchy to the IMDC prior to MS-A, MS-B, MS-C, and
  during sustainment and/or block upgrades. An LMDP checklist can be accessed by using the
  link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
  6.8. Test and Evaluation Strategy (TES). At MS-A, the PM submits a TES that describes
  the overall test approach for integrating developmental, operational, and live-fire test and
  evaluation and addresses test resource planning. It shall include a test plan that addresses TD
  phase activity, including the identification and management of technology risk, and the
  evaluation of system design concepts against the preliminary mission requirements resulting
32                                                              AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


 from the AoA. The TES is a broader view of the risk reduction efforts across the range of
 test activities that will ultimately produce a valid evaluation of operational effectiveness,
 suitability, and survivability before full-rate production and deployment. The MS-A test plan
 shall rely on the ICD as the basis for the evaluation strategy. Over time, the TES will evolve
 into the TEMP (due at MS-B). For programs on the OSD Test & Evaluation (T&E)
 Oversight List, the TES shall be submitted to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for
 Developmental Test & Evaluation (DASD DT&E), USD for Acquisition, Technology and
 Logistics (AT&L) and the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation (DOT&E) for approval.
 Ensure intelligence support concept and technologies are included in the strategy.
 Intelligence professionals should interact with the Integrated Test Team (ITT) to ensure
 accurate threat/target/environment information is addressed. A T&E checklist can be
 accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
 6.9. Systems Engineering Plan (SEP). The purpose of the SEP is to document the systems
 engineering effort early in the Materiel Solutions Analysis (MSA) phase of the program,
 guiding all technical aspects of the program from the technical strategy. The SEP is
 developed early in the MSA phase and updated prior to each subsequent Milestone. It should
 also incorporate the planning that is consistent with acquisition strategy. The plan should
 address both government and contractor systems engineering activities across the program’s
 life cycle. It should describe the systems engineering processes to be applied, the approach
 to be used to manage the system technical baseline, and how systems engineering will be
 integrated across the integrated product team (IPT) structure. It should also detail the timing,
 conduct, entrance criteria, and exit criteria of technical reviews and it should be a living
 document, tailored to the program and serve as a roadmap to support program management
 by defining comprehensive system engineering activities, addressing both government and
 contractor technical activities and responsibilities. Coordinate with the program systems
 engineering personnel to address intelligence requirements and deficiencies. An SEP
 checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
 6.10. Life Cycle Cost Estimate (LCCE). A LCCE attempts to identify all of the costs
 associated with an acquisition program, from its initiation through disposal of the resulting
 system at the end of its useful life. LCCEs for DoD systems serve two primary purposes.
 First, they are used at acquisition program Milestones and decision reviews to assess whether
 the system’s cost is affordable, or consistent with the DoD’s overall long-range investment
 and force structure plans. Second, LCCEs form the basis for budget requests to Congress.
 Intelligence professionals should identify and document applicable Intelligence
 supportability costs throughout the life cycle of the system. An LCCE checklist can be
 accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
 6.11. Life Cycle Sustainment Plan (LCSP). The LCSP is the integrated acquisition and
 sustainment strategy for the life of a system. It is a concise document that identifies relevant
 issues and recommends an acquisition and management approach, as well as a support
 strategy. The LCSP serves as a roadmap for life cycle sustainment, from concept
 development to disposal, tailored to the specific needs of a program. Further, it provides all
 product support requirements of a supported system, subsystem, or major end item. The
 DoD acquisition policy and statutory requirements are evolutionary; therefore, the LCSP is to
 be a “living” document, maximizing system effectiveness from the perspective of the
 warfighter. LCSP implementation is mandatory for all ACAT I and II non-space programs.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                        33


  For ACAT III programs, the LCSP may be prepared at the MDA’s discretion. The most
  effective approach to developing a LCSP is through the use of IPTs. Intelligence
  professionals should be identified as a key participant on the IPT that is developing the
  LCSP. An LCSP checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in
  Chapter 7.
  6.12. System Threat Assessment/System Threat Assessment Report (STA/STAR). A
  STA/STAR checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in
  Chapter 7. For information about STA/STAR purpose and content, refer to Para 6.15.7.
  6.13. Technical/Program Reviews.
     6.13.1. Initial Technical Review (ITR). The ITR is a multi-disciplined technical review
     to support a program’s initial POM submission. This review ensures a program’s
     technical baseline is sufficiently rigorous to support a valid cost estimate (with acceptable
     cost risk) and enable an independent assessment of that estimate by cost, technical, and
     program management SMEs. The ITR assesses the capability needs and materiel
     solution approach of a proposed program and verifies that the requisite research,
     development, test and evaluation, engineering, logistics, and programmatic bases for the
     program reflect the complete spectrum of technical challenges and risks. Additionally,
     the ITR ensures the historical and prospective drivers of system life cycle cost have been
     quantified to the maximum extent and that the range of uncertainty in these parameters
     has been captured and reflected in the program cost estimates. Intelligence professionals
     should be involved in this review to ensure all intelligence supportability requirements
     are appropriately addressed so that the program’s baseline and cost estimate. An ITR
     checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.13.2. Alternative Systems Review (ASR). The ASR is a multi-disciplined technical
     review to ensure the resulting set of requirements addresses the customers’ needs and
     expectations and the system under review can proceed into the TD phase. The ASR
     should be completed prior to, and provide information for the MS-A decision. Generally,
     this review assesses the preliminary materiel solutions that have been evaluated during
     the MSA phase, and attempts to verify that one of the proposed materiel solutions has the
     best potential to be cost effective, affordable, operationally effective and suitable, and can
     be developed to provide a timely solution to a need at an acceptable level of risk. Of
     critical importance to this review is an understanding of available system concepts to
     meet the capabilities described in the ICD and to meet the affordability, operational
     effectiveness, technology risk, and suitability goals inherent in each alternative concept.
     Further, the ASR is important because it is a comprehensive attempt to ensure the system
     requirements are aligned with the customer's needs. It attempts to minimize the number
     of requirements that would change in later phases. In general, the later in the program
     requirements change, the greater the impact on schedule and cost. The intelligence
     professional should be involved in this review to ensure all intelligence supportability
     requirements are appropriately addressed. An ASR checklist can be accessed by using
     the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
  6.14. Technology Maturation and Risk Reduction Phase (TMRR). The purpose of this
  phase is to reduce technology risk, determine the appropriate set of technologies to be
  integrated into a full system, demonstrate critical technologies on representative platform
 34                                                              AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


   prototypes, and complete a preliminary design. TMRR is a continuous technology discovery
   and development process reflecting close collaboration between the S&T community, the
   user, and the system developer. It is an iterative process designed to assess the viability of
   technologies while simultaneously refining user requirements. Entrance into this phase
   depends on the completion and approval of the AoA results, a proposed materiel solution,
   and full funding for planned TMRR activities. The project exits the TMRR when an
   affordable program or increment of a militarily useful capability has been identified; the
   technology and manufacturing processes for that program or increment have been assessed
   and demonstrated in a relevant environment; manufacturing risks have been identified; a
   system or increment can be developed for production within a short timeframe (normally less
   than five years for weapon systems); or, when the MDA decides to terminate the program.
   During TMRR, the user prepares the CDD to support initiation of the acquisition program or
   evolutionary increment, refines the integrated architecture, and clarifies how the program
   will lead to a joint warfighting capability. A MS-B decision follows the completion of
   Technology Maturation & Risk Reduction. Figure 6.2 depicts where the TMRR phase falls
   within the Defense Acquisition Management System.

Figure 6.2. Technology Maturation & Risk Reduction Phase.




   6.15. Developing and Updating Documents.
      6.15.1. CDD. As described in paragraph 5.1.3.2, The CDD is a document that provides
      the operational performance attributes necessary for the acquisition community to design
      a proposed system(s) and establish a program baseline. A CDD checklist can be accessed
      by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
      6.15.2. ISP. The ISP is an acquisition document mandated for most service and joint
      programs and initiatives by DoD and Joint Chiefs of Staff instructions. Among other
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                    35


     things, the ISP can include the more detailed results of ISA beyond what is described in
     the JCIDS requirements documents, including identification of PM’s plans to mitigate
     intelligence deficiencies and details of solutions, with designation of responsible
     agencies. Due to its low impact on the identification and resolution of derived
     intelligence deficiencies and the new direction for LMDPs, the intelligence annex to the
     ISP is deemphasized in the AF. If desired for use by AF programs as a program
     management tool, the ISP checklist provides direction in drafting the ISP intelligence
     annex. The ISP checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site
     in Chapter 7.
     6.15.3. Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP). The TEMP, required by DoD
     5000.02, is an overall test and evaluation plan designed to identify and integrate
     objectives, responsibilities, resources, and schedules for all T&E to be accomplished
     prior to the subsequent key decision points. It should be prepared as early as possible in
     the acquisition process and updated as development progresses. The TEMP focuses on
     the overall structure, major elements, and objectives of the T&E program and must be
     consistent with the acquisition strategy, the SEP, the approved CDD or CPD, applicable
     threat document (STA, STAR, or applicable Capstone Documents), and the ISP. The
     TEMP should be consistent with and complementary to the SEP. For a program using an
     evolutionary acquisition strategy, the TEMP must also be consistent with the time-phased
     statement of desired capabilities in the CDD or CPD. It provides a road map for
     integrated simulation, test, and evaluation plans, schedules, and resource requirements
     necessary to accomplish the T&E program objectives. The TEMP is required for
     programs entering MS-B. It identifies and integrates the overall structure and objective
     of the T&E program. The TEMP also identifies responsibilities, resources, and schedules
     to accomplish prior to future milestone decision points. An intelligence professional
     should participate in TEMP development to ensure current and approved threat
     information is contained in the TEMP. A TEMP checklist can be accessed by using the
     link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.15.4. Update to LMDP. As a program approaches MS-B, the LMDP shall be fully
     defined with mission capability specific details and threat signature/IMD requirements to
     support program development. For example, more details should be known about the
     mission of the sensor, technical parameters, and the threat target set. The program should
     also list any signature- or IMD-based models that will be required, intelligence PRs
     submitted to a Service Intelligence Production Center (e.g., NASIC, National Ground
     Intelligence Center (NGIC), Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI), etc.), and planned
     signature or IMD collection events that the program will conduct. Programs entering the
     life cycle at the TMRR phase must address the variety of IMD needs specified in
     paragraph 6.7. The LMDP checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM
     SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.15.5. Program Protection Plan (PPP). Critical Program Information (CPI) is the
     foundation upon which all protection planning for the program is based, and the reason
     all countermeasures are implemented. Effective program protection planning begins by
     the PM reviewing the acquisition program to determine if it contains CPI. If a program
     contains CPI, program protection planning is required. The PM, with the assistance of a
     Working-level Integrated Product Team (WIPT) and/or appropriate support activities, is
36                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     responsible for developing and implementing a PPP. The identification of CPI is a
     program management, security, and systems engineering function that is assisted by the
     acquisition intelligence and counterintelligence specialists for intelligence-specific inputs.
     The PPP/Technology Protection Plan (TPP) identifies the foreign intelligence collections
     threats to a technology/program and prescribes necessary countermeasures to ensure the
     technology/program is adequately protected from compromise. Countermeasures can
     include the full spectrum of security disciplines (e.g., security classification, physical
     security, personnel security, OPSEC). A PPP checklist can be accessed by using the link
     to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.15.6. Risk Management Plan (RMP). Risk planning is the activity of developing and
     documenting an organized, comprehensive, and interactive strategy and methods for
     identifying and tracking root causes, developing risk mitigation plans, performing
     continuous risk assessments and control procedures to determine how risks and their root
     causes have changed, and assigning adequate resources. Risk management is a
     continuous process of identifying potentially undesirable program events, assessing their
     impact, and establishing and executing the appropriate risk mitigation actions. Risk
     management plans, any new program risks, and status reports must be monitored at set
     intervals to determine the need for revisions, program direction, additional resources, etc.
     The program office should establish the basic approach and working structure, to include
     intelligence support, it will use and document that approach in a RMP. An RMP
     checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.15.7. System Threat Assessment (STA)/System Threat Assessment Report (STAR).
     The STAR is an authoritative, system-specific threat capabilities reference for ACAT I
     programs and Space Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAP). The STAR is
     developed by NASIC and is either: (1) approved by DIA for ACAT ID programs and
     Space MDAP or (2) approved by the NASIC/CC for ACAT IC programs. The STAR is a
     system-specific assessment of foreign threats (both active and passive) that could
     compromise mission effectiveness of the capability being developed. It addresses the
     projected threat environment in which the U.S. system would operate at the system's
     projected initial operation capability (IOC) and IOC + 10 years. As a minimum, the
     STAR should include threat capabilities of those countries addressed in Multi-Service
     Force Deployment (MSFD) scenarios. The STAR is typically required by MS-A and is
     updated as necessary every 18 months throughout the development of the system. A
     STA is a system-specific threat capabilities reference for ACAT II and space major
     system programs. Similar to the STAR in format and content, the STA is developed by
     NASIC and approved by the NASIC/CC. The STA is typically required by MS-B and is
     updated as necessary every 18 months throughout the development of the system. ACAT
     III and space non-major system programs do not require a formal threat capabilities
     assessment. A STA/STAR checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM
     SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
 6.16. Technical/Program Reviews.
     6.16.1. Systems Requirement Review (SRR). The SRR is a multi-disciplined technical
     review to ensure the system under review can proceed into initial systems development,
     and that all system requirements and performance requirements derived from the ICD or
     draft CDD are defined and testable, and are consistent with cost, schedule, risk,
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                     37


     technology readiness, and other system constraints. Generally, this review assesses the
     system requirements as captured in the system specification and ensures that the system
     requirements are consistent with the approved materiel solution (including its support
     concept), as well as available technologies resulting from the prototyping effort. The
     SRR is normally held during the TMRR phase, but may be repeated after the start of
     Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD) phase to clarify the contractor's
     understanding of redefined or new user requirements. Of critical importance to this
     review is an understanding of the program technical risk inherent in the system
     specification and in the EMD phase. Determining an acceptable level of risk is essential
     to a successful review. The SRR is important in understanding the system performance,
     cost, and scheduling impacts that the defined requirements will have on the system. This
     is the last dedicated review of the system requirements, unless an additional SRR is held.
     The intelligence professional needs to be involved in this review to ensure intelligence
     supportability requirements are addressed. An SRR checklist can be accessed by using
     the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.16.2. System Functional Review (SFR). The SFR is a multi-disciplined technical
     review to ensure the system’s functional baseline is established and has a reasonable
     expectation of satisfying the requirements of the CDD within the currently allocated
     budget and schedule. It completes the process of defining the items or elements below
     system level. This review assesses the decomposition of the system specification to
     system functional specifications, ideally derived from use case analysis. A critical
     component of this review is the development of representative operational use cases for
     the system. System performance and the anticipated functional requirements for
     operations maintenance and sustainment are assigned to sub-systems, hardware, software,
     or support after detailed analysis of the architecture and the environment in which it will
     be employed. The SFR determines whether the system’s functional definition is fully
     decomposed to its lower level, and that IPTs are prepared to start preliminary design.
     The intelligence professional needs to be involved in this review to ensure intelligence
     supportability requirements are addressed. An SFR checklist can be accessed by using
     the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.16.3. Preliminary Design Review (PDR). The PDR is a technical assessment that
     establishes the physically allocated baseline to ensure the system under review has a
     reasonable expectation of being judged operationally effective and suitable. This review
     assesses the allocated design documented in subsystem product specifications for each
     configuration item in the system and ensures that each function, in the functional
     baseline, has been allocated to one or more system configuration items. The PDR
     establishes the allocated baseline (hardware, software, human/support systems) and
     underlying architectures to ensure that the system under review has a reasonable
     expectation of satisfying the requirements within the currently allocated budget and
     schedule. The intelligence professional needs to be involved in this review to ensure
     intelligence supportability requirements are addressed. A PDR checklist can be accessed
     by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.16.4. Technology Readiness Assessment (TRA). The TRA is a systematic, metrics-
     based process that assesses the maturity of critical technology elements (CTEs), including
     sustainment drivers. The TRA should be conducted concurrently with other technical
 38                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


      reviews, specifically the ASR, SRR, or the Production Readiness Review (PRR). The
      TRA is a tool for assessing program risk and the adequacy of technology maturation
      planning. The TRA highlights critical technologies (including critical manufacturing-
      related technologies) and other potential technology risk areas that require program
      manager attention. The intelligence professional needs to be involved in this assessment
      to ensure intelligence supportability requirements are addressed. A Technology
      Readiness Assessment checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM
      SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
      6.16.5. Acquisition Strategy Panel. Acquisition strategy planning is a “top-down”
      process focused on the PM and incorporates the guidance of a standing cadre of executive
      and senior advisors from functional disciplines early in the formulation of the acquisition
      strategy. Acquisition strategy planning starts once the purchase request is approved and
      the Air Force commits to the acquisition (i.e., commits resources), or if a program has
      undergone a major program change or redirection. Acquisition strategy planning should
      be tailored to complement the particular characteristics, such as size, complexity, risk, or
      importance of the acquisition. The objective of acquisition strategy planning is to ensure
      a consistent, sound, disciplined, functionally integrated acquisition strategy is developed
      and documented in the Single Acquisition Management Plan (SAMP) or Acquisition Plan
      (AP) to meet user’s needs within resource constraints.
   6.17. Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD) Phase. The purpose of the
   EMD phase is to develop a system or an increment of capability; complete full system
   integration (technology risk reduction occurs during TMRR); develop an affordable and
   executable manufacturing process; ensure operational supportability with particular attention
   to reducing the logistics footprint; implement human systems integration; design for
   producibility; ensure affordability; protect CPI by implementing appropriate techniques such
   as anti-tamper; and demonstrate system integration, interoperability, safety, and utility. The
   CDD, Acquisition Strategy, SEP, and TEMP shall guide this program. Entrance into this
   phase depends on technology maturity, approved requirement, and full funding. The
   completion of this phase is dependent on a decision by the MDA to commit to the program at
   MS-C. Otherwise, the MDA will decide to end this program. Figure 6.3 depicts where the
   EMD phase falls within the Defense Acquisition Management System.

Figure 6.3. EMD Phase.




   6.18. CPD. The CPD is the sponsor’s primary means of providing authoritative, testable
   capabilities for the Production and Deployment phase of an acquisition program. The CPD
   captures the information necessary to support production, testing, and deployment of an
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                    39


  affordable and supportable increment within an acquisition strategy. The CPD provides the
  operational performance attributes necessary for the acquisition community to produce a
  single increment of a specific system. It presents performance attributes, including KPPs, to
  guide the production and deployment of the current increment. A CPD is finalized after
  design readiness review and is validated and approved before the MS C acquisition decision.
  As a program or capability document progresses from Phase 1 to Phase 2 review, and more
  substantially as that program or capability progresses from CDD to CPD, sponsors will be
  responsible for ever increasing levels of refinement and analysis relating to intelligence
  supportability and deficiencies. A CPD checklist can be accessed by using the link to the
  ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
  6.19. Technical/Program Reviews.
     6.19.1. Critical Design Review (CDR). The CDR is a key point within the EMD phase.
     The CDR is a multi-disciplined technical review establishing the initial product baseline
     to ensure the system under review has a reasonable expectation of satisfying the
     requirements of the CDD within the currently allocated budget and schedule.
     Incremental CDRs are held for each configuration item culminating with a system-level
     CDR. This review assesses the final design as captured in product specifications for each
     Configuration Item in the system and ensures that each product specification has been
     captured in detailed design documentation. Configuration Items may consist of hardware
     and software elements, and include items such as airframe/hull, avionics, weapons, crew
     systems, engines, trainers & training, support equipment, etc. The intelligence
     professional needs to be involved in this review to ensure intelligence supportability
     requirements are addressed and/or identified at this level. A CDR checklist can be
     accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.19.2. Test Readiness Review (TRR). The TRR is a multi-disciplined technical review
     designed to ensure the subsystem or system under review is ready to proceed into formal
     test. The TRR assesses test objectives, test methods and procedures, scope of tests, and
     safety and confirms that required test resources have been properly identified and
     coordinated to support planned tests. The intelligence professional needs to be involved
     in this review to ensure intelligence supportability requirements are addressed. A TRR
     checklist can be accessed by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.19.3. System Verification Review (SVR). The SVR is a multi-disciplined product and
     process assessment to ensure the system under review can proceed into Low-Rate Initial
     Production (LRIP) and Full-Rate Production (FRP) within cost (program budget),
     schedule (program schedule), risk, and other system constraints. Generally this review is
     an audit trail from the SFR. It assesses the system functionality, and determines if it
     meets the functional requirements (derived from the CDD and draft CPD) documented in
     the functional baseline. The SVR establishes and verifies final product performance. It
     provides inputs to the CPD. The SVR is often conducted concurrently with the PRR. The
     intelligence professional needs to be involved in this review to ensure intelligence
     supportability requirements are addressed. An SVR checklist can be accessed by using
     the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
     6.19.4. TRA. The program manager should normally conduct a second TRA prior to
     MS-C. The intelligence professional needs to be involved in this assessment to ensure
 40                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


      intelligence supportability requirements are addressed. A TRA checklist can be accessed
      by using the link to the ADDM SharePoint site in Chapter 7.
   6.20. Production and Deployment (PD) Phase. The purpose of the PD phase is to achieve
   an operational capability that satisfies mission needs. Operational test and evaluation
   (OT&E) shall determine the effectiveness and suitability of the system. The MDA shall make
   the decision to commit the DoD to production at MS-C. MS-C authorizes entry into LRIP
   (for Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) and major systems), into production or
   procurement (for non-major systems that do not require LRIP) or into limited deployment in
   support of operational testing for Major Automated Information System (MAIS) programs or
   software-intensive systems with no production components. Entrance into this phase
   depends on the following criteria: acceptable performance in developmental test and
   evaluation and operational assessment (OSD OT&E oversight programs); mature software
   capability; no significant manufacturing risks; manufacturing processes under control (if MS-
   C is full-rate production); an approved ICD (if MS-C is program initiation); an approved
   CPD; a refined integrated architecture; acceptable interoperability; acceptable operational
   supportability; and demonstration that the system is affordable throughout the life cycle, fully
   funded, and properly phased for rapid acquisition. The CPD reflects the operational
   requirements, informed by EMD results, and details the performance expected of the
   production system. If MS-C approves LRIP, a subsequent review and decision shall
   authorize FRP. The completion of this phase depends on the following: a successful FRP
   decision review by the MDA; an approved CPD; and an approved Lifecycle Sustainment
   Plan (LCSP). Figure 6.4 below depicts where the PD phase falls within the Defense
   Acquisition Management System.

Figure 6.4. PD Phase.




   6.21. Operations and Support (OS) Phase. The purpose of the OS phase is to execute a
   support program that meets materiel readiness and operational support performance
   requirements, and sustains the system in the most cost-effective manner over its total life
   cycle. Planning for this phase shall begin prior to program initiation and shall be
   documented in the LCSP. The OS phase has two major efforts – Life Cycle Sustainment and
   Disposal. Entrance into the OS phase depends on meeting the following criteria: an
   approved CPD, an approved LCSP, and a successful FRP decision. Much of the work done
   within this phase is driven by AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal. This form defines new
   requirements for weapon systems in sustainment. AF Form 1067 will often be the only
   documentation analysts have. When that occurs, the form takes the place of JCIDS
   documents in driving DIR identification during this phase. At the end of its useful life, a
   system shall be demilitarized and disposed of in accordance with all legal and regulatory
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                   41


   requirements and policy relating to safety (including explosives safety), security, and the
   environment. Figure 6.5 below depicts where the OS phase falls within the Defense
   Acquisition Management System.

Figure 6.5. OS Phase.




   6.22. Acquisition Life Cycle Tasks. Table 6.1. illustrates tasks discussed throughout this
   document, and the associated phase in the acquisition life cycle in which it would be
   undertaken, if required.

Table 6.1. Acquisition Life Cycle Tasks.
                                             MSA      TMRR       EMD       PD       OS
   Document/Task Checklists                  Phase    Phase      Phase    Phase    Phase
   Intelligence Supportability Analysis
                                                X        X         X        X         X
   (ISA)
   Intelligence Sensitivity                     X        X         X        X         X
   Requirements Analysis Workbook
                                                X        X         X        X         X
   (RAW)
   Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA)          X
   Initial Capabilities Document (ICD)          X
   Capability Development Document
                                                         X
   (CDD)
   Capability Production Document (CPD)                            X
   Intelligence Working Groups (IWG)            X        X         X        X         X
   Analysis of Alternatives (AoA)               X        X         X        X
   AoA Final Report                             X        X         X        X
   Acquisition Strategy                         X
   Intelligence Health Assessment (IHA)         X        X         X        X         X
   Life Cycle Signature Support Plan
   (LSSP)/Life Cycle Mission Data Plan          X        X         X        X
   (LMDP)
   Test and Evaluation Strategy (TES)           X
   Systems Engineering Plan (SEP)               X        X         X        X         X
   Life Cycle Cost Estimate (LCCE)              X        X         X        X         X
   Life Cycle Management Plan (LCSP)            X        X         X        X         X
   Initial Technical Review (ITR)               X
 42                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


   Alternative Systems Review (ASR)               X
   Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP)                   X                   X
   Information Support Plan (ISP)                           X
   Program Protection Plan (PPP)                  X         X          X        X         X
   Risk Management Plan (RMP)                               X          X        X         X
   System Requirements Review (SRR)                         X
   System Functional Review (SFR)                           X
   Preliminary Design Review (PDR)                          X
   Technology Readiness Assessment
                                                            X          X
   (TRA)
   Critical Design Review (CDR)                                        X
   Test Readiness Review (TRR)                                         X
   System Verification Review (SVR)                                    X
   Quick Reaction Capability (QRC)                X
   Technology Transition Plan (TTP)               X
   System Threat Assessment Report
                                                            X          X        X
   (STAR)
7. Acquisition Document Development and Management (ADDM). In recent years,
numerous problems with reaching milestone decisions have been identified at the AF and OSD
level. Milestones have been delayed due to non-timely document preparation. Even when the
appropriate documents are completed and made available on time, their creation can consume a
large amount of time and resources, and the rationale behind document tailoring decisions are
not captured in a formal way. A key weakness in acquisition documentation has been
inconsistent quality and the lack of a strong linkage among documents. Without such linkage,
making cross-cutting changes to acquisition documents across an entire program require a
massive effort. These problems combine to make adequate overall insight into MS readiness
extremely difficult. The ADDM application was created in an attempt to mitigate these
problems.
   7.1. The ADDM application. The ADDM application was created to assist program offices
   and the organizations that support them prepare the documentation needed to successfully
   meet the next acquisition milestone (MS) review. The application resides on the ADDM
   SharePoint site. It provides program offices with a document roadmap that identifies
   documents required for each milestone based on ACAT category and supports Interim DoDI
   5000.02. In addition to standardizing the process that prepares users to meet the next
   milestone decision, it also provides authoritative references, guidance and instructions.
   7.2. ADDM Content. The ADDM SharePoint site is a repository for a wide variety of
   documentation, tools and templates to provide program managers and all who support their
   efforts with the guidance, instructions and references they need. In addition to a wide variety
   of resources to aid acquisition professionals, all of the checklists referenced in this document
   are hosted on this site.
   7.3. Accessing the ADDM SharePoint site. The ADDM SharePoint can be accessed by
   using      the     following   link:          https://cs3.eis.af.mil/sites/AF-AQ-00-
   04/default.aspx?RootFolder=%2Fsites%2FAF%2DAQ%2D00%2D04%2FAFKN%5F
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                 43


  Docs%2F2%2E%20ADDM%20Acquisition%20Document%20Templates%2FAcquisit
  ion%20References%2FAcquisition%20Intelligence&FolderCTID=0x0120003471C64B
  7C412E41BD717D53CCF0DA44&View=%7bB21F48FF-3BA6-427E-85BA-
  6F3B08A9B2CC%7d&InitialTabId=Ribbon%2EDocument&VisibilityContext=WSST
  abPersistence.




                                  ROBERT C. OTTO, Lt Gen, USAF
                                  Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence,
                                  Surveillance and Reconnaissance
 44                                                             AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-6, Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013
AFPD 14-1, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Planning, Resources, and
Operations, 2 April 2004
AFPD 65-5, Cost and Economics, 5 August 2008
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013
AFI 14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-Cycle, 18 May 2012
AFI 33-401, Air Force Architecting, 17 May 2011
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
AFI 63-114, Quick Reaction Capability Process, 4 January 2011
AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 February 1994
AFI 65-508, Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures, 6 June 2012
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 16 October 13
AFMAN 36-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 63-128, Guide to Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 15 October
2009
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012
CJCSI 3312.01B, Joint Military Intelligence Requirements Certification, 10 June 2010
CJCSM 3170.01C, Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1
May 2007
DoD 5000.4M, Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures, December 11, 1992
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003
DoDD 5250.01, Management of Intelligence Mission Data (IMD) in DoD Acquisition, January
22, 2013
Interim DoDI 5002.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, November 25, 2013
DoDI 5200.39, Critical Program Information (CPI) Protection Within the Department of
Defense, July 16, 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                45


ACC—Air Combat Command
ACTD—Advanced Concept Technology Demonstration
ACWG—Alternative Comparison Working Group
ADDM—Acquisition Document Development & Management
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFISRA—Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRB—Air Force Review Board
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFROC—Air Force Requirements Oversight Council
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AILCES—Acquisition Intelligence Life Cycle Estimating Structure
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
APOM—Amended Program Objective Memorandum
ASR—Alternative Systems Review
ASP—Acquisition Strategy Panel
BBP—Bullet Background Paper
CARD—Cost Analysis Requirements Description
CAWG—Cost Analysis Working Group
CBA—Capabilities-Based Assessment
CC—Commander
CCMD—Combatant Command
CDD—Capability Development Document
CDR—Critical Design Review
CFL—Core Function Lead
CFMP—Core Function Master Plan
CI—Counterintelligence
 46                                                          AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


CIO—Center Intelligence Office
CIP—Critical Intelligence Parameter
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
COLISEUM—Community On-line Intelligence System for End Users
COA—Course of Action
COMINT—Communications Intelligence
CONOP—Concept of Operations
CP&A—Capabilities, Planning and Analysis
CPA—Cross Program Analysis
CPD—Capability Production Document
CPI—Critical Program Information
CRD—Capstone Requirements Document
CRRA—Capability Review and Risk Assessment
CTA—Capstone Threat Assessment
CTE—Critical Technology Elements
DAB—Defense Acquisition Board
DAG—Defense Acquisition Guidebook
DCR—DOTMLPF Change Request
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DIAI—Defense Intelligence Agency Instruction
DIAP—Defense Intelligence Agency Program
DIR—Derived Intelligence Requirement
DNI—Director of National Intelligence
DoD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOT&E—Director, Operational Test and Evaluation
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership, Personnel, Facilities
DPG—Defense Planning Guidance
DP—Development Planning
DPS—Defense Planning Scenario
DT&E—Developmental Test and Evaluation
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                47


EAWG—Effectiveness Analysis Working Group
ECWG—Employment Concepts Working Group
ELINT—Electronic Intelligence
EMD—Engineering and Manufacturing Development
FAA—Functional Area Analysis
FFRDC—Federally Funded Research and Development Center
FISINT—Foreign Instrumentation Signals Intelligence
FM—Financial Management
FNA—Functional Needs Analysis
FOC—Full Operating Capability
FoS—Family of Systems
FRP—Full-Rate Production
FSA—Functional Solutions Analysis
GDIP—General Defense Intelligence Program
GEOINT—Geospatial Intelligence
GI&S—Geospatial Information and Services
GIISR—Global Integrated Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
GMI—General Military Intelligence
GMTI—Ground Moving Target Indicator
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HPT—High Performance Team
HSI—Human Systems Integration
HUMINT—Human Intelligence
IC—Intelligence Community
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
ICWG—Intelligence Cost Working Group
IHA—Intelligence Health Assessment
IIA—Independent Intelligence Assessment
IMINT—Imagery Intelligence
IOC—Initial Operating Capability
IOT&E—Initial Operational Test and Evaluation
IPS—Illustrative Planning Scenarios
 48                                                           AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


IPT—Integrated Product Team
IS—Intelligence Squadron
ISA—Intelligence Supportability Analysis
ISD—Integrated System Design
ISG—Intelligence Steering Group
ISP—Information Support Plan
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
ISR CART—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities and Requirements
Tool
ISR CP&A—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities Planning and Analysis
ISS—Intelligence Sensitivity Survey
IST—Intelligence Sensitivity Tier
ISWG—Intelligence Support Working Group
IT—Information Technology
ITR—Initial Technical Review
ITT—Integrated Test Team
ISWG—Intelligence Support Working Group
JCA—Joint Capability Area
JCB—Joint Capabilities Board
JCD—Joint Capabilities Document
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JCTD—Joint Capability Technology Demonstration
JIOC—Joint Intelligence and Operations Center
JP—Joint Publication
JPD—Joint Potential Designator
JOpsC—Joint Operations Concept
JROC—Joint Requirements Oversight Council
JUON—Joint Urgent Operational Need
JWICS—Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System
KPP—Key Performance Parameter
LCC—Life Cycle Cost
LCCE—Life Cycle Cost Estimate
LCSP—Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                           49


LMDP—Life Cycle Mission Data Plan
LRIP—Low-Rate Initial Production
LSSP—Life Cycle Signature Support Plan
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAICD—Mission Area Initial Capabilities Document
MAIS—Major Automated Information System
MASINT—Measurement and Signature Intelligence
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MDAP—Major Defense Acquisition Program
MDD—Materiel Development Decision
Mfg.—Manufacturing
MFR—Memorandum For Record
MIP—Military Intelligence Program
MOE—Measure of Effectiveness
MOP—Measure of Performance
MS—Milestone
MS—A—Milestone A
MS—B—Milestone B
MS—C—Milestone C
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
MSA—Materiel Solutions Analysis
MSFD—Multi-Service Force Deployment
NASIC—National Air and Space Intelligence Center
NCTI—Non-Cooperative Target Identification
NGA—National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
NIP—National Intelligence Program
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
NSA—National Security Agency
NSG—National System for Geospatial Intelligence
NSS—National Security Systems
OAS—Office of Aerospace Studies
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
 50                                                           AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OS—Operations and Support
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OSINT—Open Source Intelligence
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
P3I—Pre-Planned Product Improvement
PBD—Program Budget Decision
PCPAD—Planning & Direction, Collection, Processing & Exploitation, Analysis & Production,
and Dissemination
P&D—Production and Deployment
PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PFP—Planning Force Proposal
PM—Program Manager
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PoPS—Probability of Program Success
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
PPP—Program Protection Plan
PR—Production Requirement
PRR—Production Readiness Review
PSC—Preferred Systems Concept
PSR—Program Support Review
QRC—Quick Reaction Capability
RAW—Requirements Analysis Workbook
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
RFI—Request For Information
RMP—Risk Management Plan
ROE—Rules of Engagement
ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude
RTP—Research and Technology Protection
S&TI—Scientific and Technical Intelligence
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                               51


SAF/US—Under Secretary of the Air Force
SAMP—Single Acquisition Management Plan
SAP—Special Access Program
SAR—Special Access Required
SAR—Synthetic Aperature Radar
SE—Systems Engineering
SEP—Systems Engineering Plan
SFR—System Functional Review
SIGINT—Signals Intelligence
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SOIC—Senior Official of the Intelligence Community
SoS—System of Systems
SRR—Systems Requirements Review
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
S&T—Science and Technology
SSWG—System Security Working Group
STA—System Threat Assessment
STAR—System Threat Assessment Report
STINFO—Scientific and Technical Information
STT—Strategy-to-Task
SVR—System Verification Review
SWarF—Senior Warfighter’s Forum
TAWG—Technology and Alternatives Working Group
TD—Technology Development
acquisition strategy—Technology Development Strategy
T&E—Test and Evaluation
TEM—Technical Exchange Meeting
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
TES—Test and Evaluation Strategy
TPP—Technology Protection Plan
TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedure
 52                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


TRA—Technology Readiness Assessment
TSG—Threat Steering Group
TSWG—Threats and Scenarios Working Group
TTE—Threat / Target / Environment
TWG—Threat Working Group
USAF—United States Air Force
USD(AT&L)—Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
USD(P)—Under Secretary of Defense for Policy
WBS—Work Breakdown Structure
WG—Working Group
WIPT—Working-level Integrated Product Team

Terms
Acquisition Document Development & Management (ADDM) SharePoint Site—The
ADDM SharePoint Site was created as an initiative of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air
Force (Acquisition Integration) (SAF/AQ). The site serves as a repository for resources to assist
acquisition professionals perform their missions. Among these resources is the ADDM
application that aids program offices and the organizations that support them in the preparation
of the documentation needed to successfully meet the next acquisition milestone (MS) review. It
provides program offices with a document roadmap that identifies documents required for each
milestone based on ACAT category and supports Interim DoDI 5000.02. In addition to
standardizing the process that prepares users to meet the next milestone decision, it also provides
authoritative references, guidance and instructions.
Acquisition Intelligence Life Cycle Cost Estimating Structure (AILCES)—The AILCES was
developed by the Intelligence Cost Working Group as a tool to systematically identify
intelligence cost requirements associated with the acquisition of weapons systems throughout the
life cycle of a program (to include capabilities development, research & development, testing,
fielding, operations and support). It can be referred to as a work breakdown structure for
intelligence activities that would be required to support a program/project/initiative. Proper
application of AILCES early in the life cycle of an acquisition program will help avoid program
delays and additional costs caused by failure to consider all intelligence requirements required to
support testing, fielding and sustaining the weapon system.
Advanced Concept Technology Demonstration—A demonstration of the military utility of a
significant new technology and an assessment to clearly establish operational utility and system
integrity.
Alternative Comparison Working Group (ACWG)—The ACWG is responsible for reviewing
the alternatives’ cost, effectiveness, and associated risks and interpreting what it means through
comparative analysis. The goal of this process is to identify the most promising candidates for
consideration by decision makers. This function might be completed by the WIPT without
formally establishing an ACWG.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                        53


Alternative Systems Review—A multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that requirements
agree with the customer’s needs and expectations and that the system under review can proceed
into the Technology Development phase. The ASR should be complete prior to MS-A.
(Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
Analysis of Alternatives—The evaluation of the performance, operational effectiveness,
operational suitability, and estimated costs of alternative systems to meet a mission capability.
The analysis assesses the advantages and disadvantages of alternatives being considered to
satisfy capabilities, including the sensitivity of each alternative to possible changes in key
assumptions or variables. The AoA is normally conducted during the Concept Refinement phase
of the Defense Acquisition Framework to refine the system concept contained in the Initial
Capabilities Document (ICD) approved at the Concept Decision. (DoDI 5000.02 and CJCSI
3170.01H)
Analytical Baseline—A package comprising a scenario, concept of operations, and integrated
data used by the DOD components as a foundation for strategic analyses. Examples of analytical
baselines include scenarios and supporting data used for computer-assisted war games and
theater campaign simulations.
Asymmetric Threat—Non-traditional approach (e.g., technical, doctrinal, operational) that an
adversary might take, in a given warfare area, in response to actual or perceived US
strengths/capabilities; also, a threat seeking to degrade US capabilities without directly
confronting the area of US strength with a like capability.
Authoritative—An intelligence product that has been published/posted under the auspices of the
Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP). It has been produced by the intelligence
element recognized in the DIAP as the authority for that kind of information, vetted and
adjudicated within that element, and is based on reliable and trusted analysis tools and processes.
Capability—The combined capacity of personnel, materiel, equipment, and information in
measured quantities, under specified conditions, that, acting together in a prescribed set of
activities can be used to achieve a desired output.
Capabilities-Based Assessment—The Joint Capability Integration and Development System
analysis process. It answers several key questions for the validation authority prior to his
approval: defines the mission; identifies capabilities required; determines attributes/standards of
capabilities required; identifies gaps; assesses operational risk associated with gaps; prioritizes
gaps; identifies and assesses non-materiel solutions; and provides recommendations for
addressing the gaps. (CJCSI 3170.01H)
Capability Development Document—A document that captures the information necessary to
develop a proposed program(s), normally using an evolutionary acquisition strategy. The CDD
outlines an affordable increment of militarily useful, logistically supportable, and technically
mature capability. The CDD supports a MS-B decision review. The CDD format is contained in
CJCSM 3170.01C, Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
(DoD 5000.02 and CJCSI 3170.01H)
Capability Production Document—A document that addresses the production elements
specific to a single increment of an acquisition program. The CPD defines an increment of
militarily useful, logistically supportable, and technically mature capability that is ready for a
production decision. The CPD must be validated and approved prior to a MS-C decision review.
 54                                                                 AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


The CPD format is in the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)
Manual, available online. (DoD 5000.02 and CJCSI 3170.01H)
Capability Review and Risk Assessment—The CRRA process provides oversight to USAF
senior leadership with an operational, capabilities-based focus for acquisition program decision
making. The CRRA accomplishes this by evaluating the health of existing and future
capabilities, and assesses risk in terms of achieving effects. By highlighting priorities and
disconnects in relation to how our programs deliver capabilities, the CRRA provides suggested
courses of action to deliver capabilities on schedule. (ISA Handbook)
Capstone Threat Assessment—CTA is the Department of Defense Intelligence Community’s
official assessment of the principal threat systems and capabilities within a category of warfare
that a potential adversary might reasonably bring to bear in an attempt to defeat or degrade US
weapon systems undergoing development. It is the authoritative reference describing the threat
environment in which the US systems will operate. (AFI 14-111)
Center Intelligence Office (CIO)—The intelligence support office at an Air Force Center,
Laboratory site, or other defined area of responsibility, which provides acquisition intelligence
support to a program/capability/initiative. It is the focal point at each product or logistics center
specifically dedicated to supporting research, development, test, evaluation and sustainment
activities with analytical services and intelligence products and information Multiple CIOs (as
OPR/OCRs) can be assigned to support a program/capability/initiative, if needed.
Communications Intelligence (COMINT)—COMINT is technical information and intelligence
derived from foreign communications by other than the intended recipients. It is a sub-category
of SIGINT, with focus on person-to-person and machine-to-machine messages or voice
information, derived from the interception of foreign communications.
Community On-line Intelligence System for End Users and Managers (COLISEUM)—A
DIA automated production/requirements management system designed to support the
Intelligence Community for registration, validation, tracking and management of
DOD/Joint/Service Production Requirements (PRs), otherwise known as Requests for
Information (RFIs). Access is available through the TS//SCI-level Joint Worldwide Intelligence
Communication System (JWICS) network.
Concept of Operations—A verbal or graphic statement, in broad outline, of a commander s
assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations. It is designed to give an
overall picture of the operation. It is also called the Commander s Concept. (CJCSI 3170.01H)
Core Function Master Plan—Align strategy, concepts, and capability development by core
function to provide 20-year constructs for enhancing Global Vigilance, Global Reach, and
Global Power across the full range of military operations. Link the AF’s Strategic Guidance &
Plan to the Annual Planning and Programming Guidance by establishing a baseline of the
operational and resourcing health of each core function.
Cost Analysis Requirements Description—A description of the salient features of the
acquisition program and of the system itself. It is the common description of the technical and
programmatic features of the program that is used by the teams preparing the Program Office
Estimate (POE), Component Cost Estimate (CCE), and independent Life Cycle Cost Estimates
(LCCEs).
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                       55


Cost Analysis Working Group—The CAWG is responsible for estimating the cost of the
alternative systems provided by the Technology and Alternatives Working Group (TAWG). The
members will be responsible for developing a concise list of Ground Rules and Assumptions
(GR&A), a comparable Work Breakdown Structure (WBS), Life Cycle Cost Estimates (LCCEs)
for the alternatives, and Rough Order Magnitude (ROM) cost estimates, as appropriate.
Additionally, the CAWG may be responsible for conducting a budget analysis for the
recommended alternatives. The CAWG shall assist all WGs in the use of the cost data. (Study
Plan)
Counterintelligence (CI)—Information gathered and activities conducted to identify, deceive,
exploit, disrupt, or protect against espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or
assassinations conducted for or on behalf of foreign powers, organizations or persons, or their
agents, or international terrorist organizations or activities. CI is part of the Intelligence
Community’s organization and function, but is usually “compartmented” from the IC’s foreign
intelligence offices/functions in order to protect personal and law enforcement sensitive
information IAW federal, DoD and Service intelligence oversight guidance.
Critical Design Review—A multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that a system can
proceed into fabrication, demonstration, and test and can meet stated performance requirements
within cost, schedule, risk, and other system constraints. Generally this review assesses the
system final design as captured in product specifications for each configuration item in the
system's product baseline, and ensures that each configuration item in the product baseline has
been captured in the detailed design documentation. Normally conducted during the Engineering
and Manufacturing Development (EMD) phase. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook and DODI
5000.02)
Critical Intelligence Parameter (CIP)—A factor which clearly defines the threshold at which
the performance of a foreign system/capability will likely compromise the program / mission
effectiveness of the US system. If a CIP is breached (i.e., a foreign system has met the CIP
threshold): (1) Materiel and/or non-materiel (DOTMLPF) changes must be considered, (2)
Program will likely require additional time and funds to adjust (“re-baseline”), (3)
Spiral/increment thresholds, objectives, KPPs, KSAs, etc. may require adjustment.
Critical Program Information—Elements or components of a program that, if compromised,
could cause significant degradation in mission effectiveness; shorten the expected combat-
effective life of the system; reduce technological advantage; significantly alter program
direction; or enable an adversary to defeat, counter, copy, or reverse engineer the technology or
capability. Includes information about technology, applications, capabilities, processes, and end-
items. (DODI 5200.39)
Critical Technology Elements—New or novel technology that a platform or system depends on
to achieve successful development or production or to successfully meet a system operational
threshold requirement. (Technology Readiness Assessment Deskbook)
Cross Program Analysis—CPA involves an analytical effort designed to “look across” all
intelligence-sensitive programs/initiatives and the related intelligence deficiencies. The purpose
of CPA is to identify common requirements and achieve synergies within resulting common
solutions. Synergies between programs/initiatives and cost savings are realized when solutions
are identified that support multiple programs/systems. An additional aspect of CPA is to identify
system or program integration issues. In addition, linkage of documented requirements with
 56                                                                 AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


multiple customer sets serves to strengthen AF requirements forwarded to the larger Intelligence
Community for action. (AFI 14-111)
Defense Acquisition Guidebook—Provides staff expectation, notional document formats (e.g.,
the Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP), best practices, and lessons learned.
Defense Intelligence Analysis Program (DIAP)—DIA centrally manages defense intelligence
analysis and production using a distributed analytical process known as the DIAP. This program
integrates general military intelligence and scientific and technical intelligence production
conducted at DIA, Combatant Commands, and Service intelligence centers. The DIAP allows
DIA to focus all-source defense intelligence analysis efforts on compelling issues for defense
customers while limiting duplication of effort.
Defense Planning Guidance—This document, issued by the Secretary of Defense, provides
firm guidance in the form of goals, priorities, and objectives, including fiscal constraints, for the
development of the Program Objective Memorandums by the Military Departments and Defense
agencies. (JP 1-02)
Defense Planning Scenarios—The Defense Planning Scenarios (DPS) include problem
descriptions, assumptions and variations of key parameters developed by OSD, threat
descriptions developed by the intelligence community, and outlines of concepts of operations for
U.S. forces developed by a Joint Staff-led team of Service and other subject-matter experts.
DOD uses the scenarios, along with their associated databases to study the sufficiency of defense
plans and programs.
Deficiency—A Derived Intelligence Requirement (DIR) that cannot be supported due to a
current lack of capability, capacity, or resources
Derived Intelligence Requirement (DIR):—see Requirement
Development Planning (DP)—The materiel contribution to Air Force or Air Force led
capability planning and as such must span the entire product/system life cycle from pre-concept
to disposal. It is a collaborative process bridging warfighter-identified capability needs to
planning for acquisition of materiel solutions. DP supports the tradespace evaluation of
emerging capability needs, includes system-of-systems assessments, identifies and assesses
technology maturity and risk drivers, and incorporates comprehensive life cycle planning
contributing to a high-confidence acquisition program launch. DP brings its greatest leverage
prior to the Materiel Development Decision (MDD). It includes analytically-based decision-
quality assessments, studies, strategies, and options in pursuit of new capabilities. Key aspects
of DP include analytic support for identification of needs and development of requirements for
potential materiel solutions; initiation of high-confidence acquisition programs via early systems
engineering; early test and evaluation strategy development; technology and manufacturing
maturity; assessments of life cycle analyses, life cycle cost estimates, and early acquisition
intelligence engagement.
Developmental Test and Evaluation—Any testing used to assist in the development and
maturation of products, product elements, or manufacturing or support processes. Any
engineering-type test used to verify status of technical progress, verify that design risks are
minimized, substantiate achievement of contract technical performance, and certify readiness for
initial Operational Testing (OT). Development tests generally require instrumentation and
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                         57


measurements and are accomplished by engineers, technicians, or soldier operator-maintainer
test personnel in a controlled environment to facilitate failure analysis.
Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education, Personnel, Facilities
(DOTMLPF)—An acronym that addresses elements of non-material solutions. DOTMLPF
analysis identifies changes in doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education,
personnel, facilities or policy (including all human systems integration domains) to satisfy
identified functional capabilities. The materiel portion is restricted to commercial or non-
developmental items that may be purchased commercially, or by purchasing more systems from
an existing materiel program. (CJCSI 3170.01H)
DOD 5000 Series—Refers collectively to DODD 5000.01 and DODI 5000.02.
Effectiveness Analysis Working Group—The EAWG is responsible for assessing the
effectiveness of each alternative approach based on Mission Tasks (MTs), Measures of
Effectiveness (MOEs) and Measures of Performance (MOPs). The MOE/MOPs will be
formulated and analysis will be conducted within the context of the defense planning scenarios
selected by the Threats and Scenarios Working Group (TSWG). The EAWG will collaborate
with the other WGs in the use of the effectiveness data to perform the cost-effectiveness analysis
of the alternatives.
Electronic Intelligence (ELINT)—ELINT is technical intelligence derived from foreign non-
communications electromagnetic radiations emanating from other than nuclear detonations or
radioactive sources. It is a sub-category of SIGINT, with focus on non-communications signals.
Employment Concepts Working Group (ECWG)—The ECWG is responsible for review of
current requirement and operational documents to support development and validation of
operational and employment documents for the AoA. The ECWG will develop employment
concepts and a Doctrine, Operations, Training, materiel, Logistics, Personnel and Facilities
(DOTMLPF) analysis summary for the baseline and alternatives to support the other WGs as
required. An alternative name for this group is the Operating Concept WG (OCWG).
Engineering and Manufacturing Development—The third phase of the life cycle as defined
and established by DoDI 5000.02. This phase consists of two efforts, Integrated System Design
(ISD) and System Capability and Manufacturing Process Demonstration, and begins after MS-B.
It also contains a Post Critical Design Review (CDR) Assessment at the conclusion of the ISD
effort. A program planning to proceed into SC&MPD at the conclusion of ISD will first undergo
a Post-CDR Assessment to confirm design maturity and the initial product baseline.
Family of Systems—A set of systems that provides similar capabilities through different
approaches to achieve similar or complementary effects. For example, the war-fighter may need
the capability to track moving targets. The FoS that provides this capability could include
unmanned or manned aerial vehicles with appropriate sensors, a space-based platform, or a
special operations capability. Each can provide the ability to track moving targets, but with
differing characteristics of persistence, accuracy, timeliness, etc. (JCIDS Manual)
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDC)—A Federally Funded
Research and Development Center (FFRDC) is an activity sponsored under a broad charter by a
Government agency (or agencies) for the purpose of performing, analyzing, integrating,
supporting, and/or managing basic or applied research and/or development, and that receives 70
percent or more of its financial support from the Government.
 58                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


Flagship Capability Concepts (FCCs)—To achieve the AF Science and Technology vision of
anticipate, find, fix, track, target, engage, assess, anything, anywhere, and anytime, the AF
Material Command and the AF Research Laboratory (AFRL) developed the Flagship Capability
Concepts (FCCs) constructs that employ a capability-based planning process to define the
investment in future technologies. The FCCs address technology investment in the near, mid and
far terms across the air, space and cyber domains.
Foreign Instrumentation Signals Intelligence (FISINT)—It is a sub-category of SIGINT, with
focus on intelligence from the intercept of foreign electromagnetic emissions associated with the
testing and operational deployment of non-US aerospace, surface, and subsurface systems.
Foreign Intelligence—Often referred to simply as “intelligence,” foreign intelligence is the
information relating to the capabilities, intentions, or activities of foreign governments or
elements thereof, foreign organizations, or foreign persons, or international terrorist activities.
Functional Area Analysis—The FAA identifies the operational tasks, conditions and standards
needed to achieve military objectives. It uses the national strategies, the Family of Joint Future
Concepts, UCP-assigned missions, CONOPS, joint tasks, the capabilities list (e.g., Universal
Joint Task List), the anticipated range of broad capabilities that an adversary might employ and
other sources as input. The FAA identifies the scenarios against which the capabilities and
attributes will be assessed. Scenario sources include, but are not limited to, the Defense Planning
Scenarios (DPS) published by the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD). The FAA produces
a prioritized list of capabilities and tasks across all functional areas necessary to achieve the
military objectives. The capabilities and their attributes should be traceable to the Family of
Joint Future Concepts and any other supporting information used to develop the capabilities.
These capabilities form the basis for integrated architectures and will be reviewed in the follow-
on Functional Needs Analysis (FNA). (OAS FSA Guidebook)
Functional Needs Analysis—The FNA assesses the ability of the current and programmed
warfighting systems to deliver the capabilities the FAA identified under the full range of
operating conditions and to the designated measures of effectiveness. Using the capabilities and
tasks identified in the FAA as primary input, the FNA produces a list of capability gaps that
require solutions and indicates the time frame in which those solutions are needed. It may also
identify redundancies in capabilities that reflect inefficiencies. The FNA will also provide the
relative priority of the gaps identified. The FNA serves to further define and refine the
integrated architectures. The FNA must assess the entire range of DOTMLPF and policy as an
inherent part of defining capability needs. (OAS FSA Guidebook)
Functional Solutions Analysis—The FSA is an operationally based assessment of potential
doctrine, organization, training, leadership & education, personnel and facilities (DOTLPF) or
materiel (M) approaches to solving (or mitigating) one or more of the capability gaps identified
in the Functional Needs Analysis (FNA). (OAS FSA Guidebook)
Full Operating Capability—In general, attained when all units and/or organizations in the force
structure scheduled to receive a system 1) have received it and 2) have the ability to employ and
maintain it. The specifics for any particular system FOC are defined in that systems Capability
Development Document and Capability Production Document.
Full-Rate Production—Contracting for economic production quantities following stabilization
of the system design and validation of the production process.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                      59


General Defense Intelligence Program (GDIP)—The broadest based National Intelligence
Program in the Defense Department. GDIP’s primary mission is to provide timely, usable all-
source military intelligence that supports the peacetime and wartime requirements of the
warfighters, defense acquisition community, and the national policy makers. GDIP comprises
funding for DIA, the Service intelligence centers, the unified combatant commands, the Defense
Joint Intelligence Operations Center (D-JIOC), the unified combatant command JIOCs, JIOC US
Forces Korea (USFK), JIOC Iraq, and Reserve Intelligence Production Activities. DIA is the
program manager for the GDIP.
Geospatial Information and Services (GI&S)—The collection, information extraction, storage,
dissemination, and exploitation of geodetic, geomagnetic, imagery (both commercial and
national source), gravimetric, aeronautical, topographic, hydrographic, littoral, cultural, and
toponymic (place names) data accurately referenced to a precise location on the Earth’s surface.
Geospatial services include tools that enable users to access and manipulate data, and also
include instruction, training, laboratory support, and guidance for the use of geospatial data.
Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT)—The exploitation and analysis of imagery and geospatial
information to describe, assess, and visually depict physical features and geographically
referenced activities on the earth. Geospatial intelligence consists of imagery, imagery
intelligence, and geospatial information. GEOINT is used in military planning, training, and
operations, including navigation, mission rehearsal, modeling, simulation, and precise targeting.
High Performance Team (HPT)—A HPT convenes to capture, articulate, and document the
operator’s requirements in minimum time, while achieving stakeholder buy-in. Ideally, the HPT
will consist of 7-11 core participants, which includes a lead (the sponsor, during a requirements
development HPT), a facilitator, Air Force Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) (i.e., operators,
systems engineers, acquirers, testers, logisticians, intelligence support managers, etc.),
government agencies and other Services (as required), and support team members (not physically
present but available via phone or e-mail for reach back).
Human Intelligence (HUMINT)—Intelligence gathering by means of interpersonal contact;
information collected/provided by human sources.
Human Systems Integration—Includes the integrated and comprehensive analysis, design,
assessment of requirements, concepts and resources for system manpower, personnel, training,
safety and occupational health, habitability, personnel survivability, and human factors
engineering. (DoDI 5000.02 and JCIDS Manual) See Human Factors Engineering.
Imagery Intelligence: Intelligence derived from the exploitation of collection by visual
photography, infrared sensors, lasers, electro—optics, and radar sensors such as synthetic
aperture radar wherein images of objects are reproduced optically or electronically on film,
electronic display devices, or other media. (Google)
Implementing Command—The command or agency designated by the Air Force Acquisition
Executive to manage an acquisition program. The intelligence support to the manager of an
acquisition program usually resides with the Product Center/Logistics Center/Lab Research Site
Directorate of Intelligence.
Independent Intelligence Assessment:—IIA is an independent IHA at the MAJCOM level.
 60                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


Information Support Plan—A requirement for all Acquisition Category (ACAT) programs that
connect in any way to the communications and information infrastructure including both
Information Technology (IT) and National Security System (NSS) programs. The Information
Support Plan (ISP) is used by program authorities to document B-80 IT and NSS needs,
objectives, and interface requirements in sufficient detail to enable testing and verification of
requirements. The ISP also contains interface descriptions, infrastructure and support
requirements, standards profiles, measures of performance, and interoperability deficiencies.
The ISP is summarized in the Acquisition Strategy and reviewed at Milestones B and C. (DoDI
5000.02 and CJCSI 6212.01E) See Enhanced Information Support Plan (EISP) and Tailored
Information Support Plan (TISP).
Information Technology—Any equipment or interconnected system or subsystem of
equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or
information by the executive agency. IT includes computers, ancillary equipment, software,
firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and related resources,
including National Security Systems (NSSs). It does not include any equipment that is acquired
by a federal contractor incidental to a federal contract. (CJCSI 6212.01C)
Initial Capabilities Document—Summarizes a Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA) and
recommends materiel or non-material approaches or a combination of materiel and non-materiel
approaches, to satisfy specific capability gaps. It identifies required capabilities and defines
capability gap(s) in terms of the joint capability area, the relevant range of military operations,
desired effects, time and doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education,
personnel, and facilities (DOTMLPF) and policy implications and constraints. The ICD
summarizes the results of DOTMLPF and policy analysis and the DOTMLPF approaches that
may deliver the required capability. The outcome of an ICD could be one or more Joint
DOTMLPF Change Recommendations (DCRs) or recommendations to pursue materiel
solutions. (CJCSI3170.01H and JCIDS Manual)
Integrated Priority List (IPL)—Combatant Commanders’ prioritized key capability “gaps” that
could hinder their performance of assigned missions. IPLs are submitted annually to the
Secretary of Defense.
Initial Operating Capability—In general, attained when some units and/or organizations in the
force structure scheduled to receive a system 1) have received it and 2) have the ability to
employ and maintain it. The specifics for any particular system IOC are defined in that system s
Capability Development Document (CDD) and Capability Production Document (CPD).
Initial Technical Review—A multi-disciplined technical review held early during the Materiel
Solution Analysis (MSA) phase to support a program's initial Program Objectives Memorandum
(POM) submission. The review ensures that a program's technical baseline is sufficiently
rigorous to support a valid cost estimate (with acceptable cost risk), and enable an independent
assessment of that estimate by cost, technical, and program management subject matter experts.
(Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
Integrated Product Team—Team composed of representatives from appropriate functional
disciplines working together to build successful programs, identify and resolve issues, and make
sound and timely recommendations to facilitate decision making. There are three types of IPTs:
Overarching IPTs (OIPTs) that focus on strategic guidance, program assessment, and issue
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                            61


resolution; Working-level IPTs (WIPTs) that identify and resolve program issues, determine
program status, and seek opportunities for acquisition reform; and Program-level IPTs (PIPTs)
that focus on program execution and may include representatives from both government and
after contract award industry.
Integrated Test Team—The central vehicle for conducting all Test and Evaluation (T&E)
activities. ITT represents a shift from the traditional testing paradigm which views
development/integration testing and operational testing as two discrete events. The ITT views
testing as a continuum of events and provides the mechanism to coordinate the efforts.
Intelligence Certification—The affirmation that requirements for intelligence support have
been completely and adequately declared and identified; adequately assessed for projected
supportability; that critical intelligence supportability or threat-related issues identified during
coordination of program documents have been addressed; and that any projected shortcomings in
intelligence support will be dealt with in an appropriate manner. This certification occurs as a
prerequisite for the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System and defense
acquisition processes, and occurs at each acquisition milestone.
Intelligence Community (IC)—The federation of executive branch agencies and organizations
that conduct foreign and/or counter-intelligence activities necessary for conduct of foreign
relations and protection of national security. IC members include the Service intelligence
organizations (NGIC, ONI, NASIC, MCIA, and Service intelligence staff/support units), NSA,
CIA, FBI, DIA (including MSIC and AFMIC), NRO, and NGA, as well as the intelligence
components of the US Coast Guard, Department of Energy, Department of Homeland Security,
Department of State, Department of Commerce, and Department of Treasury.
Intelligence Cost Working Group (ICWG)—The ICWG is a cross-Air Force organization
chartered to help estimate and integrate intelligence data and infrastructure costs into the total
Life Cycle Cost (LCC) of programs/concepts being acquired by the United States Air Force
(USAF). The ICWG is chaired by the 21 IS’s Plans and Resources Flight (21 IS/A2X), which
reports to the AF Life Cycle Management Center/IN. Much of the intelligence data and
infrastructure required by programs/capabilities/initiatives can be provided at no direct cost to
the user; but in those cases where an intelligence requirement/deficiency needs additional
funding for resolution, the ICWG helps the Acquisition Intelligence partners to identify, scope
and integrate those costs into the appropriate budgets and budget cycles.
Intelligence Estimate—An appraisal of available intelligence relating to a specific situation or
condition, with a view to determining the courses of action open to an enemy or potential enemy
and the probable order of adoption of such courses of action.
Intelligence Health Assessment—IHAs use a checklist to scrutinize programs/projects/
initiatives, systems, and capabilities deemed to be intelligence-sensitive (i.e., that are either users
or producers of intelligence) to identify any potential risks, which left uncorrected might result in
program delays, cost over-runs or degraded system capability. During the ISA process, the
analyst should be working with and providing risk assessments to the program office. The IHA
can be provided to the program manager in the form of a briefing or MFR. The IHA should be
incorporated into the program’s overall risk assessment and address cost, schedule, and
performance.
 62                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


Intelligence Infrastructure—The totality of intelligence support needed to ensure effective
operation of a system once operational. This includes intelligence people, products, processes,
systems, training, and/ or facilities.
Intelligence Oversight—The process of ensuring that all DOD intelligence, counterintelligence,
and intelligence-related activities are conducted in accordance with applicable U.S. law,
Presidential Executive Orders, and DOD directives. The DOD Intelligence Oversight program is
designed to ensure that the DOD can conduct its (foreign) intelligence and counterintelligence
missions while protecting the statutory and constitutional rights of U.S. persons. Note: The
term "U.S. persons" includes U.S. citizens, permanent resident aliens, unincorporated
associations substantially composed of U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens, and
corporations incorporated in the U.S. and not directed and controlled by a foreign government.
Intelligence-Sensitive—Efforts that require intelligence data during development or to perform
their mission, require the direct support of intelligence personnel or infrastructure, or in any way
handle intelligence data within the PCPAD cycle. This includes any program or initiative that
produces, consumes, processes, or handles intelligence information or requires threat or
intelligence infrastructure support. If it is likely that a program or initiative would produce,
consume, process, or handle intelligence information at any point in its life cycle, it should be
considered intelligence-sensitive.
Intelligence Support Working Group—The ISWG brings functional representatives from
throughout the intelligence and acquisition communities together to ensure all intelligence
considerations for the developing system or capability are addressed. The goal is to derive and
develop the intelligence requirements and deficiencies, to research and develop potential
solutions to the deficiencies, to create action plans to accomplish those solutions, to estimate
solution costs, and to document results in the Weapon Systems Intelligence Support
Requirements Database (WSISRD).
Intelligence Supportability Analysis—ISA is the process by which AF intelligence plans for
and documents the requirements and supporting intelligence infrastructure necessary to
successfully acquire and employ future Air Force capabilities. ISA should begin as early as
possible and continue during all phases of the acquisition life cycle for intelligence-sensitive
programs/initiatives. As a minimum, ISA should identify as specifically and completely as
possible, projected requirements for intelligence products, information, or services to include
required performance, descriptive, or qualitative attributes.
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Capabilities, Planning and Analysis
(CP&A):—The ISR CP&A outlines how the AF will create ISR capabilities to meet the
demands of today and into the future. It incorporates guidance from the current AF Strategic
Plan, AF ISR Strategy and the AF ISR Operational Concept and defines how ISR development
will progress, including end to end management for ISR capabilities and weapon systems. The
ISR CP&A is a critical input to the GIISR CFMP and is the foundational process to guide
execution of the AF ISR Strategy.
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance–Capabilities Analysis Requirements Tool
(ISR-CART)—An interactive database sponsored by the Air Force ISR Agency (AFISRA)
Plans, Programs, Requirements and Assessments (A5/8/9) Directorate. The database allows
users to access information needed to make informed capability/modernization planning
decisions and meet future technology challenges. The database provides the ability to link or
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                         63


interrelate all areas from a stated operational need to proposed solutions, actual
research/development, to delivery of an operational system.             SIPRNET:      http://isr-
cart.afisra.af.smil.mil/templates/ or JWICS: http://isr-cart.afisra.ic.gov/templates/.
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)—Term referring to the activity that
synchronizes and integrates the planning and operation of sensors, assets, and processing,
exploitation, and dissemination systems in direct support of current and future operations. This
is an integrated intelligence and operations function.
Joint Capabilities Board (JCB)—The JCB functions to assist the JROC in carrying out its
duties and responsibilities. The JCB reviews and, if appropriate, endorses all JCIDS and
DOTMLPF proposals prior to their submission to the JROC. The JCB is chaired by the Joint
Staff, J-8, Director of Force Structure, Resources, and Assessment. It is composed of 2 and 3-
Star Flag Officer / General Officer representatives of the Services.
Joint Capability Technology Demonstration—A demonstration of the military utility of a
significant new technology and an assessment to clearly establish operational utility and system
integrity. (CJCSI 3170.01H)
Joint Capabilities Technology Development (JCTD)—A pre-acquisition activity, spanning
two-to-four years. It provides the user an opportunity to assess innovative technologically
mature capabilities and determine the military utility before deciding to acquire additional units.
Joint Capabilities Document—Identifies a set of capabilities that support a defined mission
area utilizing associated Family of Joint Future Concepts, Concept of Operations (CONOPS), or
Unified Command Plan-assigned missions. The JCD will be updated as changes are made to the
supported Family of Joint Future Concepts, CONOPS, or assigned missions. (CJCSI 3170.01H)
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System—There are three key processes in the
DOD that must work in concert to deliver the capabilities required by the warfighter: the
requirements process; the acquisition process; and the Planning, Programming, Budget, and
Execution (PPBE) process. JCIDS implements the requirements process. JCIDS supports the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and the Joint Requirements Oversight Council
(JROC) in identifying, assessing, and prioritizing joint military capability needs as required by
law. The capabilities are identified by analyzing what is required across all joint capability areas
to accomplish the mission. (CJCSI 3170.01H and JCIDS Manual)
Joint Operations Concept—Family of joint future concepts consisting of a Capstone Concept
for Joint Operations, Joint Operating Concepts (JOCs), Joint Functional Concepts (JFCs), and
Joint Integrating Concepts (JICs). They are a visualization of future operations and describe how
a commander, using military art and science, might employ capabilities necessary to successfully
meet challenges 8-20 years in the future, and provides the conceptual basis for joint
experimentation and capabilities-based assessments (CBAs). (JCIDS Manual)
Joint Potential Designator (JPD)—A designation assigned by Vice Director J-8 to specify
JCIDS validation, approval, and interoperability expectations.
Joint Requirements Oversight Council—Assists the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) in
identifying and assessing the priority of joint military requirements (including existing systems
and equipment) to meet the National Military Strategy (NMS). The Vice Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff (VCJCS) chairs the Council and decides all matters before the Council. The
 64                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


permanent members include the Vice Chiefs of the U.S. Army (VCSA) and U.S. Air Force
(VCSAF), the Vice Chief of Naval Operations (VCNO), and the Assistant Commandant of the
Marine Corps (ACMC). The Council directly supports the Defense Acquisition Board (DAB)
through the review, validation, and approval of key cost, schedule, and performance parameters
at the start of the acquisition process, prior to each milestone review, or as requested by the
Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics) (USD(AT&L)).
Joint Urgent Operational Need (JUON)—An urgent operational need identified by a
combatant commander involved in an ongoing named operation. A JUON’s main purpose is to
identify and subsequently gain Joint Staff validation and resourcing solution, usually within days
or weeks, to meet a specific high-priority combatant commander need. The scope of a
combatant commander JUON will be limited to addressing urgent operational needs that: (1) fall
outside of the established Service processes; and (2) most importantly, if not addressed
immediately, will seriously endanger personnel or pose a major threat to ongoing operations.
Key Performance Parameter—Those attributes or characteristics of a system that are
considered critical or essential to the development of an effective military capability and that
make a significant contribution to the characteristics of the future joint force. A KPP normally
has a threshold, representing the minimum acceptable value achievable at low-to-moderate risk,
and an objective, representing the desired operational goal but at higher risk in cost, schedule and
performance. KPPs are contained in the Capability Development Document (CDD) and the
Capability Production Document (CPD) and are included verbatim in the Acquisition Program
Baseline (APB). Certain KPPs may be "mandatory" or "selectively applied," depending on the
system. See Acquisition Program Baseline, Validation Authority, Capability Development
Document, Capability Production Document, Mandatory Key Performance Parameters (KPPs),
Selectively Applied KPPs, threshold value, objective value, and Joint Potential Designator.
Life Cycle—The span of time associated with a technology, concept, system, subsystem,
capability, initiative or end-item that begins with the conception and initial development of the
requirement, continues through development, acquisition, fielding, sustainment, until the time it
is either consumed in use or disposed of as being excess to all known materiel requirements.
Life Cycle Cost Estimate—Attempts to identify all of the costs associated with an acquisition
program, from its initiation through disposal of the resulting system at the end of its useful life.
LCCEs for DoD systems serve two primary purposes. First, they are used at acquisition program
milestone and decision reviews to assess whether the system’s cost is affordable, or consistent
with the DoD component’s and DoD’s overall long-range investment and force structure plans.
Second, LCCEs form the basis for budget requests to Congress.
Life Cycle Management Plan—Concise document that identifies relevant issues and
recommends overall acquisition, program management, and life cycle support strategies.
Required for all Air Force non-space Acquisition Category (ACAT) I and ACAT II programs. It
may also be required for non-space ACAT III programs at the discretion of the Milestone
Decision Authority (MDA). (Air Force)
Life Cycle Mission Data Plan—The LMDP defines specific IMD requirements for a program,
and becomes more detailed as the system progresses toward Initial Operating Capability (IOC).
For each required IMD, as much detail as possible should be provided in the LMDP.
Intelligence professionals will be asked to assist the PM with the completion/review of the
LMDP.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                         65


Life Cycle Signature Support Plan—The LSSP defines specific signature requirements for a
program, and becomes more detailed as the system progresses toward Initial Operating
Capability (IOC). For each required signature, as much detail as possible should be provided in
the LSSP. Intelligence professionals will be asked to assist the PM with the completion/review
of the LSSP.
Low-Rate Initial Production—The first effort of the Production and Deployment (P&D) phase.
The purpose of this effort is to establish an initial production base for the system, permit an
orderly ramp-up sufficient to lead to a smooth transition to Full Rate Production (FRP), and to
provide production representative articles for Initial Operational Test and Evaluation (IOT&E)
and full-up live fire testing. This effort concludes with a Full Rate Production Decision Review
(FRPDR) to authorize the Full Rate Production and Deployment (FRP&D) effort. 2. The
minimum number of systems (other than ships and satellites) to provide production
representative articles for Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E), to establish an initial
production base, and to permit an orderly increase in the production rate sufficient to lead to Full
Rate Production (FRP) upon successful completion of Operational Testing (OT). For Major
Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs), LRIP quantities in excess of 10 percent of the
acquisition objective must be reported in the Selected Acquisition Report. For ships and
satellites, the LRIP quantity is the minimum quantity and rate that preserves mobilization.
Major Automated Information System—A system of computer hardware, computer software,
data or telecommunications that performs functions such as collecting, processing, storing,
transmitting, and displaying information.
Major Defense Acquisition Program—An acquisition program that is designated by the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology and Logistics) (USD(AT&L)) as an MDAP, or
estimated by the USD(AT&L) to require an eventual total expenditure for Research,
Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) of more than $365 million in Fiscal Year (FY)
2000 constant dollars or, for procurement, of more than $2.19 billion in FY 2000 constant
dollars.
Materiel Development Decision—A review that is the formal entry point into the acquisition
process and is mandatory for all programs. A successful MDD may approve entry into the
acquisition management system at any point consistent with phase-specific entrance criteria and
statutory requirements but will normally be followed by a Materiel Solution Analysis (MSA)
phase. The principal documents at this decision point are the Initial Capabilities Document
(ICD) and study guidance for the Analysis of Alternatives (AoA). A successful MDD normally
does not mean that a new acquisition program has been initiated. (DoDI 5000.02)
Materiel Solutions Analysis—The first phase of the Defense Acquisition Management System
as defined and established by DoDI 5000.02. The purpose of this phase is to analyze and
recommend materiel solutions for the capability need identified in the Initial Capabilities
Document. During this phase, an Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) will be conducted to assess
alternative solutions, ultimately leading to a preferred materiel solution to address the capability
need, and a Technology Development Strategy (acquisition strategy) will be formulated. A draft
Capability Development Document will also normally be formulated during this phase to
facilitate the description of contract deliverables during the Technology Development Phase that
follows. See Analysis of Alternatives, Initial Capabilities Document and Technology
Development Strategy.
 66                                                                  AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


Measure of Effectiveness (MOE)—A qualitative or quantitative measure of a system's
performance or a characteristic that indicates the degree to which it performs the task or meets a
requirement under specified conditions. MOEs should be established to measure the system’s
capability to produce or accomplish the desired result.
Measure of Performance (MOP)—A quantitative measure of a system’s capability to
accomplish a task, typically in the area of physical performance (e.g., range, velocity,
throughput, payload).
Measurement and Signature Intelligence (MASINT)—MASINT refers to intelligence
activities that bring together disparate elements that do not fit within the definitions of the other
major Intelligence (INT) disciplines. MASINT is technically derived intelligence that - when
collected, processed, and analyzed by dedicated MASINT systems - results in intelligence that
detects and classifies targets, and identifies or describes signatures (distinctive characteristics) of
fixed or dynamic target sources.
Milestone (MS)—Major decision point that separates the phases of an acquisition program
under the DODI 5000.02 acquisition management framework.
Milestone-A—Technology Development Phase approval.
Milestone-B—Engineering and Manufacturing Development Phase approval (normally the
initiation of an acquisition program).
Milestone-C—Production & Deployment Phase approval.
Milestone Decision Authority—Designated individual with overall responsibility for a
program. The MDA shall have the authority to approve entry of an acquisition program into the
next phase of the acquisition process and shall be accountable for cost, schedule, and
performance reporting to higher authority, including congressional reporting. (DoDD 5000.01)
Military Intelligence Program (MIP)—Programs, projects, or activities of the military
departments to acquire intelligence solely for the planning and conduct of tactical military
operations by United States Armed Forces. The MIP is directed and controlled by the Secretary
of Defense, with participation from the DNI. The SECDEF delegated MIP authority to USD(I),
as the MIP Executive. USD(I) is therefore responsible for directing and overseeing the MIP, its
budget development process, and MIP funding. Note: In 2005, the DOD combined the Joint
Military Intelligence Program (JMIP) and the Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities
(TIARA) program to form the MIP.
Multi-Service Force Deployment—The MSFD is a digital force projection produced by NASIC
that provides details on enemy, friendly, and non-aligned forces in specific geographic areas.
National Intelligence:—All intelligence, regardless of the source from which derived, and
including information gathered within or outside the United States, that pertains to more than one
United States Government agency; and that involves threats to the United States, its people,
property, or interests; the development, proliferation, or use of weapons of mass destruction; or
any other matter bearing on United States national or homeland security.
National Intelligence Program (NIP)—Programs, projects, and activities of the Intelligence
Community, as well as any other programs of the Intelligence Community designated jointly by
the DNI and the head of a United States department or agency, or by the President. The NIP is
the consolidation of funding programs that provide the resources needed to develop and maintain
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                         67


capabilities to serve the intelligence needs of national policy makers. The NIP funds the
national-level intelligence activities of national civilian and defense intelligence agencies, the
DNI staff elements, elements of military intelligence with national impact, plus cryptologic,
foreign counter-intelligence, reconnaissance activities, and intelligence programs of other federal
departments. The NIP does not include programs, projects, or activities of the military
departments to acquire intelligence solely for the planning and conduct of tactical military
operations by United States Armed Forces. The DNI is responsible for directing and overseeing
the NIP, its budget development process, and NIP funding.
National Security Systems—Any telecommunications or information system operated by the
Department of Defense (DoD), the function, operation, or use of which involves 1) intelligence
activities, 2) cryptologic activities related to national security, 3) the command and control of
military forces, 4) equipment that is an integral part of a weapons system, or 5) criticality to the
direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions. Subsection 5 in the preceding sentence
does not include procurement of automatic data processing equipment or services to be used for
routine administrative and business applications (including payroll, finance, logistics, and
personnel management applications). (CJSCI 3170.01H)
National System for Geospatial Intelligence (NSG)—The NSG is the combination of
technology, policies, capabilities, doctrine, activities, people, data, and communities necessary to
produce geospatial intelligence (GEOINT) in an integrated multi-intelligence, multi-domain
environment. The NSG includes the Intelligence Community (IC), the Joint Staff, the Military
Departments (to include the Services), the Combatant Commands (COCOMs), international
partners, National Applications Office, Civil Applications Committee members, industry,
academia, Defense service providers, and civil community service providers.
Open Source Intelligence (OSINT)—A form of intelligence collection management that
involves finding, selecting, and acquiring information from publicly available sources and
analyzing it to produce actionable intelligence. In the IC, the term "open" refers to overt,
publicly available sources (as opposed to covert or classified sources).
Operating Command—The command primarily operating a system, subsystem, or item of
equipment. Generally applies to those operational commands or organizations that Headquarters
USAF designates to conduct or participate in operations or operational testing.
Operations and Support—The fifth phase of the life cycle, as defined and established by DoDI
5000.02 after Concept Refinement (CR), Technology Development (TD), System Development
and Demonstration (SDD), and Production and Deployment (P&D). This phase consists of two
efforts, Sustainment and Disposal. The phase is not initiated by a formal milestone, but instead
begins with the deployment of the first system to the field, an act that initiates the Sustainment
effort of this phase. The Sustainment effort overlaps the Full-Rate Production and Deployment
(FRP&D) effort of the P&D phase.
Operational Test and Evaluation—The field test, under realistic conditions, of any item (or
key component) of weapons, equipment, or munitions for the purpose of determining the
effectiveness and suitability of the weapons, equipment, or munitions for use in combat by
typical military users; and the evaluation of the results of such tests.
Planning and direction, Collection, Processing and exploitation, Analysis and production,
and Dissemination (PCPAD)—PCPAD consists of:            (1) planning and direction—the
 68                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


determination of intelligence requirements, development of appropriate intelligence architecture,
preparation of a collection plan, and issuance of orders and requests to information collection
agencies, (2) collection—the acquisition of information and the provision of this information to
processing elements, (3) processing and exploitation—the conversion of collected information
into forms suitable to the production of intelligence, (4) analysis and production—the conversion
of processed information into intelligence through the integration, evaluation, analysis, and
interpretation of all source data and the preparation of intelligence products in support of known
or anticipated user requirements, and (5) dissemination and integration—the delivery of
intelligence to users in a suitable form and the application of the intelligence to appropriate
missions, tasks, and functions. (JP 2-01)
Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution—The primary Resource Allocation
Process (RAP) of DoD. It is one of three major decision support systems for defense acquisition
along with Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) and the Defense
Acquisition System. It is a formal, systematic structure for making decisions on policy, strategy,
and the development of forces and capabilities to accomplish anticipated missions. PPBE is a
biennial process wherein the On-Year produces a Strategic Planning Guidance (SPG), Joint
Programming Guidance (JPG), approved Program Objectives Memoranda (POMs) for the
Military Departments and Defense Agencies covering six years, and the DoD portion of the
President’s Budget (PB) covering two years. In the Off-Year, adjustments are made to the
Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) to take into account “fact of life changes,” inflation, new
programmatic initiatives, and the result of congressional enactment of the previously submitted
PB based on guidance from the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) and the Director,
Program Analysis and Evaluation. See On-Year and Off-Year.
Preferred System Concept—The selected concept that is preferred after a comprehensive
analysis of system alternatives within a defined trade space. The preferred system concept
should strike the best balance in providing the needed capabilities within the constraints on the
program and achieves a level suitable for low risk entry into Engineering and Manufacturing
Development. (DAG)
Preliminary Design Review—A multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that a system is
ready to proceed into detailed design and can meet stated performance requirements within cost
(program budget), schedule (program schedule), risk, and other system constraints. Generally,
this review assesses the system preliminary design as captured in performance specifications for
each configuration item in the system (allocated baseline), and ensures that each function in the
functional baseline has been allocated to one or more system configuration items. Normally
conducted during the System Development and Demonstration (SDD) phase. (Defense
Acquisition Guidebook)
Probability of Program Success—The probability of program success initiative is designed to
improve the ability to accurately assess a program’s probability of success (ability to succeed),
and clearly/concisely represent that success probability to leadership. To that end, each program
spiral (including software spirals) will be evaluated independently utilizing the probability of
program success criteria.
Production and Deployment—The fourth phase of the life cycle as defined and established by
DoDI 5000.02. This phase consists of two efforts: Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) and Full
Rate Production and Deployment (FRP&D) separated by a Full Rate Production Decision
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                         69


Review (FRPDR). It begins after a successful MS-C review. The purpose of this phase is to
achieve an operational capability that satisfies the mission need.
Production Readiness Review—A formal examination of a program to determine if the design
is ready for production and if the producer has accomplished adequate production planning.
PRRs are normally performed as a series of reviews toward the end of System Development and
Demonstration (SDD) phase. Under some circumstances a PRR may also be appropriate in the
Production and Deployment (P&D) phase. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
Production Requirement—An established intelligence need considered in the allocation of
intelligence resources to fulfill the essential elements of information and other intelligence needs
of a commander. (AFI 14-111)
Program Executive Officer—A military or civilian official who has responsibility for directing
several Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) and for assigned major system and non-
major system acquisition programs. A PEO has no other command or staff responsibilities
within the component, and only reports to and receives guidance and direction from the DoD
Component Acquisition Executive (CAE).
Program Manager—Designated individual with responsibility for and authority to accomplish
program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s operational
needs. The PM shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance reporting to
the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA). (DoDD 5000.01)
Program Objective Memorandum—An annual memorandum in prescribed format submitted
to the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) by the DoD component heads, which recommends the
total resource requirements and programs within the parameters of SECDEF’s fiscal guidance.
The POM is a major document in the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE)
process, and the basis for the component budget estimates. The POM is the principal
programming document that details how a component proposes to respond to assignments in the
Strategic Planning Guidance (SPG) and Joint Programming Guidance (JPG) and satisfy its
assigned functions over the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP). The POM shows
programmed needs six years hence (i.e., in FY 2004, POM 2006-2011 was submitted).
Program Protection Plan—The safeguarding of defense systems and Technical Data (TD)
anywhere in the acquisition process, to include the technologies being developed, the support
systems (e.g., test and simulation equipment), and research data with military applications.
Requirement (also referred to as Intelligence Requirements, Derived Intelligence
Requirement, or DIR)—The need for a product, function, infrastructure, or service provided by
the Intelligence Community (IC) that is integral to a program at a point within its life cycle.
Intelligence requirements can come from any part of the DOTMLPF construct. Program
intelligence requirements should be documented to support both current and future acquisition
and intelligence requirements. Documentation should include information on the availability of
the needed IC capabilities. Requirements which cannot be met with current IC capabilities are
identified as gaps, shortfalls or deficiencies. Intelligence requirements are derived directly from
program/initiative baseline documents (CBA, CONOPS, OPLAN, AoA, JCIDS documents, etc.)
that are developed as part of the requirements and acquisition processes. In other words, for
intelligence requirements to be valid, they must be traceable to such documents.
 70                                                                AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


Requirements Analysis Workbook—A RAW is a tool used to conduct intelligence
supportability analysis (ISA). The RAW is a strategy-to-task “drill-down” through a list of
questions to identify the intelligence supportability needs for a weapon system/program/project
(called Derived Intelligence Requirements (DIRs)). It can be conducted at any phase of the
acquisition life cycle. The RAW should be completed or updated multiple times throughout the
life cycle to ensure intelligence supportability needs are identified and current. Every
intelligence supportability task starts with identifying the program/project’s intelligence
supportability requirements by completion of the RAW.
Requirements Strategy—A plan or document that maps the details necessary for developing a
requirements document, and describes the resources and communities necessary to support the
process.
Research and Technology Protection—Procedures for protecting specified critical research
technology (CRT) and critical program information (CPI) throughout the DoD as well as for
dual-use and leading edge military technology being developed under the auspices of the DoD.
Resource Management Decision—The Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) decision documents
that affirm or change dollar amounts or manpower allowances in the Services’ Budget Estimate
Submissions (BESs) or resolve Change Proposals that are accepted for Office of the Secretary of
Defense (OSD) review.
Risk Management—All plans and actions taken to identify, assess, mitigate, and continuously
track, control, and document program risks.
Risk Management Plan—A document that records the results of the risk planning process.
Science and Technology—Consists of projects in basic research, applied research, and
Advanced Technology Development (ATD).
Scientific and Technical Information—The collected set of facts, analyses, and conclusions
resulting from scientific, technical, and related engineering research and development efforts,
both basic and applied.
Senior Official of the Intelligence Community (SOIC)—The head of an IC agency, office,
bureau, or other intelligence element (such as CIA, NSA, DIA, etc.), as identified in the National
Security Act of 1947, Title 50 U.S. Code, and/or Executive Order 12333, as amended.
Signals Intelligence—A form of Intelligence that refers to the information derived from foreign
communications and electronic transmission; additionally, it is the collection and processing of
foreign communications passed by electromagnetic means and foreign non-communications
electromagnetic radiation. Signals Intelligence is information comprised either individually or in
combination with all Communications Intelligence (COMINT), Foreign Instrumentation Signals
Intelligence (FISINT) or Electronic Intelligence (ELINT) and weapons related Command and
Control Signals (PROFORMA).
Special Access Program—Any program imposing need-to-know or access controls beyond
those normally provided for access to Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret information. Examples
of such controls include, but are not limited to, special clearance, adjudication, or investigative
requirements; special designation of officials authorized to determine need to know; or special
lists of persons determined to have a need-to-know. (DoD 5200.1-M)
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                     71


Special Access Required—Any data imposing need-to-know or access controls beyond those
normally provided for access to Confidential, Secret, or Top Secret information. Examples of
such controls include, but are not limited to, special clearance, adjudication, or investigative
requirements; special designation of officials authorized to determine need to know; or special
lists of persons determined to have a need-to-know. (DoD 5200.1-M)
Strategy-to-Task—The Strategy-to-Task method of analysis provides a framework for
establishing a hierarchy, starting from objectives down to specific tasks. Below these tasks,
performance standards can be used for estimating the utility of a given task. This hierarchical
approach helps decision-makers understand these important linkages. It could also serve as a
framework for prioritizing the different tasks and contribute to better resource allocation, by
analyzing different alternatives. STT should be used by ISWGs as they derive intelligence
requirements and identify intelligence deficiencies. (AFI 14-111)
Systems Engineering—The overarching process that a program team applies to transition from
a stated capability to an operationally effective and suitable system. SE encompasses the
application of SE processes across the acquisition life cycle (adapted to each and every phase)
and is intended to be the integrating mechanism for balanced solutions addressing capability
needs, design considerations and constraints, as well as limitations imposed by technology,
budget, and schedule. The SE processes are applied early in concept definition, and then
continuously throughout the total life cycle. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
Systems Engineering Plan—A description of the program’s overall technical approach
including processes, resources, metrics, applicable performance incentives, and the timing,
conduct, and success criteria of technical reviews.
System Functional Review—A multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that a system can
proceed into preliminary design, and that all system requirements and functional performance
requirements derived from the Capability Development Document are defined and are consistent
with program budget, schedule, risk, and other system constraints. The system functional
baseline is established at the conclusion of this review. Typically accomplished during the
System Development and Demonstration (SDD) phase. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
System of Systems—A set or arrangement of interdependent systems that are related or
connected to provide a given capability. The loss of any part of the system will significantly
degrade the performance or capabilities of the whole. (CJCSI 3170.01H)
Systems Requirements Review—A review conducted to ascertain progress in defining system
technical requirements. This review determines the direction and progress of the systems
engineering effort and the degree of convergence upon a balanced and complete configuration.
It is normally held during the Technology Development phase, but may be repeated after the start
of Engineering and Manufacturing Development phase to clarify the contractor's understanding
of redefined or new user requirements. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
System Threat Assessment—Describes the threat to be countered and the projected threat
environment. The threat information must be validated by the Defense Intelligence Agency
(DIA) for programs reviewed by the Defense Acquisition Board (DAB).
System Threat Assessment Report—Describes the threat to be countered and the projected
threat environment. The threat information must be validated by the Defense Intelligence
Agency (DIA) for programs reviewed by the Defense Acquisition Board (DAB).
 72                                                               AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


System Verification Review—A multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that the system is
ready to proceed into Low-Rate Initial Production and Full-Rate Production within cost (program
budget), schedule (program schedule), risk, and other system constraints. Generally this review
provides an audit trail from the Critical Design Review. It is synonymous with Functional
Configuration Audit. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
Technology and Alternatives Working Group—The TAWG is responsible for all aspects of
the AoA process with respect to the initial identifying, screening and documenting potential
solutions and their associated technologies in support of the Effectiveness Analysis (EAWG)
activities. The function of the TAWG is to collect the data on a broad range of potential
solutions and initially screen them for further assessment within the AoA process.
Technical Exchange Meeting (TEM)—A TEM is a meeting of technical experts to clarify and
assess specific program issues. A TEM can be held as a subtask to ISWGs to support the
derivation, development and documentation of intelligence requirements and deficiencies
associated with a proposed program.
Technology Development—The second phase of the Defense Acquisition Management
Framework as defined and established by DoDI 5000.02. It is initiated by a successful MS-A
decision. The purpose of this phase is to reduce technology risk and to determine the appropriate
set of technologies to be integrated into the full system. This effort is normally funded only for
advanced development work and does not mean that a new acquisition program has been
initiated. See Program Initiation.
Technology Development Strategy (acquisition strategy)—acquisition strategy describes the
acquisition approach that will be undertaken to mature key technologies and maturation efforts to
Initial Operational Capability (IOC). This approach discusses business strategies, developmental
strategies, support strategies and Critical Program Information (CPI) to manage program risks
and meet program objectives while balancing cost, schedule and performance. The acquisition
strategy should include proposed exit criteria for the Technology Development Phase and plans
to support the entry criteria for the Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD) Phase.
The acquisition strategy is the predecessor for the program's Acquisition Strategy required at
Milestone B. The acquisition strategy guides the efforts of the TD Phase and serve as a baseline
for efforts that continually evolve throughout a program. The acquisition strategy allows the
program manager to track program goals against a baseline. This tracking will alert the program
manager to any potential problems that might arise and to perform corrective actions to keep a
program within its cost, schedule and performance goals
Technology Protection Plan (TPP)—Similar to the PPP developed in the acquisition cycle, a
TPP is developed by research organizations to identify critical information and resources that
require increased protection.
Technology Readiness Assessment—A regulatory information requirement for all acquisition
programs. It is a systematic; metrics based process that establishes the maturity of critical
technology elements. The TRA should be conducted concurrently with other technical reviews
such as the Alternative Systems Review, System Requirements Review, or the Production
Readiness Review. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
Technology Targeting Risk Assessment (TTRA)—A country-by-country assessment,
conducted by the Defense Intelligence Community, that quantifies risks to CPI and related
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                      73


enabling technologies for weapons systems, advanced technologies or programs, and facilities
such as laboratories, factories, research and development sites (test ranges, etc.), and military
installations. The TTRA evaluates five independent risk factors, each of which contributes to an
overall risk factor. The five areas evaluated are: (1) Technology Competence, (2) National
Level of Interest, (3) Risk of Technology Diversion, (4) Ability to Assimilate, and (5)
Technology Protection Risk. The TTRA and CI Assessment provide laboratory/technical
directors and program managers with information required to establish a comprehensive security
program for the protection of identified CPI.
Test and Evaluation—Process by which a system or components are exercised and results
analyzed to provide performance-related information. The information has many uses including
risk identification and risk mitigation and empirical data to validate models and simulations.
T&E enables an assessment of the attainment of technical performance, specifications, and
system maturity to determine whether systems are operationally effective, suitable and
survivable for intended use, and/or lethal. There are three distinct types of T&E defined in
statute or regulation: Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E), Operational Test and
Evaluation (OT&E), and Live Fire Test and Evaluation (LFT&E). See Operational Test and
Evaluation, Initial Operational Test and Evaluation (IOT&E), Developmental Test and
Evaluation, and Live Fire Test and Evaluation.
Test and Evaluation Master Plan—Documents the overall structure and objectives of the Test
and Evaluation (T&E) program. It provides a framework within which to generate detailed T&E
plans and documents schedule and resource implications associated with the T&E program. The
TEMP identifies the necessary Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E), Operational Test
and Evaluation (OT&E), and Live Fire Test and Evaluation (LFT&E) activities. It relates
program schedule, test management strategy and structure, and required resources to: Critical
Operational Issues (COIs), Critical Technical Parameters (CTPs), objectives and thresholds
documented in the Capability Development Document (CDD), evaluation criteria, and milestone
decision points. For multi-Service or joint programs, a single integrated TEMP is required.
component-unique content requirements, particularly evaluation criteria associated with COIs,
can be addressed in a component-prepared annex to the basic TEMP.
Test and Evaluation Strategy—An early test and evaluation planning document that describes
test and evaluation activities starting with Technology Development and continuing through
System Development and Demonstration into Production and Deployment. The TES describes
how component technologies being developed will be demonstrated in a relevant environment to
support the program’s transition into the System Development and Demonstration Phase. Over
time, the scope of this document will expand and evolve into the Test and Evaluation Master
Plan (TEMP) due at MS-B. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
Test Readiness Review—A multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that a subsystem or
system is ready to proceed into formal test. The TRR assesses test objectives, test methods and
procedures, scope of tests, and safety, and confirms that required test resources have been
properly identified and coordinated to support planned tests. (Defense Acquisition Guidebook)
Threat Steering Group—The TSG draws on the expertise of intelligence and acquisition
representatives who are stakeholders in the acquisition process and acts as the advisory body on
all threat matters related to the specific program. The TSG determines the nature and level of
 74                                                                 AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


documentation and other required activities to ensure consistent, efficient cradle-to-grave threat
support. (OAS)
Threats and Scenarios Working Group—The TSWG will identify threats, impacts and
environments with the potential to impact the projected mission of the system under study.
Through the use of the approved DoD Analytic Agenda, the TSWG will develop suitable and
representative mission scenarios. The TSWG will provide a matrix that maps the stressors
against system attributes, rates the importance of each stressor, and rates the value of the stressor
against selected scenarios. The TSWG shall assist all WGs in the use of the threat and scenario
data.
Threat Working Group—TWGs are working-level IPTs, with similar membership as that of
TSGs, that are held as required to discuss threat issues and ensure consistent threat support to
acquisition programs throughout their life cycle. (OAS)
Verification—The process of determining that a model or simulation implementation and its
associated data accurately represent the developer’s conceptual description and specifications.
Validation—In the context of M&S, validation is the process of determining the degree to which
a model or simulation and its associated data are an accurate representation of the real world
from the perspective of the intended uses of the model. In the context of intelligence (threat)
data and reports, validation is the substantiation of threat documentation for appropriateness and
completeness of intelligence, consistency with existing intelligence positions, and use of
accepted tradecraft in developing assessments.
Work Breakdown Structure—An organized method to break down a project into logical
subdivisions or subprojects at lower and lower levels of details. It is very useful in organizing a
project. See Military Handbook (MIL-HDBK) 881 for examples of WBSs.
Working-level Integrated Product Team—Team of representatives from all appropriate
functional disciplines working together to build successful and balanced programs, identify and
resolve issues, and make sound and timely decisions. WIPTs are usually chaired by the Program
Manager (PM) or the PM’s representative. Acquisition Category (ACAT) I programs normally
establish, at a minimum, a Cost Performance Integrated Product Team (CPIPT) and a Test and
Evaluation (T&E) WIPT. Industry representation on WIPTs, consistent with statute and at the
appropriate time, may also be considered.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                  75


                           Attachment 2
                           RISK MATRIX
 76                                                                  AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


                                           Attachment 3
         INTELLIGENCE HEALTH ASSESSMENT QUAD CHART TEMPLATE

A3.1. The quad chart template depicted in Figure A3.1 is the standardized means of displaying
the results of IHA to senior leaders and decision-makers. It allows the assessment team to
present each identified risk, its associated causes, the potential risk to the required capability, and
mitigation strategies in a concise, easy-to-read, visual format.

Figure A3.1. Intelligence Health Assessment Quad Chart




A3.2. Figure A3.2 shows a close-up of the graphic portion of the IHA quad chart. It combines
information about the assessed likelihood that the risk factor would come into play with the level
of mission impact if the risk factor were to occur.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                           77


Figure A3.2. Risk Probability and Consequence Graphic
                                          Classification


                Program Name: Assessment Summary
   •In bullet format, list the risks that have                  5
   been identified for the program, and assign
   them a designator to be plotted in matrix to                 4           C1        P2
   the right as shown by the example below:
         •Program X currently has no                            3                     S2




                                                  Probability
         Intelligence support (P2)
   •If there are too many risks identified for                  2
   the program to be listed here, determine
   which are most critical to the program and
                                                                1
   which risks need to be addressed
   immediately, and list them here.
                                                                    1   2     3        4   5

                                                                        Consequence



    •Provide an overall assessment statement here for the
    Program Manager (e.g., Failing regarding Intelligence
    Support and could affect the “X” portion of the program)
                                             Classification
                       W ar-W inning Capabilities … On Tim e, On Cost                          2
 78                                                     AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


                                   Attachment 4
SAMPLE INTELLIGENCE HEALTH ASSESSMENT MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

Figure A4.1. Sample Intelligence Health Assessment Memorandum for Record.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                  79


                                      Attachment 5
                                     ISP FORMAT

Air Force Program Manager’s Guide for Developing, Processing, and Approving Information
Support Plans (ISP) Version 2.02:
https://wwwd.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-AQ-AF-18

Figure A5.1. Recommended format of the Intelligence Appendix.
 80                                                                 AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


                                          Attachment 6
   INTELLIGENCE SENSITIVITY SURVEY/INTELLIGENCE SENSITIVITY TIER
                              MATRIX

 This survey is intended to help action officers identify key roles and responsibilities
associated with the acquisition effort while, at the same time, highlighting sensitive or
proprietary information that must be protected.
                                     Intelligence Sensitivity Survey
 Note: The intelligence sensitivity survey is the initial tool to determine how intelligence-
 sensitive (if at all) an effort is compared to other portfolio efforts and whether ISA should be
 continued on the effort. This is a high-level review; RAWs should be used when it has been
 determined to continue ISA on the effort.
 Make sure to mark responses with the appropriate classification
                 Programmatic Information                                     Comments
 Program Name                                                     JUON or QRC, TRL, ACAT I, II
 and ACAT or                                                      or III, Major or Minor
 TRL:                                                             Modifications, Sustainment
 Center/Office
 Symbol:
 Milestone                                                        Within 6 months, 6 months to 1
 Proximity /                                                      year,
 Suspense:                                                        1 to 2 years or More than 2 years
                                                                  Provide sufficient detail to help
 Program                                                          understand potential intelligence
 Description:                                                     issues
 Gov Program
 Manager or
 Technical Lead:                                                  (Name, Off Sym, Phone, E-mail)
                                                                  (Integrated Project Portfolio
 Link to Project                                                  Management (IPPM), Sharepoint,
 Info:                                                            etc.)
                                                                  (AFRL, other Acquisition Centers,
                                                                  MAJCOM efforts,QRCs,other
                                                                  services NASA, IARPA, NRO,
 Related Projects:                                                DARPA, other DoD labs)
 Potential
 Transition
 Programs/Organiz
 ations or other
 organizations
 involved with the
 program to include                                               (MQ-9, RQ-4, Big Safari,
 any logistics                                                    Sustainment Center, US Navy,
 organizations:                                                   NRO, etc.)
 Potential users:                                                 (ACC, AFSOC, USMC, etc.)
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                         81


Associated
Contractors/Univer
sities and Contract
Numbers:
ACAT Level
MS- A date
MS-B date
MS-C Date
IOC Date
FOC Date
1067 Completion
Date
Source of funding                                             MIP, NIP
                                                                Programs with a JPD of “JROC
  Joint Potential
                                                                Interest” or “Joint Integration”
 Designator (JPD)
                                                                   require intel certification
                                                                Limited rate Initial Production
       Other                                                     (LRIP); Full Rate Production
                                                                       (FRP); IOC Date
                                                                                        Comment
N
                                                                                        (provide
u                                    Y
                                        N                                                  any
m              Question              e             Option               Action
                                        o                                              clarificatio
b                                    s
                                                                                        n to your
er
                                                                                         answer)
                                    Security Considerations
                                            If No, contact
                                                                                      If yes,
                                            security office. If
                                                                                      provide
                                            yes and Counter
                                                                                      reference/lin
     Does this                              Intelligence            IF yes,
                                                                                      k and write
     program/project/technology             information used,       review CPIs.
 1                                                                                    the title,
     have a Technology/Program              include reference       Continue to
                                                                                      date of PPP
     Protection Plan (T/PPP)?               link in section 9.2e next question
                                                                                      and date of
                                            of requirements
                                                                                      ITA in this
                                            document and see
                                                                                      box.
                                            comment box.
                                            If No, contact
                                                                                      If yes,
                                            security office. If
                                                                                      provide
                                            yes, include SCG
     Does this program/project                                                        reference/lin
                                            reference in section Continue to
 2   fall under a Security                                                            k and write
                                            9.2e of                 next question
     Classification Guide (SCG)?                                                      the title and
                                            requirements
                                                                                      date of SCG
                                            document and see
                                                                                      in this box.
                                            comment box.
     Does this program/project              If Yes, consult with Ensure
 3
     fall under Special Access or           security manager or DD254
82                                                                 AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     other security restrictions?           program manager         reflects this.
                                            before proceeding
                                            further.
                                            If Yes, include
                                                                                     If yes,
                                            restriction
     Does this program/project                                      Ensure           provide link
                                            references in
4    fall under STINFO or ITAR                                      DD254            to specific
                                            section 9.2e of
     distribution restrictions?                                     reflects this.   distribution
                                            requirements
                                                                                     statement
                                            document

           Is this Program/Project/Technology considered Intelligence-sensitive?
    Does this program/project
    require access to data                                          Continue to
5
    produced by the Intelligence                                    next question
    Community?
    Will this program/project
    require data to flow from the
    Intelligence Community to                                       Continue to
6
    support full scale                                              next question
    development, operations, or
    sustainment?
    Will this program/project
    produce data that will flow
    to the Intelligence
    Community for Planning and
    Direction, Collections,                                         Continue to
7
    Processing and Exploitation,                                    next question
    Analysis, and Dissemination
    (PCPAD) during full scale
    development, operations or
    sustainment?
                                            If the answer to all three of these questions is no,
                                            stop. The program/project is not intelligence-
                                            sensitive and in the Intelligence Sensitivity Tier
                                            Spreadsheet put “NONE”. If the answer to any of
                                            these questions is yes or unknown, then proceed to
                                            answer the remaining questions.
                     Intelligence Data for R&D, Operations or Sustainment
 Identify products/services needed for the specific program/research project but also consider
      long lead items (e.g. signature databases) that may be required to support full scale
                             development, operations, or sustainment
    Does it require access to               If yes and it is        Provide as
    Imagery Intelligence                    determined that         much detail      Provide file/
8 (IMINT) signatures or                     ISA will be             as possible      reference to
    databases? (Optical, SAR                continued on the        about            RAWS used
    IR, Hyperspectral, Overhead             effort, use RAWS        required
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                               83


     Persistent IR (OPIR), video,    to identify specific   precision,
     etc.)                           product-series. If     accuracy,
                                     current products are   timeliness,
                                     not acceptable,        update
                                     describe               periodicity,
                                     deficiencies or gaps   formats, etc.
                                     in ISP section 3 and   Work with
                                     Appendix E and         SIO to
                                     requirements           document
                                     document section       intelligence
                                     9.3, or Technology     requirements
                                     Transition Plan        in Coliseum
                                     Section 3.6            (for a PR or
                                     If yes and it is       DIR
                                     determined that        deficiencies
                                     ISA will be            into
     Does the required               continued on the       Intelligence
     Intelligence database support   effort, use RAWS       Requirements
     to the level of detail needed   to identify specific   Needs
     to satisfy the system           product-series. If     Database.
     requirements? If no, what       current products are
                                                                            Provide file/
     type and level of fidelity of   not acceptable,
 9                                                                          reference to
     database is required to         describe
                                                                            RAWS used
     support fielding of system?     deficiencies or gaps
     (Example: Databases of          in ISP section 3 and
     models to support Auto          Appendix E and
     Targeting Recognition           requirements
     [ATR])                          document section
                                     9.3, or Technology
                                     Transition Plan
                                     Section 3.6
                                     If yes and it is
                                     determined that
                                     ISA will be
                                     continued on the
                                     effort, use RAWS
     Does it require access to       to identify specific                   Provide file/
     Electronic Intelligence         product-series. If                     reference to
 1
     (ELINT) signatures or           current products are                   RAWS used
 0
     databases? (EWIRDB,             not acceptable,                        & Options
     Kilting, etc.)                  describe                               documents.
                                     deficiencies or gaps
                                     in ISP section 3 and
                                     Appendix E and
                                     requirements
                                     document section
84                                                       AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


                                  9.3, or Technology
                                  Transition Plan
                                  Section 3.6
                                  If yes and it is
                                  determined that
                                  ISA will be
                                  continued on the
                                  effort, use RAWS
     Does it require access to    to identify product-
     Measurements & Signatures    series. If current                  Provide file/
     Intelligence (MASINT) or     products are not                    reference to
1
     databases? (OTH/LOS          acceptable, write                   RAWS used
1
     Radar, Non-cooperative       deficiencies or gaps                & Options
     Target ID (NCTI), Space      in ISP section 3 and                documents.
     Object ID (SOI), etc.)       Appendix E and
                                  requirements
                                  document section
                                  9.3, or Tech
                                  Transition Plan
                                  Section 3.6
                                  If yes and it is
                                  determined that
                                  ISA will be
                                  continued on the
                                  effort, identify
                                  specific product-                   Provide file/
     Does it require access to
                                  series. If current                  reference to
1    Communication Intelligence
                                  products are not                    RAWS used
2    (COMINT) signals or
                                  acceptable, describe                & Options
     databases?
                                  deficiencies or gaps                documents.
                                  in ISP section 3 and
                                  Appendix E and
                                  requirements
                                  document section
                                  9.3
                                  If yes and it is
                                  determined that
                                  ISA will be
     Does it require access to    continued on the                    Provide file/
     Foreign Instrumentation      effort, use RAWS                    reference to
1
     Signals Intelligence         to identify specific                RAWS used
3
     (FISINT) or PROFORMA         product-series. If                  & Options
     products or databases?       current products are                documents.
                                  not acceptable,
                                  describe
                                  deficiencies or gaps
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                              85


                                    in ISP section 3 and
                                    Appendix E and
                                    requirements
                                    document section
                                    9.3, or Technology
                                    Transition Plan
                                    Section 3.6
                                    If yes to questions
8- Has the program/project          8-13, provide          Provide
1 investigated the need for or      information to         reference/lin
3 prepared a LMDP?                  PMO for inclusion      k to LMDP
                                    in LMDP.
     Does it require standard or
     new GI&S products or
     databases (Include mission
     planning and targeteering
     considerations)? (i.e.,
     navigation maps, Vector
     Data, Terrain Elevation Data                          Provide file/
     such as Digital Terrain                               reference to
 1
     Elevation Data (DTED) or       If yes and it is       RAWS used
 4
     Shuttle Radar Topography       determined that        & Options
     Mission (SRTM), and            ISA will be            documents.
     orthorectified imagery based   continued on the
     geospatial products (i.e.,     effort, use RAWS
     Controlled Image Base          to identify specific
     (CIB) or Digital Point         product-series. If
     Positioning Data Base          current products are
     (DPPDB))                       not acceptable,
                                    describe               Provide file/
     Does it require access to
                                    deficiencies or gaps   reference to
 1   Human Intelligence
                                    in ISP section 3 and   RAWS used
 5   (HUMINT) products or
                                    Appendix E and         & Options
     databases?
                                    requirements           documents.
                                    document section       Provide file/
     Does it require access to
                                    9.3, or Technology     reference to
 1   Open Source Intelligence
                                    Transition Plan        RAWS used
 6   (OSINT) products or
                                    Section 3.6            & Options
     databases?
                                                           documents.
                                                           Provide file/
     Does it require access to
                                                           reference to
 1   Modeling & Simulation
                                                           RAWS used
 7   (M&S) products or
                                                           & Options
     databases? (TMAP, etc.)
                                                           documents.
 1   Does it require access to                             Provide file/
 8   Order-of Battle products or                           reference to
86                                                            AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     databases?                                                               RAWS used
                                                                              & Options
                                                                              documents.
    Does it require access to
    finished/all-source
                                                                              Provide file/
    intelligence
                                                                              reference to
1 reporting/databases for
                                                                              RAWS used
9 target performance &
                                                                              & Options
    characteristics? Will the
                                                                              documents.
    current databases support
    system requirements?
    Does it require access to
    finished/all-source
    intelligence                                                              Provide file/
    reporting/databases for                                                   reference to
2
    threat projections and                                                    RAWS used
0
    foreign disruptive                                                        & Options
    technologies against your                                                 documents.
    program/project (include
    timeframe for projections)?
    Any additional intelligence
2 data or databasing
1 requirements not identified
    above?
                Intelligence Processes for R&D, Operations or Sustainment
  Identify data outputs for the specific program/research project but also consider long
    lead items that may be required to support full scale development, operations, or
                                         sustainment
    Is there a
    CONOPS/CONEMP, Ops                                                        If yes,
2 View (OV-1) or similar                                                      provide
2 document available that                                                     reference/lin
    describes how the system                                                  k.
    will be used?
    Are there KPP, KSA or
    similar performance
                                                                              If yes,
    requirements for this project
2                                                                             provide
    that are directly related to
3                                                                             reference/lin
    intelligence support? (e.g.
                                                                              k.
    navigation accuracy,
    targeteering, BDA)
    Does the program/project               If unknown and it is               Provide file/
    comply with existing                   determined that                    reference to
2
    mission planning,                      ISA will be                        RAWS used
4
    targeting/weaponeering or              continued on the                   & Options
    collection management                  effort, use RAWS                   documents.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                    87


    systems/processes? (e.g.               to work through
    Falconview, JMPS)                      mission planning
                                           needs. Provide link
                                           to RAWS used on
                                           comments. If
                                           currently not
                                           compatible,
                                           describe
                                           deficiencies or gaps
                                           in ISP section 3 and
                                           Appendix E and
                                           requirements
                                           document section
                                           9.3, or Technology
                                           Transition Plan
                                           Section 3.6

IF an ISR or Non Traditional ISR (NTISR) asset, consider the following, if not skip to
question 29
                                                               Provide as
                                                               much detail
                                       If no, skip to
     Is the program/project                                    as possible
                                       question 28. If yes,
     developing new PCPAD                                      about effects Provide file/
                                       answer the
     tools (Software or                                        on                reference to
 2                                     following to ensure
     Hardware) that will                                       user/analyst      RAWS used
 5                                     that tools will
     integrate/interface with                                  training,         & Options
                                       integrate/ interface
     existing systems/networks?                                personnel,        documents
                                       with existing
     (e.g DCGS, AOC)                                           comm/compu
                                       systems/networks
                                                               ter networks
                                                               and facilities.
     Has the program/project           If no and it is
     identified data                   determined that         Provide as
 2
     storage/archiving                 ISA will be             much detail
 6
     requirements for forward          continued on the        as possible
     deployed or CONUS PED?            effort, use RAWS        about
     Has the program/project           to identify types       precision,
                                                                                 Provide file/
     identified data                   and paths. If current accuracy,
                                                                                 reference to
 2 storage/archiving                   nodes are not           timeliness,
                                                                                 RAWS used
 7 requirements associated with        compatible,             update
                                                                                 & Options
     the tools required for            describe                periodicity,
                                                                                 documents.
     PCPAD?                            deficiencies or gaps formats, data
     What type of data (type,          in ISP section 3 and rates,
     volume, etc.) will be passed      Appendix E and          bandwidth,
 2
     to the PCPAD architecture         requirements            etc.
 8
     of the IC or other users (e.g.    document section
     national agencies, service        9.3, or Technology
88                                                                  AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


     intelligence centers, tactical          Transition Plan
     units)?                                 Section 3.6

IF data is sent to the program/project, or sent out of the program/project consider the
following, if not skip to question 31
                                              If no and it is
                                              determined that
                                              ISA will be
                                              continued on the
                                              effort, use RAWS
                                              to identify types
     Does the                                 and paths. If current
     program/project/data use the             nodes are not                          Provide file/
     existing communication                   compatible,                            reference to
 2
     systems? (LOS, BLOS)                     describe                               RAWS used
 9
     Have communication links                 deficiencies or gaps                   & Options
     and nodes been defined &                 in ISP section 3 and                   documents.
     characterized? (LOS, BLOS)               Appendix E and
                                              requirements
                                              document section
                                              9.3, or Technology
                                              Transition Plan
                                              Section 3.6

                                             If current data is
                                             not compatible,
     Does the data comply with
                                             describe
     existing IC or
                                             deficiencies or gaps
     interoperability standards?                                                     Provide file/
                                             in ISP section 3 and
     (e.g., formats, metadata,                                                       reference to
3                                            Appendix E and
     databases, etc.) This includes                                                  RAWS used
0                                            requirements
     determining security                                                            & Options
                                             document section
     required during                                                                 documents.
                                             9.3, or Technology
     communication
                                             Transition Plan
                                             Section 3.6

           Other Intelligence Considerations for R&D, Operations or Sustainment
                                          If unknown and it is
     Has the project considered
                                          determined that
     all other impacts to non-
                                          ISA will be                       Provide file/
     materiel issues? (DOTMLPF
                                          continued on the                  reference to
3    - Doctrine, Organization,
                                          effort, use                       RAWS used
1    Training, Materiel,
                                          DOTLMPF-P                         & Options
     Leadership and Education,
                                          RAW to assist in                  documents.
     Personnel, and Facilities) (if
                                          determining
     applicable)
                                          additional
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                                           89


                                             requirements
      Any additional intelligence
 3
      output requirements not
 2
      identified above?
                                     Intelligence Oversight
                                                                     Intelligence
      Will the program/project
                                             If yes, a Proper Use    Oversight for
      involve domestic data
                                             Memorandum              domestic
      collection (during
 3                                           (PUM) maybe             collection is
      developmental testing) over
 3                                           required; contact       required by
      US territory other than
                                             the Intelligence        AFI 14-104
      military facilities and test
                                             Oversight Monitor.      and other
      ranges?
                                                                     guidance.

 Date      ACAT                                 Primary Effort Name

 Date      ACAT                           Secondary Effort/Subsystem Name

                   Intelligence Sensitivity Tier Matrix
Note: ONLY COMPLETE THE APPLICABLE CRITERIA
                                                                                                   T
                                                                                                   o
                                                                                       None=
     Effort Name        High= 15pts         Medium= 10pts           Low= 5pts                      t
                                                                                        0pts
                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                   l
Crite
 ria      ACAT                I                    II                   III           Service
 1a
                                                                                     Unfunded;
Crite
                                           ACTD/ATD/HVP/            Funded; Un-        Normal
 ria     Visibility/
                       JUON/QRC/FCC        CE; Programmed           programmed       Operations/
 1b      Urgency
                                             Modification           Modification     Sustainmen
                                                                                          t
Crite Technolog
ria 2     y
                           TRL 6+               TRL 4-5               TRL 2-3          TRL 1
(Lab Readiness
  )     Level
                                                                                     3+ years or
Crite
         Proximity                                                                        no
ria 3
             to        Within 6 months        6-12 months            1-3 years        transition
(Lab
         Transition                                                                     partner
  )
                                                                                      identified
         Impact of     Significant – AF       Moderate –             Minimal –
Crite                                                                                 None or
         AF, ISR,         capability,      Upgrade to existing         Minor
ria 4                                                                                undefined
            or             Primary          program/system          improvement
90                                                         AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


      Intelligenc      Intelligence   (e.g. new software to subsystem
           e          Source; new        tool, improved   (e.g. SWAP);
       (PCPAD)     capability added    algorithm); minor   but minimal
      Infrastruct    to program of    impacts to PCPAD      PCPAD or
          ure      record (e.g. new      or DOTMLPF        DOTMLPF
                      sensor suite);          issues           issues
                   major impacts to
                        PCPAD or
                  DOTMLPF issues
                      Significant –
                   STA/TA written
                                     Moderate – STAR
                    by MAJCOM
                                     written by NASIC,
                      Intelligence,
                                      Support to test and
                    Support to test
      Developm                        M&S; limited new                  No Support
Crite             and M&S; major
      ent Threat                        IC production or     Minimal         or
ria 5               new collection,
       Support                          minor updates to                 Undefined
                  analysis or M&S
                                        existing finished
                    required by IC;
                                      Intel; limited RFIs
                  multiple new PRs
                                        to support R&D
                   to support R&D
                          efforts
                      Significant –
                        major new
                        collection,  Moderate – limited
                                                            Minimal –
                        analysis or   new IC production
      Sustainme                                             existing IC No Support
Crite                    databases   or minor updates to
       nt Threat                                           products are      or
ria 6             required by IC to     existing finished
       Support                                             acceptable;   Undefined
                    support Ops &    Intel; RFI; multiple
                                                            single user
                  sustainment; joint     AF or IC users
                   or multinational
                           users
                                                             Minimal
                                                           dependency
                       Significant
                                            Moderate             on
                    dependency on
                                         dependency on     intelligence
                     Intelligence to                                        Not
                                         intelligence to    to perform
      Intelligenc perform missions,                                      Dependent
                                       perform missions,     missions,
Crite       e          Significant                                           on
                                            Moderate          Minor
ria 7 Dependen         Intelligence                                     Intelligence
                                           Intelligence    Intelligence
           cy        requirements,                                           or
                                     requirements, Some requirements,
                         Multiple                                        Undefined
                                           intelligence       Single
                       intelligence
                                       agencies involved   intelligence
                  agencies involved
                                                             agencies
                                                             involved
Crite Milestone                                                          More than
                   Within 6 months    6 months to 1 year   1 to 2 years
ria 8 Proximity                                                           2 years
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                                         91


         (Circle A,
           B, C)
           JDP =
           JROC
 Crite   Interest or
                                                                   Yes
 ria 9      Joint
         Integratio
              n
                                                                         Total   0

Figure A6.1. Sample Initial Intelligence Sensitivity Assessment.
 92                                                              AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014


                                        Attachment 7
          ORIENTATION GUIDE FOR THE AFMC SIPRNET AI DATABASE

This guide depicts the site map for the Air Force Materiel Command’s acquisition intelligence
database.
AFPAM14-111 19 June 2014                                         93


Figure A7.1. AFMC Acquisition Intelligence Database on SIPRNET
