BY ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 33-305
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        22 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                            Communications and Information

                                                    POSTAL AUGMENTEE ORIENTATION



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/A6O                                                             Certified by: SAF/A6
                                                                     (Lt Gen William T. Lord)
Supersedes:   AFPAM33-305,                                                           Pages: 15
              27 June 2003


This pamphlet implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management;
Department of Defense (DoD) 4525.6-M, Department of Defense Postal Manual; and DoD
4525.8-M, DoD Official Mail Manual. This pamphlet is an orientation guide for personnel
tasked to augment overseas postal units during a wartime contingency or training situation
including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard. This pamphlet does not apply to the
Civil Air Patrol. It includes information on augmentee duties and instructions when preparing
for deployment to overseas areas. It defines what augmentees should know before deploying,
and addresses most major tasks an augmentee may have to perform. Military and civilian
supervisors will use this pamphlet as a means to familiarize personnel with their duties upon
selection as postal augmentees. Additional instructions and manuals are listed on the Air Force
Website at Uniform Resource Locator (URL): http://www.e-publishing.af.mil under Electronic
Publications. Direct questions or comments on the contents of this Pamphlet, through
appropriate command channels, to SAF/A6O, 1800 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-
1800. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the same address,
through appropriate channels, using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Send any Supplements to this Instruction to SAF/A6O, 1800 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1800, for review and coordination prior to publication. Provide a copy of
each final Supplement to same address. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                        AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates form and publication series, URLs, links, and organizational
designators. It includes changes in the reference glossary, acronyms, and abbreviations. It also
clarifies some roles and responsibilities and updates types of mail transport equipment.
1. Military Postal Service (MPS). The MPS is an overseas extension of the United States
Postal Service (USPS). As such, the MPS complies with USPS policies and procedures
according to public law, uses certain technical publications and USPS forms, and acquires Post
Office-unique equipment and supplies from USPS. The Secretary of the Army is the DoD single
manager for military postal matters. The Military Postal Service Agency (MPSA) is the
operating executive that provides policy and oversight to the MPS. The individual Services
Major Commands (MAJCOM) maintain command and control (C2) of their postal facilities.
2. Transportation. The USPS and MPS use all modes of transportation available (land, sea,
and air) to ensure mail reaches its final destinations as expeditiously as possible. For example,
priority mail goes by air, while lower classes of mail often go by surface. At Contiguous United
States (CONUS) gateway cities (New York, Newark, Chicago, Miami, and Los Angeles), USPS
personnel sort mail by five-digit geographical ZIP codes for Army and Air Force Post Offices
(APO), and Navy and Marine land based fleet post offices (FPO) during peacetime. USPS sorts
mail for all Navy and Marine mobile units, to nine-digit codes during peacetime and
contingencies. They may sort Army and Air Force mail to nine-digit codes when warranted
during contingencies.
3. Aerial Mail Terminals (AMT) and Military Post Offices (MPO). Once mail arrives in the
overseas theater, continued movement becomes the responsibility of the military. AMTs
normally operate at or near airports, and receive mail from commercial airlines. When
commercial air is not available, AMTs/APOs may receive mail from Air Mobility Command
(AMC) aircraft, and prepare it for delivery to each Service’s MPOs. Delivery can be
accomplished using contracted trucks, military vehicles, or additional air segments. The AMT
also uses the same air carriers to return mail received from MPOs to CONUS. Contingency
MPOs in deployed areas sort and deliver mail directly to unit mail clerks (UMC), who make
final delivery to the addressee. Permanent MPOs located in deployment locations use a
combination of the UMC system and Postal Service Center (PSC) concept to deliver mail to their
permanent party and deployed personnel.
4. Postal Contingency Mission. The MPS is the primary means the Air Force and other
services use to transport official and personal mail, priority supply items, publications, and other
materials to overseas areas during peacetime and contingencies. The Air Force’s mission for
postal contingency wartime operations is to establish a postal system (AMT and MPO mail
processing facilities, transportation network, and qualified postal personnel) within the
framework of the MPS to ensure mail is processed expeditiously, reliably, and cost effectively.
5. Augmentee’s Role. When your command tasks you to support an overseas postal unit, you
may augment an existing AMT or MPO. You could also find yourself assigned to a new postal
facility established to support the contingency. These facilities range from hard-sided existing
buildings (offices, hangars, portable buildings) to general-purpose tents. Your duties will vary
depending on which operation you augment (AMT or MPO). Official and personal mail
functions are combined within overseas AF post offices, so your duties will vary. We will
AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                   3


discuss your duties later in the pamphlet under Contingency AMT and MPO Augmentee Duties.
At the AMT and MPO you will have fully qualified postal personnel (Special Duty Identifier
(SDI) 8M000) to train, supervise, and assist you. During an actual contingency, every effort will
be made to provide full on-the-job training to the maximum extent possible.
6. Requirements. Individuals tasked to fill a contingency position must meet certain
requirements. Your Unit Deployment Manager will brief you on personal preparations and
requirements for deployment and will set up your deployment folder.
   6.1. For your unit to select you as a postal augmentee you may:
       6.1.1. Have no record of conviction by courts-martial.
       6.1.2. Have no record of punishment under Article 15, The Uniform Code of Military
       Justice, involving a postal-related incident.
       6.1.3. Have no civilian convictions other than minor traffic violations.
       6.1.4. Have no record of derogatory information or unfavorable conduct that casts doubt
       on your trust-worthiness and honesty.
       6.1.5. Possess excellent military bearing.
       6.1.6. Have no history of psychiatric disorder, alcoholism, or drug abuse, unless a
       medical evaluation determined the condition no longer exists.
       6.1.7. Have no record of financial irresponsibility.
       6.1.8. Have no previous releases from military postal duties for cause or criminal
       convictions.
       6.1.9. Meet the eligibility requirements for a SECRET clearance (an Entrance National
       Agency Check or National Agency Check must be on file).
       6.1.10. Not have physical restrictions prohibiting duty involving prolonged standing,
       walking, or lifting weight up to 70 pounds.
       6.1.11. Have a physical profile serial code (PULHES) of 211221 (see your military
       treatment facility for details).
   6.2. Once selected you may:
       6.2.1. Check with Base Legal Office to determine if a Will or Power of Attorney is
       desired.
       6.2.2. Obtain current Law of Armed Conflict and Rules briefing.
       6.2.3. Complete all immunizations for worldwide deployments.
       6.2.4. Possess a valid US civilian or government driver’s license.
       6.2.5. Possess a current government identification card.
       6.2.6. Possess personal identification tags (dog tags).
       6.2.7. Deploy with a complete issue of field clothing.
       6.2.8. Deploy with standard mobility bags and chemical warfare gear, as required. (See
       Attachment 2 for other items you should bring along.)
 4                                                       AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011


        6.2.9. Deploy with your government travel card and sufficient amount of currency.
     6.3. Antiterrorism (AT) and Travel:
        6.3.1. DoD personnel must comply with AFI 16-606, Foreign Clearance Program, prior
        to any foreign travel (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil).
        6.3.2. DoDD 2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism Program, and AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism,
        requires all personnel deploying or going on temporary duty (TDY) to overseas locations
        complete predeployment AT training. Prior to deploying, you must complete the
        following mandatory predeployment AT training and familiarization requirements:
            6.3.2.1. Complete a certified AT Level 1 Awareness program annually delivered by a
            certified Level II instructor or via the Joint Chief of Staff Online Awareness training
            (https://level1.dtic.mil/at). Document completed training at the deploying/TDY
            organization’s administrative section.
            6.3.2.2. Receive and review Joint Staff Guide 5260, Service Member’s Personal
            Protection Guide: A Self-Help Handbook to Combat Terrorism While Overseas, and
            “Antiterrorism Individual Protective Measures” card.
        6.3.3. Within 3 months prior to travel or deployment, all personnel must receive the
        deployment location’s current threat and intelligence information. This information will
        include: current threat level, history of anti-US, anti-government actions, modus operandi
        of terrorist organizations in the country, projections/assessment for future terrorism
        directed against DoD, and cultural aspects of the country or countries visited. Obtain
        information by contacting your local Air Force Office of Special Investigation, or
        servicing Intelligence Unit.
        6.3.4. You should prepare an individualized Force Protection (FP) plan. This plan
        should include such things as a list of safe havens, U.S. Embassy and police and
        emergency telephones numbers to use in an emergency. You FP plan should address
        actions and references needed to complete your mission. The U.S. Department of State
        travelers warning site, http://travel.state.gov/travel/tips/tips_1232.html will provide
        you with valuable help in creating your plan.
        6.3.5. Complete all the ancillary training requirements and ensure inoculation and
        medical records are up to date.
     6.4. The possibility exists you may be deployed to a location requiring the wear of civilian
     clothes. If this is the case you will be eligible for a partial clothing allowance. Business
     casual is the normal dress code for these locations; however, a tie may also be required for
     conducting business meetings with local airport, customs, or airline authorities.
7. Contingency versus Peacetime Operations. During a contingency situation, postal services
differ from peacetime operations. The main differences are limitations on personal mail and the
method and mode of transportation services available. Because of transportation, manpower, or
facility limitations, theater commanders may restrict personal mail at contingency locations to
first-class letter mail. Restrictions do not normally apply to official mail but can in extreme
circumstances. Also, during contingency operations the reduced manning tables do not allow for
Official Mail Centers (OMC) to make distribution runs on or off of the installation. UMCs pick
up and deliver mail at the OMC.
AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                     5


8. Personal Mail and Services. During a contingency, the theater commander may temporarily
suspend delivery of personal parcels and only allow first class mail delivery. However, personal
first-class mail may include digital media (voice and video) having characteristics of personal
correspondence provided they weigh less than 13 ounces. The post office will provide special
services such as money order sales, insurance, registered mail and certified mail to the maximum
extent possible, in a wartime situation.
9. Free Mail Privilege. At some point during a contingency, the Secretary of Defense and the
USPS may implement free mail privileges according to Title 39, United States Code, Section
3401, Postal Services, and Executive Order 12556, Mailing privileges of members of armed
forces of the United States and of friendly foreign nations. Free mail consists only of letter mail
and sound-recorded digital media (voice and video) classified as first class mail. The
implementing directives authorize free mailing privileges for members of the military services
and DoD civilians on duty in combat areas or under arduous conditions designated by the
President. These personnel must be in the area supporting the contingency operation or they do
not qualify for free mail. United States Postal Bulletins identify authorized Armed Forces mail
areas and are available for review at local post offices.
10. Unit Mail Room (UMR) Concept. The unit mailroom concept of mail delivery is normally
used during contingencies. PSC service is normally limited during contingencies, even at
permanent MPOs, due to the limited availability of mail receptacles and the transient nature of
deployed units.
11. Official Mail. Official mail pertains to US Government business. During a contingency,
official mail is usually unrestricted. In some instances, DoD or the theater commander may also
task the Air Force to provide service to international military commands, or agencies. DO NOT
arbitrarily implement these services locally unless approved by the supported unified command
and postal Single Service Manager.
12. Variables in Mail. Official mail volumes will increase significantly during contingencies
because of the increased requirement for replacement parts, medical supplies, and other critical
items required to support deployed forces. Move these items on a priority basis and as
expeditiously as possible.
13. Personnel Support. In a “contingency sustained environment,” a postal augmentee can
expect to work 12-hour days and 6-day weeks. Two personnel (one a qualified SDI 8M000) are
normally assigned to each contingency MPO servicing a population of less than 1,000 personnel.
Normally, an additional individual will augment the MPO for each increase of 500 over the
initial 1,000 personnel. Normally, a minimum of five personnel (at least two qualified 8M000)
are assigned to support each contingency AMT serving a population up to 5,000 personnel and
up to three MPOs. Normally, each increase of 1,500 personnel adds one additional person to the
wartime AMT manning. If the AMT is a 24-hour operation, these requirements increase by a
factor of 2.
14. Inter-service Activities. You could possibly fill a postal augmentee contingency
requirement at a MPO or bulk mail facility operated by one of the other services. The Military
Service with the predominant force at a given location normally has the lead to establish and
operate the MPO; the other services sometimes augment in proportion to their share of the total
population served.
 6                                                        AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011


15. Types of Mail. Usually, the Air Force handles two categories of mail during the initial
stages of a contingency--official and personal. Official mail is normally not restricted due to the
need to move replacement parts and other mission critical items. Personal mail is sometimes
restricted to first class mail weighing less than 13 ounces that consists of cards, letters, and
voice/video digital media having the characteristics of personal correspondence. The 13-ounce
restriction is normally imposed at the beginning of a contingency because of limited airlift,
inadequate facilities, or insufficient manpower. The Unified Commander establishes levels of
mail service and may include restrictions on all types of mail if necessary. In addition to normal
USPS mail restrictions and those restrictions levied by the supported theater commander,
personnel must also be familiar with and abide by the rules and restrictions of the host country.
Host country rules may further restrict certain types of mail. For example, in Saudi Arabia, host
country customs forbids the importation of religious articles or many types of magazines due to
its content or photography. Fitness magazines, swim wear magazines, etc., may be confiscated
upon arrival.
16. Classes of Mail. There are five classes of mail within the USPS available for use during
contingencies.
     16.1. Express Mail Military Service (EMMS). EMMS is not normally offered during
     contingencies due to guaranteed delivery times and lack of adequate air transportation.
     EMMS provides the fastest possible delivery of urgent mail. Delivery is guaranteed to
     eligible locations within three days. EMMS is pouched in easily identifiable orange and blue
     pouches. Postal personnel provide express mail expeditious and priority handling.
     16.2. First Class Mail. Commonly known as “Air Mail,” first class mail consists of any and
     all types of mail. Anything mailable can be sent first class. Items over 13 ounces are mailed
     at the Priority Mail rate and still receive expeditious handling and processing. First class is
     the next expeditious mode of mail movement after express mail.
     16.3. Periodicals. Previously called second class mail; periodicals consist of newspapers and
     magazines, published at a stated frequency that have the characteristics and intent of being
     published indefinitely. Periodicals travel by surface means in the transportation network and
     take longer to be delivered. Publications published weekly or more frequently are called
     Time Value Publications (TVP). TVPs are upgraded, due to their time sensitivity, and
     airlifted to overseas areas as Space Available Mail (SAM).
     16.4. Standard Mail. Consists of articles weighing less than 16 ounces and not afforded first
     class postage. Standard Mail replaced Standard Mail (A) and third class mail.
        16.4.1. Standard Mail (B). Commonly known as Parcel Post or Standard Mail (B),
        weighs at least 16 ounces and not more than 70 pounds. Space Available Mail (SAM)
        and Parcel Airlift (PAL) are Standard Mail services that replaced fourth-class mail. (PAL
        is Standard Mail that does not exceed 30 pounds or 60 inches in length plus girth
        combined and is treated as Air Mail within the CONUS).
17. Types of Extra Services. Extra services available during contingencies are:
     17.1. Registered Mail. This is the most secure service the USPS and MPS offer. It
     incorporates a system of receipts at every processing stop in route to the addressee to monitor
     the mail’s movement from the point of acceptance to delivery. Postal insurance coverage is
AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                       7


   provided for articles with a declared value; however, additional insurance can be purchased.
   Only mail paid with postage at first-class or priority mail rates can be registered.
   17.2. Certified Mail. Provides the sender with a mailing receipt and a delivery record at the
   post office of address. No record is kept at the origin post office that enters the piece into the
   system, nor do in route processing points maintain receipts. The destination post office
   maintains delivery records for two years. Insurance coverage is not provided. Dispatch
   certified mail and handle it in-transit as ordinary mail. Only first-class or priority mail can be
   accepted as certified mail.
   17.3. Insured Mail. Provides coverage for lost, rifled, or damaged articles. The liability
   limit is $5,000. Patrons can insure any class of mail but have to show proof of value if a
   claim is filed. The USPS Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) lists items (such as cash, airline
   tickets, and stocks) that cannot be insured.
   17.4. Return Receipt for Merchandise. Is a form of return receipt service that provides the
   sender with a mailing receipt, a return receipt, and a delivery record at the office of address.
   17.5. Delivery Confirmation. Provides the mailer with date and time of delivery, or if
   delivery was attempted and not successful. Mailers may call the USPS toll free number or
   access their web site at http://www.usps.com to retrieve delivery status.
   17.6. Intra-theater Delivery Service (IDS). IDS is a service provided free of charge to
   authorized postal patrons. IDS is not considered mail and may only be addressed between
   overseas post offices. IDS cannot be sent with extra services, and claims cannot be filed with
   USPS for loss or damage. Valuable items should not be sent as IDS; pay postage and
   insurance fee to prevent a personal financial loss. IDS items are transported on a space
   available basis in the same manner as SAM mail.
18. Evacuation and Destruction Possibilities. There is always the possibility of a directed
evacuation and a requirement to destroy postal effects. If an evacuation order occurs, the
MAJCOM postal activity directs the evacuation or destruction of classified materials, mail, and
postal effects according to local directives. Postal effects may include such items as official
registered mail, directory service cards, postage stamps and stamped paper, records, equipment,
mailbags, and furniture. Become familiar with your location’s emergency evacuation and
destruction plan.
19. Use of Mail Transport Equipment (MTE). MTE consists of containers that USPS uses to
carry or hold mail during processing or transportation within or between facilities. It includes
sacks, pouches, trays, wheeled containers, pallets, and hampers. Properly pouching and
transporting mail is the key to avoiding mail delays to the intended recipient. CONUS mail
processing plants determine the location within the facility and the priority to process the mail
based on the type, size, or color of the bag or mail tray. If alternate MTE must be used for the
type of mail you are dispatching, ensure the appropriate tag identifying the contents is affixed to
the outside of the bag. This will assist the CONUS gateway in properly processing the mail upon
arrival. Never mix parcels and letters in sacks going to CONUS.
   19.1. Types and Use of MTE
       19.1.1. Sacks. Generally used to transport flat-shaped mail bundles, irregular sized
       parcels, small parcels, and other small quantities of loose mail.
 8                                                          AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011


            19.1.1.1. Blue and Yellow Sacks. Used exclusively to transport USPS Express Mail.
        19.1.2. Trays. Used to transport faced, culled, and cancelled letter mail.
        19.1.3. Tubs. Used to transport flats and periodicals.
        19.1.4. Triwalls. Palletized 4’ x 4’ cardboard boxes used to consolidate and transport
        multiple sacks, trays, tubs, or loose mail. Normally, all contents are for the same ZIP
        code.
20. Types of Equipment. Postal equipment normally used at AMTs and MPOs and includes:
postage meter machines, 70 pound postage scales, 16 ounce bar scales, 125 pound airport scales,
money order imprinters, Postal Validation Imprinter, Integrated Retail Terminals, banding
machines, field safes, post office box kits for minor repairs, USPS pouches, sack racks, rubber
date stamp kits, etc. Postage stamps, postal cards, and envelopes are also maintained for use by
organizations and service members until free mail is implemented (see paragraph 9.).
Augmentees are not expected to deploy with any of this type of equipment.
21. Postal Offenses Defined. Postal offenses are occurrences that violate state or federal laws,
international agreements, or USPS/ DoD regulations, and that jeopardize the security of mail and
other USPS and DoD property. Postal offenses include but are not limited to:
     21.1. Mailing illegal drugs, pornographic material, or other prohibited matter. UMRs must
     contact their serving post office for guidance.
     21.2. Theft, rifling, delay, destruction, or interception of mail while under jurisdiction or
     custody of the MPS, at all levels.
     21.3. Alteration, destruction, or other unauthorized disposition of postal records.
     21.4. Use of the mail to defraud.
     21.5. Robbery, burglary, or forceful entry into military postal activities.
     21.6. Unauthorized use of MPS privileges. NOTE: For the reference authority, refer to DoD
     4525.6-M for further information on postal offenses.
22. Contingency Aerial Mail Terminal (AMT) Key Duties, Tasks, and Responsibilities may
include. The following are possible duties. They are not a statement of required training nor are
they all-inclusive:
     22.1. Process all mail originating, transiting, or terminating at the AMT:
        22.1.1. Accept outgoing official mail from OMCs and UMRs.
        22.1.2. Place outgoing mail into trays, pouches, or sacks.
        22.1.3. Prepare and affix routing labels and flight tags.
        22.1.4. Weigh and count outgoing mail.
        22.1.5. Sort outgoing mail by destination and prepare manifests for mail dispatched.
        22.1.6. Load and unload mail from various modes of transportation.
        22.1.7. Tender mail to AMC representatives or commercial airline representatives.
AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                9


     22.1.8. Safeguard official registered mail according to DoD 5200.1-R, Information
     Security Program, and DoD 4525.6-M.
  22.2. Receive incoming mail from AMC or commercial airlines:
     22.2.1. Check manifests against mail received to ensure proper receipt.
     22.2.2. Monitor host nation customs examination and document the disposition of
     confiscated items (if applicable).
     22.2.3. Sort incoming mail according to distribution schemes and deliver mail to MPOs
     and official base agencies.
  22.3. Process incoming and outgoing registered mail:
     22.3.1. Open registered pouches, verify contents, and endorse inside manifold dispatch
     bills.
     22.3.2. Deliver incoming registered mail.
     22.3.3. Cancel or postmark outgoing registered mail.
     22.3.4. Pouch, label, tag, and seal outgoing registered mail.
     22.3.5. Manifest and dispatch registered mail.
     22.3.6. Witness opening and closings of registered mail pouches.
     22.3.7. Process coded (high value) shipments and coordinate protection with Security
     Forces.
     22.3.8. Administer procedures associated with accountability and security of registered
     mail operations according to DoD 4525.6-M.
  22.4. Military postal service information systems:
     22.4.1. Prepare postal activity reports, postal net alerts (PNA), and other mail movement
     data analyses according to DoD 4525.6-M.
     22.4.2. Prepare transit time information worksheets and surveys as required. Report to
     appropriate authorities.
     22.4.3. Scan mail and upload into Automated Military Postal System (AMPS).
     22.4.4. Conduct and report survey data as required.
  22.5. Establish forms and publications requirements:
     22.5.1. Requisition, maintain, and update applicable USPS, DoD, and Air Force
     publications and forms.
     22.5.2. Inventory and order postal supplies and equipment.
     22.5.3. Control, audit, and safeguard accountable postal equipment.
  22.6. Identify and prepare postal offense reports according to DoD 4525.6-M:
     22.6.1. Make initial report to MPSA and send an information copy to the MAJCOM and
     parent unit within 24 hours.
 10                                                       AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011


       22.6.2. Submit 30-day follow-up reports until closed.
23. Contingency Military Post Office (MPO) Key Duties, Tasks, and Responsibilities may
include. The following are duties you may be required to perform. They are not a statement of
required training nor are they all-inclusive.
   23.1. Process all incoming mail:
       23.1.1. Pick up or arrange for transportation of incoming mail from the AMT or other
       sources.
       23.1.2. Load and unload mail from various modes of transportation.
       23.1.3. Process, store, and safeguard mail.
       23.1.4. Sort personal mail by organization or agency, and distribute to UMCs for
       delivery to patrons. Verify UMCs authority to receive mail with the DD Form 285,
       Appointment of Military Postal Clerk, Unit Mail Clerk or Mail Orderly.
       23.1.5. Prepare postal service forms involving notification and receipt of accountable
       and non-accountable mail.
   23.2. If the contingency location does not have an AMT or mail control activity (MCA),
   collocated with the MPO, the MPO clerk will perform these outgoing mail functions:
       23.2.1. Accept and dispatch outgoing official mail from OMC personnel.
       23.2.2. Place outgoing mail into trays, pouches, or sacks, and affix routing labels and
       tags.
       23.2.3. Weigh and count outgoing mail.
       23.2.4. Prepare truck manifests for dispatching mail to the nearest AMT, MCA, or
       airport.
   23.3. Provide directory service:
       23.3.1. Maintain personnel locator cards (non-unit personnel) or automated locator
       system.
       23.3.2. Process undeliverable as addressed mail.
       23.3.3. Send mail for casualties, personnel missing in action, and prisoners of war to the
       Casualty Unit for processing.
       23.3.4. Send mail only to authorized personnel.
       23.3.5. Provide directory service on mail for units returned to the CONUS, inactive
       units, decommissioned ships, or for disestablished stations.
       23.3.6. Process General Delivery and Hold Mail for incoming Permanent Change of
       Station or transient personnel.
   23.4. Maintain publications:
       23.4.1. Requisition, maintain, and update applicable USPS, DoD, and Air Force
       publications and forms.
   23.5. Military postal service information systems
AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011                                                               11


       23.5.1. Prepare reports, PNA, and other mail movement data analyses.
       23.5.2. Prepare worksheets and reports as appropriate.
   23.6. Identify and prepare Postal Offense Reports according to DoD 4525.6-M.
       23.6.1. Report to MPSA and the MAJCOM via AMPS, and send information copy to
       MAJCOM and parent unit within 24 hours.
       23.6.2. Submit 30 day follow-up reports until closed.
24. Conclusion. This pamphlet provides a general overview of the postal augmentee’s duties. If
you have further questions concerning postal operations at overseas locations, contact your
supervisor, the Communications Squadron Official Mail Center (CONUS), Postal Flight
(OCONUS), the MAJCOM postal representative as applicable for assistance, or visit the Air
Force        Postal      Operations       Community           of        Practice      (CoP):
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/AirForcePostal.

25. Adopted Forms.

DD Form 285, Appointment of Military Postal Clerk, Unit Mail Clerk, or Mail Orderly. AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            WILLIAM T. LORD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief
                                            Information Officer
 12                                                      AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, May 18, 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Code of Federal Regulation, Title 39, U.S.C., Section 3401, Postal Services
DoD 4525.6-M, Department of Defense Postal Manual, August 15, 2002
DoD 4525.8-M_AFMAN33-306, DoD Official Mail Manual, October 12, 2006
DoDD 2000-12, DoD Antiterrorism Program, certified current Dec 13, 2007
DoDD 4500.54-E, Foreign Clearance Program, Dec 28, 2009
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, Jan 14, 1997
Executive Order 12556, Protection of Cultural Property
Public Law 104-13, Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
USPS Administrative Support Manual (ASM)
USPS Domestic Mail Manual (DMM)
USPS International Mail Manual (IMM)
USPS Postal Operations Manual (POM)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABU—Airman Battle Uniform
AFDIR—Air Force Directory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMPS—Automated Military Postal System
AMT—Aerial Mail Terminal
APO—Air Force Post Office or Army Post Office
AT—Antiterrorism
CONUS—Contiguous United States
DMM—Domestic Mail Manual
DoD—Department of Defense
EMMS—Express Mail Military Service
AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011               13


FP—Force Protection
FPO—Fleet Post Office
IDS—Intra/Inner—theater Delivery Service
JQS—Job Qualification Standard
LCM—Letter Class Mail
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCA—Mail Control Activity
MPO—Military Post Office
MPS—Military Postal Service
MTE—Mail Transport Equipment
OMC—Official Mail Center
PAL—Parcel Air Lift
PNA—Postal Net Alert
PSC—Postal Service Center
SAM—Space Available Mail
SDI—Special Duty Identifier
TDY—Temporary Duty
TVP—Time Value Publication
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
UMC—Unit Mail Clerk
UMR—Unit Mail Room
USPS—United States Postal Service
 14                                                    AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 2
                                  DEPLOYMENT ITEMS

Table A2.1. Recommended Items. This listing contains items recommended by personnel who
have deployed on postal tasking in the past. This is not a complete list of items you may need.
You unit may direct you to take other/additional items when you deploy.

PROFESSIONAL ITEMS
A-Bag (includes sleeping bag, helmet, poncho, mess kit, etc.)…………………………1
AF Form 245, Employment Locator and Processor Checklist………………………….1
AF Forms 623 and 797 and JQS…………………………………………………………1
B and C Bag if necessary………………………………………………………………...1
DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data……………………………………………….1
ID Tags with Chain………………………………………………………………………1
Shot Records……………………………………………………………………………..1
Travel/Deployment Orders………………………………………………………………10
Weapon/Ammunition if necessary………………………………………………………1

CLOTHING
Belt……………………………………………………………………………………….1
Boots……………………………………………………………………………………..1
Caps………………………………………………………………………………………2
Duffel Bag/Footlocker…………………………………………………………………...1
Field Jacket (Seasonal)……………………………………………………………………1
Gloves with Inserts………………………………………………………………………..1
Socks………………………………………………………………………………………6
Tee Shirts………………………………………………………………………………….6
Undergarments……………………………………………………………………………6
Uniforms………………………………………………………………………………….3

PERSONAL/ADDITIONAL ITEMS
Air Mattress/Pad………………………………………………………………………….1
Clothesline (spool)……………………………………………………………………….1
Flashlight and Batteries…………………………………………………………………..1
Laundry Bag……………………………………………………………………………...1
Padlocks………………………………………………………………………………….2
Pillow/Pillowcase/Sheets/Blankets………………………………………………………1
Pocket Knife or Leatherman (less than 3-inch blade)…………………………………...1
Small Portable Radio……………………………………………………………………..1
Small Rug…………………………………………………………………………………1
Snacks…………………………………………………………………………………….1
Soap Powder………………………………………………………………………………1
Toilet Paper (Pk)………………………………………………………………………….1
Toiletries/Hygiene Kits……………………………………………………………………1
Towels……………………………………………………………………………………..2
AFPAM33-305 22 NOVEMBER 2011                                                              15


NOTE: Excess baggage is normally authorized up to 200 pounds. Check your Command’s
Reporting Instructions and your Country Specific Reporting Instructions, as well as with your
personnel readiness section for specific items you must bring and for the exact weight
allowances.
