BY ORDER OF THE                                                         AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 10-243
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                1 AUGUST 2002

                                                                                                 Operations

                                                                                AUGMENTATION DUTY




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPXJ (Mr. Ray)                             Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX (Maj Gen Speigel)
                                                                                           Pages: 9
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This pamphlet compliments AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. Refer recommended changes
and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAF/DPFJ, 1540 Air Force Pentagon, Washing-
ton DC, 20330-1540 on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The privacy
act of 1974 affects this publication. The authority to collect and maintain the data prescribed in this pam-
phlet is Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 8013. System of Records Notice Numbers, F036
HQ AFPC, Military Personnel Records Systems and F036 HQ AFPC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS),
apply. Ensure that all records created by this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139,
“Records Disposition Schedule.”
 The former Resource Augmentation Duty (READY) program, AFI 10-217, has been replaced with a
more flexible, commander directed augmentation program. As such, this pamphlet contains a compilation
of processes and procedures to help implement an effective program. The contents of this pamphlet are
recommendations only and may be used entirely or in part.

Section A—Mission

1. An augmentation program can assist commanders in validating, approving and documenting the need
for additional personnel resources to support installation-level requirements. It can also aid commanders
in identifying, training, and tracking personnel to meet short-term augmentee needs for installation-level
exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations/scenarios. Use of an augmentation program is
optional, and each installation should review its plans and requirements appropriately.

Section B—Responsibilities

2. The Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander should determine if an
installation augmentation program is required. If a program is required, it’s a local decision how it will be
implemented and managed. Should it be determined a program is required, the processes and procedures
2                                                                     AFPAM10-243 1 AUGUST 2002


in this pamphlet are offered as a structural framework for an effective program and may be used entirely
or in part.

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program

3. Processes and procedures
    3.1. If the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander determines an
    augmentation program is required, recommend only one program for an installation.
    3.2. Tenant units, at the discretion of the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU
    Commander, should be encouraged to participate in and receive benefits of the Host Installation aug-
    mentation program.
    3.3. All non-Air Force organizations (i.e., DoD, other Services, etc.) residing on Air Force installa-
    tions are strongly encouraged to participate in the augmentation program. Individual volunteers
    should be utilized after they obtain approval from their immediate commander.
    3.4. Recommend appointment of an installation augmentation program OPR (generally the installa-
    tion Vice Commander). The OPR should be responsible for establishing an augmentation review
    board (ARB) and appointing members.
       3.4.1. The ARB should manage all local augmentation programs. The augmentation program
       OPR should be the board chairperson and the approval authority for all augmentee call-ups.
       3.4.2. The ARB should be made up of two groups of people: the board members (paragraph
       3.4.2.1.) who represent the command structure at the group/wing level and those who function as
       board advisors (paragraph 3.4.2.2.) because of their unique positions in manning and requirements
       management. Board members and advisors should provide the Host Installation Commander with
       advice on decisions needed to meet the temporary augmentation needs of the installation. Advi-
       sors are an integral part of the board and represent the base functions that provide key information
       for ARB action.
           3.4.2.1. Board Members: The Installation Vice Commander (or appointed augmentation pro-
           gram OPR) should be the chairperson. The Operations Group Commander (equivalent or dep-
           uty); Maintenance Group Commander (equivalent or deputy), Mission Support Group
           Commander (equivalent or deputy), Medical Group Commander (equivalent or deputy) and
           other commanders as applicable, should act as board members. The ARB Chairperson may
           designate key members from other installation organizations as required (i.e., tenant organiza-
           tions and staff functions such as Staff Judge Advocate, Safety, etc.).
           3.4.2.2. Board Advisors: At a minimum, advisors should consist of the servicing Manpower
           Office (MO) representative (requirements and shortfall/reclama advisors) and a designated
           military/civilian personnel availability advisor. The chairperson may appoint additional advi-
           sors to attend the ARB as required.
           3.4.2.3. The ARB should be responsible for ensuring all local augmentation requirements are
           identified and met, and local training programs are established to meet those needs. The board
           should convene at least annually or more often, as directed by the chairperson, to revalidate
           requirements and prioritize exercise, contingency, wartime, or other emergency augmentation
           needs, and identify available resources to fill them. The board validates and approves augmen-
AFPAM10-243 1 AUGUST 2002                                                                                 3


          tation requirements and exemptions based on the servicing MO representative’s advice. The
          ARB has overall responsibility for tasking installation units to meet augmentation require-
          ments.
          3.4.2.4. The servicing MO representative to the ARB, using approved management engineer-
          ing methods, should assist units in determining total augmentation requirements under locally
          defined scenarios. The MO should advise units regarding documenting augmentee shortfall/
          reclama requests, attend all ARB meetings, and review all augmentation requirements and
          exemptions forwarded to the ARB for action. The MO should advise the ARB based on their
          assessment of the need for and utilization of augmentees, and recommend solutions to aug-
          mentee reclama/shortfall actions.
   3.5. The augmentation program OPR should appoint an installation augmentation program Manager
   for the day-to-day overall administration of the installation’s program. Specific responsibilities should
   be:
      3.5.1. Schedule ARB meetings, provide agendas, minutes and other documents to all the mem-
      bers.
      3.5.2. Brief the augmentation program OPR on all actions and recommendations of the ARB as
      required.
      3.5.3. Maintain a database of all augmentation requirements and augmentee training status.
      3.5.4. Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented and validated by the
      manpower office before being sent to the ARB for action.
      3.5.5. Publish a local operating instruction (OI) to establish procedures and define responsibilities
      for the administration of the installations augmentation program. At locations where an Air
      Reserve Component (ARC) and active duty are co-located, the OI should be coordinated through
      each component’s senior commander prior to finalization. The OI should include such things as:
          3.5.5.1. The procedures for determining exemptions, requesting exemptions, establishing
          requirements, tasking personnel, determining fair share taskings, replacing augmentees, and
          reporting shortfalls.
          3.5.5.2. The roles and responsibilities of the installation commander, augmentation program
          OPR, augmentation program manager, ARB members, and unit augmentation coordinators.
          3.5.5.3. Procedures to activate the augmentation program and what missions it would support.
          3.5.5.4. Procedures for identifying and tracking the training of augmentees.
          3.5.5.5. Any unique needs of the installation augmentation program.
   3.6. Each organization using or providing augmentation should appoint a unit augmentation coordi-
   nator to manage the unit augmentation program.
   3.7. The Installation Plans Office should ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios include
   ARB approved personnel augmentation requirements.

4. How to Use Augmentees.
   4.1. Augmentation means using people in other than their assigned Control Air Force Specialty Code
   (CAFSC) duties. After unit commanders (who are seeking augmentees) exhaust their military person-
4                                                                       AFPAM10-243 1 AUGUST 2002


    nel resource pool, recommend they look within their organization to see if there are skilled and/or
    trained Department of the Air Force (DAF) civilian members who can perform the duty prior to seek-
    ing assistance from other organizations through the ARB (see paragraph 5.2. and Section C, para-
    graph 7.).
    4.2. Establishing and Implementing Augmentation Requirements:
       4.2.1. Consider local needs and conditions when determining augmentation requirements. Aug-
       mentation requirements are used primarily to support temporary, short-term workload surges dur-
       ing wartime, contingency, natural disaster, and exercise situations. Sustained use of augmentees
       should not be used to offset normal manpower shortfalls.
       4.2.2. Units using augmentees decide augmentee duties and train the augmentees to perform those
       duties. Augmented units should fund for required training, necessary equipment, uniform items
       (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed boots, leatherwork gloves, reflective
       belts, etc.). The augmented unit tracks all required training and coordinates training with the aug-
       mentees’ unit augmentation program coordinator.
       4.2.3. Prior to augmentees departing for PCS, reassignment, separation, or retirement, the aug-
       mented unit augmentation program coordinator should assure replacements are identified and
       trained. Personnel who have established retirement or approved separation dates should not be
       selected for augmentation duties. Close coordination between using and providing units and the
       augmentation program manager should be established to ensure there are no shortfalls in provid-
       ing augmentee replacements.
       4.2.4. When relieved from augmentation duty, members should be given any documentation
       reflecting the state of their training, qualification, and/or certification.

5. Identifying Augmentees.
    5.1. Members assigned to a Unit Type Code (UTC), primaries and alternates, generally should not be
    assigned augmentation duties until all other eligible resources are exhausted. In the event eligible
    resources are not available, commanders may assign personnel on UTCs. The augmentation duties of
    UTC personnel should not conflict with their UTC training and deployment/on-call timeframe. Mem-
    bers assigned to a UTC are subject to deploy in support of an Operations Plan (OPLAN) that takes pri-
    ority over local augmentation requirements. Augmentation program duties should not be grounds for
    a shortfall or reclama of a deployment tasking.
    5.2. In addition to military personnel, commanders are highly encouraged to consider the use of DAF
    civilians, ARC, and contractor personnel in filling augmentation requirements.
       5.2.1. Before DAF civilian employees are used for augmentation duties all legal, regulatory and
       bargaining agreement stipulations should be followed closely.
       5.2.2. Collocated ARC units may be utilized to fill known augmentee requirements. Close coordi-
       nation and scheduling with the ARC units is required to ensure availability of personnel and fund-
       ing to meet the augmentation needs.
       5.2.3. Prior to placing contractor personnel in augmentation, the duty should be documented
       appropriately in the employee’s contract.
AFPAM10-243 1 AUGUST 2002                                                                                   5


   5.3. Types of augmentation performed by members assigned to a UTC should not require extensive or
   recurring training and should be for short-term usage.
   5.4. Augmentation trained people should not deploy in their augmentation duty. They may be dis-
   patched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emergencies whenever the
   use of DoD personnel has been properly authorized. In overseas areas, they may also be dispatched to
   those locations where the commander has a co-located operating base (COB) or forward operating
   location (FOL) base reception responsibilities.
   5.5. In an emergency, deployed commanders should consider forming a Site augmentation program
   and use deployed personnel for those duties.
   5.6. Restrictions apply when individuals and selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) recipients perform
   duty outside their CAFSC. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, paragraph 3.34, and AFI
   36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, paragraph 2.13, should be reviewed and com-
   plied with if required. Suggest no more than 120 days (90 days for SRB specialties) per year for aug-
   mentation duty.
   5.7. Trained augmentees should remain in the program for a minimum of one year after having been
   trained in their augmentation duties.

6. Augmentee Tracking and Training.
   6.1. The augmentation program manager and unit augmentation program coordinators should track
   all augmentees and the status of the augmentees’ training.
   6.2. Locally devised spreadsheets and/or databases and their contents can be locally determined. Rec-
   ommend they contain, as a minimum, the name, grade, unit of assignment, UTC (if applicable), dates
   of deployment vulnerability (if applicable), type of augmentation, date assigned, date qualified, and
   other information needed to track the training status.

7. Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation.
(Note: IAW Title 5 USC (Chapter 71), statutory, regulatory, collective bargaining agreements and obliga-
tions must be following before using civilian employees.)
   7.1. Employee participation.
       7.1.1. Augmentation duties assigned to civilian employees should be assigned to those whose
       official position description requires them to perform similar tasks. Management should look for
       civilian volunteers within their own organization, then volunteers from other organizations prior
       to tasking civilians to accomplish augmentation duties.
       7.1.2. Key and Emergency-Essential (EE) employees are identified as such because their job
       skills are critical during emergencies. Also, certain other Air Force civilians are subject to military
       recall. Therefore, it’s anticipated these categories of civilians would not be identified as augment-
       ees for contingency/wartime operations.
       7.1.3. Upon determining that augmentation needs require the skills and qualifications of Nonap-
       propriated Fund (NAF) employees or resources, the installation or other commander concerned
       should take necessary action to contract with the “owning” NAFI (Nonappropriated Fund Instru-
       mentality) for those services or resources. Such contracts with NAFIs are permissible under the
6                                                                     AFPAM10-243 1 AUGUST 2002


       circumstances addressed in AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures,
       paragraph 5.15. Prior to executing a contract, the 63- and 64- series Air Force directives should be
       reviewed and complied with if appropriate.
       7.1.4. Local National employees paid from Appropriated Funds may participate insofar as
       allowed by the Status of Forces Agreement of that country.
       7.1.5. Because of legal, regulatory, bargaining agreement and financial concerns, other than those
       already in like positions, civilian employees should not be allowed to perform duties where there
       is an inherent possibility of danger to life or limb, such as firefighters or security police.
    7.2. Official Credit for Augmentation. The augmentation duty to be performed by civilian employ-
    ees should be described in a letter addressed to each employee and signed by the supervisor of the
    augmentee, with an informational copy to the employee’s supervisor of record. The supervisor’s
    employee brief should be annotated to reflect each time the employee is assigned to perform the aug-
    mentation duty. If assignment of duties is anticipated to be for 30 or more consecutive calendar days
    and if the augmentation duties differs sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant
    a different classification, assignment should be handled as an official detail in compliance with the
    competitive process as outlined in AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions. Standard Core Personnel
    Documents (SCPDs) from the AF SCPD Library (http://www.afpc.af.mil) should be used to docu-
    ment augmentation duties whenever there is an SCPD that provides an accurate statement of the aug-
    mentation work assignment. Also, if during a 12-month period, the employee should accumulate 20 or
    more workdays performing augmentation and the duties differ sufficiently from the employee’s per-
    manent position to warrant a different classification, credit can be obtained by submitting proper doc-
    umentation to the CPF. The request should indicate duties performed, the period of time they were
    performed, and certification by the augmentation supervisor the employee performed those duties in a
    satisfactory manner. These duties should be coded into the DCPDS as a detail. Details are considered
    when determining qualifications for vacant positions. (See AFM 36-505, Skill Coding)
    7.3. Additional Information. The augmentee should meet all requirements of the augmentation
    duties. The augmentation supervisor should ensure the employee is properly trained to perform these
    duties by providing on-the-job training or formal training.
       7.3.1. Physical Qualifications. The augmentation duty supervisor needs to work with the CPF to
       determine if the augmentee duties require any physical qualifications other than those required by
       the employee’s regular job. If so, a physical examination should be conducted at no expense to the
       employee.
       7.3.2. Security Clearance. Augmentees selected for duties requiring special security clearances
       should be selected from those already possessing such a clearance.
       7.3.3. Compensation. Civilian employees required to work more than 8 hours a day or 40 hours a
       week are usually compensated appropriately either in the form of compensatory time off or pay-
       ment of overtime (paid from either owning or using organization funds). Premium pay for work
       performed on a Sunday or a holiday plus shift differential could be a factor, depending on hours
       worked. Determination of funds to be used should occur prior to overtime being performed. (See
       AFI 36-802, Pay Setting and AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday
       Observations)
AFPAM10-243 1 AUGUST 2002                                                                           7


     7.3.4. Local Collective Bargaining Obligations. Prior to implementation of local procedures for
     the assignment of civilian employees to augmentation duties, appropriate local bargaining obliga-
     tions must be satisfied IAW Title 5 USC, Chapter 71.



                                            CHARLES F. WALD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            DCS/Air & Space Operations
8                                                               AFPAM10-243 1 AUGUST 2002


                                              Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Overtime
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions
AFM 36-505, Skill Coding
AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CSS—Commanders Support Staff
COB—Co-located Operating Base
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DIN—Data Identification Number
DoD—Department of Defense
DPXJ—Readiness and Joint Matters Division
DPW—Director of Personnel Accountability
DPX—Division of Personnel and Systems
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EE—Emergency-Essential
FOA—Field Operating Activities
FOL—Forward Operating Location
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
AFPAM10-243 1 AUGUST 2002                    9


MAJCOM—Major Command
MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MO—Manpower Office
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
OI—Operating Instruction
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PC-III—Personnel Concept III
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
READY—Resource Augmentation Duty
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
SCPD—Standard Core Personnel Documents
SRB—Selective Reenlistment Bonus
TNG-YR-MO—Training-Year-Month
UTC—Unit Type Code
YYMM—Year Year Month Month (9812)
