BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 10-243
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             1 AUGUST 2002


                                                                MOODY AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                              30 APRIL 2013

                                                                                   Operations

                                                                   AUGMENTATION DUTY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                     e-publishing web site at: www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPXJ (Mr. Ray)                                      Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX
                                                                            (Maj Gen Speigel)
                                                                                   Pages: 24
                                       (MOODYAFB)
OPR: 23 WG/XPX                                                        Certified by: 23 WG/XP
                                                                     (Lt Col Steven A. Raspet)
                                                                                      Pages:15


This pamphlet compliments AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAF/DPFJ, 1540 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1540 on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. The privacy act of 1974 affects this publication. The authority to collect and
maintain the data prescribed in this pamphlet is Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section
8013. System of Records Notice Numbers, F036 HQ AFPC, Military Personnel Records Systems
and F036 HQ AFPC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS), apply. Ensure that all records created by
this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.”

The former Resource Augmentation Duty (READY) program, AFI 10-217, has been replaced
with a more flexible, commander directed augmentation program. As such, this pamphlet
contains a compilation of processes and procedures to help implement an effective program. The
contents of this pamphlet are recommendations only and may be used entirely or in part.

(MOODYAFB) AFPAM 10-243, 1 August 2002, is supplemented as follows: This supplement
implements AFPAM 10-243, Moody Air Force Base Supplement 1, Augmentation Duty. This
 2                                       AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


supplement is not intended as a standalone document, but is used in conjunction with AFPAM
10-243, 1 August 2002. This supplement establishes minimum standards for the 23 WG
Augmentation Program. This document aligns the Moody supplement with the Air Force
Pamphlet and establishes wing unique requirements for augmentation duty. It also provides
detailed guidance on the augmentation program. Send comments and suggested improvements
on an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, through channels to 23
WG/XPX. Ensure that all records created as a result of this process prescribed in the publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and dispose of them IAW AF Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records           Disposition           Schedule            (RDS)            located            at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(MOODYAFB) This is an original base supplement and must be completely reviewed. Major
items of interest include: The Augmentation Review Board (ARB) will meet annually or as
necessary as issues or conflicts arise. The group superintendents are appointed as the
augmentation coordinators. They will be responsible for allocating slots throughout their
squadrons and adjusting as necessary for deployment tempo. An annual review will be done
based on assigned strengths in the grades of Airman through Master Sergeant. The baseline
augmentation requirements will be based on the most current fair-share breakdown as illustrated
in Attachment 6, using the current listing of personnel assigned, considering current group
manning, exemptions, PERSCO TEMPO, RECLAMAS and using 23 FSS/FSMM manning tools
from Manpower Programming & Execution System (MPES). The augmentee roster will be
posted and maintained on Sharepoint. Group superintendents will adjust the numbers provided
by the units on a monthly basis to ensure there is a ratio of two trained personnel per augmentee
position. In order to maintain 2:1 ratio, the group superintendents will coordinate with their unit
augmentee coordinators (UAC) and unit superintendents. Group superintendents will track all
augmentee shortages and provide shortfall data to the ARB for action. The listing will be
validated quarterly by the group superintendents, the 23 WG/CCC, and the Manpower Office.
The Group superintendents will maintain the requirements listings and contact their UACs when
augmentees are required. The unit superintendent will provide the name of the trained person to
their UAC and to the group superintendent for each tasking. Once a tasking is approved by the
23 WG/CV, the tasking agency is responsible for recalls and notifications. Augmentees that are
needed in an emergency shall be requested via Installation Control Center Commander Directive
(CD) to the Unit Control Centers (UCC) which will begin the recall of augmentees. A release
message will be sent via all UCCs when augmentees are released back to their original unit.
Augmentees belong to the using agency for the duration of the tasking or until officially released
by the using agency. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of references. Attachment 2 contains
known wing augmentee requirements. Attachment 3 contains a description of augmentee team
functions.    Attachment 4 contains specific wing AFSC/functional area exemptions.
Attachment 5 contains a diagram of the augmentation key positions by organization.

(MOODYAFB) NOTE: The following numbered supplement directly coordinates with the
specific section of AFPAM 10-243’s numbering sequence.
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                                                                                            3



Section A—Mission                                                                                                                                   4
       1.        ...............................................................................................................................    4

Section B—Responsibilities                                                                                                                          4
       2.        ...............................................................................................................................    4
       2.      (MOODYAFB) The 23 WG/CC has determined that an installation augmentation
               program is required. ...............................................................................................                 4

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program                                                                                                  4
       3.      Processes and procedures .......................................................................................                     4
       4.      How to Use Augmentees. ......................................................................................                        7
       5.      Identifying Augmentees. ........................................................................................                     8
       6.      Augmentee Tracking and Training. .......................................................................                             9
       7.      Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation. ..........................................                                        9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                     12

Attachment 1—(MOODYAFB) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION                                                                                                                           14

Attachment 2—(Added-MOODYAFB) ARB CONSOLIDATED WORKSHEET.                                                                                          16

Attachment 3—(Added-MOODYAFB) ADP FUNCTION AND TEAM DESCRIPTIONS.                                                                                  19

Attachment 4—(Added-MOODYAFB) AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM
             EXEMPTIONS.                                                                                                                           22

Attachment 5—(Added-MOODYAFB) 23D WING AUGMENTATION PROGRAM
             DIAGRAM.                                                                                                                              23

Attachment 6—(Added-MOODYAFB) FAIR SHARE MANNING REQUIREMENTS.                                                                                     24
 4                                       AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013




Section A—Mission

1. An augmentation program can assist commanders in validating, approving and documenting
the need for additional personnel resources to support installation-level requirements. It can also
aid commanders in identifying, training, and tracking personnel to meet short-term augmentee
needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations/scenarios.
Use of an augmentation program is optional, and each installation should review its plans and
requirements appropriately.

Section B—Responsibilities

2. The Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander should
determine if an installation augmentation program is required. If a program is required, it’s a
local decision how it will be implemented and managed. Should it be determined a program is
required, the processes and procedures in this pamphlet are offered as a structural framework for
an effective program and may be used entirely or in part.
2. (MOODYAFB)The 23 WG/CC has determined that an installation augmentation
program is required. The guidance provided in this supplement along with AFPAM 10-243
will be used to manage the augmentation program.

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program

3. Processes and procedures
     3.1. If the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander
     determines an augmentation program is required, recommend only one program for an
     installation.
     3.2. Tenant units, at the discretion of the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or
     equivalent GSU Commander, should be encouraged to participate in and receive benefits of
     the Host Installation augmentation program.
     3.2. (MOODYAFB) This program was developed to support 23 WG units and agencies.
     3.3. All non-Air Force organizations (i.e., DoD, other Services, etc.) residing on Air Force
     installations are strongly encouraged to participate in the augmentation program. Individual
     volunteers should be utilized after they obtain approval from their immediate commander.
     3.4. Recommend appointment of an installation augmentation program OPR (generally the
     installation Vice Commander). The OPR should be responsible for establishing an
     augmentation review board (ARB) and appointing members.
     3.4. (MOODYAFB) The 23 WG/CC has appointed the 23 WG/CV as the installation
     augmentation program OPR. The 23 WG/CV is responsible for establishing the
     Augmentation Review Board (ARB), serves as chairperson of the ARB, and is the approving
     authority for all augmentee recalls.
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                                      5


     3.4.1. The ARB should manage all local augmentation programs. The augmentation
     program OPR should be the board chairperson and the approval authority for all
     augmentee call-ups.
     3.4.2. The ARB should be made up of two groups of people: the board members
     (paragraph 3.4.2.1) who represent the command structure at the group/wing level and
     those who function as board advisors (paragraph 3.4.2.2) because of their unique
     positions in manning and requirements management. Board members and advisors should
     provide the Host Installation Commander with advice on decisions needed to meet the
     temporary augmentation needs of the installation. Advisors are an integral part of the
     board and represent the base functions that provide key information for ARB action.
        3.4.2.1. Board Members: The Installation Vice Commander (or appointed
        augmentation program OPR) should be the chairperson. The Operations Group
        Commander (equivalent or deputy); Maintenance Group Commander (equivalent or
        deputy), Mission Support Group Commander (equivalent or deputy), Medical Group
        Commander (equivalent or deputy) and other commanders as applicable, should act
        as board members. The ARB Chairperson may designate key members from other
        installation organizations as required (i.e., tenant organizations and staff functions
        such as Staff Judge Advocate, Safety, etc.).
        3.4.2.1. (MOODYAFB) The ARB is comprised of the Chairperson (23 WG/CV)
        and all Group Commanders (equivalent or deputy).
        3.4.2.2. Board Advisors: At a minimum, advisors should consist of the servicing
        Manpower Office (MO) representative (requirements and shortfall/reclama advisors)
        and a designated military/civilian personnel availability advisor. The chairperson may
        appoint additional advisors to attend the ARB as required.
        3.4.2.2. (MOODYAFB) The following will serve as advisors to the ARB: 23
        WG/XPX (Plans), 23 LRS/CC, 23 FSS/CC, 23 FSS/FSMM, and other Moody tenant
        unit representation as applicable by MOU.
        3.4.2.3. The ARB should be responsible for ensuring all local augmentation
        requirements are identified and met, and local training programs are established to
        meet those needs. The board should convene at least annually or more often, as
        directed by the chairperson, to revalidate requirements and prioritize exercise,
        contingency, wartime, or other emergency augmentation needs, and identify available
        resources to fill them. The board validates and approves augmentation requirements
        and exemptions based on the servicing MO representative’s advice. The ARB has
        overall responsibility for tasking installation units to meet augmentation
        requirements.
        3.4.2.3. (MOODYAFB) The ARB will be held annually or as necessary to review,
        revalidate, and approve all base level augmentation requirements, prioritize base level
        augmentation taskings, and resolve conflicts between base functional areas.
            3.4.2.3.1. (Added-MOODYAFB) The base line augmentation requirements at
            Attachment 2 will be reviewed quarterly based on the most current fair share
            breakdown as shown in Attachment 6. The group superintendents will adjust the
            numbers provided by their units on a monthly basis, maintain the requirements
6                                     AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


              listing, and contact unit augmentee coordinators (UAC) when augmentees are
              required. The augmentee roster will be put on the SharePoint and the number of
              people required will be trained in a ratio of 2 to 1 for each position. Group
              superintendents will contact their UACs if the number of trained personnel does
              not match the 2 to 1 ratio.
           3.4.2.4. The servicing MO representative to the ARB, using approved management
           engineering methods, should assist units in determining total augmentation
           requirements under locally defined scenarios. The MO should advise units regarding
           documenting augmentee shortfall/reclama requests, attend all ARB meetings, and
           review all augmentation requirements and exemptions forwarded to the ARB for
           action. The MO should advise the ARB based on their assessment of the need for and
           utilization of augmentees, and recommend solutions to augmentee reclama/shortfall
           actions.
           3.4.2.4. (MOODYAFB) If requested, by the 23 WG/CV, 23 FSS/FSMM will
           conduct a Manpower Review of E-1 through E-7authorized manning levels during the
           ARBs. These numbers will be used to determine fair share taskings.
           3.4.2.5. (Added-MOODYAFB) 23 FSS/CC, or designated representative, will
           attend all ARB’s and provide advice on decisions needed to meet augmentee
           requirements.
    3.5. The augmentation program OPR should appoint an installation augmentation program
    Manager for the day-to-day overall administration of the installation’s program. Specific
    responsibilities should be:
    3.5. (MOODYAFB) 23 WG/CV has appointed the 23 WG/CCC as the installation program
    manager. The 23 WG/CCC will facilitate, coordinate, and administer the 23 WG
    Augmentation Program.
       3.5.1. Schedule ARB meetings, provide agendas, minutes and other documents to all the
       members.
       3.5.2. Brief the augmentation program OPR on all actions and recommendations of the
       ARB as required.
       3.5.3. Maintain a database of all augmentation requirements and augmentee training
       status.
           3.5.3.1. (Added-MOODYAFB) Training will be scheduled, conducted and
           documented by tasking organizations. This data will be provided to the group
           superintendents and affected UACs. Tasking organizations will also schedule,
           conduct and document any recurring training as needed.
       3.5.4. Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented and validated by
       the manpower office before being sent to the ARB for action.
       3.5.5. Publish a local operating instruction (OI) to establish procedures and define
       responsibilities for the administration of the installations augmentation program. At
       locations where an Air Reserve Component (ARC) and active duty are co-located, the OI
       should be coordinated through each component’s senior commander prior to finalization.
       The OI should include such things as:
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                                       7


          3.5.5.1. The procedures for determining exemptions, requesting exemptions,
          establishing requirements, tasking personnel, determining fair share taskings,
          replacing augmentees, and reporting shortfalls.
          3.5.5.2. The roles and responsibilities of the installation commander, augmentation
          program OPR, augmentation program manager, ARB members, and unit
          augmentation coordinators.
          3.5.5.3. Procedures to activate the augmentation program and what missions it would
          support.
          3.5.5.3. (MOODYAFB) 23 WG/IDO has the authority through the 23 WG/CV to
          activate augmentees.
          3.5.5.4. Procedures for identifying and tracking the training of augmentees.
          3.5.5.5. Any unique needs of the installation augmentation program.
   3.6. Each organization using or providing augmentation should appoint a unit augmentation
   coordinator to manage the unit augmentation program.
   3.6. (MOODYAFB) The group superintendents are assigned as the Group Augmentation
   Coordinators (GAC) for their respective groups.
      3.6.1. (Added-MOODYAFB) Group superintendents will provide a point of contact to
      the ARB when they are unavailable.
      3.6.2. (Added-MOODYAFB) Group superintendents are responsible for allocating
      slots throughout their group. The unit superintendent will provide names of trained
      individuals to the UACs and Group superintendents for each assigned tasking. An annual
      review will be accomplished based on authorized strengths in the grades of E-1 through
      E-7.
   3.7. The Installation Plans Office should ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios
   include ARB approved personnel augmentation requirements.
4. How to Use Augmentees.
   4.1. Augmentation means using people in other than their assigned Control Air Force
   Specialty Code (CAFSC) duties. After unit commanders (who are seeking augmentees)
   exhaust their military personnel resource pool, recommend they look within their
   organization to see if there are skilled and/or trained Department of the Air Force (DAF)
   civilian members who can perform the duty prior to seeking assistance from other
   organizations through the ARB (see paragraph 5.2 and Section C, paragraph 7).
   4.2. Establishing and Implementing Augmentation Requirements:
      4.2.1. Consider local needs and conditions when determining augmentation
      requirements. Augmentation requirements are used primarily to support temporary, short-
      term workload surges during wartime, contingency, natural disaster, and exercise
      situations. Sustained use of augmentees should not be used to offset normal manpower
      shortfalls.
      4.2.2. Units using augmentees decide augmentee duties and train the augmentees to
      perform those duties. Augmented units should fund for required training, necessary
 8                                        AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


        equipment, uniform items (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed
        boots, leatherwork gloves, reflective belts, etc.). The augmented unit tracks all required
        training and coordinates training with the augmentees’ unit augmentation program
        coordinator.
        4.2.3. Prior to augmentees departing for PCS, reassignment, separation, or retirement,
        the augmented unit augmentation program coordinator should assure replacements are
        identified and trained. Personnel who have established retirement or approved separation
        dates should not be selected for augmentation duties. Close coordination between using
        and providing units and the augmentation program manager should be established to
        ensure there are no shortfalls in providing augmentee replacements.
        4.2.3. (MOODYAFB) To ensure continuity, 30 days prior to an augmentee departing
        for PCS, PCA, separation, or retirement, the responsible UAC must ensure a replacement
        is identified, trained, and fully qualified to fulfill augmentee duties.
        4.2.4. When relieved from augmentation duty, members should be given any
        documentation reflecting the state of their training, qualification, and/or certification.
        4.2.4. (MOODYAFB) Augmentees will receive a letter of evaluation upon completion
        of Honor Guard duty.
5. Identifying Augmentees.
     5.1. Members assigned to a Unit Type Code (UTC), primaries and alternates, generally
     should not be assigned augmentation duties until all other eligible resources are exhausted. In
     the event eligible resources are not available, commanders may assign personnel on UTCs.
     The augmentation duties of UTC personnel should not conflict with their UTC training and
     deployment/on-call timeframe. Members assigned to a UTC are subject to deploy in support
     of an Operations Plan (OPLAN) that takes priority over local augmentation requirements.
     Augmentation program duties should not be grounds for a shortfall or reclama of a
     deployment tasking.
     5.2. In addition to military personnel, commanders are highly encouraged to consider the use
     of DAF civilians, ARC, and contractor personnel in filling augmentation requirements.
        5.2.1. Before DAF civilian employees are used for augmentation duties all legal,
        regulatory and bargaining agreement stipulations should be followed closely.
        5.2.2. Collocated ARC units may be utilized to fill known augmentee requirements.
        Close coordination and scheduling with the ARC units is required to ensure availability
        of personnel and funding to meet the augmentation needs.
        5.2.3. Prior to placing contractor personnel in augmentation, the duty should be
        documented appropriately in the employee’s contract.
     5.3. Types of augmentation performed by members assigned to a UTC should not require
     extensive or recurring training and should be for short-term usage.
     5.4. Augmentation trained people should not deploy in their augmentation duty. They may
     be dispatched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emergencies
     whenever the use of DoD personnel has been properly authorized. In overseas areas, they
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                                       9


   may also be dispatched to those locations where the commander has a co-located operating
   base (COB) or forward operating location (FOL) base reception responsibilities.
   5.5. In an emergency, deployed commanders should consider forming a Site augmentation
   program and use deployed personnel for those duties.
   5.6. Restrictions apply when individuals and selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) recipients
   perform duty outside their CAFSC. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, paragraph
   3.34, and AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, paragraph 2.13, should
   be reviewed and complied with if required. Suggest no more than 120 days (90 days for SRB
   specialties) per year for augmentation duty.
   5.7. Trained augmentees should remain in the program for a minimum of one year after
   having been trained in their augmentation duties.
6. Augmentee Tracking and Training.
   6.1. The augmentation program manager and unit augmentation program coordinators
   should track all augmentees and the status of the augmentees’ training.
   6.2. Locally devised spreadsheets and/or databases and their contents can be locally
   determined. Recommend they contain, as a minimum, the name, grade, unit of assignment,
   UTC (if applicable), dates of deployment vulnerability (if applicable), type of augmentation,
   date assigned, date qualified, and other information needed to track the training status.
       6.2.1. (Added-MOODYAFB) The group superintendents will maintain the current
       augmentee list on SharePoint. The augmentee list will be validated quarterly by the
       group superintendents, and the 23 WG/CCC to ensure personnel are trained in a ratio of
       2:1. The group superintendents will track all augmentee shortages and provide shortfall
       data to ARB members.
       6.2.2. (Added-MOODYAFB) Augmentees trained in CDF/DCC/PDF must be available
       for two years.
       6.2.3. (Added-MOODYAFB) Supported agencies are responsible notifying augmentees
       of requiring training.
       6.2.4. (Added-MOODYAFB) SFS augmentee requirements will be requested via ICC
       CD which will route through the UCCs for emergency purposes. SFS augmentees will be
       released back to their units through the UCC.
7. Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation.
(Note: IAW Title 5 USC (Chapter 71), statutory, regulatory, collective bargaining agreements
and obligations must be following before using civilian employees.)
   7.1. Employee participation.
       7.1.1. Augmentation duties assigned to civilian employees should be assigned to those
       whose official position description requires them to perform similar tasks. Management
       should look for civilian volunteers within their own organization, then volunteers from
       other organizations prior to tasking civilians to accomplish augmentation duties.
       7.1.2. Key and Emergency-Essential (EE) employees are identified as such because their
       job skills are critical during emergencies. Also, certain other Air Force civilians are
10                                     AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


     subject to military recall. Therefore, it’s anticipated these categories of civilians would
     not be identified as augmentees for contingency/wartime operations.
     7.1.3. Upon determining that augmentation needs require the skills and qualifications of
     Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees or resources, the installation or other
     commander concerned should take necessary action to contract with the “owning” NAFI
     (Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality) for those services or resources. Such contracts
     with NAFIs are permissible under the circumstances addressed in AFM 64-302,
     Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, paragraph 5.15. Prior to
     executing a contract, the 63- and 64- series Air Force directives should be reviewed and
     complied with if appropriate.
     7.1.4. Local National employees paid from Appropriated Funds may participate insofar
     as allowed by the Status of Forces Agreement of that country.
     7.1.5. Because of legal, regulatory, bargaining agreement and financial concerns, other
     than those already in like positions, civilian employees should not be allowed to perform
     duties where there is an inherent possibility of danger to life or limb, such as firefighters
     or security police.
  7.2. Official Credit for Augmentation. The augmentation duty to be performed by civilian
  employees should be described in a letter addressed to each employee and signed by the
  supervisor of the augmentee, with an informational copy to the employee’s supervisor of
  record. The supervisor’s employee brief should be annotated to reflect each time the
  employee is assigned to perform the augmentation duty. If assignment of duties is anticipated
  to be for 30 or more consecutive calendar days and if the augmentation duties differs
  sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant a different classification,
  assignment should be handled as an official detail in compliance with the competitive
  process as outlined in AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions. Standard Core Personnel
  Documents (SCPDs) from the AF SCPD Library (http://www.afpc.af.mil) should be used to
  document augmentation duties whenever there is an SCPD that provides an accurate
  statement of the augmentation work assignment. Also, if during a 12-month period, the
  employee should accumulate 20 or more workdays performing augmentation and the duties
  differ sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant a different
  classification, credit can be obtained by submitting proper documentation to the CPF. The
  request should indicate duties performed, the period of time they were performed, and
  certification by the augmentation supervisor the employee performed those duties in a
  satisfactory manner. These duties should be coded into the DCPDS as a detail. Details are
  considered when determining qualifications for vacant positions. (See AFM 36-505, Skill
  Coding)
  7.3. Additional Information. The augmentee should meet all requirements of the
  augmentation duties. The augmentation supervisor should ensure the employee is properly
  trained to perform these duties by providing on-the-job training or formal training.
     7.3.1. Physical Qualifications. The augmentation duty supervisor needs to work with the
     CPF to determine if the augmentee duties require any physical qualifications other than
     those required by the employee’s regular job. If so, a physical examination should be
     conducted at no expense to the employee.
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                                  11


     7.3.2. Security Clearance. Augmentees selected for duties requiring special security
     clearances should be selected from those already possessing such a clearance.
     7.3.3. Compensation. Civilian employees required to work more than 8 hours a day or 40
     hours a week are usually compensated appropriately either in the form of compensatory
     time off or payment of overtime (paid from either owning or using organization funds).
     Premium pay for work performed on a Sunday or a holiday plus shift differential could
     be a factor, depending on hours worked. Determination of funds to be used should occur
     prior to overtime being performed. (See AFI 36-802, Pay Setting and AFI 36-807, Weekly
     and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observations)
     7.3.4. Local Collective Bargaining Obligations. Prior to implementation of local
     procedures for the assignment of civilian employees to augmentation duties, appropriate
     local bargaining obligations must be satisfied IAW Title 5 USC, Chapter 71.




                                         CHARLES F. WALD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         DCS/Air & Space Operations

                                         (MOODYAFB)

                                         BILLY D. THOMPSON, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
 12                                    AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Overtime
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions
AFM 36-505, Skill Coding
AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CSS—Commanders Support Staff
COB—Co-located Operating Base
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DIN—Data Identification Number
DoD—Department of Defense
DPXJ—Readiness and Joint Matters Division
DPW—Director of Personnel Accountability
DPX—Division of Personnel and Systems
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EE—Emergency-Essential
FOA—Field Operating Activities
FOL—Forward Operating Location
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013      13


MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MO—Manpower Office
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
OI—Operating Instruction
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PC-III—Personnel Concept III
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
READY—Resource Augmentation Duty
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
SCPD—Standard Core Personnel Documents
SRB—Selective Reenlistment Bonus
TNG-YR-MO—Training-Year-Month
UTC—Unit Type Code
YYMM—Year Year Month Month (9812)
 14                                AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


                            Attachment 1 (MOODYAFB)
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002
Abbreviations and Acronyms
23 CES— 23d Civil Engineering Squadron
23 LRS/CC— 23d Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander
23 LRS/LGRDAS— 23d Logistics Readiness Air Terminal Operations
23 MSG/CC— 23d Mission Support Group Commander
23 FSS/FSMM— 23d Force Support Squadron Manpower and Organization Section
23 FSS/FSMP— 23d Force Support Squadron Personnel Section
23 WG/CC— 23d Wing Commander
23 WG/CV— 23d Wing Vice-Commander
23 WG/CCC — 23d Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant
23 WG/DS— 23d Wing Director of Staff
23 WG/IDO— 23d Wing Installation Deployment Officer
23 WG/XP— 23d Wing Plans and Programs
23 MDG/CC— 23d Medical Group Commander
23 MOS— 23d Maintenance Operations Squadron
23 MXG/CC— 23d Maintenance Group Commander
23 FG/CC— 23d Fighter Group Commander
347 RQG/CC — 347th Fighter Group Commander
23 SFS — 23d Security Forces Squadron
ACL— Allowable Cabin Load
ADP— Augmentation Duty Program
AEF— Air Expeditionary Force
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFRIMS— AF Records Information Management System
AFSC— Air Force Specialty Code
ARB— Augmentation Duty Program Review Board
ATSO— Ability to Survive and Operate
AWG— Augmentation Duty Program Working Group
BSD— Battle Staff Directive
CAT— Crisis Action Team
CCS— Contamination Control Station
CCA— Contamination Control Area
CCT— Contamination Control Team
CDF— Cargo Deployment Function
CED— Contingency/Exercise/Deployment
DCC— Deployment Control Center
DRU— Direct Reporting Unit
DSOE— Deployment Schedule of Events
DVO— Deployed Vehicle Operations
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013           15


EAL— Entry Authorization List
ECP— Entry Control Point
EEP— Exercise Entry Point
EOC— Emergency Operations Center
EOD— Explosive Ordnance Disposal
EMST— Emergency Management Support Team
FA— Fitness Assessment
FAC— Fitness Assessment Cell
GAC— Group Augmentee Coordinators
IAW— In Accordance With
IDO— Installation Deployment Officer
ICCD— Installation Control Center Directive
IPE— Individual Protective Equipment
MAJCOM— Major Command
MPES— Manpower Programming & Execution System
NBC— Nuclear-Biological-Chemical
NLT— No Later Than
PAR— Post-Attack Reconnaissance
PATP— Personnel Accountability Transition Point
PCS— Permanent Change of Station
PDF— Personnel Deployment Function
PL— Protection Level
PPE— Personal Protective Equipment
PTL— Physical Training Leader
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SART— Search and Recovery Team
SFS— Security Forces Squadron
SSS— Staff Summary Sheet
TDY— Temporary Duty
TFA— Toxic-Free Area
UAC— Unit Augmentee Coordinators
UCC— Unit Control Center
UDM— Unit Deployment Managers
UTC— Unit-Type Code
CAT— Wing Operations Center
XP— 23d Wing Plans and Programs
 16                                  AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


                            Attachment 2 (Added-MOODYAFB)
                           ARB CONSOLIDATED WORKSHEET.

Section A1A — Phase I and Real-World ADP Functions.
A2.1. Introduction. This attachment lists known 23 WG augmentees requirements for Phase 1
duty program or team listing.

Table A2.1. Cargo Deployment Function (CDF).
Team                           Manpower Required     Measurement Method
Gate Keeper                           4              Staffing Pattern
Quality Assurance                     2              Staffing Pattern
In-checker                           14              AFI 10-403 & Technical Estimate
Marshaller                            6              AFI 10-403 & Technical Estimate
Load Team                            12              AFI 10-403 & Technical Estimate
                                   Total 38

Table A2.2. Deployment Control Center (DCC).
Team                            Manpower Required      Measurement Method
Administrative                         2               Staffing Pattern
Board Poster                           2               Staffing Pattern
Runner                                 2               Staffing Pattern
                                     Total 6

Table A2.3. Personnel Deployment Function (PDF)/Air Passenger Function (APF).
Team                            Manpower Required       Measurement Method
APF Baggage                           12                AFI 10-403 & Technical Estimate
APF/TSA Screener                       8                AFI 10-403 & Technical Estimate
APF Security                          16                AFI 10-403 & Technical Estimate
APF NCOIC                              2                AFI 10-403 & Technical Estimate
TC/PAX Briefer (PDF)                   4                AFI 10-403 & Technical Estimate
                                    Total 42

Table A2.4. Red Carpet Team.
Team                            Manpower Required       Measurement Method
NCOIC                                  3                Staffing Pattern
Info Mgr/Typist                        1                Staffing Pattern
Baggage handlers/workers              10                Staffing Pattern
                                    Total 14
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                             17


Section A2B — Phase II and Real-World Functions.

 A2.
Team                            Manpower Required     Measurement Method
CCA Member                                 24         AFMAN 10-2503 Para: A4.2.2.2
                                       Total 24
Table A2.2.2. CAT/EOC Runner/PAR Team.
Team                            Manpower Required     Measurement Method
CAT/EOC Runner                              4         Staffing Pattern
PAR Team Member                             4         Staffing Pattern
                                        Total 8
Table A2.2.3. Emergency Management Support Team (EMST).
Team                            Manpower Required     Measurement Method
                                                      AFPAM 10-219,Volume 1, Table
EMST Member                                14
                                                      5.34 v
                                       Total 14
Table A2.2.4. Security Forces Team (SFS).
Team                            Manpower Required     Measurement Method
SFS Member                                 67         Post Manpower Requirements
                                       Total 67
Table A2.2.5. Exercise Entry Point (EEP).
Team                           Manpower Required Measurement Method
EEP Shift workers                       26        Staffing pattern
EEP NCOIC                                1        Staffed with a SNCO
                                     Total 27
Table A2.2.6. Honor Guard.
Team                           Manpower Required Measurement Method
Honor Guard                                       Staffing pattern by volunteers for 4
                                        25
                                                  months
                                     Total 25
Table A2.2.7. Bay Orderly.
Team                           Manpower Required Measurement Method
CE                                  8 per week    Staffing pattern
                                Total 8 per week
Table A2.2.8. XP Manning.
Team                           Manpower Required Measurement Method
As required for 18 month                          Each Group will submit one (SNCO,
rotations or as needed                            FGO or CGO as needed) as a nominee
                                    As required
                                                  to the 23 WG/CV and to the Chief of
                                                  XP
                                Total As required
 18                                 AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


Table A2.2.9. ATSO Team.
Team                          Manpower Required   Measurement Method
ORI/ORE ATSO Team                                 Required for ORE’s, ACC ORIs to
                                                  conduct OPFOR, Moulage taskings,
                                       12
                                                  ATSO inputs and trusted agent duties

                                   Total 12

Table A2.2.10. Fitness Assessment Cell (FAC).

Team                         Manpower Required       Measurement Method
PTLs                                                 AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program,
                             4                       Chapter 2 and AFI 36-2905
                                                     AFGM4 dated 26 Jun 12.
                             Total 4
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                                       19


                            Attachment 3 (Added-MOODYAFB)
                     ADP FUNCTION AND TEAM DESCRIPTIONS.

A3.1. (MOODYAFB) Cargo Deployment Function (CDF): A MSG function, responsible to
the DCC for accomplishing all activities required to process and load cargo for deployments.
The operations of the CDF are the responsibility of the CDF OIC/NCOIC. The CDF is
responsible for receiving, processing, and loading cargo aboard support aircraft according to the
final load plan. (NOTE: The units tasked to deploy are ultimately responsible for properly
preparing their own cargo for deployment. The CDF is the final authority as to whether the
cargo was properly prepared). The functional responsibilities of the CDF will consist of the
following sub-functions:
   A3.1.1. (MOODYAFB) Gatekeeper: Responsible for in-checking cargo as it flows into
   the CDF yard. Will notify the DCC cargo controller of in-check times. PPE requirements:
   Safety-toe boots, gloves, hearing protection. Members will be trained by 23 LRS/LGRDAS
   IAW AFI 10-403.
   A3.1.2. (MOODYAFB) Quality Assurance: This ensures all documentation is correct,
   adequate, posted, protected and processed properly and all equipment/material is properly
   configured for transport. PPE requirements: Safety-toe boots, gloves, and hearing
   protection. Members will be trained by
23 LRS/LGRDAS IAW AFI 10-403.
   A3.1.3. (MOODYAFB) In-Checker: Checks cargo increments for correct documentation,
   weight, and height. PPE requirements: Safety-toe boots, gloves, and hearing protection.
   Members will be trained by
23 LRS/LGRDAS IAW AFI 10-403.
   A3.1.4. (MOODYAFB) Marshaller: Ensures cargo is placed into proper chalk order
   according to the load plan. PPE requirements: Safety-toe boots, gloves, hearing protection.
   Members will be trained by
23 LRS/LGRDAS IAW AFI 10-403.
   A3.1.5. (MOODYAFB) Load Team: Transports, loads, and secures cargo onto aircraft.
   PPE requirements: Safety-toe boots, gloves, and hearing protection. Members will be
   trained by 23 LRS/LGRDAS IAW AFI 10-403.
A3.2. (MOODYAFB) Deployment Control Center (DCC): A MSG function, responsible for
the overall control, direction, and supervision of deployments. The DCC satisfies these
responsibilities by monitoring and directing unit personnel and cargo processing actions,
monitoring and directing transportation actions required processing cargo and passengers;
providing assistance in resolving problem areas, and verifying the Deployment Schedule of
Events (DSOE) is compatible with the scheduled flow of transportation. The DCC DSOE Cell
produces and publishes the DSOE and initial load plans. The DCC monitors these work centers:
the Personnel Deployment Function (PDF), Cargo Deployment Function (CDF), and
Deployment Vehicle Operations (DVO).
 20                                    AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


A3.3. (MOODYAFB) Personnel Deployment Function (PDF): A MSG function, ensures
deploying personnel are ready to deploy and have CED/TDY orders. The PDF is also
responsible for weighing, manifesting, briefing, and loading personnel with their baggage aboard
support aircraft IAW the DSOE. To accomplish this, the PDF will establish procedures to ensure
all deploying personnel have these services: passenger check-in, baggage processes, passenger
manifesting, passenger briefing, passenger holding and loading, and weapons/ammunition
handling. All deploying personnel will process through the PDF when it is active.
A3.4. (MOODYAFB) Red Carpet Team: A 23 WG function, receives and supports a higher
headquarters inspection team. This may also include Site Activation Task Force, Staff
Assistance Visit teams and other teams as directed by the 23 WG/CC.
A3.5. (MOODYAFB) Contamination Control Team (CCT): A MSG function, members
work closely under the supervision of 23 CES Readiness. Essential to sustained operations in a
chemical environment, they limit the spread of contamination into a Toxic-Free Area (TFA) so
personnel can work or obtain rest and relief without wearing Individual Protective Equipment
(IPE). They also provide a controlled environment to safely remove contaminated IPE.
A3.6. (MOODYAFB) Crisis Action Team (CAT) / Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
Runner/Post-Attack Reconnaissance (PAR) Team: A 23 WG function, performs CAT
entry/exit control, validates names against the Entry Authorization List (EAL), and ensures
accountability of CAT personnel at all times. Maintain Self-Aid Buddy Care currency and
functions as CAT Self-Aid Buddy Care POC. Maintains proficiency/currency as a member of
the PAR Team. Performs administrative duties as required within the CAT. Serves as a CAT
Runner; delivers Command Staff Directives (CSDs) and other information to the Personnel
Accountability Transition Points (PATPs) and other locations as needed. Provides "Comm-Out"
capability for information dissemination.
A3.7. (MOODYAFB) Emergency Management Support Team (EMST): A MSG function,
members work closely under the supervision of 23 CES Readiness. Operations the EMST may
be involved with include, but are not limited to, performing Nuclear-Biological-Chemical (NBC)
monitoring and NBC control center tasks, operating a radiological contamination control station
(CCS), and responding to full spectrum threat incidents. MAJCOMs and DRUs specify the
number of team members in their CEMP Plan 10-2.
A3.8. (MOODYAFB) Security Forces Team: A MSG function, perform duties as an Internal
and External Security Response Team Member, maintaining the capability to tactically respond
neutralize threats against Protection Level (PL) 2 and 3 assets. Provide immediate armed
response for any suspicious activities originating in or around any restricted areas. Respond to
in-flight and ground emergencies involving aircraft with mechanical malfunctions or munitions
mishaps. Provides traffic control and cordon duties, allowing a clear route of travel for
emergency responders. Monitors personnel entering and exiting the installation daily, ensures
the smooth flow of motorists and pedestrians remain in compliance with established base
instructions. Assist with random vehicle inspections to search for illegal drugs, weapons, and
stolen government property.
A3.9. (MOODYAFB) Exercise Entry Point (EEP): A MSG function, controls entry and exit
procedures for all base personnel participating in Phase II exercises or ACC IG/ORI.
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                                    21


A3.10. (MOODYAFB) Honor Guard: A 23 WG function, conducts ceremonies of decorum
for the base and local community, and conducts funeral ceremonies for veterans in the regional
area.
A3.11. (MOODYAFB) Bay Orderly: A MSG function that maintains dormitory facilities.
A3.12. (MOODYAFB) XP Manning: A 23 WG function comprised of personnel from
varying career fields coordinating exercises, plans, inspections, and ITT technology.
A3.13. (MOODYAFB) ATSO Team: Cross functional volunteers from the wing that
performs varying duties in conducting realistic exercise scenarios.
A3.14. (MOODYAFB) Fitness Assessment Cell (FAC): A 23 WG function, conducts
centralized official physical Fitness Assessments (FAs). PTL augmentees will not oversee or
conduct FAs for anyone in their unit.
 22                                     AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


                            Attachment 4 (Added-MOODYAFB)
                  AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM EXEMPTIONS.

A4.1. (MOODYAFB) ADP Exemption Process: All ADP exemption requests are forwarded
to the ARB by the affected unit's commander. All exemption requests are reviewed by the ARB
and must meet one of the following eligibility criteria: The emergency actions life-critical first
responder or coordinator/base-wide contingency personnel accountability, or professional
military education activity. When the exemption request is recommended by the unit
commander, the request is referred to the ARB for approval/disapproval.
A4.2. (MOODYAFB) Approved Exemptions: The following organizations and their
AFSC/functional areas authorized E-1 thru E-7 positions are approved by the ARB as exempt
from augmentee allocation calculations:
   A4.2.1. (MOODYAFB) 23 CES: 3E7XX (Fire Protection), 3E8XX (EOD), 3E9XX
   (Readiness & Emergency Management)
   A4.2.2. (MOODYAFB) 23 SFS: 3P0XI (Security Forces)
   A4.2.3. (MOODYAFB) 23 FSS: 3S0XI (Personnel PDF, PERSCO, and AI Readiness
   Function Only)
   A4.2.4. (MOODYAFB) 23 FSS: 8X000 (ALS/FTAC Instructors)
   A4.2.5. (MOODYAFB) 23 MOS, 23 EMS: 2AXXX and 2WXXX (MOC / Munitions
   Controllers Only)
   A4.2.6. (MOODYAFB) 23 OSS: 1CIXI (Air Traffic Controllers)
   A4.2.7. (MOODYAFB) 23 WG: 1C3Xl (Command Post Controllers)
   A4.2.8. (MOODYAFB) 23 LRS: 2T2XX (Air Transportation)
   A4.2.9. (MOODYAFB) 23 FSS: 8G000 (Honor Guard Superintendent)
AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013                                                                          23


                               Attachment 5 (Added-MOODYAFB)
                 23D WING AUGMENTATION PROGRAM DIAGRAM.

Figure 5.1. 23d Wing Augmentation Program Diagram.



     Augmentation Program Manager                              OPR
              Group Chiefs                                  23 WG/CV

        Augmentation Review Board
        WG/CV (Chair)                                                 ARB Advisory Committee
        MXG/CC                                                        23 FSS/FSMM
        MSG/CC                                                        23 WG XPX
        RQS/CC                                                        23 FSS/CC
        MDG/CC                                                        23 LRS/CC
        FG/CC
        CPTS/CC
                                                 Group Augmentation Coordinators

                       23 FG        347 RQG           23 MDG            23 MSG        23 MXG       23 WG/Staff
                       Chief          Chief            Chief             Chief         Chief          Chief

                      Unit Augee    Unit Augee        Unit Augee       Unit Augee     Unit Augee    Unit Augee
                        Coord         Coord             Coord            Coord          Coord         Coord

                                                                            CDF
                                                                            DCC
                                                                           DVO                          EEP
                                                                            PDF                     Red Carpet
                                                                           EMST                    CAT/EOC/PAR
                                                                            SFS                     XP Manning
                                                                           SART                    Honor Guard
                                                                        Bay Orderly
                                                                            CCT
 24                                  AFPAM10-243_MOODYAFBSUP_I 30 APRIL 2013


                         Attachment 6 (Added-MOODYAFB)
                    FAIR SHARE MANNING REQUIREMENTS.

Figure A6.1. Manning Calculations.
