BY ORDER OF THE                                            AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 10-243
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             1 AUGUST 2002
                                                             LAUGHLIN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                             1 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                   Operations

                                                                   AUGMENTATION DUTY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
                      Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
ACCESSIBILITY:
                      e-publishing web site at: www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPXJ           (Mr. Ray)                            Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX
                                                                            (Maj Gen Speigel)
                                                                                   Pages: 16
                                        (LAUGHLIN)
OPR: 47 FTW/CCC                                                      Certified by: 47 FTW/CV
                                                                      (Colonel Mark J. Doria)
Supersedes:   AFPAM 10-243_LAFB Sup                                                    Pages:7
              1, 15 June 2011


This pamphlet compliments AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAF/DPFJ, 1540 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1540 on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. The privacy act of 1974 affects this publication. The authority to collect and
maintain the data prescribed in this pamphlet is Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section
8013. System of Records Notice Numbers, F036 HQ AFPC, Military Personnel Records Systems
and F036 HQ AFPC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS), apply. Ensure that all records created by
this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.”

The former Resource Augmentation Duty (READY) program, AFI 10-217, has been replaced
with a more flexible, commander directed augmentation program. As such, this pamphlet
contains a compilation of processes and procedures to help implement an effective program. The
contents of this pamphlet are recommendations only and may be used entirely or in part.

(LAUGHLIN) This supplement complements AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. It
regulates the commander-directed augmentation program at Laughlin Air Force Base, to include
how to use augmentees and how to identify augmentees. It applies to all personnel stationed at
 2                                       AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013


Laughlin AFB except Reserve and ANG personnel. This supplement outlines the augmentation
requirements for Security Forces (SF), Honor Guard (HG), Readiness Support Team (RST),
Personnel Deployment Function (PDF), Drug Demand Reduction (DDR) and other
miscellaneous functions needed to effectively execute the wing’s mission. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Information Management Tool 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
The Privacy Act of 1947 affects this publication. Authority to collect and maintain the data
prescribed in this supplement is Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 8013. System of
Records Notice Numbers, F036 HQ AFPC, Military Personnel Records Systems and F036 HQ
AFPC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS), apply. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. AFPAM 10-243, 1 August 2002 is
supplemented as follows.


Section A—Mission

1. An augmentation program can assist commanders in validating, approving and documenting
the need for additional personnel resources to support installation-level requirements. It can also
aid commanders in identifying, training, and tracking personnel to meet short-term augmentee
needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations/scenarios.
Use of an augmentation program is optional, and each installation should review its plans and
requirements appropriately.

Section B—Responsibilities

2. The Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander should
determine if an installation augmentation program is required. If a program is required, it’s a
local decision how it will be implemented and managed. Should it be determined a program is
required, the processes and procedures in this pamphlet are offered as a structural framework for
an effective program and may be used entirely or in part.

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program

3. Processes and procedures
     3.1. If the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander
     determines an augmentation program is required, recommend only one program for an
     installation.
     3.2. Tenant units, at the discretion of the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or
     equivalent GSU Commander, should be encouraged to participate in and receive benefits of
     the Host Installation augmentation program.
     3.3. All non-Air Force organizations (i.e., DoD, other Services, etc.) residing on Air Force
     installations are strongly encouraged to participate in the augmentation program. Individual
     volunteers should be utilized after they obtain approval from their immediate commander.
AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013                                                     3


  3.4. Recommend appointment of an installation augmentation program OPR (generally the
  installation Vice Commander). The OPR should be responsible for establishing an
  augmentation review board (ARB) and appointing members.
     3.4.1. The ARB should manage all local augmentation programs. The augmentation
     program OPR should be the board chairperson and the approval authority for all
     augmentee call-ups.
     3.4.2. The ARB should be made up of two groups of people: the board members
     (paragraph 3.4.2.1) who represent the command structure at the group/wing level and
     those who function as board advisors (paragraph 3.4.2.2) because of their unique
     positions in manning and requirements management. Board members and advisors should
     provide the Host Installation Commander with advice on decisions needed to meet the
     temporary augmentation needs of the installation. Advisors are an integral part of the
     board and represent the base functions that provide key information for ARB action.
        3.4.2.1. Board Members: The Installation Vice Commander (or appointed
        augmentation program OPR) should be the chairperson. The Operations Group
        Commander (equivalent or deputy); Maintenance Group Commander (equivalent or
        deputy), Mission Support Group Commander (equivalent or deputy), Medical Group
        Commander (equivalent or deputy) and other commanders as applicable, should act
        as board members. The ARB Chairperson may designate key members from other
        installation organizations as required (i.e., tenant organizations and staff functions
        such as Staff Judge Advocate, Safety, etc.).
        3.4.2.2. Board Advisors: At a minimum, advisors should consist of the servicing
        Manpower Office (MO) representative (requirements and shortfall/reclama advisors)
        and a designated military/civilian personnel availability advisor. The chairperson may
        appoint additional advisors to attend the ARB as required.
        3.4.2.3. The ARB should be responsible for ensuring all local augmentation
        requirements are identified and met, and local training programs are established to
        meet those needs. The board should convene at least annually or more often, as
        directed by the chairperson, to revalidate requirements and prioritize exercise,
        contingency, wartime, or other emergency augmentation needs, and identify available
        resources to fill them. The board validates and approves augmentation requirements
        and exemptions based on the servicing MO representative’s advice. The ARB has
        overall responsibility for tasking installation units to meet augmentation
        requirements.
        3.4.2.4. The servicing MO representative to the ARB, using approved management
        engineering methods, should assist units in determining total augmentation
        requirements under locally defined scenarios. The MO should advise units regarding
        documenting augmentee shortfall/reclama requests, attend all ARB meetings, and
        review all augmentation requirements and exemptions forwarded to the ARB for
        action. The MO should advise the ARB based on their assessment of the need for and
        utilization of augmentees, and recommend solutions to augmentee reclama/shortfall
        actions.
 4                                       AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013


     3.5. The augmentation program OPR should appoint an installation augmentation program
     Manager for the day-to-day overall administration of the installation’s program. Specific
     responsibilities should be:
        3.5.1. Schedule ARB meetings, provide agendas, minutes and other documents to all the
        members.
        3.5.2. Brief the augmentation program OPR on all actions and recommendations of the
        ARB as required.
        3.5.3. Maintain a database of all augmentation requirements and augmentee training
        status.
        3.5.4. Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented and validated by
        the manpower office before being sent to the ARB for action.
        3.5.5. Publish a local operating instruction (OI) to establish procedures and define
        responsibilities for the administration of the installations augmentation program. At
        locations where an Air Reserve Component (ARC) and active duty are co-located, the OI
        should be coordinated through each component’s senior commander prior to finalization.
        The OI should include such things as:
            3.5.5.1. The procedures for determining exemptions, requesting exemptions,
            establishing requirements, tasking personnel, determining fair share taskings,
            replacing augmentees, and reporting shortfalls.
            3.5.5.2. The roles and responsibilities of the installation commander, augmentation
            program OPR, augmentation program manager, ARB members, and unit
            augmentation coordinators.
            3.5.5.3. Procedures to activate the augmentation program and what missions it would
            support.
            3.5.5.4. Procedures for identifying and tracking the training of augmentees.
            3.5.5.5. Any unique needs of the installation augmentation program.
     3.6. Each organization using or providing augmentation should appoint a unit augmentation
     coordinator to manage the unit augmentation program.
     3.7. The Installation Plans Office should ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios
     include ARB approved personnel augmentation requirements.
4. How to Use Augmentees.
     4.1. Augmentation means using people in other than their assigned Control Air Force
     Specialty Code (CAFSC) duties. After unit commanders (who are seeking augmentees)
     exhaust their military personnel resource pool, recommend they look within their
     organization to see if there are skilled and/or trained Department of the Air Force (DAF)
     civilian members who can perform the duty prior to seeking assistance from other
     organizations through the ARB (see paragraph 5.2 and Section C, paragraph 7).
     4.2. Establishing and Implementing Augmentation Requirements:
AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013                                                      5


     4.2.1. Consider local needs and conditions when determining augmentation
     requirements. Augmentation requirements are used primarily to support temporary, short-
     term workload surges during wartime, contingency, natural disaster, and exercise
     situations. Sustained use of augmentees should not be used to offset normal manpower
     shortfalls.
        4.2.1.1. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Local needs and conditions dictate the necessity for
        10 categories of augmentation requirements, to include SF, S&R, RST, HG, DDR,
        EOC (Emergency Operations Center), Fitness Assessment Cell (FAC), Personnel
        Deployment Function (PDF), Exercise Role Players and Installation Control Center
        (ICC) ECP.
     4.2.2. Units using augmentees decide augmentee duties and train the augmentees to
     perform those duties. Augmented units should fund for required training, necessary
     equipment, uniform items (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed
     boots, leatherwork gloves, reflective belts, etc.). The augmented unit tracks all required
     training and coordinates training with the augmentees’ unit augmentation program
     coordinator.
        4.2.2.1. (Added-LAUGHLIN) The augmented unit/function will interface with first
        sergeants to identify augmentees coming from units under their purview. The
        augmented unit is responsible for tracking all required training and coordinating
        necessary training with units providing augmentees. An appointment letter for SF
        Augmentation, S&R (core team only), RST and HG will be maintained by each
        augmented unit. Security Forces will maintain the SF Augmentee roster, CE
        Readiness will maintain the RST roster and the Force Support Squadron will maintain
        the S&R (core team only) and HG rosters. The remaining requirements may or may
        not have a roster as they are determined on a requirements-driven basis.
     4.2.3. Prior to augmentees departing for PCS, reassignment, separation, or retirement,
     the augmented unit augmentation program coordinator should assure replacements are
     identified and trained. Personnel who have established retirement or approved separation
     dates should not be selected for augmentation duties. Close coordination between using
     and providing units and the augmentation program manager should be established to
     ensure there are no shortfalls in providing augmentee replacements.
        4.2.3.1. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Any time an SF or HG augmentee departs for a 6-
        month or longer deployment, PCS, reassignment, separation or retirement, the unit
        providing the augmentee must provide a replacement. Use the template at
        Attachment 2 to provide a replacement. Tasking the same individual for two different
        augmentation categories (double-tapping) is allowed, provided the taskings are
        reasonably expected not to conflict.
     4.2.4. When relieved from augmentation duty, members should be given any
     documentation reflecting the state of their training, qualification, and/or certification.
     4.2.4. (LAUGHLIN) 1 (Added) Wing-level exercises that require the filling of
     augmentation duties will be held during no-fly or weather days to the maximum extent
     possible. During an exercise taking place on a normal flying day, affected units must
 6                                        AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013


        provide full accountability of their augmentees that cannot be released for mission
        reasons, as if they were sending them to perform those duties.
5. Identifying Augmentees.
     5.1. Members assigned to a Unit Type Code (UTC), primaries and alternates, generally
     should not be assigned augmentation duties until all other eligible resources are exhausted. In
     the event eligible resources are not available, commanders may assign personnel on UTCs.
     The augmentation duties of UTC personnel should not conflict with their UTC training and
     deployment/on-call timeframe. Members assigned to a UTC are subject to deploy in support
     of an Operations Plan (OPLAN) that takes priority over local augmentation requirements.
     Augmentation program duties should not be grounds for a shortfall or reclama of a
     deployment tasking.
        5.1.1. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Augmentation requirements breakout as follows: SF
        augmentee quotas: a minimum of 24 personnel are required. SF Augmentee training will
        occur the third week of January, April, July and October unless other circumstances
        prohibit training from occurring during that week. Training will be rescheduled for a
        different week as required. Each unit tasked with supporting the SF Augmentee program
        will provide one-fourth of their assigned quota for each training session. Once trained,
        these Airmen will be assigned SF Augmentee duty for a minimum of 12 months. Any
        time an Airman is on leave, TDY, quarters or profile they will notify the SF Augmentee
        Coordinator of their status to ensure proper accountability and overall readiness of the SF
        augmentee pool is properly maintained. Notifications will be made via e-mail to
        UDG_47SFS_TRAINING@us.af.mil. 47 SFS/S3T will conduct random compliance
        inspections with assigned augmentees to ensure availability is being properly reported.
            5.1.1.1. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Directed Activation: SFS will only activate their
            augmentees for FPCON Charlie or Delta during real-world or exercise scenarios. In
            addition, SF augmentees may be activated for special events (such as guarding two F-
            22s for an extended period of time). Upon completion of the scenario or event, and
            augmentees are no longer needed, 47 SFS/S3T will inform the affected units that their
            personnel have been released from augmentee duty.
        5.1.2. (Added-LAUGHLIN) 47 FSS will provide the core S&R team of 11 personnel as
        outlined in AFI 34-242. In the event an incident and/or exercise warrants additional
        personnel, the unit will obtain fair share numbers from the Manpower Office and request
        augmentees. These personnel are not required to be pre-identified and will only require
        just-in-time training.
        5.1.3. (Added-LAUGHLIN) RST Augmentee quotas: Requirement: 6 Personnel. The
        RST can come from any source but military is preferred. Their primary duties are to
        support the Readiness & Emergency Management Flight during response operations or
        situations where additional manpower is required to support the wing Emergency
        Management program. Individuals must meet the requirements in AFI 10-2501, para
        3.11.4.3. to be a member of this team.
        5.1.4. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Honor Guard (HG) requires a minimum of 24
        augmentees. WSA augmentation assignment will be determined by the 47 FTW Director
        of Staff and CPTS Commander. Due to the high visibility duties associated with the HG,
AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013                                                      7


     training is crucial and must be treated as a priority by supervisors and unit leadership.
     Commanders retain the authority to refrain from releasing a member for a tasking based
     on mission criticality, on a case-by-case basis. However, in the event that a member can
     no longer support HG training or tasking, the affected group must assign a new individual
     to the HG team. Personnel selected for the HG must be able to serve at least 12 months
     prior to PCS or PCA.
     5.1.5. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Drug Demand Reduction (DDR) quotas: A minimum of 4
     personnel are required for each day of testing; 2 male and 2 female. The following
     personnel are exempt from this detail: personnel separating or retiring within 6 months
     of their detail (not PCS-ing), medical providers, personnel assigned to the legal office,
     personnel on a control roster and personnel with an Unfavorable Information File. The
     OG will provide the DDR Office and the Staff Judge Advocate with a monthly list of
     appointees. The DDR staff will provide training at the DDR office on Mondays, 0745-
     0800. OG will provide observers during testing days. Units with personnel doing make-
     up tests on non-test days (when there are no observers assigned) will be responsible for
     providing observers. Responsibility to provide observers for unit sweeps or command-
     directed tests will be determined by wing leadership and the affected/supporting
     commanders on a case-by-case basis.
     5.1.6. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and Crisis Action
     Team (CAT) Augmentation: Ten (10) personnel are required for administrative support.
     WSA augmentation assignment will be determined by the 47 FTW Director of Staff and
     CPTS Commander. CSTs from CS will set up and perform ops checks on EOC/CAT
     equipment upon CAT activation. CSTs will be designated to be available on-call during
     EOC/CAT ops for any systems issues. The NCOIC of the Communications Focal Point
     will provide a list of available CSTs. Training for EOC/CAT admin personnel will be
     conducted IAW LAFBI 10-202. EOC/CAT Admin Requirements are distributed as
     follows: MSG – 5; OG – 3; MDG – 1; WSA/CPTS – 1.
        5.1.6.1. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Personnel should possess at least a 5 skill-level, be
        available for at least six months and have experience in the following areas:
        Knowledge operations, activity log/suspense management and information
        dissemination methods.
     5.1.7. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Fitness Assessment Cell (FAC) Program Manager. As
     mandated by the Air Force Fitness Assessment Cell (FAC) Program Management
     Transition Guide, FSS and installation leadership will identify a military member, SSgt or
     above, from any unit within the installation to perform the FAC Program Manager duties.
     Once assigned, the member will perform the FAC Program Manager duties on a full-time
     basis for a period of 180 days. This duty will rotate between the groups and will be
     tracked by 47 FSS/FSV. 47 FSS/FSV will inform the next responsible group NLT 30
     days before the current FAC Manager’s term expires. Per AFI 36-2905, duties will
     include training Unit Fitness Program Monitors (UFPMs) and Physical Training Leaders
     (PTLs) on fitness policies, assigning Air Force Fitness Management System (AFFMS)
     user roles, establishing and managing Fitness Assessment (FA) schedules, inputting FA
     scores in AFFMS, notifying UFPMs of failures, training PTL augmentees on conducting
     FAs, and providing monthly metrics to the MSG and wing. The FAC Program Manager
     will report to the FSV and elevate FAC issues and concerns to the flight chief.
8                                        AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013


       5.1.8. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Personnel Deployment Function (PDF): Requirements:
       4 Door Guards and 2 Escorts. Personnel are needed to help ensure chalk accountability
       and facility security when the PDF is activated. Door guards will secure all
       entrances/exits to the facility, conduct 100% ID card checks and ensure only authorized
       personnel are allowed entry into the facility. Escorts will accompany personnel that need
       to leave the PDF area to go elsewhere in the facility such as the restroom, Installation
       Deployment Readiness Cell (IDRC), etc. Members will wear ABUs/flight suits and must
       have ID cards on hand at all times. The IDRC is the POC for this augmentation
       requirement and will brief/orient members of their duties upon reporting.
       5.1.9. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Exercise scenario role players: Members are needed
       during exercises to play various roles, to include witnesses, victims, suspects and
       perpetrators. The 47 FTW/IGE determines the number of role players needed based on
       planned scenarios and tasks EET members to identify augmentees at least two weeks
       prior to an exercise.
       5.1.10. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Installation Control Center (ICC) ECP Augmentation
       requirement: Two personnel are needed to man the ICC ECP when the CAT/EOC is
       activated. WSA augmentation assignment will be determined by the 47 FTW Director of
       Staff and CPTS Commander. Members will ensure only authorized personnel are
       granted access to the CAT/EOC.
       5.1.11. (Added-LAUGHLIN) Once approved by the ARB, augmentation requirements
       and fair share allocations will be posted on the 47 FTW SharePoint site.
    5.2. In addition to military personnel, commanders are highly encouraged to consider the use
    of DAF civilians, ARC, and contractor personnel in filling augmentation requirements.
       5.2.1. Before DAF civilian employees are used for augmentation duties all legal,
       regulatory and bargaining agreement stipulations should be followed closely.
       5.2.2. Collocated ARC units may be utilized to fill known augmentee requirements.
       Close coordination and scheduling with the ARC units is required to ensure availability
       of personnel and funding to meet the augmentation needs.
       5.2.3. Prior to placing contractor personnel in augmentation, the duty should be
       documented appropriately in the employee’s contract.
    5.3. Types of augmentation performed by members assigned to a UTC should not require
    extensive or recurring training and should be for short-term usage.
    5.4. Augmentation trained people should not deploy in their augmentation duty. They may
    be dispatched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emergencies
    whenever the use of DoD personnel has been properly authorized. In overseas areas, they
    may also be dispatched to those locations where the commander has a co-located operating
    base (COB) or forward operating location (FOL) base reception responsibilities.
    5.5. In an emergency, deployed commanders should consider forming a Site augmentation
    program and use deployed personnel for those duties.
    5.6. Restrictions apply when individuals and selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) recipients
    perform duty outside their CAFSC. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, paragraph
    3.34, and AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, paragraph 2.13, should
AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013                                                           9


   be reviewed and complied with if required. Suggest no more than 120 days (90 days for SRB
   specialties) per year for augmentation duty.
   5.7. Trained augmentees should remain in the program for a minimum of one year after
   having been trained in their augmentation duties.
6. Augmentee Tracking and Training.
   6.1. The augmentation program manager and unit augmentation program coordinators
   should track all augmentees and the status of the augmentees’ training.
   6.2. Locally devised spreadsheets and/or databases and their contents can be locally
   determined. Recommend they contain, as a minimum, the name, grade, unit of assignment,
   UTC (if applicable), dates of deployment vulnerability (if applicable), type of augmentation,
   date assigned, date qualified, and other information needed to track the training status.
7. Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation.
(Note: IAW Title 5 USC (Chapter 71), statutory, regulatory, collective bargaining agreements
and obligations must be following before using civilian employees.)
   7.1. Employee participation.
       7.1.1. Augmentation duties assigned to civilian employees should be assigned to those
       whose official position description requires them to perform similar tasks. Management
       should look for civilian volunteers within their own organization, then volunteers from
       other organizations prior to tasking civilians to accomplish augmentation duties.
       7.1.2. Key and Emergency-Essential (EE) employees are identified as such because their
       job skills are critical during emergencies. Also, certain other Air Force civilians are
       subject to military recall. Therefore, it’s anticipated these categories of civilians would
       not be identified as augmentees for contingency/wartime operations.
       7.1.3. Upon determining that augmentation needs require the skills and qualifications of
       Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees or resources, the installation or other
       commander concerned should take necessary action to contract with the “owning” NAFI
       (Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality) for those services or resources. Such contracts
       with NAFIs are permissible under the circumstances addressed in AFM 64-302,
       Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, paragraph 5.15. Prior to
       executing a contract, the 63- and 64- series Air Force directives should be reviewed and
       complied with if appropriate.
       7.1.4. Local National employees paid from Appropriated Funds may participate insofar
       as allowed by the Status of Forces Agreement of that country.
       7.1.5. Because of legal, regulatory, bargaining agreement and financial concerns, other
       than those already in like positions, civilian employees should not be allowed to perform
       duties where there is an inherent possibility of danger to life or limb, such as firefighters
       or security police.
   7.2. Official Credit for Augmentation. The augmentation duty to be performed by civilian
   employees should be described in a letter addressed to each employee and signed by the
   supervisor of the augmentee, with an informational copy to the employee’s supervisor of
   record. The supervisor’s employee brief should be annotated to reflect each time the
10                                    AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013


  employee is assigned to perform the augmentation duty. If assignment of duties is anticipated
  to be for 30 or more consecutive calendar days and if the augmentation duties differs
  sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant a different classification,
  assignment should be handled as an official detail in compliance with the competitive
  process as outlined in AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions. Standard Core Personnel
  Documents (SCPDs) from the AF SCPD Library (http://www.afpc.af.mil) should be used to
  document augmentation duties whenever there is an SCPD that provides an accurate
  statement of the augmentation work assignment. Also, if during a 12-month period, the
  employee should accumulate 20 or more workdays performing augmentation and the duties
  differ sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant a different
  classification, credit can be obtained by submitting proper documentation to the CPF. The
  request should indicate duties performed, the period of time they were performed, and
  certification by the augmentation supervisor the employee performed those duties in a
  satisfactory manner. These duties should be coded into the DCPDS as a detail. Details are
  considered when determining qualifications for vacant positions. (See AFM 36-505, Skill
  Coding)
  7.3. Additional Information. The augmentee should meet all requirements of the
  augmentation duties. The augmentation supervisor should ensure the employee is properly
  trained to perform these duties by providing on-the-job training or formal training.
     7.3.1. Physical Qualifications. The augmentation duty supervisor needs to work with the
     CPF to determine if the augmentee duties require any physical qualifications other than
     those required by the employee’s regular job. If so, a physical examination should be
     conducted at no expense to the employee.
     7.3.2. Security Clearance. Augmentees selected for duties requiring special security
     clearances should be selected from those already possessing such a clearance.
     7.3.3. Compensation. Civilian employees required to work more than 8 hours a day or 40
     hours a week are usually compensated appropriately either in the form of compensatory
     time off or payment of overtime (paid from either owning or using organization funds).
     Premium pay for work performed on a Sunday or a holiday plus shift differential could
     be a factor, depending on hours worked. Determination of funds to be used should occur
     prior to overtime being performed. (See AFI 36-802, Pay Setting and AFI 36-807, Weekly
     and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observations)
     7.3.4. Local Collective Bargaining Obligations. Prior to implementation of local
     procedures for the assignment of civilian employees to augmentation duties, appropriate
     local bargaining obligations must be satisfied IAW Title 5 USC, Chapter 71.




                                          CHARLES F. WALD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          DCS/Air & Space Operations

                                          (LAUGHLIN)

                                          BRIAN E. HASTINGS, Colonel, USAF
AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013   11


                              Commander
 12                                    AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
(Added-LAUGHLIN) AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002
(Added-LAUGHLIN) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
(Added-LAUGHLIN) AFI 10-2501, AF Emergency Management Program Planning and
Operations, 24 January 2007
(Added-LAUGHLIN) AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs, 2 April 2008
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Overtime
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions
AFM 36-505, Skill Coding
AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARC—Air Reserve Component
(Added-LAUGHLIN) BOS—Base Operation Support
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
(Added-LAUGHLIN) CAT—Crisis Action Team
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CSS—Commanders Support Staff
COB—Co-located Operating Base
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
(Added-LAUGHLIN) DDR—Drug Demand Reduction
DIN—Data Identification Number
DoD—Department of Defense
DPXJ—Readiness and Joint Matters Division
DPW—Director of Personnel Accountability
DPX—Division of Personnel and Systems
AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013                13


DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
(Added-LAUGHLIN) ECP—Entry Control Point
EE—Emergency-Essential
(Added-LAUGHLIN) EOC—Emergency Operations Center
FOA—Field Operating Activities
FOL—Forward Operating Location
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MO—Manpower Office
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
OI—Operating Instruction
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
(Added-LAUGHLIN) PCA—Permanent Changes of Assignment
PC-III—Personnel Concept III
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
(LAUGHLIN) PCS—Permanent Change of Station
READY—Resource Augmentation Duty
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
(Added-LAUGHLIN) RST—Readiness Support Team
(Added-LAUGHLIN) S&R—Search and Recovery
SCPD—Standard Core Personnel Documents
(Added-LAUGHLIN) SF—Security Forces
SRB—Selective Reenlistment Bonus
TNG-YR-MO—Training-Year-Month
UTC—Unit Type Code
(Added-LAUGHLIN) WSA—Wing Staff Agency
14                            AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013


YYMM—Year Year Month Month (9812)
AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013                                                 15


                             Attachment 2 (Added-LAUGHLIN)
                         (PLACE ON OFFICIAL LETTERHEAD)

MEMORANDUM FOR

FROM:

SUBJECT: Change of (SF, S&R, RST, Honor Guard) Augmentee

1. I request that our (SF, S&R, RST, Honor Guard) augmentee be changed from (previous
name) to (new name, SSAN, duty phone) due to a pending (PCS, Retirement, Separation).

2. This letter supersedes previous letter appointing (previous name) as an augmentee.




                                                  Squadron Commander


cc:
47 FSS/FSO
Member
 16                                     AFPAM10-243_LAUGHLINSUP_I 1 AUGUST 2013


                             Attachment 3 (Added-LAUGHLIN)
                          (PLACE ON OFFICIAL LETTERHEAD)

MEMORANDUM FOR

FROM:

SUBJECT: Drug Demand Observer Detail Roster

DATE                  MALE                                 FEMALE
Date on standby       Male observers names                 Female observers names

1. Above is the Drug Demand Observer detail roster for place dates here. The ranks of SSgt
through Captain are tasked for this detail. The following are exempt from this detail: personnel
separating or retiring within six months of their detail (not PCS-ing), medical providers,
personnel on a control roster, personnel assigned to the legal office and personnel that have an
Unfavorable Information File.

2. If you cannot fill the detail on the scheduled date, please change with someone on the roster
and inform the Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP) Manager and the First Sergeant. The
DDRP Manager will schedule you for training and will also explain what your duties will be for
the week you are scheduled.

3. If you have any questions, my POC is place POC name here at 298-XXXX.




         //signed//
         Group Commander’s Signature Block
