                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                      AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 36-2506
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                         1 SEPTEMBER 1997

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                         YOU AND YOUR PROMOTIONS - THE AIR
                                                        FORCE OFFICER PROMOTION PROGRAM



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFPC/DPPPO (CMSgt Autumn                           Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPP (Col Stephen S.
     Foley)                                                                                  Lerum)
                                                                                          Pages: 21
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This pamphlet provides information to help personnel better understand the Air Force officer promotion
program. Because there are many technical and legal aspects of the promotion program and because
some policies change, refer to the governing directives (Air Force Instructions [AFI] 36-2501, Officer
Promotions and Selective Continuation, and 36-2402, Officer Evaluation System) for more specific infor-
mation or consult your military personnel flight (MPF) representative. This pamphlet implements Air
Force Policy Directive 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion,and applies to all Air Force officer per-
sonnel serving on active duty in the grade of colonel and below. (Spouses and other family members of
Air Force officer personnel should also read it.) It does not apply to US Air Force Reserves or Air
National Guard members. Do not supplement this pamphlet. Refer to Attachment 1 for abbreviations
and acronyms.

Section A—The Air Force Officer Promotion Program

1. A Part of Your Way of Life. You have chosen to serve your country as a member of the United
States Air Force. In accepting your commission, you obligated yourself to distinctive professional
responsibilities and a special way of life. The Air Force officer promotion program is an advancement
program for officers established in law, modified over time, and carefully managed by senior Air Force
officials. The Air Force promotion program is your program--you should understand it and be able to
explain it to your family and friends, and discuss it with contemporaries, subordinates and supervisors.

2. Purposes of the Officer Promotion Program. The Air Force officer promotion program’s purpose
is to select enough officers of the desired quality, in the proper grades, to carry out the mission. To do
this, the Air Force should promote officers in sufficient numbers as vacancies occur, maintaining the
strength of the Air Force in each grade and providing reasonable progression to retain a highly qualified
and motivated officer force:
   2.1. Other objectives include:
       2.1.1. Providing reasonably stable, consistent, and visible progression patterns for all competitive
       categories.
       2.1.2. Ensuring the best qualified officers are selected.
       2.1.3. Providing for accelerated promotion opportunities for officers with exceptional potential.

3. Terms Explained: The following are terms used throughout this publication:
   3.1. Active Duty List (ADL). A list of all officers serving on active duty, except for a few small cat-
   egories excluded by law. A separate list is maintained for officers in each competitive category (para-
   graph 3.4.). Officers are carried on the list in order of seniority in the grade in which they are serving.
   Eligibility for promotion consideration is based on the officer’s competitive category and position on
   the list.
   3.2. Best Qualified Method of Selection. Requirement that selection boards may recommend for pro-
   motion only those officers whose records, when compared with those of other eligible officers, reflect
   the greatest potential to serve successfully in the next higher grade. A numerical selection quota is
   applied. All selection boards, with promotion opportunity less than 100 percent, use the best qualified
   method of selection.
   3.3. Central Selection Board. A board of officers convened under the authority of the Secretary of the
   Air Force (SecAF) to consider ADL officers for promotion to the grades of captain, major, lieutenant
   colonel, colonel, brigadier general and major general. These boards are convened at HQ Air Force
   Personnel Center (AFPC), Randolph AFB TX.
   3.4. Competitive Category. A grouping of officers who by law compete among each other for pro-
   motion. The categories are Line of the Air Force (LAF), Judge Advocate (JAG), Medical Corps
   (MC), Dental Corps (DC), Chaplain (CHAP), Medical Service Corps (MSC), Biomedical Sciences
   Corps (BSC), and Nurse Corps (NC).
   3.5. Date of Rank (DOR). The date used as the primary means of indicating relative seniority among
   officers of the same grade and determining eligibility for consideration for promotion to the next
   higher grade. The DOR of officers promoted from promotion lists approved after 15 September 1981
   is the same as the effective date of the promotion. NOTE: Service academy graduates are assigned
   the same date of rank on graduation and will be placed initially on the ADL in order of their gradua-
   tion class standing.
       3.5.1. Seniority of officers with the same grade and DOR is determined by the following criteria,
       respectively:
          3.5.1.1. Previous DOR (if applicable).
          3.5.1.2. Total Active Federal Commissioned Service.
          3.5.1.3. Total Federal Commissioned Service.
       3.5.2. When the above criteria does not result in a determination of relative rank, Regular officers
       will precede Reserve officers.
       3.5.3. Regular officers will rank among themselves based on the following in the order listed:
          3.5.3.1. Date of presidential nomination.
          3.5.3.2. Date of Regular Air Force appointment acceptance.
          3.5.3.3. Date of birth (earliest takes precedence).


                                                 2
          3.5.3.4. Reverse social security number (SSN) (lowest takes precedence).
      3.5.4. Reserve officers will rank among themselves in the order listed (distinguished graduates of
      commissioning programs taking precedence over other Reserve officers):
          3.5.4.1. Date of birth (earliest takes precedence).
          3.5.4.2. Reverse SSN (lowest takes precedence).
   3.6. Effective Date of Promotion. The date specified in the order that announces the promotion. It is
   the date the officer is entitled to wear the insignia and receive the pay and allowances accompanying
   that grade. This is not the date an officer is notified of selection.
   3.7. Failed to be Selected. Officers considered for promotion In-the-Promotion Zone (IPZ) or
   Above-the-Promotion Zone (APZ) but not selected for promotion are commonly referred to as "non-
   selectees" or "deferred officers." Officers considered Below-the-Promotion Zone (BPZ) but not
   selected are not considered "failed to be selected for promotion." Paragraph 22. explains the conse-
   quences of nonselection.
   3.8. Fully Qualified Method of Selection. One-hundred percent of total eligibles may be promoted to
   first lieutenant provided designated commanders determine they are fully qualified. The same is true
   to major for MC and DC officers and captain for all competitive categories if central selection boards
   determine they are fully qualified.
   3.9. Phase Points. The average number of years and months of active commissioned service that
   most officers complete when promoted to a particular grade. The Defense Officer Personnel Manage-
   ment Act (DOPMA) guidelines are as follows:


Grade                                         Phase Point (years of service)
First Lieutenant                                            2
Captain                                                     4
Major                                                    9 - 11
Lieutenant Colonel                                      15 - 17
Colonel                                                 21 - 23

   3.10. Promotion Board Quota. For any one board, promotion opportunity (as a percentage) multi-
   plied by the number of officers eligible IPZ determines the promotion board quota.
   3.11. Promotion List. A list of all officers approved for promotion within a competitive category to
   the grade of captain and above. Officers are placed on the promotion list in order of seniority on the
   ADL and promotion sequence numbers are assigned accordingly. A separate promotion list is used
   for each competitive category. NOTE: Sequence numbers are not assigned for promotion to captain
   or for MC and DC officers. These promotions occur at prescribed times based on DOR in the current
   grade.
   3.12. Promotion Zones. Groupings of officers in the same grade who are eligible for promotion con-
   sideration in each competitive category on the ADL. There are three promotion zones:




                                                3
      3.12.1. Above-the-Promotion Zone (APZ). This zone represents the officer’s "late" consideration
      for promotion. These officers have previously failed IPZ selection to that grade (to include those
      removed from a promotion list to that grade) and are senior to officers being considered IPZ.
      3.12.2. Below-the-Promotion Zone (BPZ). This zone represents the officer’s "early" consider-
      ation for promotion. Officers are eligible BPZ at the two boards immediately preceding the board
      in which they are considered IPZ. This applies for promotion to the field grades only. NOTE:
      There are no BPZ considerations for promotion to captain in all competitive categories or for pro-
      motion to major in the MC and DC. If a captain will be eligible IPZ for promotion by the calendar
      year l998 major board, he or she will be eligible BPZ by the calendar year l996 and calendar year
      1997 major boards. Officers eligible BPZ are always junior to officers being considered IPZ.
      3.12.3. In-the-Promotion Zone (IPZ). This zone represents the officer’s "on-time" consideration
      for promotion to the next higher grade based on his or her current DOR. The opportunity for being
      selected for promotion is the highest when officers are eligible in this zone.
   3.13. Senior Rater. The official who completes promotion recommendation forms (PRF) on officers
   eligible for consideration by a HQ USAF Central Selection Board and also serves as a reviewer on
   officer performance reports (OPR). For majors and below, the senior rater must be at least a colonel
   (or equivalent) serving as a wing commander or equivalent. For lieutenant colonels, the senior rater
   must be a general officer (or equivalent) and will be the first general officer in the rating chain.
   3.14. Special Selection Board. A board convened under the authority of the SecAF to consider offic-
   ers for promotion to grades of captain through colonel who were not properly considered by one or
   more promotion selection boards. In addition, these boards can be convened to reconsider Regular
   Air Force Appointment, continuation, and selection for intermediate or senior service school. There
   are two bases for considering an officer by a special selection board:
      3.14.1. Administrative error--It is determined an officer should have been considered but was not
      considered or was not considered in the correct promotion zone or competitive category.
      3.14.2. Legal or material error--An officer is nonselected by a selection board, and it is deter-
      mined:
          3.14.2.1. The action by the board was contrary to law or involved material error of fact or
          material administrative error.
          3.14.2.2. The board did not have the necessary information for consideration that should have
          been available if instructions and policies had been followed.

Section B—Promotion Eligibility

4. When Are You Eligible for Promotion? How will you know if and when you are eligible for con-
sideration for promotion? The answer depends on your current grade:
   4.1. A second lieutenant will be eligible for promotion upon completing 24 months in grade. For
   other grades, the SecAF determines the specific eligibility criteria for BPZ, IPZ, and APZ consider-
   ation. Once the eligibility criteria are determined, the MPF gives each officer eligible for consider-
   ation an officer preselection brief (OPB) and officially notifies the officer that the board will consider
   him or her for promotion. In addition, the MPF makes a public announcement, through the base bul-
   letin or paper, so all eligible officers, supervisors, and commanders are aware of the upcoming board.

                                                 4
   4.2. In addition to meeting the basic eligibility criteria (time-in-grade), an officer must be on
   extended active duty at least 6 months before the central selection board convenes. This rule does not
   apply to MC and DC officers considered for major or other non-line officers being considered for pro-
   motion to captain.
   4.3. Furthermore, officers with an established DOS or retirement are still eligible for promotion if
   their DOS or retirement is not within 90 days of the board convening date. Board members will give
   these officers fair and equitable consideration.

NOTE:
The Air Force permits most officers selected for promotion to withdraw their DOS or retirement and to
accept the promotion with an appropriate Active Duty Service Commitment (ADSC).
   4.4. In most cases, a central selection board will consider first lieutenants for promotion to captain
   after they serve between 9 to 21 months as a first lieutenant. If selected, officers are promoted to cap-
   tain upon completing 24 months in the grade of first lieutenant.
   4.5. Captains, majors, and lieutenant colonels are not eligible for IPZ consideration to the next higher
   grade until they serve 3 years in their current grade. Generally, a central selection board will consider
   officers for major IPZ after about 10 years’ service; for lieutenant colonel after about 15 years’ service;
   and for colonel after about 20 years’ service. Officers in these grades are normally considered for pro-
   motion BPZ 2 years before their IPZ consideration.

Section C—Promotion Opportunities and Selection Rates

5. What is Your Promotion Opportunity? What does promotion opportunity mean? It is the approx-
imate percentage of officers in an accession year group that a central selection board will select for pro-
motion after competing for promotion to the next higher grade in all three promotion zones--BPZ, IPZ,
and APZ:
   5.1. On approving the promotion eligibility criteria to each grade, the SecAF also specifies the pro-
   motion opportunity for each competitive category. Because reasonably stable, consistent, and visible
   career progression is an objective of the promotion program, promotion opportunities do not change
   much, if at all, from year to year.
   5.2. Current promotion opportunities for LAF officers are 100 percent for captain; 90 percent for
   major; 70 percent for lieutenant colonel; and 50 percent for colonel. This percentage, applied to the
   number of IPZ eligibles, determines the maximum board quota. A percentage of the board quota is
   allocated to BPZ selections. Current BPZ percentages are 5 percent for major, 7.5 percent for lieuten-
   ant colonel, and 15 percent for colonel. NOTE: All BPZ and APZ selections are at the expense of
   IPZ selections.
   5.3. For each board, promotion opportunity multiplied by the number of officers eligible IPZ deter-
   mines the maximum number of officers the board can promote (i.e., maximum board quota). There is
   a limit on the number of officers that the board may select BPZ. This limit is determined by multiply-
   ing the maximum board quota by the BPZ percentage which SecAF has approved. If the full BPZ
   quota is used (and it normally is for Line officers), the number of promotions available for IPZ/APZ
   would be the board quota minus BPZ selections. EXAMPLE: The current promotion opportunity to
   major is 90 percent. If there are 3,000 officers eligible IPZ and 1,000 officers eligible APZ, the max-

                                                 5
   imum number of officers that could be selected from the total of 4,000 would be 2,700 (90 percent X
   3,000 = 2,700). The BPZ limit for major is 5 percent. If the board quota is 2,700, the maximum num-
   ber that the board may select is 135 (.05 x 2,700 = 135). The number of promotions available for IPZ/
   APZ would be the board quota minus BPZ selections or 2,565 (2,700 - 135 = 2,565).
   5.4. One common misunderstanding is that the selection rate is the same as the promotion opportu-
   nity. While promotion opportunity determines the maximum number of officers that a board can
   select, selection rates are the actual percentages of IPZ, BPZ, or APZ eligibles that were selected. Nor-
   mally, the board selects for promotion some officers eligible BPZ and APZ, thus reducing the number
   of promotions available for officers eligible IPZ. Using the previous example: 90 percent x 3,000 =
   2,700 (board quota: total available promotions); 2,700 x 5 percent = 135 (BPZ quota: maximum who
   can be promoted BPZ); 2,700 - 135 = 2,565 (available IPZ and APZ promotions); 2,565 - 300 (if 300
   APZ eligibles were selected) equals 2265 (IPZ selects); 2265 divided by 3,000 (IPZ eligibles) = 75
   percent IPZ selection rate.
   5.5. The IPZ selection rate for any one promotion board is usually lower than the promotion opportu-
   nity for that board.

Section D—Promotion Recommendation Form (PRF)

6. Line Officer Allocation Rates. Officers meeting a promotion board will have a PRF written by their
senior rater that will be included in the Officer Selection Record (OSR). The senior rater can make one of
three recommendations: "Definitely Promote" (DP), "Promote" (P), or "Do Not Promote This Board"
(DNP). Historical DP allocation rates for BPZ eligibles, and IPZ and APZ eligibles are as follows:


For Promotion To                      DP Allocation Rate (Line Officers)
                                       BPZ                   IPZ and APZ
Major                                  10%                       65%
Lieutenant Colonel                     10%                       40%
Colonel                                15%                       20%

EXAMPLE: Current DP allocation rate to major is 65 percent for IPZ/APZ and 10 percent for BPZ. If
there are 3,000 officers eligible IPZ and 1,000 officers eligible APZ, the total number of DPs for IPZ and
APZ officers would be 1,950 (3,000 x .65 = 1,950). If there are 2,000 officers eligible BPZ, the total num-
ber of DPs for BPZ officers would be 200 (2,000 x .10 = 200).

7. Selection of Officers With "Promote" Recommendations. Since the number of officers that a
board can select for promotion IPZ and APZ is greater than the number of DP recommendations, and
since a "DP" is not a guarantee of promotion, each board will select for promotion some officers who
receive a "Promote" recommendation. While the actual selection rate for officers with a "Promote" rec-
ommendation may vary from board to board, the anticipated selection rate IPZ for line officers who
receive a "Promote" recommendation is:




                                                 6
For Promotion To                                      Anticipated Selection Rate IPZ for LAF
                                                      Officers With A "Promote" Recommen-
                                                                      dation
Major                                                                   40%
Lieutenant Colonel                                                      35%
Colonel                                                                 25%

EXAMPLE: If there are 3,000 officers eligible IPZ to major and 1,415 received "Promote" recommenda-
tions, approximately 566 of the officers with a "P" would be promoted (1,415 x .40 = 566).

   7.1. It is a common misconception that a "DP" is a guarantee of promotion. While it should certainly
   enhance an officer’s opportunity, selection for promotion is ultimately the responsibility of the mem-
   bers of the promotion board, who will select officers based on the board members’ independent deter-
   mination as to who is best qualified. The PRF is but one document in the selection record, though an
   important one, that selection boards will consider.


8. Competitive Category Exceptions. There are some exceptions for using PRFs in promotion boards.
When the promotion opportunity is 100%, only "Do Not Promote This Board" PRFs are prepared. The
reason is that the eligible officers compete on a fully qualified basis:
   8.1. First lieutenants in the JAG competitive category do not receive a PRF. They are promoted after
   approximately 6 months of active duty and on a fully qualified basis.
   8.2. In those cases where the board uses DP recommendations for non-line officers, the selection
   rates may differ from the comparable Line rates since the promotion opportunity for some non-line
   categories differs from the Line promotion opportunity.

Section E—Selection Boards

9. Scheduling Selection Boards. The convening dates for major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel selec-
tion boards vary from year to year. Boards are scheduled far enough ahead, and prior to exhausting a cur-
rent list to ensure a promotion list for each grade is always available from which to promote. Each year
the number of eligibles the board considers varies as does the number it selects. The larger the year group,
the larger the number of selects; therefore, the longer it takes to pin-on. This is one of the main reasons
promotion boards are convened at different times during the year:
   9.1. Captain line and chaplain boards are held annually, captain BSC/MSC/NC boards are held semi-
   annually, and captain JAG boards are held quarterly. First lieutenants are normally promoted after 2
   years in grade without regard to vacancies. Officers selected for major and above are promoted only
   as vacancies occur, except for MC and DC officers who are promoted after they complete prescribed
   periods of time.
   9.2. Each year, HQ AFPC/Selection Board Secretariat publishes selection board schedules and
   updates them as necessary. Your MPF has a current schedule.


                                                 7
10. What Documents Do Central Selection Boards Consider? When a central selection board con-
siders you for promotion, board members review your HQ USAF Officer Selection Record (OSR) main-
tained at HQ AFPC, Randolph AFB TX:
   10.1. Documents included in selection records are:
      10.1.1. OPRs, officer effectiveness reports (OER), PRFs, training reports (TR), and supplemental
      evaluation sheets such as mandatory letters of evaluation (LOE). All OPRs, OERs, and TRs ren-
      dered since you were commissioned are included. PRFs exist in your OSR only for a particular
      board and are removed from the selection record after that board adjourns. The PRFs are for-
      warded to HQ AFPC/Master Record Division for placement on microfiche. Once filmed, the
      PRFs are destroyed.
      10.1.2. An AF Form 11, Officer Military Record. This is a historical document for all officers
      commissioned before 5 April 1974. These forms are obsolete and have not been updated since
      April 1974.
      10.1.3. Citations for approved US decorations. Special orders are used when a citation is not
      given for the decoration. Approved awards (e.g., AF Outstanding Unit Award, Humanitarian Ser-
      vice Medal, etc.) are not part of the OSR.
      10.1.4. An officer selection brief (OSB). The OSB has the same data items as the Officer
      Pre-Selection Brief (OPB) that is provided to officers for review and update approximately 90
      days before the board convenes. The OPB and instructions on how to correct errors are provided
      to eligible officers by the Promotions Unit at their MPF. An example is at Attachment 2.
      10.1.5. A specialty board certification (letter or certificate) for members of the Medical, Dental,
      Nurse, and Medical Service Corps.
      10.1.6. Operational deferment letters for Professional Military Education (PME).
      10.1.7. A letter to the board from an eligible officer. The board permits letters from officers it is
      considering IPZ, APZ, or BPZ. Letters are in selection records while the board is in session. The
      Board Secretariat removes them after the results are approved and the letters are destroyed or
      returned to the officer upon his or her advanced request.
      10.1.8. The commander’s letter recommending the board find an officer not qualified for promo-
      tion (NQP). Even though a commander may recommend to a board that it find an officer NQP, the
      board will still consider the officer. The commander must notify an officer in writing and give the
      officer a chance to comment if the commander takes action to recommend that a board find the
      officer NQP. A commander may submit an NQP letter on an officer after the PRF has been ren-
      dered if an officer’s actions subsequently cause his or her commander to consider it inappropriate
      to select the officer for promotion.
      10.1.9. Court-martial orders containing or reflecting approved findings of guilt (mandatory and
      permanent filing).
      10.1.10. Air Force Forms 366, Record of Proceedings of Vacation of Suspended Nonjudicial
      Punishment, 3070, Record of Nonjudicial Punishment Proceedings, and 3212, Record of
      Supplementary Action Under Article l5, UCMJ, regarding nonjudicial punishment (optional
      filing by the commander).
      10.1.11. Letters of Reprimand (LOR) (optional filing by the commander).

                                                8
       10.1.12. An Air Force Form 330, Records Transmittal/Request, or similar document. This
       form reflects HQ AFPC efforts to obtain missing documents such as OPRs, OERs, citations, etc.
   10.2. Your selection record is you appearing before the board. You should carefully review it
   before the board convenes. A copy of the documents listed in paragraphs 10.1.1. (except the PRF),
   10.1.2., 10.1.3., 10.1.9., 10.1.10., and 10.1.11. are in your records at your MPF. Your command per-
   sonnel record at your Major Command (MAJCOM) has a copy of the documents listed in 10.1.1.para-
   graphs 10.1.1 (except the PRF), 10.1.2., 10.1.6., 10.1.8., 10.1.9., 10.1.10., and 10.1.11. The specialty
   board certification (paragraph 10.1.5.) is filed only in your HQ USAF OSR, but you should have a
   personal copy. The OSB (paragraph 10.1.4.) is a temporary document; however, HQ AFPC does
   retain a microfiche copy of the OSB to document the information provided to the board.
   10.3. Do not wait until just before the board convenes to review your records. When you receive
   notification from your MPF that a board will consider you, act quickly to ensure your records are
   accurate and up-to-date. If possible, you should review your HQ USAF OSR since this will actually
   meet the board. You may do this in person by visiting HQ AFPC at Randolph AFB TX, or by writing
   to HQ AFPC/Officer Selection Record Section, 550 C Street West, Suite 5, Randolph AFB TX
   78150-4707, and requesting a copy of your selection record:
       10.3.1. After the results of a promotion board are announced, if an officer believes he or she is the
       victim of an error or injustice, the officer may petition the Air Force Board for Correction of Mil-
       itary Records. The governing directive is AFI 36-2603, Air Force Board for Correction of Mili-
       tary Records. However, if the alleged error or injustice involves an officer evaluation system
       component, the officer should first pursue action under AFI 36-2401, Correcting Officer and
       Enlisted Evaluation Reports. Personnel at your servicing MPF can provide assistance.

11. What Criteria Do Boards Use to Select Officers for Promotion? The Air Force does not select
officers for promotion as a reward for past performance. It promotes officers based on their potential to
successfully serve in the next higher grade and in positions of greater responsibility. The criteria the Air
Force uses to evaluate each officer’s relative potential is known as the "whole-person concept:"
   11.1. Factors the SecAF approves include:
       11.1.1. Job performance--the most important indicator of potential is performance in the job as
       PRFs, OPRs, OERs, TRs, and LOEs document. The most recent performance record is very
       important to the board; however, the board considers the entire performance record in making its
       assessment of an officer’s potential.
       11.1.2. Leadership--staff, operations, and command positions.
       11.1.3. Professional qualities--expertise as a specialist, supervisor, operator, etc.
       11.1.4. Breadth and depth of experience--where the officer is assigned, at what level, when, vari-
       ety of jobs and tasks, etc. Breadth of experience is more appropriate for field grade officers. Lieu-
       tenants and captains should concentrate on depth of experience in their career area. Field grade
       officers need to place more emphasis on broader considerations--that is PME, advanced educa-
       tion, and breadth of duty experiences that may include command, career broadening assignments,
       and headquarters assignments.
       11.1.5. Job responsibility--scope of responsibility, exposure, opportunity to make decisions,
       resources managed, etc.

                                                 9
       11.1.6. Academic and professional military education--appropriate level, relationship to career
       field, and possible assignments, etc. NOTE: Advanced academic degrees will be masked on the
       OSB for line officer promotion boards to the grade of captain and major.
       11.1.7. Specific achievements--awards, decorations, special recognition, etc.
   11.2. Each board member reviews the total selection record and makes a subjective evaluation by
   secret vote on the officer’s relative potential as a whole-person to serve in the next higher grade.

12. Board Members. The Air Force selects only highly qualified senior officers with extensive experi-
ence and mature judgment to serve as board members. Collectively, they represent the broadest practical
scope of Air Force activities. To provide a balanced perspective on the Air Force mission, the Air Force
selects officers who mirror, as much as possible, the officers they are considering with respect to race,
sex, aeronautical rating, career field, and command of assignment. In addition, joint duty, and Reserve
officers participate as board members when appropriate. It is important to understand; however, that
while the Air Force uses these demographic characteristics in selecting board members, these officers do
not represent or sponsor any particular officer group, interest, or command. Board members are required
to perform their duties based on the best interest of the total Air Force and take an oath affirming that they
will do so:
   12.1. Board member names are available at your servicing MPF when HQ AFPC releases the board
   results.

13. What Instructions Are Given to Board Members? The SecAF convenes selection boards and the
board members work for him or her. The Secretary provides guidance to the board members in the form
of a Memorandum of Instruction (MOI). This MOI includes specific information concerning the board’s
purpose, the tasks the board will perform, selection method, and the need to ensure the board provides all
eligibles fair and equitable consideration. In addition, the MOI includes guidance to board members
regarding their specific responsibilities during the board and instructions regarding unauthorized disclo-
sure of the board’s proceedings and findings. While the basic data included in each MOI to a board is the
same, each is tailored to fit the grade and competitive categories of the officers being considered. In a
separate briefing, the Selection Board Secretariat, as the Secretary’s representative, tells board members to
carefully review the officer’s entire selection record using the whole-person concept. The Board Secretar-
iat briefs board members on the following items:
   13.1. Board Specifics. Members are briefed on the agenda the members will follow, pertinent histor-
   ical facts regarding selection to that grade, eligibility criteria, significant changes affecting promo-
   tions, and the task they must perform.
   13.2. Facts About the Eligibles. This portion of the briefing familiarizes board members with general
   characteristics about the eligibles.
   13.3. Selection Record. The specific contents of the selection record and where each item is located
   within the record.
   13.4. Scoring Procedures. The score board members give each selection record must reflect their
   assessment of the officer’s potential to serve in the higher grade relative to the records of other officers
   considered. The board members may consider only the record, not personal experience. To do so,
   board members need to make a whole-person assessment of each officer’s total record and assign a
   specific numerical value to each record, using a scoring scale from 6 to 10 that includes half-point

                                                 10
   increments. Scoring is by secret ballot. Any time there is a difference of more than one and one-half
   points between two or more board members scoring the same record (known as a split vote), the
   record is taken back to the panel. Through discussion, the differences are resolved between the differ-
   ing members to bring all scores within a one and one-half point range. For boards where promotion
   opportunity is 100% of the total eligibles, a "yes" or "no" scoring procedure is used. In this case, a
   split vote would occur anytime there was not a unanimous "yes" or "no" vote. In that case, the record
   would be brought back to the members for discussion. An example of the scoring scale is provided
   below:


Absolutely Superior                     10              Outstanding
Outstanding Record                      9.5             Outstanding
Few Could Be Better                      9              Above Average
Strong Record                           8.5             Above Average
Slightly Higher Than Av-                 8              Above Average
erage
Average                                 7.5             Average
Slightly Below Average                   7              Below Average
Well Below Average                      6.5             Below Average
Lowest in Potential                      6              Below Average

   13.5. Trial Run. The required practice scoring session that gives experience in applying the
   whole-person assessment and in using the 6- to 10-point, or "yes" or "no" scoring scale. The trial run’s
   objective is to help each member establish an individual scoring standard that the board members will
   apply consistently. More than one trial run may be conducted. Scoring "for the record" does not
   begin until the board president is satisfied that all board members are fully prepared.
   13.6. BPZ Selections. Board members will determine, on the basis of the eligibles’ quality, whether
   to use the full BPZ quota. They should use the full BPZ quota only if the quality of all officers whom
   they select from BPZ is higher than the quality of those IPZ and APZ whom they would displace,
   since BPZ promotions come at the expense of APZ and IPZ eligibles.
   13.7. Joint Duty. Board members appropriately consider performance in Joint Duty Assignments
   (JDA), that are accountable billets, for those officers who are currently serving in, or have served in,
   such assignments:
      13.7.1. The qualifications of officers selected for assignment to JDAs and officers designated as
      Joint Specialty Officers (JSO) should be such that the following promotion objectives are met:
          13.7.1.1. Officers, as a group, who are serving, or have served, on the Joint Staff are expected
          to be promoted to the next higher grade at a rate not less than the rate for officers in the Air
          Force in the same grade and competitive category who are serving, or have served, on the Air
          Staff.
          13.7.1.2. JSOs are expected, as a group, to be promoted at a rate not less than the rate for
          officers in the Air Force in the same grade and competitive category who are serving, or have
          served, on the Air Staff.

                                               11
       13.7.1.3. Officers who are serving, or have served, in JDAs (excluding officers above) are
       expected, as a group, to be promoted at a rate not less than the rate for all officers in the Air
       Force in the same grade and competitive category.
   13.7.2. The SecAF’s MOI for promotion selection boards shall include, at a minimum, the follow-
   ing guidance: "You will give appropriate consideration to the performance in JDAs of officers
   who are serving in, or have served in, such assignments." Additionally, the records of all officers
   who are serving, or have served, in a JDA or who have been designated as JSOs will be clearly
   identified for board members.
   13.7.3. For promotion boards, including special selection boards that consider officers serving or
   have served in JDAs, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall review the promotion board
   results to determine if joint duty performance was given appropriate consideration. The Chairman
   of the Joint Chiefs of Staff’s written comments will be attached to the promotion board documen-
   tation and returned to the SecAF. These comments may include recommendations for appropriate
   action. The Secretary of Defense will resolve any disagreement between the Chairman of the
   Joint Chiefs of Staff and the SecAF.
13.8. Acquisition Corps. Board members consider performance of officers currently serving in
acquisition assignments:
   13.8.1. The law requires that the qualifications of officers assigned to these duties be such that
   those officers are expected, as a group, to be promoted at a rate not less than the Air Force average
   rate both IPZ and BPZ.
13.9. Skill Needs. To best satisfy Air Force needs, the Air Force uses a generalist-specialist (as
explained below) team concept for Air Force officer career development. This concept is based on the
following factors:
   13.9.1. The Air Force must produce officers whose interests and capabilities become broader as
   they acquire experience and move up in levels of staff and command. This is an inherent function
   of a personnel system that must "grow" its own leaders.
   13.9.2. While the Air Force must, for the most part, produce its own specialists (some of whom
   may remain in certain functional areas for a major portion of their careers), the movement between
   functional areas of rated officers and some officers who are not rated is essential if the Air Force
   is to develop the optimum capability of the total officer force.
   13.9.3. All career officers should have a competitive opportunity to obtain higher grades and
   responsibilities commensurate with their performance and ability. In view of the generalist-spe-
   cialist team concept, the Secretariat tells selection board members that Air Force skill require-
   ments are for an officer force of specialists and generalists that should be selected for promotion
   on a best qualified basis.
13.10. Academic and Professional Military Education. These accomplishments serve as an indicator
of initiative and should be assessed in terms of how they enhance the officer’s performance and poten-
tial to assume greater responsibility. The key is the right level of PME at the right time. That is,
Squadron Officer School for captains, intermediate service school for majors, and senior service
school for lieutenant colonels and colonels. While important, completing PME or advanced academic
education is not a pass-fail requirement, especially since all officers do not have the same opportunity
to do so (see 11.1.6.paragraph 11.1.6). NOTE: Although advanced academic degree information is

                                            12
   masked at the central selection board for line officers competing for captain and major, it is available
   to senior raters and MAJCOM Management Level Reviews.

14. Board Members’ Responsibilities. The following is extracted from the instruction the Secretariat
provides each board: "Central selection boards are convened by the SecAF to select the best qualified
individuals for promotion. You must act in the best interest of the Air Force and not any particular com-
mand, specialty, or group. While you are here, you are working directly for the SecAF under the supervi-
sion of the board president who is a nonvoting member. Each of you is responsible for maintaining the
integrity and independence of this selection board, and to foster the careful consideration, without preju-
dice or partiality, of all eligible officers."

15. Disclosing Information. The Secretariat also provides the following instructions to each board:
"The names of the officers comprising the membership of the board will be publicly released when the
results of the board are announced. However, the score given any particular record is privileged informa-
tion and may not be disclosed. Names of individuals selected or not selected, or any statistical data per-
taining to board results will not be maintained by you nor will your knowledge of the same be disclosed
to anyone, including your superior officers and commanders, prior to public release. After public release
there is no prohibition to disclosing information on the overall numbers considered, the manner in which
the board was organized, the general procedures it followed, or the number and grade of its membership."

16. The Oath. Following the MOI to the board, each member takes the following oath: "I solemnly
swear that I will, without prejudice or partiality, having in view both the special fitness of the officers and
the efficiency of the United States Air Force, perform the duties imposed upon me."

17. How Does the Board Determine Who is Selected? Each selection record is scored on a 6- to
10-point scale using half-point increments; i.e., 6, 6.5, 7, etc. As soon as each of the panel members score
all records allocated to a panel, scores are totaled and aligned in a relative order of merit. Each panel
receives a proportionate share of the board quota based on the number of records it scored. The quota is
then applied going from the top of the relative order of merit listing down until the quota is exhausted:
   17.1. Often the score category at which the quota is exhausted contains more records tied at that score
   than the quota can accommodate. That score category is referred to as the "gray." Board members
   rescore these records to determine whom they should select. For example, with a quota of 50, if 45
   records fall into score categories above the gray-score category and 10 records are in the gray-score
   category, the board members will rescore the 10 gray records to determine which five records in the
   gray-score category they will select.

18. Other Functions of Selection Boards. Boards convened to select officers for promotion also per-
form other functions:
   18.1. By law, all promotion boards must also identify officers whose records indicate that they should
   be required to "show cause" for their retention in the Air Force. If approved by SECAF, HQ AFPC
   provides the names of officers the board identifies to the proper MAJCOM commanders for appropri-
   ate action.




                                                  13
19. Safeguards. Proper consideration for advancement to higher grades is a very important event in an
officer’s career. Accordingly, the Air Force has the following safeguards to ensure that boards consider
all eligible officers on a fair and equitable basis:
   19.1. General Notice. At least 30 days before the board convenes, the law requires public announce-
   ment of the names and dates of rank of the most junior and senior officers the board considers IPZ in
   each competitive category and the date the board convenes.
   19.2. Officer Preselection Brief (OPB). Based on approved eligibility criteria, you should receive an
   OPB about 90 to 120 days before the board convening date. The OPB contains information the board
   will consider. You should promptly follow the instructions provided along with the OPB to ensure
   your OSR at HQ AFPC at Randolph AFB is current.
   19.3. MPF Verification. In addition to the computer-generated OPBs, each MPF is required to per-
   form data verification checks to ensure they provide an OPB to all officers eligible for consideration
   by an upcoming board.
   19.4. Senior Officers Serve as Board Members. Only knowledgeable senior officers serve as board
   members. Collectively, these officers possess great professional diversity and include both general-
   ists and specialists. A breakdown by grade follows:


                           BOARD COMPOSITION
Board                President     Panel Chief                   Panel Members (4)
Colonel              Lt General    Major General                 Brig General or
                                                                 Brig General (sel)
LtColonel            Major General         Brigadier General     Colonel
Major                Major General         Colonel               Colonel
Captain              Brigadier General     Colonel               Colonel

   19.5. Letters to Selection Boards. All officers eligible IPZ, APZ, or BPZ may send a letter to the
   selection board. The board considers the letter when assessing the officer’s selection record. (Details
   on how to prepare letters to the boards are in AFI 36-2501.)
   19.6. Selection Boards Review Specified Information Only. Selection board members can consider
   only those documents the Air Force approves and lists in AFI 36-2501 in assessing each officer’s
   records. Appropriate "due-process" requirements exist to preclude a board from considering deroga-
   tory information without the eligible officer having knowledge of such information. For example, a
   recommendation to find an officer Not Qualified for Promotion (NQP) must be referred to the officer
   for comment, and it must have a legal review before the board can consider it. Board members will
   not disclose information about an officer’s career unless it is referenced within the content of the OSR.
   19.7. Briefings to the Board. The Secretariat briefs selection board members regarding the demo-
   graphics of the eligibles and the content of selection records. The briefing discusses a variety of issues
   relative to the OSR that may come to the attention of the board members during the scoring process.
   This includes such things as ratings by civilian supervisors and members of other services, breaks in
   service, organizational changes, differences in OER and OPR ratings the officer received while in the
   Reserve, etc.


                                                14
   19.8. Trial-Run. Before actually scoring any records, board members complete a trial-run exercise.
   The Secretariat selects records used in trial run exercises to depict the full range of quality the board
   will see and to highlight anomalies and differences in records. The trial run gives board members an
   opportunity to set a consistent scoring pattern to be used throughout the board.
   19.9. Random Flow of Selection Records to the Board. The Secretariat combines selection records
   for all IPZ and APZ officers for each competitive category and provides them to board members in a
   random manner by reverse social security number. The distribution of BPZ records is done in the
   same manner.
   19.10. Oaths. All board members take an oath to serve without prejudice or partiality. All recorders
   involved with administration of the boards also swear to keep a true record of the board proceedings.
   19.11. Secret Ballots. Using a secret ballot, each board member records his or her assessment of each
   selection record. This eliminates any chance of undue influence. Discussion of records is allowed
   only when resolving a split vote.
   19.12. Split Votes. A difference of more than 1 1/2 points between any two panel members on a
   five-member panel is a "split vote," and the split vote panel members must resolve the split vote. That
   is, the members should discuss the split and then rescore the record until all panel members’ scores for
   the record are within 1 1/2 points. This prevents any one panel member from adversely impacting the
   overall score of a given record.
   19.13. Board President’s Review. The board president reviews 15 to 20 percent of all eligible records
   to ensure that board members are assessing all records in a consistent manner. The board president
   also reviews controversial records--for example, where a split vote is not easily resolved--and various
   other records to ensure that the board provides all eligibles fair and equitable consideration.
   19.14. Board Members’ Signatures. All board members sign the board report affirming the best qual-
   ified officers are those they are recommending for promotion and that the board carefully considered
   the record of each officer whose name was furnished to it.
   19.15. Postboard MPF Verification. Before HQ AFPC announces the board results to the public,
   MPF personnel check to be sure all eligible officers they service are accounted for.

Section F—Processing Board Results

20. Notifying Selectees and Processing Board Results. Usually, commanders do not notify officers
whether they are selected or not until 6 to 8 weeks after the board adjourns. Why does it take so long?
   20.1. HQ AFPC cannot release the board results until the Office of the Secretary of Defense approves
   the board proceedings. Auditing lists and preparing memoranda and documents needed to transmit
   board results to the SecAF and the Office of the Secretary of Defense for approval and through the
   President for nomination to the Senate must be thoroughly and accurately accomplished. Generally,
   preparing, reproducing, and routing the board proceedings to the Office of the Secretary of Defense
   takes 5 to 7 weeks. While HQ AFPC can release promotion results at that time, the Air Force cannot
   promote selectees to the field grades until the Senate confirms the promotion list.

21. Promoting Selectees. The Air Force promotes officers selected for captain and MC and DC officers
on the day they complete the necessary time-in-grade requirement. For captain, it is usually 2 years from
the date he or she was promoted to first lieutenant. The Air Force promotes officers to field grades to fill
                                                15
vacancies. HQ AFPC places selectees in each competitive category on promotion lists in seniority order
(based on the selectee’s position on the ADL in his or her current grade) and assigns promotion sequence
numbers. Each month, HQ USAF determines how many officers the Air Force may promote in each
grade and in each competitive category. By about the 15th of the month, HQ AFPC provides each MPF
the number for each grade and for each competitive category the Air Force will promote the following
month. The MPF notifies commanders which of their officers the Air Force will promote the next month
and commanders notify the officers. HQ AFPC also publishes increment numbers through the HQ AFPC
Home Page on the worldwide web and other media to inform the Air Force at large:
   21.1. Effective Date of Promotion and Date of Rank (DOR). The effective date of promotion is the
   date specified in the order that announces the promotion. It is usually the 1st day of the month for pro-
   motion. EXCEPTIONS: The effective date for promotion to captain and for promoting MC and DC
   officers to any grade is the officer’s anniversary date of their current grade rate of rank.
   21.2. Declining of Promotion. A selected officer may decline promotion. However, if an officer
   does not decline before the effective date of promotion, the Air Force considers that the officer
   accepts the promotion. The officer is also subject to the ADSC and retirement restriction associated
   with promotion to that grade. AFI 36-2501 explains what action an officer will take to decline a pro-
   motion and the consequences of a promotion declination.
   21.3. Active Duty Service Commitment (ADSC) and Retirement Restrictions. Officers promoted to
   captain incur a 1-year ADSC. Officers (other than MC and DC officers) promoted to major and above
   incur a 2-year ADSC. The ADSC for promotion runs concurrent with any other ADSC an officer may
   have. Officers promoted to lieutenant colonel and colonel are not entitled to voluntary retirement in
   the higher grade until they serve 3 years in that grade. The ADSC computer notice provided to the
   officer soon after being notified of selection for promotion specifies the applicable ADSC and retire-
   ment restrictions.
   21.4. Propriety of Promotion Actions. Being selected for promotion does not ensure an officer the
   Air Force will promote him or her. As a continuing quality control check, commanders are required
   to take action to delay an officer’s promotion or recommend removal (also known as "red line") of an
   officer’s name from a promotion list if they believe the officer is not physically, mentally, morally, or
   professionally qualified to perform the duties of the higher grade. The commander needs to notify the
   officer of such action before the promotion effective date and provide him or her an opportunity to
   submit a statement in his or her behalf before action is taken on the approval authority’s recommenda-
   tion.

22. Consequence of Nonselection. Officers, not selected IPZ, are considered again by a second board
(their first APZ look). Officers not selected by a second board for captain or major are separated or retired
not later than the 1st day of the 7th month after the Office of the Secretary of Defense approves the board
results. A selective continuation board may consider officers not selected the second time for major if the
officers possess a critical skill, as determined by the SecAF. If the continuation board selects them, offic-
ers may remain on active duty for an initial 3-year period. Prior to expiration of the initial 3-year period,
the Air Force considers officers for further continuation until they are eligible to retire if a board does not
select them for promotion during the initial continuation period. Selective continuation for captain and
major is a board process and is not something for which an individual applies. Continued officers remain
eligible for promotion consideration as long as they are on active duty and meet established promotion
board criteria. The Air Force usually permits regular majors not selected for lieutenant colonel to remain

                                                  16
on active duty until they have reached 20 years of commissioned service. Lieutenant colonels not
selected for colonel may remain on active duty until they have 28 years of commissioned service, unless
selected for early retirement by a Selective Early Retirement Board (SERB).

Section G—What Can You Do To Improve Your Chances for Promotion?

23. Things You Should Do. There is no guarantee the selection board will select you, or any other
officer, for promotion. However, there are three things you should do to increase your opportunity for
being selected:
   23.1. The first and most important thing you can do is perform your current job to the best of your
   ability. Your raters will evaluate you on how well you do the job you have now. If you do well and
   maintain a positive and professional attitude, your raters will recognize you for it and help you volun-
   teer for more challenging and responsible jobs. Selection boards and leaders looking for top-notch
   performers to take on increasingly more responsible jobs recognize consistently outstanding perfor-
   mance.
   23.2. The second thing you should do is seek advice from your supervisor, your commander, and oth-
   ers in a position of leadership. Their guidance can be of great value in helping you develop profes-
   sionally. There are some differences in desired professional development steps for various job
   specialties; some emphasize extensive broadening while others require greater specialization. You
   should also be familiar with the officer professional development information in AFI 36-2611,
   Officer Professional Development, and AFPAM 36-2630, Officer Professional Development Guide,
   that pertains to your career field.
   23.3. Finally, understand the officer promotion program and take appropriate actions before the board
   convenes. One of those actions is to review your record before boards convene to ensure it is accurate
   and up to date.

Section H—Summary

24. Some Final Comments. One of the most gratifying aspects of a military career is being selected for
promotion to the next higher grade. Unfortunately, it is a fact that not all officers can be selected for pro-
motion. In addition, law has established specific limitations on the number of both regular and reserve
officers who can serve on active duty in the grade of major and above:
   24.1. Your objective should be to progress to the highest grade possible commensurate with your
   capabilities. At the same time, recognize that promotion boards cannot select all officers to the higher
   grades and competition for promotion to each succeeding higher grade becomes more intense. There
   are many exceptionally talented officers in the Air Force, but the Air Force is not going to promote
   everyone to the highest grades, because not all officers are required in the higher grades. Promotion
   based entirely on individual capability without regard to requirements would be wasteful, so it is inev-
   itable the Air Force will not select some highly capable officers.
   24.2. A fair and equitable promotion program exists now and will continue in the future. You should
   understand it, so you can better appreciate the significance of your successes and better realize the
   necessarily competitive nature of Air Force promotions. The officer promotion program in the Air



                                                 17
Force has served individual officers, the Air Force, and our country well by continuing to help pro-
duce a professional, highly qualified, and fully combat-ready officer corps.




                                     MICHAEL D. McGINTY, Lt General, USAF
                                     DCS/Personnel




                                           18
                                      Attachment 1

                    GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADL—Active Duty List
ADSC—Active Duty Service Commitment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
APZ—Above-the-Promotion Zone
BPZ—Below-the-Promotion Zone
BSC—Biomedical Sciences Corps
CHAP—Chaplain
DC—Dental Corps
DNP—Do Not Promote This Board
DOPMA—Defense Officer Personnel Management Act
DOR—Date of Rank
DP—Definitely Promote
IPZ—In-the-Promotion Zone
JA—Judge Advocate
JDA—Joint Duty Assignment
JSO—Joint Service Officer
LAF—Line of the Air Force
LOE—Letter of Evaluation
LOR—Letter of Reprimand
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Medical Corps
MOI—Memorandum of Instruction
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MSC—Medical Services Corps
NC—Nurse Corps
NQP—Not Qualified for Promotion
OER—Officer Effectiveness Report
OPB—Officer Preselection Brief
                                       19
OPR—Officer Performance Report
OSB—Officer Selection Brief
OSR—Officer Selection Record
P—Promote
PME—Professional Military Education
PRF—Promotion Recommendation Form
SERB—Selective Early Retirement Board
TR—Training Report




                                        20
                                          Attachment 2

                          AIR FORCE OFFICER SELECTION BRIEF

Figure A2.1. Air Force Officer Selection Brief.




                                            21
