BY ORDER OF THE                                                        AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 36-213
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           14 FEBRUARY 2008

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                             EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION FOR
                                                        FAMILIES BEING ASSIGNED TO FOREIGN
                                                                            OVERSEAS AREAS



ACCESSIBILITY:         Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A1PC                                                            Certified by: HQ USAF/A1P
                                                                              (Ms Barbara J. Barger, SES)
Supersedes AF Pamphlet 36-508,                                                                 Pages: 13
           dated 1 June 1998

This pamphlet provides general information about Air Force civilian employment to military and civilian
family members who will accompany their sponsor to an overseas area. It does not include information
about employment in Alaska, Hawaii or Guam.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This version supersedes AFP
36-508.


1. Introduction.
   1.1. It is important to understand that the number of Air Force civilian positions available to United
   States citizens in foreign areas is significantly lower than the number available in the United States. In
   addition, the agreements between the United States and host countries, which govern our presence in
   the respective countries, may require that many of the positions be authorized for and filled by Nation-
   als of the host country.
   1.2. The information provided herein will help you understand the procedures used overseas to
   enhance employment opportunities for family members of US Armed Forces personnel and Federal
   civilian employees assigned overseas. This pamphlet focuses on the overseas employment experience
   to include employment opportunities, application procedures, military spouse preference, types of
   appointing authorities used and employment upon return to the United States.

2. Employment Opportunities.
   2.1. In foreign areas where you may be assigned, the Department of Defense (DoD) is the major
   employer of United States citizens. Paragraphs 1. through 4. address Air Force appropriated fund
2                                                                AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008


    employment procedures, paragraph 5. addresses other employment opportunities you may find in the
    overseas area, and paragraph 6. covers employment upon return to CONUS.
    2.2. Employment opportunities for family members who are not United States citizens may be more
    limited or unavailable in some foreign locations because of governing treaties, agreements, local law
    or other administrative arrangements.
    2.3. You can find additional information about Air Force civilian positions on the Air Force Personnel
    Center's (AFPC) websites. The public site will feature information on civilian employment and is
    located at: www.afpc.randolph.af.mil. Current Air Force civilian employees seeking AFPC’s home
    page or detailed personnel information should update their web browsers to http://ask.afpc.ran-
    dolph.af.mil where they can find information specifically for Department of the Air Force
    employees.
    2.4. Although this Pamphlet provides useful information about applying for employment, we recom-
    mend that you contact the servicing Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) and the Airman & Family Readi-
    ness Center (A&FRC) at the overseas location, to get information concerning specific employment
    opportunities in the area where your sponsor is being assigned. We also suggest that you review the
    gaining base’s web site for the most current employment information.
       2.4.1. Information regarding employment opportunities at military installations can be found on
       Military One Source site at www.militaryonesource.com and on the Military Homefront site at
       www.MilitaryHOMEFRONT.dod.mil. These sites provide information on major military instal-
       lations for use by service members and their families during permanent change of station moves.
       Note: Some of these sites can only be accessed from a military site. Please visit your A&FRC for
       access if you are unable to open the .mil sites from home.
       2.4.2. Your local Airman & Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) has an employment assistance
       program designed to provide information and employability skills training for military spouses to
       enable them to enter or reenter the job market. The program actively seeks to help spouses prepare
       for, locate, and obtain employment in addition to providing long and short term career counseling.
       Many of the A&FRCs maintains local, regional and federal job listings and can help prepare you
       for a new job at your next assignment. Most A&FRC's have a resource center with information on
       topics such as careers, interviewing, resumes, financial assistance for education, and how to start
       a home-based business. Workshops are offered at various times throughout the year to assist with
       career development, such as Employment Orientations, Resume Writing Workshops, and Inter-
       viewing Skills. One-on-one assistance is also available to help define career aspirations and to
       help define how to reach career goals.
       2.4.3. The Employment section of Air Force Crossroads, http://www.afcrossroads.com/ is
       designed to assist with the challenges associated with your job search and provides information
       and assistance with job search, skills posting, telecommuting opportunities, resume development
       and helpful employment resource links.

3. Applying for Employment.
    3.1. Internal Applicants : Internal applicants are current permanent Air Force civil service employ-
    ees. Please refer to the AFPC Civilian Employment website for current information on how to apply
    for internal vacancy announcements. Internal applicants can also find information on the Air Force
    Portal under the Life & Career tab. A resume is not required to apply for internal vacancy announce-
AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                            3


  ments. Please see the AFPC Job Kit for more information on tenure and information on term employ-
  ment. Air Force civilian personnel can find information specifically for Department of the Air Force
  employees under the Civilian tab located at http://ask.afpc.randolph.af.mil"
     3.1.1. If you are a current appropriated fund employee, you may contact your servicing Civilian
     Personnel Flight (CPF) for assistance in determining your eligibility for LWOP. This is particu-
     larly important for employees seeking Federal employment to preclude a break in service upon
     arrival at the overseas location. Military spouses on LWOP will apply for jobs as an external can-
     didate on the USA Jobs website
     3.1.2. Hand carry documents such as transcripts, current SF50's, certificates, licenses or other
     documents that establish your status as a current or former Federal employee and validates your
     education and experience.
  3.2. External Applicants Seeking Employment. You are considered an external applicant if:
     3.2.1. You are not a current permanent Federal civil service employee, not an Air Force civil ser-
     vice employee; or
     3.2.2. You are a permanent appropriated fund employee currently on Leave without Pay (LWOP)
     who has relocated to a foreign location with a military or civilian sponsor under the authority of
     permanent change of station (PCS) orders.
     3.2.3. External Application Process. In order to receive consideration, applicants must apply
     directly for vacancies in which they are interested using the procedures contained in the “How to
     Apply” section of each vacancy announcement on the OPM USAJOBS website. External appli-
     cants can also find employment information on the AFPC public site under the AF Civilian
     Employment tab located at http://www.afpc.randolph.af.mil/.
         3.2.3.1. USAJOBS' Resume Builder allows you to create a uniform resume that provides all
         of the information required by government agencies. Instead of creating multiple resumes in
         different formats, you can build your resume once and be ready for all job opportunities. The
         USA Jobs website has a search function applicants can use to find jobs in the overseas area.
         Use the keyword "Air Force," select a location, answer the search questions, and click on the
         "Search for Jobs" button.
         3.2.3.2. Submission of a resume and supplemental data alone does not provide consideration
         for job vacancies. You must meet the eligibility and qualifications requirements as stated in the
         vacancy announcement. Carefully read the “Who May Apply (e.g., eligibility)” requirements
         listed in the vacancy announcement to determine whether you are eligible to be considered. If
         you do not meet the eligibility requirements, you are determined “outside the area of consider-
         ation” and will not be considered for the position.
  3.3. Application Preparation.
     3.3.1. If you need assistance with preparation of your application or other job search or prepara-
     tion efforts, you may make an appointment with a Community Readiness Consultant (CRC) in the
     Airman & Family Readiness Center at either the gaining or losing base.
         3.3.1.1. The CRC can assist you with identifying your skills and interests, help with job search
         techniques and provide classes on the preparation of resumes and the development of inter-
         view skills. They can help you enhance your marketability, suggest volunteer placements and
4                                                                 AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008


          provide other services that may help increase your opportunities for future employment. They
          can also provide one-on-one short-term and/or long-term career counseling. The Airman &
          Family Readiness Center’s professionally trained staff is ready to assist with your career and/
          or employment goals. You should take advantage of this excellent opportunity as these ser-
          vices are available to you at no cost.
          3.3.1.2. Remember that your application will make the first impression on the selecting super-
          visor. Therefore, you should ensure the final product is representative of the quality work you
          are capable of doing.
          3.3.1.3. Hand carry documents such as transcripts, SF50's certificates, licenses or other docu-
          ments that establish your status as a current or former Federal employee and validate your edu-
          cation and experience.
    3.4. Military Spouse Preference (MSP).
       3.4.1. MSP was one of several initiatives implemented by the Military Family Act of 1985, Public
       Law 99-145 as amended (now codified in Section 1784 of Title 10, United States Code) to help
       retain military members and enhance the well-being of military families, MSP provides priority in
       the selection process for spouses of active duty military members who are relocating as a result of
       the military sponsor's permanent change of station (PCS). An MSP eligible applicant may exercise
       preference for most vacant DoD appropriated fund (APF) positions at grades GS-15 and below (or
       equivalent wage grade, NSPS, or other pay band system) positions in the competitive or excepted
       service. Preference applies only to positions within the military sponsor’s permanent duty station
       commuting area. Military spouses are entitled to spouse employment preference as long as they
       are among the best qualified for the available position.
       3.4.2. To qualify for MSP, the spouse must have entered into the marriage with the military spon-
       sor prior to his or her reporting date to the new geographic area. Spouse preference eligibility
       begins when the military spouse actually arrives at the overseas location. Although a military
       spouse cannot exercise his or her spouse preference until arrival in the overseas area, self nominat-
       ing approximately 30 days prior to reporting date will help the applicant to stay abreast of prospec-
       tive vacancies.
       3.4.3. The DoD MSP program allows military spouses to accept an unlimited number of tempo-
       rary, intermittent, or flexible schedule positions without loss of their military spouse preference.
       Military spouses will be referred for positions using MSP until such time as they accept or decline
       a continuing position. MSP eligibility will not be lost if the military spouse declines an offer of
       employment in a non-continuing position. Non-continuing positions are defined as positions with
       a time limitation, such as a temporary position, a term position, a permanent intermittent position
       or a NAF position with a flexible work schedule or employment category.
       3.4.4. Military spouse preference applies only to initial employment in a continuing position at
       the overseas location. Once a qualified military spouse accepts or declines such a continuing posi-
       tion at the new duty station, eligibility terminates, regardless of whether or not the position was
       obtained by invoking spouse preference (this also applies to positions with NAF and AAFES).
          3.4.4.1. Military spouse preference does not apply if it conflicts with existing treaties, host
          country law, bilateral agreements, or if the placement would violate laws or regulations on
          nepotism or veterans preference or other federal law or regulation. In addition, candidates in
          certain other categories have a higher priority than military spouses such as veterans for initial
AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                             5


          appointment, career employees displaced from their positions through no personal cause,
          selected employees placed under the Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Program and
          selected, planned career progression of employees in developmental positions.
       3.4.5. Management has the right to select from any source of candidates. Generally, when man-
       agement chooses to select from a list of noncompetitive candidates, such as reassignment, volun-
       tary change to lower grade, repromotion eligibles, reinstatement eligibles, etc., spouse preference
       will not apply. However, if management chooses to select from a list of competitive candidates,
       such as promotion eligibles, a military spouse preference eligible, who is ranked among the best
       qualified, must be selected for the position unless the local commander grants an exception to pol-
       icy.

4. Appointing Authorities.
   4.1. Career or Career-Conditional Appointment:
       4.1.1. This authority is used to appoint United States citizens to nontemporary, competitive ser-
       vice positions in the United States.
       4.1.2. In the overseas area, applicants are generally not appointed using this authority unless the
       applicant is a current career or career-conditional employee or a former career or career-condi-
       tional employee with reinstatement rights (see status applicant). Veteran’s preference rules do not
       apply in this case as preference is given to an employee on initial competitive appointment in Fed-
       eral service.
       4.1.3. Locally available family members eligible for career or career-conditional appointments
       are referred before local nonfamily member applicants.
   4.2. Dependent Hire Appointment Authority (Schedule A, 213.3106 (b) (6):
       4.2.1. No prior Federal service is required for this type of appointment.
       4.2.2. This authority specifically provides for the employment of family member(s) residing with
       their military or civilian sponsor stationed in a foreign area.
       4.2.3. Under this authority, veteran's preference rules require selection of a qualified family mem-
       ber with veteran preference before a family member without veteran’s preference.
   4.3. Overseas Limited Appointment: This authority is used to appoint United States citizens available
   in the overseas area who are nonstatus applicants and are not family members of military personnel or
   Federal civilian employees stationed in the area, when other candidates are not available. Under this
   appointing authority, veteran’s preference rules apply.
   4.4. Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA): This authority is used to appoint applicants who
   meet VRA requirements in positions deemed as “hard to fill.” The servicing CPF in the overseas area
   determines when a position is hard to fill. The CPF can also help applicants who have served in the
   military determine whether they meet the requirements for this appointing authority.
NOTE: Not all appointing authorities apply at all overseas locations. Check the job announcement for
information on who may apply.

5. Other Employment Opportunities. In some areas, opportunities for employment may exist in Air
Force Nonappropriated Funds Instrumentalities (NAFI), the Department of Defense Dependent Schools
6                                                                 AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008


(DoDDS), the Defense Commissary Agency (DECA), and the Defense Finance and Accounting Service
(DFAS).
    5.1. Air Force Services NAF employment opportunities:
       5.1.1. Most services squadrons located in overseas areas provide a wide range of full-time and
       part-time NAF employment opportunities. These opportunities include occupations related to hos-
       pitality, food and beverage operations, sports and recreation, youth and child development,
       accounting and financial management, clerical and crafts and trades. You may obtain information
       on specific job opportunities, application procedures and NAF pay and benefits from the Services
       Human Resources Office (HRO) at the overseas locations.
       5.1.2. If you are a current NAF employee and desire to continue your employment at an overseas
       location, you should contact your Services HRO for information on application procedures,
       LWOP entitlements relative to a PCS move, and provisions for continuing your present benefits.
       5.1.3. Depending on the applicable Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) or other bilateral arrange-
       ments, US citizen NAF employees like have most of the same privileges as appropriated fund
       counterparts who are working in overseas area, These privileges may include the use of commis-
       sary, exchange, laundry, transportation, postal services, recreation and religious facilities, as well
       as certain legal protections.
       5.1.4. Certain key NAF management positions at the NF-IV level and above are filled through the
       Services Career Field Program. These positions include Club Managers, Assistant Club Manag-
       ers, Golf Course Managers, Assistant Golf Course Managers, Bowling Center Managers, Assis-
       tant Bowling Center Managers and Chefs. If you are interested in applying for these positions or
       seek additional information on NAF Career Program positions, visit USAFServices.com at
       www.afsv.af.mil
    5.2. Department of Defense Dependents School (DODDS) employment opportunities:
       5.2.1. DoDDS is a field activity of the Department of Defense, responsible for administering DoD
       elementary, middle and secondary schools in foreign countries where members of the Armed
       Forces are assigned. Information regarding DoDDS can be found at: http://www.dodea.edu/
       home/index.cfm
       5.2.2. Personnel services for DoDDS are centralized. The Arlington Personnel Center reviews
       and rates teacher applications, regardless of whether a candidate is available locally or worldwide.
       DoDDS also has Personnel Center Representatives (PCRs) in its overseas district offices. The
       PCRs review, rate, refer and appoint candidates to support positions classified at GS-7 and below,
       as well as substitute teacher positions. You must be a US citizen to be a teacher or sub with
       DoDDS. You may access information about individual DoDDS schools on the internet at: http://
       www.dodea.edu/home/index.cfm
       5.2.3. DoDDS have a variety of overseas employment opportunities to include teaching and
       school support positions, such as secretary, educational aid and various administrative jobs. Fam-
       ily member preference is applicable when filling both teacher and nonteacher positions within
       DoDDS. DoDDS may grant family member preference for teacher positions as soon as the spon-
       sor receives travel orders for overseas assignment. Therefore, family members who are qualified
       for teaching positions are encouraged to apply immediately upon receipt of travel orders. It's
       important to understand that military spouse preference does not apply to the employment of
AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                          7


     teachers with DoDDS but does apply to nonteaching positions. In recruitment of nonteacher posi-
     tions, the preference is extended no earlier than 30 days prior to the family member's anticipated
     arrival in the overseas command. Family members with military spouse preference eligibility have
     priority over family members without said eligibility for nonteacher positions.
     5.2.4. The Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) Human Resources Regional Ser-
     vice Center with headquarters in Arlington, Virginia, is a field operations agency of the Depart-
     ment of Defense. The DoDEA Human Resources Regional Service Center has responsibility for
     managing the human capital programs and policies affecting the civilian employees of the Depart-
     ment of Defense Education Activity and its field elements, the Department of Defense Dependents
     Schools (DoDDS) and the Department of Defense Domestic Dependent Elementary and Second-
     ary Schools (DDESS). Information on current vacancies can be found at http://www.dodea.edu/
     offices/hr/default.htm
  5.3. The Defense Commissary Agency (DeCA) Employment Opportunities.
     5.3.1. Applicants interested in commissary vacancies located on Army and Air Force installations
     need to visit http://www.cpol.army.mil/ to complete a resume through the use of RESUMIX.
     Individual announcements will be posted on line for each location where there are vacancies. This
     new process applies to vacancies in Japan, Okinawa (includes commissaries located on Marine
     Corps installations), Korea and the European Theater.
     5.3.2. Candidates interested in commissary employment opportunities on Navy bases at Yoko-
     suka, Atsugi, Sasebo, Japan, and Korea need to visit http://hro.cnfj.navy.mil/ for guidance on
     how to apply and where to send applications and forms. There are also three commissaries in
     Europe on Navy bases that require candidates to apply directly to the on-site HRO; these sites are:
     Rota, Spain, Naples and Sigonella, Italy. Candidates may also contact store management directly
     at any of these locations if interested in commissary employment. Further information on obtain-
     ing employment with DECA may be found at www.commissaries.com/inside_deca/HR/
     employment_opportunities.cfm.
  5.4. Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) Employment Opportunities. DFAS - the
  world's largest finance and accounting organization. DFAS has civilian employees who provide the
  financial and accounting services for the Department of Defense military services - Army, Navy, Air
  Force, Marine Corps - and other Defense agencies Information on employment with DFAS can be
  found at .http://www.dfas.mil/careers/search.html.
  5.5. Other sources for employment may include the Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES),
  on base banks or credit unions, and other establishments providing services to United States forces,
  such as contracting positions, and positions with education institutions, Opportunities will vary by
  country and base. Generally, you will find little or no opportunity for employment in the community.
  In some countries, if you obtain a work permit and work on the local economy, you can no longer be
  considered for Federal jobs during your current overseas tour. Check with your Airman & Family
  Readiness Center for the country’s rules and regulations pertaining to working on the local economy.
  5.6. There are many good reasons to consider volunteering while overseas. You may enjoy helping
  others and you can learn a new skill. The Airman & Family Readiness Center Volunteer Resource Pro-
  gram (VRP) is designed to assist organizations and agencies on base with overall coordination of vol-
  unteer activities such as recruitment, training, and recognition. In addition, the American Red Cross
  (ARC) may have volunteer opportunities.
8                                                                 AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008


    5.7. In the overseas area, you may not find the same job that you left behind in the United States, but
    this is the perfect opportunity to expand your job skills, try something new, and gain valuable con-
    tacts. The new job skills you learn in the overseas area will add to your marketability when you return
    to the United States.

6. Returning to the United States.
    6.1. We recommend you follow the same procedures outlined in paragraph 3., to apply for employ-
    ment when returning to the United States.
       6.1.1. A family member employed overseas who meets eligibility under Executive Order (EO)
       12721 or with personal career or career-conditional status may apply for placement assistance
       through the DoD Priority Placement Program (PPP) 30 days prior to the sponsor's reporting date
       or at the time of his or her sponsor's return to the United States. We encourage family members to
       have the overseas CPF complete the necessary documentation for them to submit to the stateside
       activity. This approach will assure that the most current information is input; thereby expediting
       the placement process. Registration is restricted to those DoD activities in the commuting area to
       which his or her sponsor is being assigned. The overseas CPF is available to answer questions rel-
       ative to the program and assist with PPP registration.
       6.1.2. Family members returning from overseas have two options available for PPP registration.
           6.1.2.1. Program S. A military spouse may register in Program S (DoD Military Spouse Pref-
           erence Program as defined under DoD Priority Placement Program Operations Manual) if he
           or she has competitive status or meets one of the criterion in paragraph 6.1.3. Program S is the
           only means by which an eligible military spouse may receive spousal priority referral for
           appropriate vacancies at CONUS DoD activities in the commuting area of his or her military
           sponsor's duty station. Military spouses are a priority 3 in the PPP program.
           6.1.2.2. Program N. Family members, who are not military spouses, but have competitive sta-
           tus or meet the criteria in paragraph 6.1.3. may also use the PPP program. Family members
           who are not spouses are also given priority 3 consideration; however, military spouses regis-
           tered in Program S are given priority over family member registrants who are not military
           spouses.
       6.1.3. Family members who were employed overseas under the Dependent Hire Authority
       (Schedule A, 213.3106(b)(6)) and meet the conditions of eligibility below, may be selected and
       noncompetitively appointed on a career-conditional basis to a competitive service position after
       return to the United States. This eligibility relates to EO 12721 mentioned in paragraph 6.1.1. To
       be eligible, an individual must:
           6.1.3.1. Currently be a citizen or national of the United States.
           6.1.3.2. Have completed a minimum of 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appro-
           priated fund position under a local hire appointment. The overseas employment need not have
           been continuous, as long as it totaled 52 weeks. Regulations provide for the head of an agency
           to waive up to 26 weeks in certain instances; see your servicing CPF for details.
           6.1.3.3. Have received a fully successful or better performance rating (or equivalent) for over-
           seas service used to qualify employee for Executive Order eligibility.
AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                             9


         6.1.3.4. Have been a family member of a Federal civilian employee or a military member (the
         sponsor) who was officially assigned to the overseas area during the period of creditable over-
         seas employment.
         6.1.3.5. Have accompanied the civilian or military sponsor on official assignment to the over-
         seas area during the period of creditable overseas employment..
         6.1.3.6. Be appointed within 3 years of his or her return to the United States to resume resi-
         dence following an overseas tour of duty during which eligibility was acquired.
         6.1.3.7. Meet all qualification requirements and, if applicable, time-in-grade restrictions for
         the position.
     6.1.4. Before returning to the United States, contact the overseas CPF for additional information
     concerning eligibility for noncompetitive appointment to positions in the United States and LWOP
     eligibility.
  6.2. Family members who were employed overseas under the Dependent Hire, Overseas Limited, or
  other local hire appointment who do not meet the conditions of eligibility under paragraph 6.1.1., may
  be appointed to competitive service positions in the United States through the normal competitive
  examining procedures. These procedures require filing an application with the Office of Personnel
  Management (OPM) or a Federal agency in response to a vacancy announcement open to the general
  public. If you use this procedure, your application will be rated and your name placed on a competi-
  tive register with other eligible candidates for referral consideration. The CPF in the area to which you
  return may have information about available open announcements or may be able to furnish the
  address of the nearest OPM Job Information Center. You may also secure information about Federal
  job opportunities via the internet at www.usajobs.opm.gov.
  6.3. Foreign-born spouses who are not American citizens are normally not eligible to work in civil
  service positions. Check with the A&FRC for rules on employment for foreign-born spouses.
  6.4. A career-conditional employee who is a family member (a spouse or an unmarried child under 23
  years of age) and leaves Federal employment to accompany his or her sponsor on official assignment
  to an overseas duty station, may extend the 3-year eligibility for reinstatement by the amount of time
  equal to the period spent overseas in connection with sponsor's assignment. The period of overseas
  residency which extends reinstatement eligibility begins on the date the family member departs the
  United States and ends on the date the family member returns to the United States, at the conclusion
  of the sponsor's tour of duty.



                                              RICHARD Y. NEWTON III, Lt General, USAF
                                              DCS, Manpower and Personnel
10                                                          AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 12721, Eligibility of Overseas Employees for Noncompetitive Appointments, July 30,
1990
5 CFR 315.608 Noncompetitive Appointments of Certain Former Overseas Employees, current edition
Public Law 99-145, Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986, Section 806, "Employment Oppor-
tunities for Military Spouses," November 8, 1985, as amended.
Title 10, United States Code, Section 1784, "Employment Opportunities for Military Spouses," as
amended
DoD 1400.25-M Subchapter 315 Employment of Spouses of Active Duty Military, current edition.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
A&FRC—Airman & Family Readiness Center
APF—Appropriated Fund
ARC—American Red Cross
CAC—Common Access Card
CONUS—Continental United States
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
DDESS—Defense Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools
DECA—Defense Commissary Agency
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DoD—Department of Defense
DODDS—Department of Defense Dependents Schools
DODDEA—Department of Defense Dependents Education Agency
EEO—Equal Employment Opportunity
FY—Fiscal Year
HRO—Human Resources Office
LWOP—Leave Without Pay
MSP—Military Spouse Preference
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                             11


NSPS—National Security Personnel System
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPF—Official Personnel File
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PIN—Personal Identification Number
PPP—Priority Placement Program
VRA—Veterans’ Recruitment Appointment

Terms
Appropriated Fund Positions (APF)—Positions supported by funds appropriated by the Congress.
Associated pay plans are General Schedule (GS), General Manager (GM) and Federal Wage Schedule
(Wage Grade, Wage Leader, and Wage Supervisor), and National Security Personnel System pay
schedules. Appointments to appropriated fund positions are governed by rules and regulations of the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM), just as in the United States.
Best Qualified—As highly qualified as the lowest ranking referred candidate.
CONUS—Continental United States
Commuting Area—The commuting area for spouse preference includes the military sponsor’s duty
station and the surrounding localities to which the spouse has determined he or she is willing to travel
back and forth daily for employment. Customary commuting area definitions will be used.
Continuing Position—A position which is expected to last 1 year or of indefinite duration.
Family Member—The spouse or unmarried dependent child (under age 23) of a member of the US
Armed Forces or a US citizen civilian employee of a government agency, including NAF activities, whose
duty station is in the foreign area. A dependent child includes a stepchild, adopted child, foster child and
a child under legal guardianship residing with a military member or US citizen civilian employee.
Local Applicant—An individual, status or nonstatus, residing in the local overseas area. Family
members are given preference over nonfamily members to the extent authorized under veteran’s
preference rules.
Military Spouse Preference Eligible—A spouse who entered into marriage with the military sponsor
before the military sponsor’s reporting date to the new duty station.
National Security Personnel System (NSPS)—A simplified and adaptable management system that
places the right people in the right jobs at the right time. NSPS is a management system that compensates
and rewards employees based on performance and contribution to the mission.
Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) Positions—Positions which provide services for the morale, welfare
and recreation of Air Force personnel. As in the United States, these positions are found in such services
squadron activities as recreation facilities, the clubs, base lodging, and others. Employment priority is
given to military spouse preference candidates and family members. Unlike appropriated fund
employment, NAF employment is not Federal civil service. It is, however, considered Federal
employment.
12                                                              AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008


Nonstatus Applicant—An individual who has never held a career or career-conditional appointment in
the Federal service, or a nonveteran who has been separated more than 3 years from a career-conditional
appointment .
Overseas Area:—Includes foreign overseas areas and does not include Alaska, Hawaii, or Guam.
Stateside Hire—An employee recruited from the United States for overseas employment who is on a
transportation agreement; normally restricted to status applicants.
Status Applicant—A current or former Federal employee who has served under a career or
career-conditional appointment in the Federal civil service. Normally, authority to reinstate a former
career conditional employee (except those with veteran’s preference) terminates 3 years after separation.
However, that 3-year period is extended for a family member who left career-conditional employment to
accompany a sponsor to a foreign area.
United States—The 50 states, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam and other territories and
possessions of the United States.
Veteran’s Preference—As defined in 5 U.S.C. 2108 and 5 CFR, part 211. Generally authorized for
individuals who served on active duty under honorable conditions during a war, in a campaign or
expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized. (NOTE: If you have served on active duty,
please contact your local CPF representative for precise information regarding whether you qualify for
veterans preference).
AFPAM36-213 14 FEBRUARY 2008                                      13


                               Attachment 2

EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION FOR FAMILIES BEING ASSIGNED TO OVERSEAS AREAS


Aviano AB Italy                    Misawa AB JA
APO AE 09604-2565                  35 MSS/DPCS
31 MSS/DPCS                        Unit 5021 Box 20
Unit 6125 Box 65                   APO AP 96319-5021
Incirlik AB TU                     Osan AB KOR
39 MSS/DPCS                        51 MSS/DPCS
Unit 7075 Box 85                   Unit 2097
APO AE 09824-7585                  APO AP 96278-2097
Kadena AB JA                       Ramstein AB GE
18 MSS/DPCS                        435 MSS/DPCS
Unit 5134 Box 30                   Unit 3220 Box 365
APO AP 96368-5134                  APO AE 09094-0365
Kunsan AB KOR                      Spangdahlem AB GE
8 MSS/DPCS                         52 MSS/DPCS
Unit 2102                          Unit 3655 Box 110
APO AP 96264-2102                  APO AE 09126-5110
Lajes Field Azores                 Yokota AB JA
65 MSS/DPCS                        374 MSS/DPCS
Unit 6856                          Unit 5123
APO AE 09720-6856                  APO AP 96328-5123
RAF Mildenhall UK
100 MSS/DPCS
Unit 4925 Box 275
APO AE 09459-5275
