                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                      AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 36-2627
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               1 AUGUST 1997

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                                AIRMAN AND NCO PERFORMANCE
                                                                       FEEDBACK SYSTEM (EES)



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFPC/DPPPEP (Msgt Rae Smith)                       Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPP (Col Stephen S.
                                                                                             Lerum)
Supersedes AFP 39-15, 1 May 1989.                                                         Pages: 22
                                                                                     Distribution: F


This pamphlet (AFPAM) explains the Airman and Noncommissioned Officer (NCO) Performance Feed-
back System and implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-26, Military Force Management. It is a guide
for raters to use when providing performance feedback. This pamphlet is written so raters, especially new
ones, will have successful feedback sessions. It is not intended to make raters experts in formal appraisal
systems or counseling, nor take the place of other supervisory training programs. Consult Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 36-2403, Enlisted Evaluation System (EES), for more information. System of Records
Notice F035 AF MP A, Effectiveness/Performance Reporting System, applies. This pamphlet does not
apply to the Air National Guard. Do not supplement this pamphlet.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This is the first publication of AFPAM 36-2627 which substantially revises AFP 39-15, USAF Guide to
the Airman and NCO Performance Feedback System, 1 May 1989. It mandates the requirement of the
Senior NCOs to receive performance feedback on the AF Form 932, Performance Feedback Worksheet
(MSGT thru CMSgt).
                                                 Chapter 1

                                            INTRODUCTION

1.1. Introduction. In early 1988, the Air Force directed a review of the EES. The study group decided
that using the Airman performance Report (APR) as a feedback device had serious drawbacks. Most
appraisal system experts believe documenting performance and providing feedback are two separate
actions. The study group also found most of the enlisted corps did not view the APR as sufficient feed-
back. The enlisted force said they were often unaware of any deficiencies in performance until after it
was recorded in the official record. It was evident some raters did not provide any performance feedback
or give feedback far enough in advance of the APR to give the person an opportunity to improve. Conse-
quently, the study group recommended the Air Force adopt a formal feedback program that requires raters
to regularly talk to their airmen and NCOs about specific performance requirements and other military-
related factors that have historically been a part of evaluation systems. The Air Force approved the rec-
ommendation and implemented a formal feedback system.
1.2. What Is Feedback? Feedback is a form of communication. For our purpose, it is a formal commu-
nication between the rater and the ratee about military duties and responsibilities, written at regularly
scheduled intervals. In general, feedback should explain duty performance requirements and responsibil-
ities, establish expectations, and tell ratees if they are perform-ing as expected. As with all other types of
communication, to be effective, duty performance feedback must be clearly stated and received. Feed-
back forms (discussed in detail in chapters 2 and 3) help ensure private, face-to-face feedback sessions are
beneficial to all enlisted personnel. However, scheduled feedback sessions do not take the place of day-
to-day informal feedback (conversation), nor are they to be confused with formal counseling for problems
that are more appropriately docu-mented on records of counseling. Rather, the formal feedback session is
to establish formal, private communication between ratees and their raters about expectations and actual
performance.
1.3. Why Is Feedback Necessary? Quite simply, so people know what is expected of them and how
they are performing. This information gives direction and also increases motivation. Airmen and NCOs
generally perform better when raters explain what the requirements are, point out areas that need
improvement, and keep them updated on their progress.
1.4. Who Provides Feedback? The rater provides performance feedback. The rater (usually the first-
line supervisor) is, in most cases, responsible for the total job effort and is in the best position to observe
duty performance on a day-to-day basis. Also, the rater normally has the knowledge and experience nec-
essary to discuss the Air Force’s expectations regarding general military characteristics and opportunities
available within the Air Force Specialty (AFS).
1.5. Who Receives Feedback? Performance feedback sessions are mandatory for all enlisted personnel.
1.6. When Is Feedback Given? Initial feedback sessions are held within 60 days of a change of rating
official or within 60 days of the closeout of an Enlisted Performance Report (EPR) that was not due to a
rater change. The new rater uses this ses-sion to clearly define the expectations for the upcoming period.
A continuing rater uses the session to discuss performance recorded on the EPR, along with providing
direction and expectations for the new rating period. For enlisted personnel who receive EPRs, a "mid-
course" feedback session is held midway between the date supervision began and the projected EPR
closeout date to focus on how well the ratee meets expectations. If a change of rating official is expected

                                                      2
or the projected EPR closeout date limits the period of supervision to less than 150 days, a feedback ses-
sion should take place approximately 60 days before the EPR closeout. For airmen who do not receive
EPRs, a follow-up session is due approximately 180 days after the initial session. This cycle should con-
tinue until there is a change of rater or the airman begins to receive EPRs. Sessions are also held if the
rater determines there is a need for one, or within 30 days of a request from a ratee, provided at least 60
days have passed since the last feedback session. For members of the Air Force Reserve, supervisors pro-
vide and document follow-up counseling to all newcomers 6 months after the initial interview (180 days
from the date of assignment to the Military Personnel Flight or the date of the last EPR). For individual
Reservists (Individual Mobilization Augmentees and Participating Individual Ready Reservists) not per-
forming duty during the time frame of the follow-up session, the PFW should state that duty was not per-
formed during the evaluation period, and the individual Reservist will receive feedback during his or her
next duty day. Follow-up will then be accomplished annually, using the date of assignment to the Mili-
tary Personnel Flight (for personnel assigned to Personnel Accounting Symbol 96XXXXXX, the date of
supervision or date of last EPR) to establish the feedback due date.
1.7. Overview. The remainder of this pamphlet is designed to help you carry out the feedback require-
ments. Chapter 2 outlines the AF Form 931, Performance Feedback Worksheet (AB thru TSgt), and dis-
cusses the topics covered in a session using the form. Chapter 3 does the same thing for AF Form 932,
Performance Feedback Worksheet (MSGT thru CMSGT). Chapter 4 provides helpful advice on preparing
for and conducting a feedback session.




                                                    3
                                              Chapter 2

                        PERFORMANCE FEEDBACK (AB THRU TSGT)

2.1. General Instructions:
   2.1.1. For a sample of the AF Form 931, see figure 2.1.
   2.1.2. The rater completes the AF Form 931 in longhand--not typed or stored in memory components
   of typewriters, word processors, or similar equipment. Give the completed AF Form 931 to the ratee
   at the conclusion of the feedback session. The rater must keep a copy for future reference. The
   intended purpose of the form is to encourage the rater to provide candid comments about the ratee’s
   duty performance and provide the ratee with an uninflated assessment of performance factors. Some-
   one other than the ratee cannot sit in on the feedback session. Do not use the form in any personnel
   action unless the airman first introduces it. Upon request, the rater’s rater and commander are autho-
   rized access to completed performance feedback worksheets (PFW) for AB thru TSgt.
2.2. Detailed Instructions. Detailed instructions for completing the AF Form 931 are in figure 2.1.




                                                   4
Figure 2.1. Sample AF Form 931, Performance Feedback Worksheet (AB thru TSgt).




                                            5
6
Figure 2.2. Instructions for Completing AF Form 931, Performance Feedback Worksheet (AB
thru TSgt).
PART I: PERSONAL INFORMATION. Enter ratee’s name, grade, and unit assigned.


PART II: PRIMARY DUTIES. List the major job-specific duties for which the ratee is responsible.
The space provided is adequate in most instances. If additional space is needed, continue in Part IV,
"Comments."


PART III: PERFORMANCE FEEDBACK. This section incorporates both primary factors and gen-
eral military factors into one major category. Primary duty facts are AFS (job) related, and the rater’s
feedback is generally based on what occurs in the work environment. General military factors focus on
characteristics that are considered essential to military order, image, and tradition. Performance feedback
encompasses both of these factors to emphasize how ratees perform their particular job and how they
uphold and support the long-established military traditions, customs, standards, and institutional values.
Both are essential considerations in determining overall (total) duty performance. Also, the rater has
space to add additional factors. Usually, these factors are unique to special duties and locations or may
not have been adequately covered in the primary duty or general military factors. Each subheading lists
some behaviors that must be evaluated and scored by placing an “X” on the scale in position that most
accurately identifies the ratee’s performance. Areas marked to the far left of the sliding scale indicate the
ratee's needs to work extra hard in these areas. Areas marked to the far right indicate the member is per-
forming quite well and needs to either maintain or slightly improve. Any area marked in between requires
discussion to explain its exact meaning to the ratee. When the behavior listed does not apply, enter N/A.
N/A might also be used frequently during an initial expectation-setting session. While placing an “X” on
the scale is important, do not allow this to defeat the purpose of the form and feedback session. Remem-
ber, the form is just a tool to help guide the sessions and is between the rater and the ratee. The most
important objective is for the ratee to clearly understand the rater’s position regarding performance and
directions to take. Space is also provided to explain ideas in writing and to give examples of behaviors
noted.


1. Performance of Assigned Duties. This item focuses on the ratee’s AFS.
1.1. Quality of Work. Quality of work means the degree of job excellence. Each job normally has mini-
mum quality standards established. The rater must measure the airman’s typical performance results
against these standards. Some jobs obviously have more stringent quality standards than others and raters
have less tolerance in what they can accept. Quality of work is very important. Everyone is encouraged
to strive for excellence regardless of the job to which they are assigned.
1.2. Quantity of Work. The quantity of work refers to the amount of work done and is another aspect of
productivity. Sometimes it impacts on quality.
1.3. Timeliness of Work. The final aspect of productivity is timeliness. The ratee’s awareness of and
responses to the time constraints associated with the job are the focus of this factor. Each job has its own
demand on time. Some jobs are planned far in advance, while others require immediate attention. Quality
and quantity may be acceptable, but if the job is not completed on time, the mission could suffer.


                                                     7
2. Knowledge of Primary Duties. Knowledge is familiarity, awareness, and understanding gained
through experience, on-the-job training (OJT), self-study, or formal training:
2.1. Technical Expertise. Specialized knowledge and skills obtained through experience and training.
2.2. Knowledge of Related Areas. Extensive knowledge in job related areas will provide the ratee with a
well rounded concept of job functions and how they interconnect with the primary mission. It provides
the technical expertise required to ensure every job is completed with efficiency.
2.3. Applies Knowledge to Duties. Job knowledge is the key ingredient to ensuring a task is completed
successfully. The ability to apply this knowledge correctly when required will improve productivity, fos-
ter team work, and aid in training others who have less knowledge.


3. Compliance with Standards. Standards apply to all members of the Air Force. Each person is
expected to comply with the minimum standards to reflect the image the Air Force intends to project.
Feedback should center on meeting these standards and on motivation to exceed them:
3.1. Dress and Appearance. A distinction of military service is the military dress and appearance require-
ments. It is your duty to ensure airmen reflect pride in self, unit, and the Air Force by abiding with and,
hopefully, exceeding these requirements.
3.2. Weight. The Air Force has maximum weight standards based on a member’s gender and height. The
Air Force expects all personnel to maintain this standard as a vital part of the peacetime preparation for
combat readiness.
3.3. Fitness. Being physically fit ensures mission readiness, improved quality of life, and also ensures
each Air Force member presents a proper military image. Furthermore, it is an excellent method of
increasing mental alertness and reducing anxiety or tension. Feedback should be factual and motiva-
tional.
3.4. Customs and Courtesies. Customs and courtesies create esprit-de-corps, morale, and discipline, plus
an atmosphere where respectful behaviors signal readiness and willingness to serve. The rater should dis-
cuss trends and standards.


4. Conduct and Behavior On-Off Duty. Several of these relate to the adaptability of people to life in
the military. Clearly, we should conduct ourselves in a manner that supports good order and discipline.
This is not a substitute for official coun-seling related to significant misconduct, but it is a good opportu-
nity to share general impressions and reinforce expectations. Since military members are on-duty 24
hours a day, every day, off-duty behavior simply refers to behavior occurring away from the normal work
place. The conduct of an Air Force member should be displayed in a way that reflects a professional
image. Again, this area affords a pleasant opportunity to reinforce expectations. It allows for comments
on areas not speci-fically covered in other parts of the form.
4.1. Financial Responsibility. Simply stated, the ratee should not spend more money than he or she earns.
If credit has been extended, timely payments are required and expected. Comments on sound financial
planning are appropriate here.



                                                      8
4.2. Support for Organizational Activities. One of the many ways a military organization can build a
close-knit and cohe-sive unit is through the members participating in a variety of activities, both inside
and outside the unit. The tone of this area is intended to be motivational.
4.3. Respect for Authority. Within any military unit, discipline remains the core of coordinated action.
Airmen must recog-nize and respect authority for this discipline to be effective. Raters should reinforce
this concept and share general impres-sions.
4.4. Maintenance of Government Quarters and Facilities. Having respect for property that is paid for by
the American taxpayers is part of the airman’s service to country. We should always be alert to identify
and eliminate waste and abuse. The rater should review positive and negative instances as well as expec-
tations.


5. Supervision and Leadership. Supervision and leadership are two of a kind and go hand-in-hand in
the process of managing people and resources. Supervisors must be responsible for their people’s action
and must evaluate them accord-ingly. On the other hand, a leader demonstrates leadership by example to
include the display of integrity, honesty, fairness, and concern for the health and welfare of subordinates.
5.1. Sets and Enforces Standards. Problems occur every day in every unit. The manner and speed in
which a supervisor solves problems becomes a measure of unit effectiveness. Being able to logically
evaluate the pros and cons of each situa-tion contributes to good problem solving. Specific examples,
whether positive or negative, are valuable when explaining expectations versus actual performance.
5.2. Initiative. Initiative is the ability to energetically begin or follow through with plans or tasks. Know-
ing what needs to be done and doing it demonstrates initiative.
5.3. Self-confidence. Self-confidence is believing in one's self and in the ability to lead and perform.
5.4. Provides Guidance and Feedback. Providing guidance and feedback is an integral part of the com-
munication process. It enables subordinates to comply with established standards and effectively meet
mission requirements.
5.5. Fosters Teamwork. This is the ability to create a working environment that ensures trust, teamwork,
and pride in accomplishing the mission. It is the art of stimulating the willingness of subordinates to share
their expertise with each other to become a cohesive team in achieving goals and expectations that will
have a positive impact on mission effectiveness.


6. Individual Training Requirements. Proper training takes a lot of time and effort and directly deter-
mines whether or not an individual is successful. As raters, we should provide the best training available.
Training in the Air Force today falls primarily into three categories: upgrade training, proficiency and
qualification training, and contingency and mobility training.
6.1. Upgrade (OJT/CDC). Upgrade training has two components: OJT and career development courses
(CDC). CDCs are correspondence courses written to provide information about a particular AFS. OJT is
hands-on application of the know-ledge gained through the CDCs and special instructions by the trainer.
If the airman is in upgrade training, feedback should focus on the airman’s efforts to complete the CDCs
and master the hands-on applications.



                                                      9
6.2. Professional Military Education. Know the various courses available. This responsibility includes
enrollment in and the successful completion of any and all courses necessary for the overall improvement
of the ratee.
6.3. Proficiency and Qualification. This type of training usually follows upgrade training and is typically
continuous. It may be training given daily in the work environment, or formalized training, as in a class-
room or academic environment. Whatever the method, the primary focus of this type of training and feed-
back is to keep airmen proficient and qualified in their primary specialty. Comments about the
Community College of the Air Force might also be appropriate here.
6.4. Contingency, Mobility, and Other. Normally, training under these categories is not related to pri-
mary duties. Usually, it is identified as training away from the job. However, raters are still required to
present these requirements to the ratee with the same enthusiasm demonstrated for daily duties. It is also
important raters know how their people are doing, even when they are working under the direction of
someone else.


7. Communication Skills. The airman’s ability to listen, organize, and express ideas verbally and in
writing.
7.1. Verbal. Preparation, practice, and being responsive to the audience are useful speaking habits. The
ratee needs strong communication skills to supervise effectively.
7.2. Written. Expressing ideas in written form includes using good organization, grammar, and the right
words to communicate the author’s thoughts. Also, an NCO’s proofreading skills can be useful in provid-
ing feedback to airmen.


PART IV: COMMENTS. See reverse side of form.


REVERSE: STRENGTHS, SUGGESTED GOALS, AND ADDITIONAL COMMENTS. Parts IV
and Reverse are intended for written comments. The comments should help explain your thoughts and
use of the scales, and should serve as a vehicle for the airman to use in remembering those areas of
strength and those needing improvement. Use the "Comments" column to explain and illustrate feedback
on primary duty and general military factors. Use the "Strengths, Suggested Goals, and Additional Com-
ments" section to continue comments on these duty and military factors, discuss other areas of interest,
pinpoint strong characteristics, or outline the goals to work on until the next feedback session. Remem-
ber, the form is a tool. Your main goal is not to accomplish the form, but to develop the airman.




                                                    10
                                              Chapter 3

                               SNCO PERFORMANCE FEEDBACK

3.1. General Instructions: There are several factors common to both PFWs. Similar explanations for
those factors are included in this section to aid those who may provide feedback to senior NCOs (SNCO)
only. Only commanders are authorized access to SNCO PFWs.
   3.1.1. For a sample of AF Form 932, see figure 3.1.
   3.1.2. The rater completes the AF Form 932. Do not type or store in memory components of type-
   writers, word processors, or similar equipment. Give the completed AF Form 932 to the SNCO at the
   conclusion of the feedback session. You must keep a copy for future reference. The intended purpose
   of the form is to encourage the rater to provide candid comments about the SNCO’s duty performance
   and provide the SNCO with an uninflated assessment of applicable performance factors. No one other
   than the ratee can sit in on the feedback session. The form will not be used in any personnel action
   unless the SNCO first introduces it. Upon request, commanders are allowed access to the PFW.
3.2. Detailed Instructions. Detailed instructions for completing the AF Form 932 are in figure 3.2.




                                                  11
Figure 3.1. Sample AF Form 932, Performance Feedback Worksheet (MSGT thru CMSGT).




                                         12
13
Figure 3.2. Instructions for Completing AF Form 932, Performance Feedback Worksheet (MSGT
thru CMSGT).
PART I: PERSONAL INFORMATION. Enter SNCO’s name, grade, and unit assigned.


PART II: PRIMARY DUTIES. List the SNCO’s major job-specific duties. The space provided is ade-
quate in most instances. If additional space is needed, continue in Part IV, "Comments."


PART III: PERFORMANCE FEEDBACK. This section incorporates both primary duty factors and
general military factors into one major category. Primary duty facts are AFS (job) related, and the rater’s
feedback is generally based on what occurs in the work environment. General military factors focus on
characteristics that are considered essential to military order, image, and tradition. Performance feedback
encompasses both of these factors to emphasize how SNCOs perform their particular job and how they
uphold and support the long-established military traditions, customs, standards, and institutional values.
Both are essential considerations in determining overall (total) duty performance. Also, the rater has
space to add additional factors. Usually, these factors are unique to special duties and locations or may
not have been ade-quately covered in the primary duty or general military factors. Each subheading lists
some behaviors that must be evaluated and scored by placing an X on the scale in a position that most
accurately identifies the SNCO’s performance. Areas marked to the far left of the sliding scale indicate
the SNCO needs to work extra hard in these areas. Areas marked to the far right indicate the SNCO is
performing quite well and needs to either maintain or slightly improve. any area marked in between
requires discussion to explain its exact meaning to the SNCO. When the behavior listed does not apply,
enter N/A. N/A might also be used frequently during an initial expectation-setting session. While placing
an X on the scale is important, do not allow this to defeat the purpose of the form and the feedback ses-
sion. Remember, the form is just a tool to help guide the session and is between the rater and the SNCO.
The most important objective is for the SNCO to clearly understand the rater’s position regarding perfor-
mance and directions to take. Space is also provided to explain ideas, in writing, and to give examples of
behaviors noted.


1. Duty Performance. This item focuses on the ratee’s Air Force specialty code (AFSC). Place an “X”
on the scale in a position that most accurately identifies the ratee’s performance. In many cases, raters are
required to establish work stan-dards (expectations) for the unit. Usually, these are based on what needs
to be accomplished, how it needs to be done, and when it needs to be completed. To accomplish the
objectives of the unit, SNCOs are assigned specific duties. How the SNCOs accomplish these tasks
should form the basis of the evaluation. These factors are interrelated, and sometimes it is difficult to sep-
arate them. However, it is important that SNCOs understand what it takes to achieve total job effective-
ness--how they actually perform and meet expectations. The rater's thoughts on these matters form the
basis of the feedback sessions.
1.1. Quality of Work. Quality of work means the degree or grade of job excellence. Each job normally
has minimum quality standards established. Measure the SNCO's typical performance results against this
standard. Some jobs obviously have more stringent quality standards than others and raters have less tol-
erance in what they can accept. quality of work is very important. we encourage everyone to strive for
excellence regardless of the job they are assigned.


                                                     14
1.2. Quantity of Work. The quantity of work refers to the amount of work done and is another aspect of
productivity. Sometimes it impacts on quality.
1.3. Timeliness of Work. The final aspect of productivity is timeliness. The SNCO’s awareness of and
response to the time constraints associated with the job are the focus of this factor. Each job has its own
demand on time. Some jobs are planned far in advance, while others require immediate attention. Quality
and quantity may be acceptable, but if the job is not completed on time, the mission could suffer.


2. Job Knowledge. Knowledge is familiarity, awareness, and understanding gained through experience,
OJT, self-study, or formal training.
2.1. Technical Expertise. This is specialized knowledge and skills obtained through experience and train-
ing.
2.2. Ability to Apply to Job. This is the ability to apply sound judgment with respect to scope, thorough-
ness, and care.


3. Leadership. Leadership is the art of influencing and directing people to accomplish the mission. It
involves displaying a strong desire to achieve, persistence, task competence, good interpersonal skills,
self-confidence, decisiveness, a tolerance for stress, and a high degree of flexibility.
3.1. Motivates Peers and Subordinates. Supervisors must become skillful at leading and motivating their
subordinates to successfully perform the mission of their units. Stimulating and energizing airmen and
other NCOs to reach goals that they might not attempt are required qualities.
3.2. Maintains Discipline. A well-run military organization requires subordinates to follow orders and
respond to leadership direction. The SNCO’s duty is to ensure that an airman’s behavior is orderly and
supports the unit’s mission.
3.3. Sets and Enforces Standards. It is not enough to merely monitor subordinates. quality and quantity
standards for work are the responsibility of supervisors. Enforcing work standards means rewarding
those who excel and holding others accountable for not meeting standards. The way a SNCO solves prob-
lems, and how quickly, becomes a measure of unit effectiveness.
3.4. Evaluates. Subordinates expect to be evaluated on their duty performance, but also believe they will
be judged fairly and equally. Consistency in evaluation means that supervisors should always maintain
the same standards among subor-dinates. Avoid favoritism for any airman or other NCO.
3.5. Plans and Organizes Work. Supervisors should create a flow of work that reflects proper planning
and organization. Directing the whole unit to carry out planned activities by organizing the work force
leads to higher efficiency and effectiveness.
3.6. Fosters Teamwork. Fostering teamwork is the ability to create a working environment that ensures
trust, teamwork, and pride in accomplishing the mission. It includes stimulating the willingness of mem-
bers to share their expertise with each other to become a cohesive team in achieving goals and expecta-
tions that have a positive impact on mission effectiveness.




                                                    15
4. Managerial Skills. Managerial skills consist of the ability to effectively direct and control the action
of people and the use of resources. It involves decision making that directly impacts the mission effec-
tiveness, esprit de corps, financial budgets, and so on.
4.1. Time. Proper timing can avoid a work stoppage, dissatisfied workers, loss of money, disciplinary
action, and many other unfavorable actions. How well one manages time will reflect his or her ability to
be an effective leader.
4.2. Resources. The most common resources that a SNCO will be involved with are people, equipment,
and money. The ability to effectively manage these resources is critical to the success of any mission.
Planning timelines, programming, and projecting these resources must be done as accurately as possible.


5. Judgment. Resolve problems in a professional manner while considering all factors.
5.1. Evaluate Situations. Evaluation consists of observing, evaluating ratee’s performance, providing
feedback, and record-ing appropriately.
5.2. Reach Logical Conclusions. This is the ability to decide on a course of action that is the overall best
solution based on time, money, and resources.


6. Professional Qualities. These factors invoke different meanings in different people. Together, they
demonstrate a SNCO's allegiance, commitment, and adherence to the organization's mission, standards,
values, and officials.
6.1. Dedication and Preservation of Military Values.
6.2. Integrity. Integrity provides the foundation for trust and displays a commitment to honestly stand by
your word. It is one of the key elements in gaining respect of subordinates and supervisors.
6.3. Loyalty. This is the quality that makes the ratee faithful to a cause, principle, or another person.


7. Communications Skill. SNCOs must exhibit high-quality communication skills in order to perform
effectively. These skills include the ability to listen, write, and speak well.
7.1. Organizes Ideas. Organizing ideas is instrumental in successfully communicating with others. Ideas
should be listed from the simplest to most complex and should convey purpose and logic to avoid diffi-
culty in understanding.
7.2. Expresses Ideas. Expressing ideas includes using good organization, grammar, and the right words
to communicate the author's thoughts. Also, a SNCO's proofreading skills are essential to effective writ-
ten communications. Preparation, prac-tice, and being responsive to the audience are useful speaking hab-
its.


PART IV: COMMENTS. See reverse side of form.


Reverse: STRENGTHS, SUGGESTED GOALS, AND ADDITIONAL COMMENTS. Parts IV
and Reverse are intended for written comments. The comments should help explain your thoughts and

                                                     16
use of the scales, and should serve as a vehicle for the SNCO to use in remembering those areas of
strength and those needing improvement. Use the "Comments" column to explain and illustrate feedback
on primary duty and general military factors. Use the "Strengths, Suggested Goals, and Additional Com-
ments" section to continue comments on these duty and military factors, discuss other areas of interest,
pinpoint strong characteristics, or outline the goals to work on until the next feedback session. Remem-
ber, the form is a tool. Your main goal is not to accomplish the form, but to develop the SNCO.




                                                  17
                                                 Chapter 4

                   HELPFUL HINTS FOR EFFECTIVE FEEDBACK SESSIONS

Section 4A—Preparation
4.1. Observing Performance and Keeping Notes. The primary purpose of feedback is to improve per-
formance and professionally develop enlisted personnel to their highest potential. To enhance the effec-
tiveness of these sessions, the following steps and tips should prove helpful. The most important factor in
preparing for a feedback session is to routinely observe the performance of the ratee. You cannot expect
to comment on strong and weak areas, trends, and any degree of improvement without routinely watching
performance. The days of pulling out a file of old APRs or just asking for a list of accomplishments once
a year are over. A rater must be actively involved in the process to make feedback work. One does not
need to follow an "official" plan or create a "fancy" note-taking device. However, as a rater, you must
routinely make notes about behavior and the impact of that behavior, collect examples of work or letters
of appreciation, talk to others who are knowledgeable about duty performance, and actively interact with
ratees. Information should be collected over time and in a variety of circumstances to foster a solid eval-
uation. Whether or not the rater chooses to use a notebook or a daily calendar, reviewing performance
without bias and keeping good notes allows for meaningful insight and helps in preparing for the feedback
session.
4.2. Scheduling the Time and Place. Schedule the feedback session far enough in advance so the rater
and ratee have sufficient time to prepare for it. Set aside time for the session so everything on the agenda
is covered without the appearance of being rushed. For both parties to be relaxed and able to talk comfort-
ably, select a room that allows for privacy, face-to-face discussions, has proper lighting and ventilation,
and prevents any outside distractions or interruptions.
4.3. Setting the Agenda. The agenda should consist of a basic outline of topics (as discussed in chapters
2 and 3) and the sequence for discussion. Be sure to include the ratee’s duty description and responsibili-
ties, expectations and targets to hit in order to meet those expectations, a brief synopsis of the mission, and
status of the unit. These essential items should lay the groundwork for an effective, productive working
relationship between the rater and the ratee by motivating him or her to achieve the highest possible level
of [future] performance. another important step in establishing an agenda for follow-on sessions is to
review all notes of observed actions and results, file of work samples, etc. Ask four basic questions:
   4.3.1. What has happened in response to the discussion during the last feedback session?
   4.3.2. What has been done well?
   4.3.3. What could be done better?
   4.3.4. What new areas need to be discussed?
4.4. Choosing the Best Approach. You can use numerous approaches to give feedback. We have
adapted several from common sources of Air Force instruction on counseling (table 4.1). Regardless of
the approach chosen, it must not be an artificial technique applied mechanically. One of the fundamental
rules of feedback is to be yourself.
   4.4.1. Directive. With the directive approach, analyze the situation, develop a solution or a plan for
   improvement, and tell the airman or NCO what to do. Several common types of this approach include
   advice giving, forbidding and threatening, explanation, and reassurance.

                                                      18
     4.4.2. Nondirective. With the nondirective approach, encourage the ratee to talk about trends by ask-
     ing questions, drawing the airman or NCO into the process of developing a solution. this approach is
     extremely useful with individuals who usually have a positive attitude. However, it does require the
     rater to have excellent listening and questioning skills.
     4.4.3. Combined. A third approach draws on both the directive and nondirective techniques. It relies
     on both the rater and ratee to develop solutions and offers the greatest flexibility.

Table 4.1. Advantages and Disadvantages of Feedback Approaches.
 L                        A                                   B                             C
 I                     Directive                          Nondirective                   Combined
 N
 E
                                                 Advantages
  1     Quickest method                                                     Moderately quick.
  2     Good for immature or insecure ratee        Encourages maturity      Encourages maturity.
  3                                                Encourages open commu- Encourages              open
                                                   nication                 communication.
  4     Allows raters to actively use their expe- Develops personal respon- Allows raters to actively
        rience                                     sibility                 use their experience.
                                                Disadvantages
  5                                                Slowest method           May take too much time
                                                                            for some situations.
  6     Does not encourage maturity
  7     Tends to discourage ratee from talking
        freely
  8     Tends to treat symptoms, not problems Requires greatest supervi-
                                                   sory skills
4.5. Avoiding Pitfalls:
     4.5.1. The problems that can arise in the course of the feedback process are as varied as the people
     who are involved in the process. Such problems vary in degree, but can happen at any time. Pitfalls
     include personal bias, stereotyping, loss of emotional control, inflexible methods, reluctance to pro-
     vide feedback and inadequate planning. Some other examples include focusing on the person versus
     the behavior. EXAMPLE: Drawing or jumping to conclusions based on limited ob-servations or
     poor recall, rating performance as outstanding when it is not, telling the individual he or she is the
     "best" when the individual is not, and giving favorable ratings to an individual who is well-liked or
     unfavorable ratings to an individual who is not. Certainly, you can think of many other examples.
     However, the key is that pitfalls always lead to a discussion of general impressions versus specific
     aspects of performance.
     4.5.2. Avoiding pitfalls is not easy. While we will not address each one specifically, two general
     guidelines help. First, raters should exhibit the proper role attitude. The role during feedback is not
     as a critic or a superior with no faults. Rather, the role is that of a coach or helper. Feedback should

                                                     19
   be a positive process. The goal is to develop the individual. This should be beneficial for all. The
   rater’s job should be easier in the long run, the unit more productive, and the Air Force mis-sion
   enhanced. When the feedback session is approached with a positive attitude, backed up by good
   observation skills, the potential pitfalls will be avoided. Secondly, raters can avoid many pitfalls by
   practicing good observation skills:
       4.5.2.1. Gathering supporting notes over a period of time.
       4.5.2.2. Discriminating between relevant and irrelevant information.
       4.5.2.3. Focusing on specific behaviors and outcomes.
       4.5.2.4. Deciding what aspects of the job are really measurable and important.
       4.5.2.5. Doing selective work sampling when direct observation is infrequent.
       4.5.2.6. Communicating with ratees.
4.6. Preparing the Feedback Form. The performance feedback worksheet is prepared before the ses-
sion takes place. Remember, the worksheet is private and should be handwritten, not typed or stored in a
computer or memory typewriter. It serves to direct the discussion and as a ready reference for reinforce-
ment until the next feedback session. Generally, com-ments should contain conclusions about each area
with specific examples noted during the observation period. The con-clusions show the ratee where he or
she stands. The examples serve to illustrate the decision process and to clarify the rater’s likes and dis-
likes. In addition, the form provides space for goal-setting and other comments the rater cares to make.
The rater must sign and date the form the day of the session. on completion of the session, the original of
the form is given to the ratee. The rater also keeps a copy for future reference, but may not show it to any-
one who is not authorized to view it.
Section 4B—During the Feedback Session
4.7. Opening the Feedback Session. Creating a relaxed atmosphere is conducive to having an open,
relaxed discussion. It is extremely important to place the ratee at ease. Seating arrangements should fos-
ter communication, i.e., across the corner of a desk or table, or a chair-facing-chair arrangement works
well. During this stage, focus on a neutral topic or event, recap the last feedback session, or thank the per-
son for his or her efforts during the observation period. any opening conversation should be brief. Being
friendly and sincere is essential.
4.8. Identifying the Purpose and Discussing Topics:
   4.8.1. The rater must take time to fully explain the purpose of the feedback session. It is at this initial
   stage that you should seek input from the individual. The ratee’s ideas or opinions on what has been
   done so far and what can be done better are important aspects of developing goals and objectives for
   improvement. Remember to focus on the airman’s or NCO’s strengths and accomplishments as well
   as the recommended improvement areas. Be specific about the actual behavior that caused the accom-
   plishment or deficiencies and describe the effects of the behavior on others.
   4.8.2. Raters must be sure to give their full attention, mentally and physically. They must be sin-
   cerely interested in their personnel; otherwise, the airmen or NCOs will recognize insincerity and not
   tell the personal information that is needed in order to help. An important aspect of giving an individ-
   ual full attention is listening to what meaning is being communicated, not just the words and symbols
   that are used. For example, an individual’s eye contact, posture, head nods, facial expres-sions, verbal
   behavior, etc., are all important indications of his or her inner emotions and attitudes. At the same

                                                     20
   time raters are concerned about their own behavior, they must be sensitive to the same cues from the
   ratee and adjust accordingly.
4.9. Developing and Implementing a Course of Action. Using one of the feedback approaches, the
rater and ratee should develop a plan to achieve success. This plan should include objectives and priori-
ties that specify the quantity, quality, timeliness, and manner of actions desired. In order for the plan to
be used to its fullest extent, ensure all key points are writ-ten on the performance feedback worksheet and
given to the ratee. This acts not only as a summary for the airman or NCO, but also as a "memory jogger"
of the discussion for later utilization.
4.10. Referring to Other Agencies. Although we have made the distinction between routine perfor-
mance feedback and counseling on serious problems (one raised by the rater or brought to the rater by the
ratee), there is still the possibility that a feedback session might create an environment where problems
surface. Remember your limitations when confronted with a situation that requires outside "expert" assis-
tance. Some of the outside agencies that can assist are:
   4.10.1. Chaplains (religious, marital, academic, personal).
   4.10.2. Medical personnel (physical, mental).
   4.10.3. Family Support Center.
   4.10.4. Military Personnel Flight (AF Aid Society, Family Services).
   4.10.5. Legal or Social Actions (drug or alcohol abuse, Equal Opportunity Treatment).
   4.10.6. The American Red Cross.
4.11. Tips for Better Feedback:
   4.11.1. Ratees must first accept the rater before they can willingly accept feedback. the successful
   rater does not rely on grade or position. to be successful, raters must develop ratee confidence in their
   competence, sincerity, and fairness before the feedback session.
   4.11.2. Perceptions and opinions should be presented as such, and not as facts.
   4.11.3. Feedback should be in terms of specific relevant behavior and not on generalities, the rater’s
   attitudes, or personal feelings toward the individual.
   4.11.4. Feedback should be concerned with those areas over which a person can exercise some con-
   trol.
   4.11.5. When feedback is mainly evaluative versus purely descriptive, feedback should be in terms of
   established criteria, probable outcomes, and means of improvement. While feedback is intended to
   disclose expectations, it should be based on accepted standards and needs of the Air Force versus
   mainly personal opinions, likes, dislikes, and biases.
   4.11.6. Feedback is pointless unless a ratee benefits from it. Praise for the sake of praise has no value.
   It should motivate, build self-confidence, or reinforce top performance. Negative feedback that does
   not aid in improved performance or a higher level of performance should be omitted.
   4.11.7. Listen carefully. Paraphrase what is heard to check perceptions. Ask questions for clarifica-
   tion.
   4.11.8. Give feedback in a manner that communicates acceptance of the ratee as a worthwhile person.


                                                    21
   4.11.9. Feedback should avoid "loaded" terms that produce emotional reactions and heightened
   defenses.
   4.11.10. Remember that feedback stops when communication stops.
Section 4C—Closing the Session
4.12. Summarizing. Before the session ends, take a few minutes to review and summarize the key items
discussed and reinforce the goals for the next observation period. A good method of summarizing is to
ask the ratee for comments on the discussion to make sure they understand the results of the session. It is
especially important that this summarization helps end the session on a positive, encouraging, and for-
ward-looking note. Be sure to sign and date the PFW, make a copy for your file, and give the original to
the ratee.
4.13. Follow-up and Monitoring the Subordinate’s Performance:
   4.13.1. The rater should plan for the next observation period as soon as the session is completed. The
   use of existing notes will help monitor the individual’s performance progress and give the rater a start-
   ing point for the next feedback session. Again, do not consider feedback as only the formal sessions.
   You should never wait to give feedback. Informal feedback on a regular basis helps keep the ratee on
   the road to improvement, increase motivation, and prevent new problems from developing.
   4.13.2. The goal of the feedback process is to improve individual duty performance. Through the
   rater’s efforts, the individual benefits professionally, the rater benefits from a more productive worker,
   and the Air Force benefits from increased mission accomplishment. You are the "key player" in the
   process.




                                          MICHAEL D. McGINTY, Lt General, USAF
                                          DCS/Personnel




                                                    22
