BY ORDER OF THE                                                         AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 10-243
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                1 AUGUST 2002

                                                                                    460TH SPACE WING
                                                                                            Supplement
                                                                                            15 APRIL 2008

                                                                                                 Operations

                                                                                AUGMENTATION DUTY

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to
                       www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link).
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/DPXJ                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX (Maj Gen Speigel)
                                                                                         Pages: 17

                                                 (460SW)
OPR: 460 MSG/CD                                                                  Certified by: 460 SW/CV
                                                                                (Colonel Charlotte Wilson)
                                                                                                  Pages: 8

This pamphlet compliments AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. Refer recommended changes
and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAF/DPFJ, 1540 Air Force Pentagon, Washing-
ton DC, 20330-1540 on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The privacy
act of 1974 affects this publication. The authority to collect and maintain the data prescribed in this pam-
phlet is Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section 8013. System of Records Notice Numbers, F036
HQ AFPC, Military Personnel Records Systems and F036 HQ AFPC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS),
apply. Ensure that all records created by this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139,
“Records Disposition Schedule.”
 The former Resource Augmentation Duty (READY) program, AFI 10-217, has been replaced with a
more flexible, commander directed augmentation program. As such, this pamphlet contains a compilation
of processes and procedures to help implement an effective program. The contents of this pamphlet are
recommendations only and may be used entirely or in part.

(460SW) This supplement implements Air Force Pamphlet 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002.
This supplement establishes procedures and defines responsibilities for the administration of the Aug-
mentation Program at Buckley Air Force Base (Buckley AFB). The Augmentation Program is designed to
support Buckley AFB in identifying, training, and tracking personnel to meet short-term augmentation
needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, and emergency or wartime situations. It applies to all
Department of Defense and Air Force personnel who are assigned, attached or associated with the 460th
2                                                       AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008


Space Wing (460 SW), as well as tenant and associate units assigned to Buckley AFB. It does not apply
to Air National Guard (ANG) units. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of references and supporting infor-
mation. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to 460th Mission Support
Group Deputy Commander (460 MSG/CD), 18401 East A-Basin Avenue, Stop 97, Buckley Air Force
Base, CO 80011-9500, using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs
847 from the field through the base publications/forms manager (460 SCS/SCSOKP). This publication
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm. The reporting
requirement in this publication is exempt from licensing in accordance with paragraph 2.11.12 of AFI
33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling Internal, Public,
and Interagency Air Force Information Collections. This publication requires collecting information pro-
tected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force.

Section A—Mission

1. An augmentation program can assist commanders in validating, approving and documenting the need
for additional personnel resources to support installation-level requirements. It can also aid commanders
in identifying, training, and tracking personnel to meet short-term augmentee needs for installation-level
exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations/scenarios. Use of an augmentation program is
optional, and each installation should review its plans and requirements appropriately.
    1.1. (Added-460SW) Mission. The Augmentation Program identifies, places, and trains personnel to
    meet augmentee needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, and wartime or emergency situ-
    ations.
       1.1.1. (Added-460SW) Use the Augmentation Program to manage short-term augmentation
       needs. Augmentation normally refers to using people in other than their assigned Air Force Spe-
       cialty Code (AFSC) duties.
       1.1.2. (Added-460SW) Consider local needs and conditions when establishing and implementing
       augmentation requirements. Give top priority to augmentation required for wartime operations,
       contingencies, natural or man-made disasters, humanitarian scenarios and exercises.
       1.1.3. (Added-460SW) Do not deploy augmentation-trained people in their augmentation duty.
       They may be dispatched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emer-
       gencies whenever the use of Department of Defense (DoD) personnel has been properly autho-
       rized.
       1.1.4. (Added-460SW) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
       (Officer and Enlisted), allows individuals to perform duty outside their Control Air Force Spe-
       cialty Code (CAFSC); however, AFI 36-2101, paragraph 3.34.2, prescribes that only the 460th
       Mission Support Squadron Commander (460 MSS/CC) may authorize use outside CAFSC
       beyond 130 and up to 180 days within a 12-month period. Refer to AFI 36-2101 for further refer-
       ence to personnel use outside of CAFSC.
       1.1.5. (Added-460SW) AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, paragraph
       2.13., Use of Selective Reenlistment Bonus Program (SRB) Airman, SRB recipients may not per-
AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008                                                                       3


       form duty outside their SRB specialty for more than 90 days without written approval from Head-
       quarters Air Force Personnel Center, Airman Assignments System Procedures (HQ AFPC/
       DPAAS2).
       1.1.6. (Added-460SW) Augmentation program augmentees should remain in the program for a
       minimum of 12 months after having been trained in their augmentee duties. Augmentees will
       remain assigned to the augmentation program unless replaced in writing by the commander of the
       tasked unit. Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) discipline is a primary concern. Personnel
       should not be assigned to augmentee duty during their deployment window, excluding enablers.
       1.1.7. (Added-460SW) Use the Functional Augmentation Sourcing Matrix, developed by 460
       MSS, as a guide for the Augmentation Review Board (ARB) to task units to provide personnel for
       specific augmentation duties. The ARB minutes will include these and any other augmen-
       tee-related decisions.
       1.1.8. (Added-460SW) Command Post personnel, unless assigned more than authorized, are
       exempt from augmentation duties.

Section B—Responsibilities

2. The Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander should determine if an
installation augmentation program is required. If a program is required, it’s a local decision how it will be
implemented and managed. Should it be determined a program is required, the processes and procedures
in this pamphlet are offered as a structural framework for an effective program and may be used entirely
or in part.

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program

3. Processes and procedures
   3.1. If the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander determines an
   augmentation program is required, recommend only one program for an installation.
   3.2. Tenant units, at the discretion of the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU
   Commander, should be encouraged to participate in and receive benefits of the Host Installation aug-
   mentation program.
   3.3. All non-Air Force organizations (i.e., DoD, other Services, etc.) residing on Air Force installa-
   tions are strongly encouraged to participate in the augmentation program. Individual volunteers
   should be utilized after they obtain approval from their immediate commander.
   3.4. Recommend appointment of an installation augmentation program OPR (generally the installa-
   tion Vice Commander). The OPR should be responsible for establishing an augmentation review
   board (ARB) and appointing members.
       3.4.1. The ARB should manage all local augmentation programs. The augmentation program
       OPR should be the board chairperson and the approval authority for all augmentee call-ups.
       3.4.1. (460SW) The ARB is made up of two entities: Board Members and Board Advisors. For
       board members, 460 SW Vice Commander (460 SW/CV) or a designated representative will chair
       the ARB which consists of one voting member from each 460 SW group and tenant unit providing
4                                                   AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008


    augmentees, as well as the 460th Space Wing Command Chief Master Sergeant (460 SW/CCC).
    The ARB will meet quarterly or as directed by 460 SW/CV to revalidate details and unit tasking
    levels, and will emphasize minimizing mission impacts by eliminating and/or streamlining unnec-
    essary details and exemptions.
    3.4.2. The ARB should be made up of two groups of people: the board members (paragraph
    3.4.2.1.) who represent the command structure at the group/wing level and those who function as
    board advisors (paragraph 3.4.2.2.) because of their unique positions in manning and requirements
    management. Board members and advisors should provide the Host Installation Commander with
    advice on decisions needed to meet the temporary augmentation needs of the installation. Advi-
    sors are an integral part of the board and represent the base functions that provide key information
    for ARB action.
       3.4.2.1. Board Members: The Installation Vice Commander (or appointed augmentation pro-
       gram OPR) should be the chairperson. The Operations Group Commander (equivalent or dep-
       uty); Maintenance Group Commander (equivalent or deputy), Mission Support Group
       Commander (equivalent or deputy), Medical Group Commander (equivalent or deputy) and
       other commanders as applicable, should act as board members. The ARB Chairperson may
       designate key members from other installation organizations as required (i.e., tenant organiza-
       tions and staff functions such as Staff Judge Advocate, Safety, etc.).
       3.4.2.2. Board Advisors: At a minimum, advisors should consist of the servicing Manpower
       Office (MO) representative (requirements and shortfall/reclama advisors) and a designated
       military/civilian personnel availability advisor. The chairperson may appoint additional advi-
       sors to attend the ARB as required.
       3.4.2.2. (460SW) Board Advisors are those who advise the board because of their unique
       positions in manning and requirements management. Advisors will provide 460 SW/CV with
       advice on decisions needed to meet the temporary augmentation needs of the installation.
       Advisors are an integral part of the board and represent base functions that provide key infor-
       mation for ARB action.
       3.4.2.3. The ARB should be responsible for ensuring all local augmentation requirements are
       identified and met, and local training programs are established to meet those needs. The board
       should convene at least annually or more often, as directed by the chairperson, to revalidate
       requirements and prioritize exercise, contingency, wartime, or other emergency augmentation
       needs, and identify available resources to fill them. The board validates and approves augmen-
       tation requirements and exemptions based on the servicing MO representative’s advice. The
       ARB has overall responsibility for tasking installation units to meet augmentation require-
       ments.
       3.4.2.3. (460SW) The ARB will equitably task Buckley AFB units based on eligible person-
       nel assigned to assign personnel to meet augmentation requirements, unless a mission essential
       mechanism or another mechanism is voted upon and approved by the ARB.
       3.4.2.4. The servicing MO representative to the ARB, using approved management engineer-
       ing methods, should assist units in determining total augmentation requirements under locally
       defined scenarios. The MO should advise units regarding documenting augmentee shortfall/
       reclama requests, attend all ARB meetings, and review all augmentation requirements and
       exemptions forwarded to the ARB for action. The MO should advise the ARB based on their
AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008                                                                     5


         assessment of the need for and utilization of augmentees, and recommend solutions to aug-
         mentee reclama/shortfall actions.
         3.4.2.4. (460SW) The 460th Mission Support Squadron (460 MSS) will provide a manpower
         representative to serve as an ARB advisor and will:
             3.4.2.4.1. (Added-460SW) Update the Functional Augmentation Sourcing Matrix prior to
             each ARB to facilitate the identification of resources needed to meet approved augmenta-
             tion requirements. This matrix will include all Buckley AFB units and any participating
             Buckley AFB tenant units, as well as the factors the ARB has approved for use in making
             sourcing decisions.
             3.4.2.4.2. (Added-460SW) Attend all ARB meetings in an advisory role. As advisor, 460
             MSS will make recommendations based on its review/validation of resource identification.
         3.4.2.5. (Added-460SW) Attendance at ARBs by board members, advisors, UACs, and
         UAPMs is mandatory. Minutes of the meetings will be recorded, signed by 460 Mission Sup-
         port Group Deputy Commander (460 MSG/CD), approved by 460 SW/CV, and provided to all
         ARB members, advisors, UACs, and UAPMs. The 460 Mission Support Group Superinten-
         dent (460 MSG/CCC) is the recorder.
  3.5. The augmentation program OPR should appoint an installation augmentation program Manager
  for the day-to-day overall administration of the installation’s program. Specific responsibilities should
  be:
     3.5.1. Schedule ARB meetings, provide agendas, minutes and other documents to all the mem-
     bers.
     3.5.2. Brief the augmentation program OPR on all actions and recommendations of the ARB as
     required.
     3.5.3. Maintain a database of all augmentation requirements and augmentee training status.
     3.5.4. Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented and validated by the
     manpower office before being sent to the ARB for action.
     3.5.5. Publish a local operating instruction (OI) to establish procedures and define responsibilities
     for the administration of the installations augmentation program. At locations where an Air
     Reserve Component (ARC) and active duty are co-located, the OI should be coordinated through
     each component’s senior commander prior to finalization. The OI should include such things as:
         3.5.5.1. The procedures for determining exemptions, requesting exemptions, establishing
         requirements, tasking personnel, determining fair share taskings, replacing augmentees, and
         reporting shortfalls.
         3.5.5.2. The roles and responsibilities of the installation commander, augmentation program
         OPR, augmentation program manager, ARB members, and unit augmentation coordinators.
         3.5.5.3. Procedures to activate the augmentation program and what missions it would support.
         3.5.5.4. Procedures for identifying and tracking the training of augmentees.
         3.5.5.5. Any unique needs of the installation augmentation program.
6                                                     AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008


       3.5.6. (Added-460SW) Installation Augmentation Program Manager (IAPM). The IAPM pro-
       vides policy and coordinates with other major commands (MAJCOM) and/or Headquarters Air
       Force as required. The 460 MSG/CD is the IAPM. The 460 MSG/CD implements all new aug-
       mentee requirements approved by the 460 SW/CV, augmentee call-ups, and any amendments to
       augmentation procedures. The IAPM or other designee will:
           3.5.6.1. (Added-460SW) Disseminate Air Force policy and Augmentation Program guidance
           to the ARB and Augmentation Working Group (AWG).
           3.5.6.2. (Added-460SW) Schedule ARB and AWG meetings; provide agendas, minutes and
           other documents to all the members, advisors and other guests.
           3.5.6.3. (Added-460SW) Brief 460 SW/CV on all actions and recommendations of the AWG
           and ARB as required.
           3.5.6.4. (Added-460SW) Work with UACs and UAPMs to ensure augmentee information
           and training status is tracked and updated on a monthly basis.
           3.5.6.5. (Added-460SW) Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented
           and validated before being sent to the ARB for action.
           3.5.6.6. (Added-460SW) Advise units regarding documenting augmentee shortfall requests.
    3.6. Each organization using or providing augmentation should appoint a unit augmentation coordi-
    nator to manage the unit augmentation program.
    3.6. (460SW) Each unit that provides augmentees will appoint a Unit Augmentation Coordinator
    (UAC), otherwise referred to as a "provider." Although not mandatory, the squadron senior enlisted
    leader or first sergeant is likely the best member to be appointed as unit UAC. UACs will notify per-
    sonnel of their assignments to particular details. UACs will be responsible for replacing augmentees
    no later than 60 days prior to PCS/separation/AEF window.
       3.6.1. (Added-460SW) Augmented Unit Requirements. Unit Augmentation Program Managers
       (UAPM), otherwise referred to as "receivers," will be appointed by the commander, and the letter
       provided to the 460th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander (460 MSG/CD). The unit
       requesting augmentation will: (1) maintain a list of assigned personnel, (2) schedule and track
       team training, (3) ensure requests for augmentee replacement to individual units are timely, (4)
       forecast any increase/decrease in personnel needed for this detail through 460 MSG/CD, and (5)
       be responsible for providing any necessary special gear/equipment. The unit which is receiving
       augmentees is responsible for forecasting and budgeting for the cost of the required equipment.
    3.7. The Installation Plans Office should ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios include
    ARB approved personnel augmentation requirements.
    3.8. (Added-460SW) Superintendent, 460th Mission Support Group. The 460th Mission Support
    Group Superintendent (460 MSG/CCC) will assist the 460 MSG/CD as needed, to include liaising
    with other group/squadron superintendents to ensure the augmentation program's requirements are
    being met and to attempt to resolve any issues/concerns that arise for resolution at the lowest level
    possible.
    3.9. (Added-460SW) Augmentation Working Group. An AWG will be established to facilitate the
    exchange of information, resolve program and personnel issues prior to an ARB, and provide overall
    program management to ensure effective implementation of the Buckley AFB Augmentation Pro-
AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008                                                                       7


   gram. This body, which will meet as determined by the IAPM, will consist of 460 MSG/CD (Chair-
   person), a 460th Mission Support Squadron (460 MSS) representative, UACs, UAPMs, Group
   Superintendents, and functional representatives as needed.

4. How to Use Augmentees.
   4.1. Augmentation means using people in other than their assigned Control Air Force Specialty Code
   (CAFSC) duties. After unit commanders (who are seeking augmentees) exhaust their military person-
   nel resource pool, recommend they look within their organization to see if there are skilled and/or
   trained Department of the Air Force (DAF) civilian members who can perform the duty prior to seek-
   ing assistance from other organizations through the ARB (see paragraph 5.2. and Section C, para-
   graph 7.).
   4.2. Establishing and Implementing Augmentation Requirements:
      4.2.1. Consider local needs and conditions when determining augmentation requirements. Aug-
      mentation requirements are used primarily to support temporary, short-term workload surges dur-
      ing wartime, contingency, natural disaster, and exercise situations. Sustained use of augmentees
      should not be used to offset normal manpower shortfalls.
      4.2.2. Units using augmentees decide augmentee duties and train the augmentees to perform those
      duties. Augmented units should fund for required training, necessary equipment, uniform items
      (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed boots, leatherwork gloves, reflective
      belts, etc.). The augmented unit tracks all required training and coordinates training with the aug-
      mentees’ unit augmentation program coordinator.
      4.2.3. Prior to augmentees departing for PCS, reassignment, separation, or retirement, the aug-
      mented unit augmentation program coordinator should assure replacements are identified and
      trained. Personnel who have established retirement or approved separation dates should not be
      selected for augmentation duties. Close coordination between using and providing units and the
      augmentation program manager should be established to ensure there are no shortfalls in provid-
      ing augmentee replacements.
      4.2.4. When relieved from augmentation duty, members should be given any documentation
      reflecting the state of their training, qualification, and/or certification.
   4.3. (Added-460SW) UAPMs (Receivers): UAPMs function as process owners and provide over-
   sight of assigned augmentation function administration.
      4.3.1. (Added-460SW) The functional users for each of the approved augmentation functions at
      Buckley AFB are:
          4.3.1.1. (Added-460SW) 460th Security Forces Squadron (460 SFS). Security Forces aug-
          mentees provide support to the 460 SFS by assisting in the performance of security duties and
          traffic control when elevated Force Protection Conditions require additional security forces
          personnel to be available for duty, or when manning shortages exist. The target grade is E-6
          and below for enlisted; 0-3 and below for officer.
          4.3.1.2. (Added-460SW) 460th Civil Engineer Squadron Emergency Management Division
          (460 CES/CEX) Readiness Support Team (RST). RST augmentees may provide support for
          any readiness related area including disaster control, etc. The target grade is E-7 and below for
          enlisted; 0-3 and below for officer.
8                                                      AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008


           4.3.1.3. (Added-460SW) 460th Mission Support Group Services Division (460 MSG/
           SVMX) Search and Recovery (SAR) Team. The SAR Team is responsible for supporting the
           460 MSG/SVMX search and recovery mission on Buckley AFB grounds in the event of a
           disaster such as a plane crash, bus accident, train mishap, or natural disaster. Target grade is
           E-8 and below for enlisted; 0-5 and below for officer.
           4.3.1.4. (Added-460SW) 460th Logistics Readiness Squadron Pallet Build Up Team (460
           LRS/LGRRR). The Pallet Build Up Team provides baggage handling and pallet build-ups for
           all deployment processes requiring these tasks. Target grade is E-7 and below for enlisted; 0-3
           and below for officer.
       4.3.2. (Added-460SW) Receivers will develop and provide a comprehensive training program
       for augmentees (both primary and alternates). They will provide all necessary equipment for aug-
       mentees to perform augmentation duties.
       4.3.3. (Added-460SW) Receivers will track and document augmentee training, including the
       name, social security number and augmentee training completion dates, and will provide this
       information to the augmentee’s unit via an AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recur-
       ring Training.
       4.3.4. (Added-460SW) Receivers will develop procedures for recall and equitable scheduling of
       augmentees with the approving authority of the 460 SW/CV. They will also provide as much
       lead-time as possible when notifying augmentees.
    4.4. (Added-460SW) Decreasing or Increasing Augmentation Program Requests.
       4.4.1. (Added-460SW) Unit Augmentation Program Managers (Receivers) will submit a request
       to increase/decrease augmentation requirements that have been previously validated and approved
       by the ARB no later than 30 days prior to necessary adjustment. The exception is for confrontation
       management teams, which may be recalled immediately by the IAPM.
       4.4.2. (Added-460SW) Once 460 MSG/CD validates an augmentation requirement request, it
       will be forwarded to the ARB Chairperson with a recommendation for ARB consideration.
    4.5. (Added-460SW) Augmentation Exemptions or Shortfalls. Personnel exempt from Augmen-
    tation Program duties are personnel performing duties or assigned to a unit identified as exempt in an
    existing Air Force Instruction/publication (such as Command Post personnel). Providers requesting
    exemptions not included in a current AFI/publication or a reduction in the number of tasked augmen-
    tees will staff an exemption request through 460 MSG/CD. Requests will be discussed at the next
    Augmentation Working Group meeting for ARB approval or disapproval. Shortfalls will be worked
    out between providers and receivers. The 460 MSG/CD will provide resolution for shortfalls that can-
    not be worked out at the provider/receiver level, with 460 SW/CV being the final approval/disap-
    proval authority if 460 MSG/CD cannot resolve the issue.
    4.6. (Added-460SW) Augmentation Augmentee Activation. The 460 SW/CV is the approval
    authority on augmentee call-up. Receivers will develop procedures for recall and equitable schedul-
    ing. Receivers and providers will provide as much lead-time as possible when notifying augmentees.
    At the direction of 460 SW/CV, the designated representative, or the Installation Command Center
    (ICC), receivers will contact providers by phone, memo, email or by any other means necessary.
    When receivers contact the providers, augmentees will respond immediately and in accordance with
    mission requirements. Augmentees can be tasked for real-world or exercise events.
AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008                                                                   9


5. Identifying Augmentees.
   5.1. Members assigned to a Unit Type Code (UTC), primaries and alternates, generally should not be
   assigned augmentation duties until all other eligible resources are exhausted. In the event eligible
   resources are not available, commanders may assign personnel on UTCs. The augmentation duties of
   UTC personnel should not conflict with their UTC training and deployment/on-call timeframe. Mem-
   bers assigned to a UTC are subject to deploy in support of an Operations Plan (OPLAN) that takes pri-
   ority over local augmentation requirements. Augmentation program duties should not be grounds for
   a shortfall or reclama of a deployment tasking.
   5.2. In addition to military personnel, commanders are highly encouraged to consider the use of DAF
   civilians, ARC, and contractor personnel in filling augmentation requirements.
      5.2.1. Before DAF civilian employees are used for augmentation duties all legal, regulatory and
      bargaining agreement stipulations should be followed closely.
      5.2.2. Collocated ARC units may be utilized to fill known augmentee requirements. Close coordi-
      nation and scheduling with the ARC units is required to ensure availability of personnel and fund-
      ing to meet the augmentation needs.
      5.2.3. Prior to placing contractor personnel in augmentation, the duty should be documented
      appropriately in the employee’s contract.
   5.3. Types of augmentation performed by members assigned to a UTC should not require extensive or
   recurring training and should be for short-term usage.
   5.4. Augmentation trained people should not deploy in their augmentation duty. They may be dis-
   patched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emergencies whenever the
   use of DoD personnel has been properly authorized. In overseas areas, they may also be dispatched to
   those locations where the commander has a co-located operating base (COB) or forward operating
   location (FOL) base reception responsibilities.
   5.5. In an emergency, deployed commanders should consider forming a Site augmentation program
   and use deployed personnel for those duties.
   5.6. Restrictions apply when individuals and selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) recipients perform
   duty outside their CAFSC. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, paragraph 3.34, and AFI
   36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, paragraph 2.13, should be reviewed and com-
   plied with if required. Suggest no more than 120 days (90 days for SRB specialties) per year for aug-
   mentation duty.
   5.7. Trained augmentees should remain in the program for a minimum of one year after having been
   trained in their augmentation duties.
   5.8. (Added-460SW) Unit Commanders (Providers):
      5.8.1. (Added-460SW) Appoint, in writing, a primary and alternate UAC and provide appoint-
      ment letters to the IAPM. The level of appointment (e.g., group vice squadron) will be left to each
      group and below commander.
      5.8.2. (Added-460SW) Ensure all personnel in their unit within the approved augmentation pool
      (who are not deemed exempt) are made available for Augmentation Program use.
10                                                        AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008


        5.8.3. (Added-460SW) Officially appoint augmentees in writing (Attachment 6 (Added)).
        When replacing augmentees, submit notification (Attachment 7 (Added)) to 460 MSG/CD and
        the affected UAPM, accompanied by replacement appointment letter (Attachment 6 (Added)) no
        later than 30 days prior to relief of duty.
        5.8.4. (Added-460SW) Review and ensure augmentee/exemption requests are valid and cannot
        be filled using existing personnel from within the squadron or agency.
        5.8.5. (Added-460SW) Will maintain a database and track unit personnel assigned to augmenta-
        tion positions and coordinate with 460 MSG/CD any projected changes in availability to include
        definitive deployment extended Temporary Duty (TDY), separation, retirement, permanent
        change of station (PCS), permanent change of assignment (PCA), medical waivers etc., in excess
        of 14 days.
        5.8.6. (Added-460SW) Will track the number of days that unit personnel serve in the augmenta-
        tion program to ensure compliance with AFI 36-2101, paragraph 3.34.2, and AFI 36-2606, para-
        graph 2.13.

6. Augmentee Tracking and Training.
     6.1. The augmentation program manager and unit augmentation program coordinators should track
     all augmentees and the status of the augmentees’ training.
     6.2. Locally devised spreadsheets and/or databases and their contents can be locally determined. Rec-
     ommend they contain, as a minimum, the name, grade, unit of assignment, UTC (if applicable), dates
     of deployment vulnerability (if applicable), type of augmentation, date assigned, date qualified, and
     other information needed to track the training status.

7. Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation.
(Note: IAW Title 5 USC (Chapter 71), statutory, regulatory, collective bargaining agreements and obliga-
tions must be following before using civilian employees.)
     7.1. Employee participation.
        7.1.1. Augmentation duties assigned to civilian employees should be assigned to those whose
        official position description requires them to perform similar tasks. Management should look for
        civilian volunteers within their own organization, then volunteers from other organizations prior
        to tasking civilians to accomplish augmentation duties.
        7.1.2. Key and Emergency-Essential (EE) employees are identified as such because their job
        skills are critical during emergencies. Also, certain other Air Force civilians are subject to military
        recall. Therefore, it’s anticipated these categories of civilians would not be identified as augment-
        ees for contingency/wartime operations.
        7.1.3. Upon determining that augmentation needs require the skills and qualifications of Nonap-
        propriated Fund (NAF) employees or resources, the installation or other commander concerned
        should take necessary action to contract with the “owning” NAFI (Nonappropriated Fund Instru-
        mentality) for those services or resources. Such contracts with NAFIs are permissible under the
        circumstances addressed in AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures,
        paragraph 5.15. Prior to executing a contract, the 63- and 64- series Air Force directives should be
        reviewed and complied with if appropriate.
AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008                                                                  11


     7.1.4. Local National employees paid from Appropriated Funds may participate insofar as
     allowed by the Status of Forces Agreement of that country.
     7.1.5. Because of legal, regulatory, bargaining agreement and financial concerns, other than those
     already in like positions, civilian employees should not be allowed to perform duties where there
     is an inherent possibility of danger to life or limb, such as firefighters or security police.
  7.2. Official Credit for Augmentation. The augmentation duty to be performed by civilian employ-
  ees should be described in a letter addressed to each employee and signed by the supervisor of the
  augmentee, with an informational copy to the employee’s supervisor of record. The supervisor’s
  employee brief should be annotated to reflect each time the employee is assigned to perform the aug-
  mentation duty. If assignment of duties is anticipated to be for 30 or more consecutive calendar days
  and if the augmentation duties differs sufficiently from the employee’s permanent position to warrant
  a different classification, assignment should be handled as an official detail in compliance with the
  competitive process as outlined in AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions. Standard Core Personnel
  Documents (SCPDs) from the AF SCPD Library (http://www.afpc.af.mil) should be used to docu-
  ment augmentation duties whenever there is an SCPD that provides an accurate statement of the aug-
  mentation work assignment. Also, if during a 12-month period, the employee should accumulate 20 or
  more workdays performing augmentation and the duties differ sufficiently from the employee’s per-
  manent position to warrant a different classification, credit can be obtained by submitting proper doc-
  umentation to the CPF. The request should indicate duties performed, the period of time they were
  performed, and certification by the augmentation supervisor the employee performed those duties in a
  satisfactory manner. These duties should be coded into the DCPDS as a detail. Details are considered
  when determining qualifications for vacant positions. (See AFM 36-505, Skill Coding)
  7.3. Additional Information. The augmentee should meet all requirements of the augmentation
  duties. The augmentation supervisor should ensure the employee is properly trained to perform these
  duties by providing on-the-job training or formal training.
     7.3.1. Physical Qualifications. The augmentation duty supervisor needs to work with the CPF to
     determine if the augmentee duties require any physical qualifications other than those required by
     the employee’s regular job. If so, a physical examination should be conducted at no expense to the
     employee.
     7.3.2. Security Clearance. Augmentees selected for duties requiring special security clearances
     should be selected from those already possessing such a clearance.
     7.3.3. Compensation. Civilian employees required to work more than 8 hours a day or 40 hours a
     week are usually compensated appropriately either in the form of compensatory time off or pay-
     ment of overtime (paid from either owning or using organization funds). Premium pay for work
     performed on a Sunday or a holiday plus shift differential could be a factor, depending on hours
     worked. Determination of funds to be used should occur prior to overtime being performed. (See
     AFI 36-802, Pay Setting and AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday
     Observations)
     7.3.4. Local Collective Bargaining Obligations. Prior to implementation of local procedures for
     the assignment of civilian employees to augmentation duties, appropriate local bargaining obliga-
     tions must be satisfied IAW Title 5 USC, Chapter 71.
12                                               AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008


     13.4.1. (460SW) AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training.



                                         CHARLES F. WALD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         DCS/Air & Space Operations


                                         (460SW)

                                         DONALD W. McGEE, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008                                   13


                                              Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Overtime
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions
AFM 36-505, Skill Coding
AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CSS—Commanders Support Staff
COB—Co-located Operating Base
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DIN—Data Identification Number
DoD—Department of Defense
DPXJ—Readiness and Joint Matters Division
DPW—Director of Personnel Accountability
DPX—Division of Personnel and Systems
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EE—Emergency-Essential
FOA—Field Operating Activities
FOL—Forward Operating Location
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
14                                           AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008


MAJCOM—Major Command
MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MO—Manpower Office
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
OI—Operating Instruction
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PC-III—Personnel Concept III
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
READY—Resource Augmentation Duty
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
SCPD—Standard Core Personnel Documents
SRB—Selective Reenlistment Bonus
TNG-YR-MO—Training-Year-Month
UTC—Unit Type Code
YYMM—Year Year Month Month (9812)
AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008                                                      15


                                    Attachment 1 (460SW)

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AWG—Augmentation Working Group
IAPM—Installation Augmentation Program Manager
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
RST—Readiness Support Team
SAR—Search and Recovery Team
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
UAC—Unit Augmentation Coordinator
UAPM—Unit Augmentation Program Manager

Terms
Unit Augmentation Program Manager (receiver)—Point of contact for units/squadrons who require
augmenting.
Unit Augmentation Coordinator (provider)—Point of contact for units/squadrons who provide
augmentees.
16                                                     AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008


                                    Attachment 6 (Added-460SW)

         SAMPLE UNIT APPOINTMENT LETTER FOR AUGMENTATION SUPPORT
                                                                                           XX Date XX




MEMORANDUM FOR 460 MSG/CD


FROM: Unit Providing Augmentees


SUBJECT: Augmentation Duty Program Augmentee Appointment


1. The following individuals are appointed as (Select One: SF/SAR/RST/LRS) augmentees.


Rank           Name                   Duty Title             Duty Phone


2. All personnel listed above have at least a Secret security clearance and are not members of the Crisis
Action Team, Survival Recovery Center or Installation Command Center.


3. Our unit point of contact for the augmentation program is XXXX at XXXX.




                                                     Unit Commander
AFPAM10-243_460SWSUP_I 15 APRIL 2008                                                               17


                                  Attachment 7 (Added-460SW)

               SAMPLE UNIT REMOVAL FROM AUGMENTATION SUPPORT
                                                                                       XX Date XX


MEMORANDUM FOR 460 MSG/CD


FROM: Unit Providing Augmentees


SUBJECT: Removal from Augmentation Support


1. We hereby request removal of __(name/rank)___ from (SFS/SAR/RST/LRS) augmentation duties.
This member will (PCS/PCA/separate/complete 18 months) effective on (date).


2. Attached is the appointment letter for (name/rank). The member will not be removed from the augmen-
tation team until the replacement is trained. If you have any questions, please contact XXXX at 7-XXXX




                                                  Unit Commander
