BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                  AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 10-243
DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                DAVIS-MONTHAN AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                                    Supplement

                                                                                                                      9 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                                                                   Operations

                                                                                   AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM
                                                                                                 MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website
               atwww.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 355 FSS/FSMM                                                              Certified by: 355 MSG/CC (Col Uselman)
                                                                                                             Pages: 25
Supersedes:   AFPAM10-
              243_DAVISMONTHANAF
              BSUP, 23 Apr 2009


This instruction dictates policy, procedures, and responsibilities for the Augmentation Duty
Program (ADP) at Davis-Monthan Air Force Base. This publication applies to all officer and
enlisted personnel assigned to the installation. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/ rims.cfm. Contact supporting
records managers as required.


       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    2
       2.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        2
       3.     Activating augmentees for operational purposes: ..................................................                             9
       4.     Activating augmentees for training purposes: .......................................................                          10
       5.     Relief from taskings: ..............................................................................................          11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              12
 2                            AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


Attachment 2—ADP FUNCTION OR TEAM LISTING                                                    15

Attachment 3—ADP FUNCTION AND TEAM DESCRIPTIONS                                              17

Attachment 4—ADP ALLOCATION PROCESS                                                          19

Attachment 5—ADP EXEMPTIONS                                                                  21

Attachment 6—ADP FUNCTION QUALIFICATION LEVEL COLOR-CODING                                   22

Attachment 7—MOBILITY MACHINE TASKING DISTRIBUTION                                           24

Attachment 8—ADP FUNCTION CLOTHING/EQUIPMENT FUNDED-FOR AND
             PURCHASED BY THE TASKED UNIT                                                    25


1. General. The ADP is designed to identify, train, and place a pool of personnel to temporarily
augment units which require a surge amount of manpower during exercises, contingencies,
wartime, or emergency situations. This program is not intended to remedy unit manning
shortages that arise during normal, routine work schedules. Additionally, it is not used to
manage activities designated as normal base details (i.e. Green Machine, Lightning Strikes,
Moulage, Honor Guard, Baggage Teams, etc.). The Augmentation Duty Program Review Board
(ARB) will validate and approve requirements and decide from where they will be sourced as
outlined in the ―Fair-Share with Exemptions‖ calculation method demonstrated in Attachment 4.
2. Responsibilities. The 355th Fighter Wing and all Air Force tenant units will participate in
the Davis-Monthan ADP Program. They will provide augmentees in accordance with this
instruction and as specified by the ARB. The key participants and their respective
responsibilities of the ADP are:
     2.1. The ARB Chairperson:
        2.1.1. Is the 355th Fighter Wing Vice-Commander (355 FW/CV), who owns the
        management processes of the Davis-Monthan ADP. The ARB Chairperson will
        approve/sign the minutes of each ARB.
     2.2. The ADP Director:
        2.2.1. Is the 355th Force Support Squadron Commander (355 FSS/CC), who is the
        central point-of-contact for the ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by the
        augmentees) and Group Superintendents. When ADP requirement and tasking issues
        arise, the ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) and Group
        Superintendents will elevate them to the ADP Director for resolution.
        2.2.2. Forwards requests for exemptions (current exemptions at Attachment 5) and/or
        additional taskings to the Augmentation Duty Program Working Group (AWG) for
        recommendation/non-recommendation and ARB for approval/disapproval.
        2.2.3. Addresses all requests with the AWG prior to presenting them to the ARB.
        2.2.4. Ensures all unresolved items from the AWG and previous ARBs are brought
        before the ARB for resolution.
        2.2.5. Facilitates AWG and ARB meetings.
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                             3


     2.2.6. Evaluates the performance of the ADP on an annual basis.
     2.2.7. Ensures ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) are
     offering timely and appropriate training to augmentees.
  2.3. The ARB Membership:
     2.3.1. Are the 355 FW/CV (Chairperson), 355 CPTS/CC, 355 MSG/CC, 355 OG/CC,
     355 MXG/CC, 355 MDG/CC, 563 RQG/CC, 923 AMXS/CC (representing the 23d
     Maintenance Group Commander at Moody AFB, Georgia), 55 ECG/CC, 25 OWS/CC
     (representing the 1st Weather Group Commander at Offutt AFB, Nebraska), and a 12
     AF/CC representative (12 AF/DS) who are the designated voting members. Advisors
     (non-voting members) to the ARB include the 355 FW Command Chief, 355 FW
     Installation Deployment Officer (IDO), 355 FW/XP,            355 FSS/CC, 355 FSS/FSM
     Flight Commander, and 355 FSS/FSMP/FSMM Section Chiefs. In the event of a tie, the
     Chairperson will carry the vote.           The ARB approves and prioritizes ADP
     requirements/taskings and is facilitated by the ADP Director. The ARB will meet at least
     once a year, or as needed, to review requirements, approve any new requirements and/or
     exemptions, allocate/reallocate taskings to fill augmentation requirements and resolve
     any issues requiring attention.
  2.4. The AWG Membership:
     2.4.1. Is chaired by the ADP Director and composed of the 12 AF Command Chief, 355
     FW Command Chief and Group Superintendents (including the 355 FW STF/CPTS
     Superintendent) who are the designated voting members (the 923 AMXS Superintendent
     will represent the 23d Maintenance Group Superintendent at Moody AFB, Georgia and
     the 25 OWS Superintendent will represent the 1st Weather Group Superintendent at
     Offutt AFB, Nebraska). In the event of a tie, the ADP Director will carry the vote.
     Advisors (non-voting members) to the AWG include the 355 FW IDO, supported ADP
     Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees),       355 FSS/FSM Flight
     Commander and 355 FSS/FSMP/FSMM Section Chiefs. The AWG will meet at least
     once every six months, or as needed; to review requirements, recommend to the ARB
     new requirements and/or exemptions, allocation/re-allocation of taskings to fill
     augmentation requirements, and to forward to the ARB any issues requiring higher level
     attention. The ADP Director will approve/sign the minutes of each AWG.
  2.5. The ADP Resource Manager will:
     2.5.1. Work directly for the ADP Director (355 FSS/CC) in all matters concerning the
     ADP. The ADP Resource Manager is assigned to the 355 FSS within in the Manpower
     and Personnel Flight (FSM) and is appointed by the ADP Director.
     2.5.2. Ensure ADP Functions or Teams (those supported by the augmentees) maintain
     current augmentee team rosters.
     2.5.3. Report ADP Function or Team statistical data on a quarterly basis or when
     requested.
     2.5.4. Keep on file current ADP Function or Team Chief (those supported by the
     augmentees) and Group Superintendent appointment letters and a continuity binder.
     2.5.5. Review this instruction annually and coordinate appropriate changes.
4                             AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


       2.5.6. Coordinate annual review of ADP Function or Team requirements and group
       tasking allocations.
       2.5.7. Schedule meetings and produce ADP agendas and meeting minutes.
       2.5.8. Update and maintain a central ADP database and provide metrics upon request.
       2.5.9. Track qualification levels for all ADP augmentees using the central ADP database.
       2.5.10. Record and publish AWG and ARB meeting minutes.
       2.5.11. Post current ADP manning documents, AWG and ARB meeting minutes, and a
       copy of this instruction on the SharePoint ADP site.
       2.5.12. Send a list of all augmentees to the ADP Director every month. The ADP
       Director will distribute it to all Squadron Commanders for verification of people assigned
       to ADP billets. The Squadron Commanders will replace anyone who is due to have
       Permanent Change of Station (PCS) in the next 120 days with a new augmentee.
    2.6. The ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) will:
       2.6.1. Coordinate ADP augmentee events in their respective functions (i.e. Cargo
       Deployment Function, Security Forces Team, Deployed Vehicle Ops, etc).
       2.6.2. Schedule, conduct, and document augmentee training.
       2.6.3. Provide a quarterly (or as needed) ADP training schedule to appropriate tasked
       Unit Commanders.
       2.6.4. Document training on an AF Form 2426, Training Request and Completion
       Notification or a training certificate, to provide a written record of training to the
       individual and his/her Unit ADP Monitor.
       2.6.5. Provide a list of augmentee training no-shows to respective Unit ADP Monitors,
       tasked Squadron Commanders, Group Superintendents, and the ADP Director Not Later
       Than (NLT) 24 hours after augmentees are declared no-shows for training.
       2.6.6. Maintain an ADP Training Folder or automated training database on each assigned
       augmentee and track augmentee participation in the ADP program. Function/Team
       Chiefs will be responsible for initial set-up of each folder or database record and for
       documentation of ADP training and participation.
       2.6.7. Provide training reports to the ADP Resource Manager on a monthly or as needed
       basis, identifying all assigned augmentees and their qualification status. The report
       should address augmentee usage, any upcoming scheduled training, and any no-shows for
       duty or training. Highlight any unit not meeting their ADP training requirements.
       2.6.8. Work with 355 FSS/FSMM to validate augmentee requirements. Requirements are
       validated using Air Force-approved management engineering methods; after validation,
       all new determined requirements or reductions to requirements must be vetted through
       the ADP Working Group and approved by the ADP Review Board prior to
       implementation and activation.
       2.6.9. Ensure all augmentees have received the equipment necessary to perform their
       augmentee duties. The augmentee‘s assigned unit will fund and issue conventional
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                               5


     purpose, personal wear clothing items (i.e. steel-toed boots, work gloves, parkas, rain
     gear, personal reflective belts, non-industrial hats, etc.) for performance of augmentee
     duties. See Attachment 8 for an ADP function-specific listing of clothing and equipment
     that will be funded-for and purchased by the tasked unit. All special purpose and
     professional-type clothing and equipment (―pro equipment‖) such as reflective vests,
     industrial hats, special purpose boots and gloves, tools or toolboxes, aprons, coveralls,
     non-prescription eye protection, etc. will be provided by the ADP Function or Team
     Chief (those supported by the augmentees) for common-use by augmentees.
     2.6.10. Maintain an up-to-date listing of all augmentees assigned to their teams and
     coordinate augmentee taskings with the appropriate Group Superintendents.
     2.6.11. Report no-shows, vacancies, and augmentee problems to the ADP Director, ADP
     Resource Manager and tasked Group Superintendents for appropriate action.
     2.6.12. Activate ADP augmentees using a standard Control Center Directive (CCD) that
     is tailored to define the specific manpower requirement for the activation‘s scenario. The
     ADP Function or Team Chief (those supported by the augmentees) will staff the CCD or
     letter completely through the augmented unit, supported Group Commander and the 355
     FW/CC for final approval and release. The activation CCD staffing process must begin a
     minimum of 7 working days in advance of the planned activation date (unless for
     emergency or contingency-related activations) to ensure maximum augmentee
     availability and participation. An advance copy of the draft CCD and Staff Summary
     Sheet (SSS) will be provided to the 355 FSS/CC (ADP Director) and 355 FSS/FSMM
     (ADP Resource Manager) to ensure augmentees can be identified in a timely manner for
     planned activation.
  2.7. The Group Superintendents will:
     2.7.1. Represent their Group Commanders by providing management oversight of the
     ADP taskings within their groups.
     2.7.2. Be voting members of the AWG and will attend all AWG meetings. They
     represent their Group Commander at AWG functions and serve as the central point-of-
     contact for their Unit ADP Monitors. Group Superintendents will forward augmentee
     issues to the ADP Director and ADP Resource Manager for resolution.
     2.7.3. Be responsible for cross-filling ADP taskings when a specific unit within their
     group cannot fill its ADP tasking. This may include substituting members of another unit
     within their group. When no member of the group can fill an ADP tasking, the Group
     Superintendent will prepare a Group Commander-signed ADP tasking reclama letter
     addressed to the 355 FW/CC, 355 FW/CV, 355 FSS/CC (ADP Director) and 355
     FSS/FSMM (ADP Resource Manager).
  2.8. The 355 FSS/FSMM will:
     2.8.1. Validate all manpower requirements for each ADP Function or Team (Attachment
     2) during both exercise and real-world operations. This will be accomplished using a
     combination of Work Sampling, Post Manning Requirements, Technical Estimate,
     Staffing Pattern, and Good Operator Timing.
6                            AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


          2.8.1.1. Work Sampling is the measurement of work by taking small, statistically
          representative samples of a larger body of work in order to determine the proportion
          and quantity of time spent by personnel on specific activities. Sufficient samples
          drawn will enable determination of a manpower requirement amount for a given level
          of work within a certain period of time. Work sampling is well-suited for activities
          that involve relatively stable and repetitive work operations such as the Cargo
          Deployment Function, Deployment Control Center, Personnel Deployment Function,
          and Deployed Vehicle Operations.
          2.8.1.2. A Post Manning Requirement is the measurement of work by determining
          the manpower requirement for a specific post as required by its hours/days of
          coverage, crew size, training requirement, etc. and then adding each individual post‘s
          result together to arrive at a total requirement. Post manning is most effective for
          security posts, which require manning on a productive work and also a standby basis.
          A function within the ADP such as the Security Forces Team is typically manned
          using a post manning requirement.
          2.8.1.3. Technical Estimating is an interview-based estimation of a workload‘s
          accomplishment time and/or frequency, versus an actual stopwatch measurement. It
          can be useful when work is irregular, difficult to measure, or when no historical data
          exists. Technical estimates are most accurate if taken from different personnel
          interviews, ranging from expert, competent, and novice with the final result averaged.
          Technical estimating can be used in conjunction with work sampling or by itself.
          2.8.1.4. Staffing Patterns are not actually a work measurement-based technique per
          se; they are predicated on the historical or one-deep staffing levels of certain
          functions, usually small in number but the minimum required to accomplish a
          mission. A good example of a staffing pattern in an Air Force manpower context is
          the squadron leadership model, where the pattern is a Squadron Commander and a
          first sergeant. Another example would be a large workcenter which has an NCOIC
          and an assistant NCOIC. Very small functions within the ADP with one-deep duty
          position requirements are typically manned using a staffing pattern.
          2.8.1.5. Good operator timing is the stopwatch measurement of work to determine a
          manpower requirement, using the average worker performing at least at the
          ―competent‖ level. Measuring more workers and averaging their results will greatly
          increase the accuracy of this type of measurement. Good operator timing can be used
          in conjunction with work sampling or by itself.
       2.8.2. Ensure all ADP requirements are distributed to the respective groups by using the
       ―Fair-Share with Exemptions‖ method (Attachment 4).
       2.8.3. Review all exemption requests and process them through to the AWG and ARB
       for approval/disapproval.
       2.8.4. Revalidate all requirements, exemptions, and allocations on an annual or as-
       requested basis.
    2.9. The Squadron Commanders will:
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                                 7


     2.9.1. Appoint in writing, an ADP Function or Team Chief (those supported by the
     augmentees) for each ADP Function or Team assigned to their squadron (if applicable);
     refer to Attachment 2 for a listing of ADP Function or Teams. Provide copies of
     appointment letters to the ADP Director, 355 FSS/FSMM, and the Group Superintendent.
     2.9.2. Appoint in writing, a Unit ADP Monitor to administer personnel assigned to ADP
     position taskings and communicate projected changes in augmentee availability. Provide
     copies of appointment letters to the ADP Director, ADP Resource Manager, and the
     Group Superintendent.
     2.9.3. Appoint augmentees in writing to the ADP Function or Teams and ensure they are
     able to serve a minimum of 1 year after becoming fully qualified and have no history to
     preclude them from being able to bear arms on a daily basis if the augmentee is part of
     the Security Force Team. All appointed Deployment Control Center (DCC) augmentees
     must possess an active SECRET clearance or above.
     2.9.4. Ensure their unit has an adequate number of alternate ADP augmentees that are
     qualified and able to replace primary augmentees.
     2.9.5. Release augmentees for scheduled ADP training. ADP training is essential for
     augmentees to attain and maintain position qualification. ADP training appointments are
     mandatory appointments. All no-shows will be documented and briefed to Davis-
     Monthan AFB senior leadership and tasked Unit Commanders.
     2.9.6. Release augmentees for ADP duty when tasked by 355 FW/CC.
     2.9.7. Ensure the Unit ADP Monitor complies with procedures outlined in this
     instruction.
     2.9.8. Inform the Group Superintendent and Group Commander when unable to fill ADP
     taskings via a signed ADP shortfall letter. The intent of beginning the shortfall process at
     the squadron level is to ensure accountability for the ADP taskings assigned by the Group
     Commander to each squadron. It also facilitates an orderly validation means and record
     trail when a Group Superintendent cross-fills taskings from other squadrons within the
     Group.
  2.10. The Unit ADP Monitors will:
     2.10.1. Ensure augmentees are identified and selected to fulfill tasked ADP
     commitments.
     2.10.2. Ensure the ADP selectee receives the ADP appointment letter of notification sent
     by the ADP Director or Resource Manager.
     2.10.3. Identify ADP replacements as soon as incumbents are projected for PCS,
     separation, or retirement. Unit ADP Monitors should ensure replacement personnel are
     trained before the incumbent departs. If an augmentee receives a profile or notice for
     extended Temporary Duty (TDY), the Unit ADP Monitors will work with their respective
     Group Superintendent to provide a permanent replacement.
     2.10.4. Contact supervisors to verify release of augmentees for training, exercises, and
     contingencies. Immediately elevate availability problems to the Squadron Commander.
     Unit ADP Monitors will replace members when they are no longer available for duty,
8                             AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


       however, if an individual‘s unavailability will be of a temporary nature, Unit ADP
       Monitors are encouraged to put the member in an alternate position, effectively
       ―banking‖ the augmentee until his/her return to service. This procedure will preclude
       multiple submissions of replacement/appointment letters, as the augmentee will remain
       ‗in the system‘. Upon tasking activation, when no member of the unit can fill an ADP
       tasking, the Unit ADP Monitor will prepare a Unit Commander-signed ADP tasking
       shortfall letter addressed to their Group Commander, Group Superintendent, 355 FSS/CC
       (ADP Director) and 355 FSS/FSMM (ADP Resource Manager). The intent of beginning
       the shortfall process at the squadron level is to ensure accountability for the ADP taskings
       assigned by the Group Commander to each squadron. It also facilitates an orderly
       validation means and record trail when a Group Superintendent cross-fills taskings from
       other squadrons within the Group.
       2.10.5. Review an individual‘s status on the ADP program with the Squadron
       Commander prior to their assignment to fill Unit-Type Code (UTC) or TDY
       requirements. If the member will be TDY or on leave for an extended period of time
       (more than 30 days), send an ADP Appointment/Replacement Memorandum to the ADP
       Function or Team Chief (those supported by the augmentees), ADP Director, and ADP
       Resource Manager or place the augmentee in an alternate ADP position by notifying the
       ADP Resource Manager.
       2.10.6. If an individual assigned to an ADP Function or Team moves to a new unit, the
       losing unit must continue to fill the ADP tasking, as the tasking is allocated to the group
       or unit and not to a specific person. The ADP tasking does not move with the individual
       when he/she is reassigned.
       2.10.7. The augmentee‘s assigned unit will fund and issue conventional purpose,
       personal wear clothing items (i.e. steel-toed boots, work gloves, parkas, rain gear,
       personal reflective belts, non-industrial hats, etc.) for performance of augmentee duties.
       See Attachment 8 for an ADP function-specific listing of clothing and equipment that
       will be funded-for and purchased by the tasked unit. All special purpose and professional-
       type clothing and equipment (―pro equipment‖) such as reflective vests, industrial hats,
       special purpose boots and gloves, tools or toolboxes, aprons, coveralls, non-prescription
       eye protection, etc. will be provided by the ADP Function or Team Chief (those
       supported by the augmentees) for common-use by augmentees.
    2.11. The Unit Deployment Managers (UDMs) will:
       2.11.1. Work with Unit ADP Monitors to ensure appropriate ADP Function or Team
       Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) are notified prior to ADP augmentees going
       on extended TDYs (more than 30 days).
       2.11.2. Relay information received from Concept Briefings pertinent to ADP
       augmentees. The UDMs may also serve as the point-of-contact for augmentee
       notification for ADP training recalls, in those situations where the Unit ADP Monitor is
       not used as that point-of-contact.
       2.11.3. Monitor their unit‘s Aerospace Expeditionary Force (AEF) tasking profile and
       work with the Unit ADP Monitor to de-conflict augmentee position manning and
       deployment tasking personnel requirements.
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                                  9


   2.12. The ADP Augmentees will:
       2.12.1. Perform ADP duties IAW this instruction. Once appointed, augmentees are
       obligated to serve a minimum of 1 year after becoming fully qualified.
       2.12.2. Coordinate with their Unit ADP Monitor and ADP Function or Team Chief
       (those supported by the augmentees) for all leaves, TDYs, or other situations rendering
       them unavailable to perform ADP augmentee duties. Advise the Unit ADP Monitor of a
       needed replacement action ASAP if selected for PCS, extended TDY, or
       separation/retirement. Note: Should a mission-related scheduling conflict arise between
       the squadron and ADP Function or Team Chief (those supported by the augmentees)
       regarding augmentee duties, attempts will be made to resolve such conflicts at the lowest
       level of authority. The concerned Group Superintendent, representing his/her Group
       Commander, is the final decision authority in these cases. Personnel assigned to Honor
       Guard duty will not normally be appointed to ADP positions.
3. Activating augmentees for operational purposes: Only the 355 FW/CC has authority to
approve augmentee call-ups for base-wide exercises, contingencies, emergencies, and wartime
conditions. ADP Team or Function exercise and real-world activations will be accomplished
using a CCD which will be routed to the 355 FW/CC by the ADP Function or Team Chief (those
supported by the augmentees) requesting the augmentees. ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those
supported by the augmentees) will thoroughly justify and document all recalls.
   3.1. Full recall: Augmentees will report to their units for accountability after release of the
   activation CCD originated and staffed by ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by
   the augmentees). Immediately after sign-in, augmentees then report to their ADP Function
   or Team Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) if they are designated to perform ADP
   duties. Supported ADP Function and Team Chiefs will contact the augmentee‘s Unit ADP
   Monitor during the initial mustering process and will not contact the augmentees directly
   unless responding to an emergency or urgent activation. If they are unable to contact the Unit
   ADP Monitors, the ADP Function/Team Chiefs will contact the Installation ADP Manager
   for assistance. Direct contact of augmentees by the ADP Function/Team Chiefs is permitted
   after initial mustering for transmitting information related to reporting times, places,
   equipment requirements, etc.
   3.2. Limited recall: Augmentees will report to their units for accountability after release of
   the activation CCD originated and staffed by ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported
   by the augmentees). Immediately after sign-in, augmentees will standby for ADP activation
   and reporting instructions from their Unit ADP Monitor. Supported ADP Function and Team
   Chiefs will contact the augmentee‘s Unit ADP Monitor during the initial mustering process
   and will not contact the augmentees directly unless responding to an emergency or urgent
   activation. If they are unable to contact the Unit ADP Monitors, the ADP Function/Team
   Chiefs will contact the Installation ADP Manager for assistance. Direct contact of
   augmentees by the ADP Function/Team Chiefs is permitted after initial mustering for
   transmitting information related to reporting times, places, equipment requirements, etc.
   3.3. ADP call-up without recall: ADP Function or Teams may be notified to report for their
   particular duties via a CCD without initiating a wing recall. Under these circumstances, the
   affected ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) will obtain
   approval from the 355 FW/CC to call-up ADP augmentees through the ADP Director. Once
 10                           AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


   approved, the ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) will
   initiate and route a CCD to activate their team. After CCD release, they will contact the
   augmentee's Unit ADP Monitor, who will in turn, notify the augmentee to report for ADP
   duties. Upon notification, augmentees will report to their respective ADP Function or Team
   Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) and notify their normal workcenter of their
   status, unless otherwise directed. Supported ADP Function and Team Chiefs will contact the
   augmentee‘s Unit ADP Monitor during the initial mustering process and will not contact the
   augmentees directly unless responding to an emergency or urgent activation. If they are
   unable to contact the Unit ADP Monitors, the ADP Function/Team Chiefs will contact the
   Installation ADP Manager for assistance. Direct contact of augmentees by the ADP
   Function/Team Chiefs is permitted after initial mustering for transmitting information related
   to reporting times, places, equipment requirements, etc.
   3.4. Scheduled exercise/inspection activation: Augmentees working in exercise (Phase I/II,
   etc.) functions for scheduled exercises and inspections will be activated by a CCD originated
   and staffed by ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) that is
   tailored to define the specific manpower requirement for that activation‘s scenario. At the
   installation commander‘s discretion, however, a single CCD that will activate a function and
   then allow a full-strength recall of that function‘s manpower requirement will be permitted.
   Exercise function augmentees will also be expected to attend ADP function musters in
   preparation for exercise-related activations. Supported ADP Function and Team Chiefs will
   contact the augmentee‘s Unit ADP Monitor during the initial mustering process and will not
   contact the augmentees directly unless responding to an emergency or urgent activation. If
   they are unable to contact the Unit ADP Monitors, the ADP Function/Team Chiefs will
   contact the Installation ADP Manager for assistance. Direct contact of augmentees by the
   ADP Function/Team Chiefs is permitted after initial mustering for transmitting information
   related to reporting times, places, equipment requirements, etc.
   3.5. Security Force Team (SFT) augmentee activations: Security Force (SF) augmentees will
   be activated by a CCD originated and staffed by ADP Function or Team Chiefs (those
   supported by the augmentees). that is tailored to define the specific manpower requirement
   for that activation‘s scenario. At the installation commander‘s discretion, however, a single
   CCD that will activate the SF augmentee function(s) and then allow a full-strength recall of
   that function‘s manpower requirement will be permitted. In all cases, a ‗Security Force
   Augmentee Activation Notice‘ will be released by the 355 SFS ADP Coordinators or 355
   FSS ADP Resource Managers indicating the CCD from which the activation authority is
   derived, augmentee reporting instructions, and the allocation of activated SF augmentee
   taskings to each group and squadron. SF ADP Coordinators will contact the augmentee‘s
   Unit ADP Monitor during the initial mustering process and will not contact the augmentees
   directly unless responding to an emergency or urgent activation. If they are unable to contact
   the Unit ADP Monitors, the SF ADP Coordinators will contact the Installation ADP Manager
   for assistance. Direct contact of augmentees by the SF ADP Coordinators is permitted after
   initial mustering for transmitting information related to reporting times, places, equipment
   requirements, etc.
4. Activating augmentees for training purposes: Recalling augmentees for training purposes
must have approval from the 355 FW/CC via the 355 MSG/CC and ADP Director. The Unit
ADP Monitor/UDM will be the point-of-contact for augmentee notification of training-related
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                                11


recalls. Supported ADP Function and Team Chiefs will contact the augmentee‘s Unit ADP
Monitor during the initial mustering process and will not contact the augmentees directly unless
responding to an emergency or urgent activation. If they are unable to contact the Unit ADP
Monitors, the ADP Function/Team Chiefs will contact the Installation ADP Manager for
assistance. Direct contact of augmentees by the ADP Function/Team Chiefs is permitted after
initial mustering for transmitting information related to reporting times, places, equipment
requirements, etc.
5. Relief from taskings: ADP duty takes precedence over ordinary leave and should be strictly
considered before an individual is released from an ADP tasking. If for some validated reason,
an ADP augmentee cannot perform their duties, then he or she must obtain an excusal letter
signed by their Squadron Commander addressed to the ADP Director. If a Squadron
Commander excuses the member, the commander will provide an alternate; if the commander
does not have an alternate, then the commander will elevate it to the Group Superintendent to
provide the alternate from another unit within the group. Accordingly, ADP Function or Team
Chiefs (those supported by the augmentees) will closely monitor activation or training attendance
and report no-shows.




                                            JAMES P. MEGER, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 355th Fighter Wing
 12                          AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


                                      Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 2426, Training Request and Completion Notification 1 Aug 96
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
12 AF/CC—12th Air Force Commander
12 AF/DS—12th Air Force Director Of Staff
25 OWS/CC—25th Operational Weather Squadron Commander
355 CES—355th Civil Engineering Squadron
355 CPTS/CC—355th Comptroller Squadron Commander
355 FSS/CC—355th Force Support Squadron Commander
355 FSS/FSM—355th Force Support Squadron Manpower and Personnel Flight
355 FSS/FSMM—355th Force Support Squadron Manpower and Organization Section
355 FSS/FSMP—355th Force Support Squadron Personnel Section
355 FW/CC—355th Fighter Wing Commander
355 FW/CV—355th Fighter Wing Vice-Commander
355 FW/IDO—355th Fighter Wing Installation Deployment Officer
355 FW STF/CPTS—355th Fighter Wing Staff/Comptroller Squadron
355 FW/XP—355th Fighter Wing Plans and Programs
355 MDG/CC—355th Medical Group Commander
355 MSG/CC—355th Mission Support Group Commander
355 MXG/CC—355th Maintenance Group Commander
355 OG/CC—355th Operations Group Commander
355 SFS—355th Security Forces Squadron
55 ECG/CC—55th Electronic Combat Group Commander
563 RQG/CC—563d Rescue Group Commander
23 MXG/CC—23d Maintenance Group Commander
923 AMXS/CC—923d Aircraft Maintenance Squadron Commander
ACL—Allowable Cabin Load
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012    13


ADP—Augmentation Duty Program
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFRIMS—AF Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ARB—Augmentation Duty Program Review Board
AWG—Augmentation Duty Program Working Group
CCD—Control Center Directive
CCS—Contamination Control Station
CCT—Contamination Control Team
CDF—Cargo Deployment Function
CED—Contingency/Exercise/Deployment
CEV—Environmental Management Flight
DCC—Deployment Control Center
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DSOE—Deployment Schedule of Events
DVO—Deployed Vehicle Operations
EAL—Entry Authorization List
ECP—Entry Control Point
EOD—-Explosive Ordnance Disposal
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
IAW—In Accordance With
ICC—Installation Control Center
IDO—Installation Deployment Officer
IG—Inspector General
IPE—Individual protective equipment
MAJCOM—Major Command
MARE—Major Accident Response Exercise
NBC—Nuclear-Biological-Chemical
NLT—Not Later Than
PAR—Post-Attack Reconnaissance
 14                        AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


PATP—Personnel Accountability Transition Point
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PDF—Personnel Deployment Function
PERSTEMPO—Personnel Tempo
PL—Protection Level
RCPO—Red Carpet Project Officer
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RST—Readiness Support Team
SRT—Search and Recovery Team
SF—Security Forces
SFT—Security Forces Team
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
TDY—Temporary Duty
TFA—Toxic-Free Area
UDM—Unit Deployment Managers
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
UTCs—Unit-Type Code
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                         15


                                     Attachment 2
                           ADP FUNCTION OR TEAM LISTING

1. Phase I and Real-World ADP Functions:
1.1. Cargo Deployment Function (CDF) See Attachment 7 For CDF Tasking Distribution
Team      Manpower Req’d                Measurement Method
CDF NCOIC       2                       AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
CDF OIC               2                  AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
In-checker            28                AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
Joint Inspector      6                  AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
Load Planner         6                  AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
Load Team            28                 AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
Quality Assurance    8                  AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
RAMPCO                4                 AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
ECP                  4                  AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
Total                88
1.2. Deployment Control Center (DCC) See Attachment 7 For DCC Tasking Distribution
Team     Manpower Req’d                 Measurement Method
DCC Adm/Run    10                       AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
Total                10
1.3. Deployed Vehicle Operations (DVO) See Attachment 7 For DVO Tasking Distribution
Team           Manpower Req’d           Measurement Method
Operator              12                AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
Total                12
1.4. Personnel Deployment Function (PDF) See Attachment 7 For PDF Tasking Distribution
Team                       Manpower Req’d             Measurement Method
PDF/APT Baggage Team            10             AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
PDF/APT Manifester               6              AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
PDF/APT PAX Super                8              AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
PDF/APT NCOIC                    2              AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
PDF/APT Briefer                  4              AFI 10-403 & Work Sampling
Total                           30
1.5. Red Carpet Team (RCT) (Baggage Team Generated By Normal Base Detail On Team
Chief Request)
 16                         AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


Team                  Manpower Req’d            Measurement Method
Liaison/ATNAS Ops           6                   Staffing Pattern
Total                          6
2. Phase II and Real-World Functions:
2.1. Contamination Control Team (CCT)
Team          Manpower Req’d             Measurement Method
CCT Member                 24                   AFI 32-4005
Total                      24
2.2. ICC/ECP Runner/PAR Team
Team          Manpower Req’d             Measurement Method
ICC ECP/Runner/             4             Staffing Pattern
PAR Team Member
Total                      4
2.3. Readiness Support Team (RST)
Team          Manpower Req’d             Measurement Method
RST Member                 14              AFPAM 10-219
Total                      14
2.4. Search and Recovery Team (SRT)
Team          Manpower Req’d             Measurement Method
SRT Member                  16             AFI 34-242
Total                      16
2.5. Security Forces Team (SFT)
Team          Manpower Req’d             Measurement Method
First Echelon SF Augmentees (Baseline Surge/Sustained Augmentee Requirement) -
SFT Member                 67             Post Manpower Requirement
Second Echelon SF Augmentees (Supplemental Surge/Sustained Augmentee Requirement) -
SFT Member                 60             Post Manpower Requirement
Total                      127
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                                      17


                                            Attachment 3
                       ADP FUNCTION AND TEAM DESCRIPTIONS

1. Cargo Deployment Function (CDF): Responsible to the DCC for accomplishing all
activities required to process and load cargo for deployments. The operations of the CDF are the
responsibility of the CDF Officer-In-Charge (OIC)/Non-Commissioned-Officer-In-Charge
(NCOIC). The CDF is responsible for receiving, processing, and loading cargo aboard support
aircraft according to the final load plan. (NOTE: The units tasked to deploy are ultimately
responsible for properly preparing their own cargo for deployment. The CDF is the final authority
as to whether the cargo was properly prepared). The functional responsibilities of the CDF will
consist of the following sub-functions:
1.1. Aircraft Load Planning: Develop final load plans. Ensures aircraft Allowable Cabin Load
(ACL) is fully utilized.
1.2. Quality Assurance: Ensures all documentation is correct, adequate, posted, protected and
processed properly and all equipment/material is properly configured for transport.
1.3. Ramp Coordinator: Ensures effective coordination of all aircraft and vehicle loading
operations for the IDO.
1.4. In-Check: Responsible for verifying that equipment has been received for processing and
passed the inspection checklist for transport.
1.5. Joint Inspection: Responsible for conducting the final inspection of cargo prior to the load
being accepted into the marshalling yard.
1.6. Load Team: Transport, load, and secure cargo.
2. Deployment Control Center (DCC): Responsible for the overall control, direction, and
supervision of deployments. The DCC satisfies these responsibilities by monitoring and directing
unit personnel and cargo processing actions, monitoring and directing transportation actions
required processing cargo and passengers, providing assistance in resolving problem areas, and
verifying the Deployment Schedule of Events (DSOE) is compatible with the scheduled flow of
transportation. The DCC DSOE Cell produces and publishes the DSOE and initial load plans. The
DCC monitors these work centers: the Personnel Deployment Function (PDF), Cargo Deployment
Function (CDF), and Deployment Vehicle Operations (DVO). All appointed DCC augmentees
must possess an active SECRET clearance or above.
3. Deployment Vehicle Operations (DVO): Responsible to the DCC for providing vehicles and
operators to move personnel and cargo during deployments.
4. Personnel Deployment Function (PDF): Ensures deploying personnel are ready to deploy
and have CED/TDY orders. The PDF is also responsible for weighing, manifesting, briefing, and
loading personnel with their baggage aboard support aircraft IAW the DSOE. To accomplish
this, the PDF will establish procedures to ensure all deploying personnel have these services:
passenger in-check, baggage processes, passenger manifesting, passenger briefing, passenger holding
and loading, and weapons/ammunition handling. All deploying personnel will process through the
PDF when it is active.
5. Red Carpet Team (RCT): Receives and supports a higher headquarters inspection team.
 18                            AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


This may also include Site Activation Task Force, Staff Assistance Visit teams and other teams
as directed by the 355th Fighter Wing Commander. Red Carpet Liaison/ATNAS Ops members
will assist the Red Carpet Project Officer (RCPO) with the preparation of the Inspector General
(IG) team‘s arrival. The members will be present at the IG work center upon team arrival and
will be available for the duration of the exercise. Each must have a SECRET clearance, have
excellent military bearing and appearance, be thoroughly knowledgeable of the base, possess a
current state driver‘s license, and be able to drive a standard shift/automatic vehicle. The Red
Carpet Team will receive its Baggage Team support from a normal base detail (to be requested
by the Red Carpet Team Chief) and not from any function that is part of the ADP.
6. Contamination Control Team (CCT): Members work closely under the supervision of
355 CES Readiness. Essential to sustained operations in a chemical environment, they limit the
spread of contamination into a Toxic-Free Area (TFA) so personnel can work or obtain rest and
relief without wearing Individual Protective Equipment (IPE). They also provide a controlled
environment to safely remove contaminated IPE.
7. Installation Control Center (ICC) Entry Control Point (ECP)/Runner/Post-Attack
Reconnaissance (PAR) Team: Performs ICC entry/exit control, validates names against the
Entry Authorization List (EAL), and ensures accountability of ICC personnel at all times. Maintains
Self-Aid Buddy Care currency and functions as ICC Self-Aid Buddy Care POC. Maintains
proficiency/currency as a member of the PAR Team. Performs administrative duties as required
within the ICC. Serves as an Installation Control Center (ICC) Runner; delivers Control Center
Directives (CCDs) and other information to the Personnel Accountability Transition Points
(PATPs) and other locations as needed. Provides ―Comm-Out‖ capability for information
dissemination
8. Readiness Support Team (RST): Members work closely under their supervision of 355 CES
Readiness. Operations the RST may be involved with, but are not limited to, performing Nuclear-
Biological-Chemical (NBC) monitoring and NBC control center tasks, operating a radiological
contamination control station (CCS), and responding to full spectrum threat incidents.
MAJCOMs and DRUs specify the number of team members in their CEMP 10-2 Plan.
9. Search and Recovery Team (SRT): Searches for, recovers, stakes, and flags human
remains after mishaps.
10. Security Forces Team (SFT): May perform duties as an Installation Patrol Member,
Internal and External Security Response Team Member, Fire Team Member, and Installation
Entry Controller. Maintains the capability to tactically respond; neutralizing threats against
Protection Level (PL) assets. Provides immediate armed response for any suspicious activities
originating in or around any restricted areas. Responds to in-flight and ground emergencies
involving aircraft with mechanical malfunctions or munitions mishaps. Provides traffic control and
cordon duties, allowing a clear route of travel for emergency responders. Monitors personnel
entering and exiting the installation daily, ensures the smooth flow of motorists and pedestrians
ensuring compliance with established base instructions. Assist with random vehicle inspections to
search for illegal drugs, weapons, and stolen government property.
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                                       19


                                            Attachment 4
                                 ADP ALLOCATION PROCESS

1. Allocation method: ADP augmentees are allocated using the ―Fair-Share with Exemptions‖
method. Calculations are re-run annually or at the direction of the ADP Review Board utilizing
Unit Manpower Document (UMD) authorizations, Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) exemptions,
and Personnel Tempo (PERSTEMPO) data obtained from Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).
While the intent of this allocation process is to determine an amount of augmentees to be
distributed to groups, it is not a substitute for negotiations that will determine the composition of an
organization‘s taskings. The ADP Working Group and ADP Review Board should use these
results as a starting point for any decisions made. Each organization tasked will have a different
mission profile that will drive what type of taskings it is capable of supporting. The current group
allocations are maintained at the 355 FSS/FSMM and are also available on the ADP SharePoint
site. The following steps below show how a group ―Fair-Share with Exemption‖ allocation is
obtained using a fictional 355 MSG scenario example:
2. Calculation of Augmentees Requirements to be Allocated:
2.1. Total validated augmentee requirements             -                               350
2.2. Minus straight-lined augmentee requirements-                                 90
(Straight-lined augmentee taskings are not allocated under the ‘fair-share with exemptions’
formula. The ADP Review Board assigns those directly to the receiving unit. Example: 355 LRS
has been assigned 90 Mobility Machine augmentee taskings by the Board prior to allocation of
the remaining taskings to other groups.)
2.3. Equals augmentee requirements to be allocated-                                     260
3. Calculation of Base Authorized Population Basis:
3.1. E-1 thru E-6 base authorized population-                                           3500
3.2. Minus E-1 thru E-6 base approved authorized population
exemptions      -                                                                       300
3.3. Minus average E-1 thru E-6 base steady-state deployed
(PERSTEMPO) -                                                                           350
3.3.1. The average E-1 thru E-6 base steady-state deployed is computed as:
# of Base Man-Days Deployed / # Months Base Man-Days Deployed Reported
                                       30.44
Note: The PERSTEMPO man-days of Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSCs) already approved
as exempt by the ARB will not be included in the PERSTEMPO computations to prevent
‗exemption overlap‘.
3.4. Equals base authorized population basis-                                           2850
 20                           AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012



4. Calculation of Group Authorized Population Basis:
4.1. E-1 thru E-6 355 MSG authorized population-                                800
4.2. Minus E-1 thru E-6 355 MSG approved authorized population
Exemptions -                                                                    25
4.3. Minus average E-1 thru E-6 355 MSG steady-state deployed
(PERSTEMPO)-                                                                    95


4.3.1. The average E-1 thru E-6 355 MSG steady-state deployed is computed as:
# of 355 MSG Man-Days Deployed / # of Months 355 MSG Man-Days Deployed Reported
                                            30.44
Note: The PERSTEMPO man-days of AFSCs already approved as exempt by the ARB will
not be included in the PERSTEMPO computations to prevent ‗exemption overlap‘.
4.4. Equals group authorized population basis-                                      680
5. Final Group Augmentee Requirements Allocation Equation Work-out:
5.1. Group Allocation = Aug Requirements to be Allocated X Group Auth Population Basis
                                     Base Authorized Population Basis
5.2. Group Fair-Share Allocation =                                260 X 680
                                                                     2850
5.3. Group Fair-Share Allocation =                                 176,800
                                                                     2850
5.4. Group Fair-Share Allocation =                62 Fair-Share augmentee requirements


5.5. Group Straight-lined Allocation =            90 Mobility Machine augmentee requirements


5.6. Group Combined Allocation =                 152 Total augmentee requirements
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                             21


                                        Attachment 5
                                    ADP EXEMPTIONS

1. ADP Exemption Process: All ADP exemption requests are forwarded to the AWG by the
affected unit‘s commander. If the exemption request is recommended by the AWG, the request is
referred to the ARB for approval/disapproval.
2. Approved Exemptions: The following organizations and their AFSC/function area
authorized E-1 thru E-6 UMD positions are approved by the ARB as exempt from augmentee
allocation calculations:
2.1. 355 FW/CPTS:
2.1.1. 1C3X1 – Command Post – AFI Exemption
2.1.2. 1S0X1 – Ground Safety – AFI Exemption
2.1.3. 2WXXX – Weapons Safety – AFI Exemption
2.1.4. 2AXXX – Flight Safety – AFI Exemption

2.2. 355 MSG:
2.2.1. 3EXXX – Civil Engineering- 1:1 Dwell
2.2.3. 3P0X1 – Security Forces – 1:1 Dwell
2.2.4. 9F000 – FTAC Instructor – AF-Level Generated Student Training Quotas
2.2.5. 8T000 – ALS Instructor – AF-Level Generated Student Training Quotas
2.2.6. 6C0X1 – Contracting-1:1 Dwell

2.3. 355 OG:
2.3.1. 1N0X1 – Intel – 1:1 Dwell
2.3.2. 1C7X1 – Airfield Management – Critical Manning AFSC

2.4. 55 ECG:
2.4.1. 1AXXX – Enlisted Aircrew – 1:2 Dwell
2.4.2. X1N5XX – Airborne Signals Intel – 1:2 Dwell
2.4.3. 2A5X1 – Aerospace Maintenance – 1:1 Dwell
2.4.4. 2A6X1 – Aerospace Propulsion – 1:1 Dwell
2.4.5. 1P0X1 – Life Support – 1:2 Dwell
2.4.6. 1N4X1 – Network Intel – 1:1 Dwell

2.5. 563 RQG:
2.5.1. 1T0XX – Survival, Evasion, Rescue, Escape (SERE) – 1:1 Dwell
2.5.2. 1T2XX – Pararescue – 1:1 Dwell
2.5.3. 1AXXX – Enlisted Aircrew – 1:1 Dwell
 22                             AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


                                           Attachment 6
              ADP FUNCTION QUALIFICATION LEVEL COLOR-CODING

1. Training Performance Color-Code Indicators: The following ―percent qualified‖ color-
coding scheme will indicate the training health of the ADP functions. The percentage includes
the qualification of primary and alternate augmentee personnel against the function‘s primary
augmentation requirement.
1.1. Cargo Deployment Function:
1.1.1. 75% to 100%       Green
1.1.2. 50% to 74.9% Yellow
1.1.3. Less than 50% Red
1.1.4. Rationale: Augmentees are cross-trained to perform the duties of
multiple positions, including their primary, enabling teams to function effectively
even at lower levels of overall qualification. Additionally, a portion of training can
also be completed ‗just-in-time‘ to round-out an augmentee‘s qualification.

1.2. Personnel Deployment Function:
1.2.1. 75% to 100%       Green
1.2.2. 50% to 74.9% Yellow
1.2.3. Less than 50% Red
1.2.4. Rationale: Augmentees are cross-trained to perform the duties of
multiple positions, including their primary, enabling teams to function effectively
even at lower levels of overall qualification. Additionally, a portion of training can
also be completed ‗just-in-time‘ to round-out an augmentee‘s qualification.

1.3. Deployment Control Center:
1.3.1. 75% to 100%       Green
1.3.2. 50% to 74.9% Yellow
1.3.3. Less than 50% Red
1.3.4. Rationale: Augmentees are cross-trained to perform the duties of
multiple positions, including their primary, enabling teams to function effectively
even at lower levels of overall qualification. Additionally, a portion of training can
also be completed ‗just-in-time‘ to round-out an augmentee‘s qualification.

1.4. Deployed Vehicle Operations:
1.4.1. 75% to 100%       Green
1.4.2. 50% to 74.9% Yellow
1.4.3. Less than 50% Red
1.4.4. Rationale: Augmentees are cross-trained to perform the duties of
multiple positions, including their primary, enabling teams to function effectively
even at lower levels of overall qualification. Additionally, a portion of training can
also be completed ‗just-in-time‘ to round-out an augmentee‘s qualification.
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                              23



1.5. Readiness Support Team:
1.5.1. 85% to 100%       Green
1.5.2. 60% to 84.9% Yellow
1.5.3. Less than 60% Red
1.5.4. Rationale: Responsibilities associated with this duty can be trained
‗just-in-time‘, providing the RST team the ability to respond if deployment, TDY,
 or leave caused a qualification lapse to occur.

1.6. Contamination Control Team:
1.6.1. 85% to 100%       Green
1.6.2. 60% to 84.9% Yellow
1.6.3. Less than 60% Red
1.6.4. Rationale: Responsibilities associated with this duty can be trained
‗just-in-time‘, providing the RST team the ability to respond if deployment, TDY,
or leave caused a qualification lapse to occur.

1.7. Security Forces Team:
1.7.1 100% Benchmark
1.7.2. Rationale: Complete primary augmentee requirement qualification is necessary in
order to respond effectively to the most-stringent FPCON (Delta) scenario.

 1.8. Search and Recovery Team:
 1.8.1. 85% to 100%       Green
 1.8.2. 70% to 84.9% Yellow
 1.8.3. Less than 70% Red
 1.8.4. Rationale: Responsibilities associated with this duty can be trained
 ‗just-in-time‘, providing the Search and Recovery Team (SRT) the ability to respond if
deployment, TDY, or leave caused a qualification lapse to occur.

1.9. ICC ECP/Runner/PAR Team:
1.9.1. 100%             Green
1.9.2. 75% to 99.9% Yellow
1.9.3. Less than 75% Red
1.9.4. Rationale: This 4 member augmentee team that can operate 2 shifts
with 3 people qualified if needed, but, operations are heavily degraded with only 1
 qualified per shift.

1.10. Red Carpet Team: All members are considered qualified upon appointment to the team.
 24                         AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012


                                      Attachment 7
                  MOBILITY MACHINE TASKING DISTRIBUTION

A7.1. Tasking Distribution: The following distribution charts delineate which Mobility
Machine (CDF, DCC, DVO, and PDF) taskings will be assigned inside and outside of 355 LRS:

Table A7.1. Cargo Deployment Function (CDF):
Position                        # Taskings      355 LRS      OUTSIDE 355 LRS
CDF ECP                              4             2               2
CDF NCOIC                            2             2               0
CDF OIC                              2             2               0
CDF QUALITY ASSURANCE                8             8               0
INCHECKER                           28            15               13
JOINT INSPECTOR                      6             6               0
LOAD PLANNER                         6             6               0
LOAD TEAM                           28            14               14
RAMPCO                               4             4               0
Grand Total                         88            59               29

Table A7.2. Deployment Control Center (DCC):
Position                         # Taskings     355 LRS      OUTSIDE 355 LRS
DCC ADM/RUN                          10            7               3
Grand Total                          10            7               3

Table A7.3. Deployed Vehicle Operations (DVO):
Position                         # Taskings     355 LRS      OUTSIDE 355 LRS
DVO DRIVER                           12            0               12
Grand Total                          12            0               12

Table A7.4. Personnel Deployment Function (PDF):
Position                       # Taskings       355 LRS      OUTSIDE 355 LRS
PDF/APT BRIEFER                    4               4               0
PDF/APT MANIFESTER                 6               6               0
PDF/APT OIC/NCOIC                  2               2               0
PDF/APT PAX SUPER                  8               8               0
PDF/APT/BAGGAGE TM                 10              4               6
Grand Total                        30             24               6
AFPAM10-243_DAVIS-MONTHANAFBSUP 9 October 2012                                                 25


                                         Attachment 8
  ADP FUNCTION CLOTHING/EQUIPMENT FUNDED-FOR AND PURCHASED BY
                        THE TASKED UNIT

1. Cargo Deployment Function (CDF): Steel-toed boots, reflective belt, and leather work
gloves.
2. Deployment Control Center (DCC): None. Workcenter is administrative in nature.
3. Deployment Vehicle Operations (DVO): Steel-toed boots, reflective belt, and leather work
gloves.
4. Personnel Deployment Function (PDF): Steel-toed boots, reflective belt, and leather work
gloves.
5. Red Carpet Team (RCT): None. Workcenter is administrative in nature.
6. Contamination Control Team (CCT): Steel-toed boots, reflective belt, and leather work
gloves.
7. Installation Control Center (ICC) Entry Control Point (ECP)/Runner/Post-Attack
Reconnaissance (PAR) Team: Steel-toed boots, reflective belt, and leather work gloves.
8. Readiness Support Team (RST): Steel-toed boots, reflective belt, and leather work gloves.
9. Search and Recovery Team (SRT): Steel-toed boots, reflective belt, and leather work gloves.
10. Security Forces Team (SFT): Steel-toed boots, reflective belt, and leather work gloves.
