BY ORDER OF THE                                                    AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 32-1098
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             1 APRIL 1996
                                                                       Certified Current 25 May 2010
                                                                                    Civil Engineering

                                                     BASE CIVIL ENGINEER SELF-HELP GUIDE




NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ AFCESA/CEO                                                     Certified by: HQ AFCESA/CC
       ( MSgt Jim B. Whitcomb)                                                  ( Col Peter K. Kloeber)
Supersedes AFP 85-9, 26 September 1991.                                                      Pages: 25
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This pamphlet implements AFPD 32-10, Air Force Installations and Facilities. It provides guidelines
and procedures for operation of the Civil Engineer Self-Help Program. It does not apply to the Air
National Guard. Bases may develop local operating instructions specific to their needs.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This pamphlet aligns with AFPD 32-10, superseding AFP 85-9. It updates, clarifies, and streamlines pre-
vious guidance on operation of a Self-Help Center (SHC).
2                                                                       AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

                                                Chapter 1

                            CIVIL ENGINEER SELF-HELP PROGRAM

1.1. Purpose. Self-Help is a significant force multiplier, especially in constrained budget environments.
It is a highly effective alternative for managing limited resources more effectively to improve quality of
life for Air Force personnel. A successful Self-Help program improves facilities and fosters a feeling of
pride and ownership.

1.2. Leadership Support. The key to a successful program is sustained involvement of base leadership.
The BCE should involve base leadership in promoting the Self-Help Program as a base responsibility, not
just a BCE responsibility. To ensure success of the Self-Help Program, financial and manpower support
from base resources are essential.

1.3. This Pamphlet and You. This publication provides the basic information needed to support your
self-help program. It contains simple guidelines -- a "road map." This guide is not the only way to man-
age self-help, but does include proven methods.

1.4. Stock Record Account Responsibility. The Chief of Material Acquisition usually is the account-
able officer for all self-help materials.

1.5. The Concept. The heart of any Self-Help Program is the Civil Engineer Self-Help Center (SHC).
The SHC is a facility from which materiel, loaner tools, and technical support, including training and
assistance, are provided in a timely manner to base customers who want to perform self-help work. The
SHC should be manned and equipped to support "one-stop service" for customers. The physical layout
(Attachment 1) of the SHC should allow customers to conveniently shop for needed materials. The SHC
should be designed to parallel similar commercial facilities and stocked with the types of materials com-
monly used for facility maintenance, repair, and upgrade. It should offer how-to literature, mockups, and
professional technical advice to the customer. The SHC can support both base and Military Family Hous-
ing (MFH) customers. Consolidating the SHC for both these functions eliminates duplication of materials
and saves considerable manpower, space, and money. Materials should be supplied from an efficient com-
bination of on-site stockage and just-in-time delivery methods. Use of open-ended delivery contracts
with local suppliers reduces warehousing requirements, yet ensures materials are available to support
self-help projects.

1.6. Material Support. The SHC provides materials to supported organizations that do self-help work
within their capabilities. The SHC also stocks minor maintenance and repair items such as paint, electri-
cal receptacle covers, commode seats, hasps, caulking, and tools. First sergeants, dormitory managers,
facility managers, and other specified people may be allowed to draw these materials across the counter
without submitting AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request. Similarly, MFH occupants can be
served by the SHC.
    1.6.1. Minor Construction. In addition to minor maintenance supplies, the SHC should provide
    minor construction materials such as paneling, sheet rock, suspended ceilings, floor tiles, and lumber.
    The requester must have an approved AF Form 332 to draw materials for this type of self-help work.
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                                                                                3

   1.6.2. SHC personnel should:
       • Stock the SHC with energy efficient, easy-to-use materials designed for low maintenance fol-
          lowing installation.
       • Issue grass seed, shrubs, and trees adapted to the geographical area only.
       • Consider cost versus life-cycle when selecting self-help materials. Coordinate with other
          BCE functions to ensure standardization of materials; for example, color schemes.
       • Ensure Air Force flame and smoke ratings are met for all materials provided from the SHC,
          including floor and wall coverings.
       • Ensure compliance with local, state, and Federal requirements.
       • Ensure interior and exterior finishes, materials, color, landscaping, and fencing meet local
          established standards.

1.7. Base Participation. The Base Civil Engineer, with support of the installation commander, should
publicize the program, expedite customer requests, and minimize paperwork. The BCE should advertise
in the daily bulletin, base newspaper, and at commander's calls and open houses to ensure all base organi-
zations are aware of the purpose of the SHC, hours of operation, and the various types of work that can be
accomplished. The BCE should create a status board or computer printouts to track projects from initia-
tion to completion. Visits to the SHC by squadron commanders, as part of their initial training, facility
managers, first sergeants, and groups such as wives' clubs, will help spread the word.

1.8. SHC Focus:
   1.8.1. Access and Appearance. The SHC should be easy to find, accessible, and offer ample park-
   ing. The exterior appearance of the SHC establishes the customer's first impression and sets the stan-
   dard for self-help attitudes. The SHC should look like a retail hardware or home improvement
   center...not like a "government warehouse." Consider a landscape display to enhance the SHC
   appearance and generate customer ideas for self-help landscape work. A color-coordinated exterior
   with eye-catching lettering identifying the SHC creates a strong positive impression.
   1.8.2. Operating Hours. Since much self-help is accomplished during non-work hours, consider
   staying open after normal duty hours, during the lunch hour, and on weekends.
   1.8.3. Staffing the SHC. The installation commander should view staffing the SHC as a base
   responsibility, not just a BCE responsibility. Consider using volunteers with special skills from
   around the base. Attributes of the workers in the self-help store are very important to the success of
   the program. They provide the services, skills, and continuity required for every project from begin-
   ning to end. Workers should be highly qualified and motivated, reflecting the best image and commu-
   nications skills. The SHC staff can eliminate delays, provide training when necessary, and work
   closely with the customer to ensure all bottlenecks to job completion are minimized. Although a staff
   with varied skills is very important, more important is a positive attitude and an ability to communi-
   cate concepts clearly.
   1.8.4. Self-Help Training. Proper training is essential to quality work. Training can be an effective
   BCE work force multiplier when customers are trained to do simple tasks that they normally would
   ask the BCE to accomplish. Display rooms can be built into the Center, each reflecting a different
   combination of walls, carpet/flooring, wood trim (chair rail, wainscoting), and lighting to demonstrate
   the variety of materials, color schemes, and building techniques customers can use in a project. If pos-
4                                                                       AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

    sible, allow room for hands-on displays, training areas, and adequate supply stock storage. Also
    include space for customers to review do-it-yourself books, videos, and other materials, and a com-
    puter and drafting board.
        • How-To Pamphlets. Commercially available pamphlets provide step-by-step instructions for
            laying floor tile, installing drop ceilings, and other tasks. Your literature rack should also
            include information on energy conservation, landscaping, safety, fire prevention, home and
            work place security, and disaster preparedness (Attachment 2).
        • Video Instruction. An excellent way to provide instruction is visually. Consider using your
            funds to purchase a video player monitor for visual instructions. A wide range of "how-to"
            videos are commercially available. If you can't find tapes you like, work with your audio
            visual personnel and shop craftspersons to create your own. The video system is great for all
            types of instruction, but may work especially well for those bases that don't have enough
            space in their center for mockups to accomplish hands-on training (Attachment 2 ).
        • How-To Books. Many commercial publishers, such as Time-Life, publish excellent manuals
            on home repair and construction. These books may also be available through local book-
            stores, home improvement centers, or your base library (Attachment 2).
        • Training Seminars. Training in basic skills such as carpentry, painting, and plumbing will
            ultimately minimize the amount of BCE labor required. These programs could be held over
            lunch hours, offered during evenings, or tailored to suit specific units on your base. Commer-
            cial distributors and manufacturers are a source for training workshops emphasizing their
            products in varied applications and installations.
        • Training Aids. The SHC should contain mockups showing typical installations of materials
            stocked in the center. The mockups can be used to train customers how to do the job. Ideally,
            the grounds around the SHC should be landscaped to exhibit a scheme customers can dupli-
            cate through self-help. All displayed self-help material should be properly identified and
            labeled.
    1.8.5. Customer Service. The SHC should provide one-stop service from submission of the
    self-help request to receipt of the material and tools. The SHC manager should be authorized to
    approve AF Forms 332 (up to a predetermined dollar amount). Critiques can provide valuable cus-
    tomer feedback from your customers (Attachment 3). Take appropriate action on suggested
    improvements.
    1.8.6. Loaner Tool Procedures. The Center should provide loaner tools and other items needed to
    perform self-help work. Before issuing power tools, individuals should be trained on proper use and
    safety precautions (Attachment 4). This training should be documented.

1.9. Self-Help Work Inspection. Pre-inspection, in-progress, and final inspections of self-help work
are vital steps in avoiding delays. Inspection ensures quality workmanship and identifies problem areas
early. All inspections should be documented using a Record of Self-Help Inspection format (Attachment
5). Civil Engineer expertise should be available from job start to finish to help the customers. Inspections
by CE craftsmen assure code compliance and uniformity of workmanship. Visits by the fire department
and safety are encouraged during all phases of the project. Recommend an audit program for materials
issued/used for Military Family Housing projects and document on pre-final or final inspections.
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                                                                                5

1.10. Scheduling Priority. The SHC manager should have authority to tap the resources of shop per-
sonnel when support is required. Delays should be eliminated - even at the risk of creating an insertion in
the current week’s schedule. Delay or inactivity will discourage self-help efforts and undermine an other-
wise successful self-help program.

1.11. Success Story Board. Displaying "before-and-after" color photos of various self-help projects is an
excellent way to advertise a satisfied customer. Potential customers can see completed projects, note
color schemes, and contact the people who did the work. Consider implementing a local "outstanding
project" awards program.

1.12. Self-Help Center Accounting. Separate accounting records should be maintained, by dwelling or
facility, for issues to MFH occupants to establish an audit trail and to monitor possible excessive con-
sumption by customers. Cost data should be transferred in accordance with the following:
    • Charge issues to building managers, dormitory managers, Commanders, or First Sergeants to the
         collection work order number assigned to the facility.
   •   Charge issues to MFH occupants and the hospital to the applicable reimbursable work order num-
       ber and account code depending on the type of work being done.
As issues are made across the counter, the document is processed in CEMAS charging material costs
against the applicable work order. Therefore, cost data is processed at the time of issue. Issue documen-
tation and cost transfer data should be retained at least two years for audit purposes. NOTE: MFH minor
improvements cannot exceed the current statutory limits using P722 funds.
6                                                                       AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

                                                Chapter 2

                    SELF-HELP CENTER (SHC) OPERATING PROCEDURES

2.1. Manpower. In the CE Objective Squadron, the SHC is authorized in the Material Acquisition Ele-
ment of the Operations Flight. Since this is a base-wide supported program, talent in other organizations
can be detailed to the SHC using AF Form 2095, Assignment/Personnel Action. For example, you may
find a licensed electrician in munitions, a roofer and carpenter in security police, and a plumber in admin-
istration. Personnel assigned to the SHC should be highly motivated, customer-oriented and should
reflect a positive attitude.
    2.1.1. Manning. To operate effectively and offer the advertised "one-stop operation," it is recom-
    mended that personnel within the Operations Flight with expertise in logistics/resources, and crafts
    such as electrical, mechanical, structural, be assigned to support the scope of self-help work.
    2.1.2. Other Resources. Civilian overhires and summer hires should be used, if available. Fill out
    SF 52, Request for Personnel Action, and submit to the Civilian Personnel Office.

2.2. SHC Options. The Self-Help Center may be established under one of the following concepts.
(Items stocked should be easy to install and authorized for self-help.)
    • Centralized store (GOCESS) - across the counter issues are made to both base and MFH self-help
        customers, and to craftpersons. Collection work order number 00011 is assigned to the main
        store.
    • Decentralized Self-Help (Forward Store) - across the counter issues are made to both base and
        MFH customers. You may elect to establish separate stores for both base and military family
        housing. Collection work order numbers 00013-00020 have been set aside for forward store use
        in WIMS.

2.3. Stocking the SHC. Determining items to be stocked is a continuous effort. Geographical and local
conditions should be considered to establish SHC stockage of material. All items stocked in the SHC
should be loaded and issued through CEMAS. The housing office should identify those items authorized
for issue to housing occupants. This listing should be included in housing brochures. Determine the max-
imum quantities to be stocked and establish reorder points. Periodic review is recommended. Adjust
stock levels as needed.
    2.3.1. Minor Construction. The SHC provides materials to support organizations that do minor
    construction self-help work within their capabilities, including paneling or fabric covered sheet rock
    and suspended ceilings, floor tiles, walls, etc. The requestor submits an approved AF Form 332 to
    draw materials for this self-help work.
    2.3.2. Minor Maintenance. These are materials issued across the counter to facility managers or
    MFH occupants to do minor maintenance. Examples are paint, electrical receptacle covers, commode
    seats, hasps, caulking, and tools. First sergeants, dormitory managers, facility managers, and other
    specified people are allowed to draw their materials without submitting AF Form 332. In addition to
    minor maintenance type items, MFH provides other items such as furnace and air conditioner filters
    and landscaping items like trees and shrubbery. SHC should maintain listings of people authorized to
    draw items from the Center. On-line access or hard copy listings may be obtained from the following
    sources:
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                                                                                7

       •   Facility Managers - Base Civil Engineer Real Estate Section or Zonal Maintenance Superin-
           tendent.
       •   MFH Occupants - Family Housing Flight.
       •   Organizations (Squadron Commander, First Sergeant, dormitory manager).
   2.3.3. Seasonal Items. Seasonal items experience peak demand periods and include -- but are not
   limited to -- grass seed, shrubs, and fertilizer.

2.4. Local Operating Procedures. Local operating procedures are encouraged. It is recommended that
local SHC operating procedures be coordinated with appropriate base agencies, including Fire Protection,
Family Housing, and Bioenvironmental Engineering.
    • Consider developing a self-help critique to get feedback from the customer as to the service being
       provided. A sample self-help critique is provided (Attachment 3). Review critiques immedi-
       ately upon receipt and take necessary actions.
    • Consider establishing a sign-in register for customers. Monitor the number of customers and
       sales monthly.
    • Sales should be analyzed to ensure adequate stock levels and management of funds.
    • Turn-in procedures should be established for unused materials.
    • Provide product information and application instructions for all hazardous materials such as her-
       bicides and pesticides. Recommend developing local briefings and documenting all issues of haz-
       ardous materials.

2.5. Product Display of Stocked Items. Color-coordinated samples of paint, paneling, and carpet
should be displayed, in five or six color schemes approved by the installation Commander. Carpeting or
carpet tiles should be available for issue or contract installation provided when a customer is ready for
carpet. A recurring carpet installation service contract should be maintained so that a separate contract
does not have to be executed every time a customer wants to install carpet. A good stock of brushes, roller
kits, paint thinner, and drop cloths should be kept on hand.

2.6. Tool Control. It is essential to maintain positive, auditable control over tools utilized by the SHC
and its customers.
   2.6.1. Authorized Tool List. An authorized list of tools should be developed, considering MFH
   occupant needs. Shovels, rakes, de-thatchers, minor construction tools, toolboxes, ladders, and more
   should be included. Even large items such as carpet cleaners, "shop-vacs," and tile cutters could be
   included as part of your tool program.
    2.6.2. Tool Boxes. Individual toolboxes should be built based on different crafts or types of work
being accomplished. Structural, electrical, and plumbing boxes are just a few examples. A detailed
inventory list should be attached to each box.
8                                                                     AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

    2.6.3. Inventory Control. Tools should be stored in a room with controlled access. All tools issued
    should be signed for by the requesting individual. Use AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, or
    similar locally-developed form. A firm return date should be established so tools are available for
    other customers. Consider assigning CSL to tools; issue them and return to stock under CEMAS.
    Delinquent returns should be followed up immediately. All tools should be inventoried at least quar-
    terly.
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                                                                                  9

                                                Chapter 3

                            SELF-HELP WORK ORDER PROCESSING

3.1. Overview. The procedures listed below provide basic concepts of processing self-help work orders.
Development of local procedures is authorized and encouraged.

3.2. Delegation Authority. The SHC should have the authority to approve AF Forms 332 up to a spec-
ified dollar amount.

3.3. Approval Process. To speed the approval process, customers should pre-coordinate with Fire and
Safety. The SHC may coordinate the project by phone if the project is minor. Depending on the number
of AF Forms 332 needing coordination, representatives from Safety and Fire Protection may stop by the
SHC periodically to coordinate. Facilities approved by the Facility Board for blanket self-help work (cur-
rent fiscal year only) require higher authority signature. However, the facility manager must still submit
an AF Form 332. The SHC reviews the AF Form 332 for proper coordination and determines if the work
can be done by self help. Planners should visit the job site to verify material requirements and prepare the
CEMAS bill of materials (BOM). The BOM is attached to the AF Form 332 and forwarded to the
approval/funding authority. Upon approval, logistics personnel will order the materials. Depending on
the availability of materials, the customer is given a tentative start date. If any BCE support is required,
the SHC will schedule with operations flight personnel.

3.4. Beginning the Project. As materials become available, SHC personnel should call the customer
for the required briefings and contact the work order POC who will monitor the work. Release of materi-
als is timed according to the scope of work and the ability of the customer to utilize the materials. In some
circumstances, all materials may be issued at once. In other instances, materials are issued in phases.

3.5. Phased Work. Work may need to be broken down into phases based on complexity of the project.
Inspections must be completed and documented prior to start of the next phase. For example, there are
key inspection points during installation of electrical wiring that need to be completed prior to close in.
All work and coordination are handled through the SHC from START to FINISH.

3.6. Work Request Approval, AF Form 332. Customers should be told to use AF Form 332 to request
self-help. Customers are required to provide a detailed description of work to be done with support justi-
fication and should include applicable sketches, site plans, and a list of materials. Consider having
self-help customers complete a questionnaire (Attachment 6) with AF Form 332. SHC should coordi-
nate with the facility manager and obtain the signature of the requesting organization commander or MFH
occupant. Upon receipt of AF Form 332, the SHC should review and assist the customer in determining
requirements.
   3.6.1. Customers are encouraged to coordinate with appropriate agencies based on type of work to be
   done to speed up the process; for example, Fire, Safety, Bioenvironmental.
   3.6.2. Make self-help easy for the customer, but be sure to properly account for materials by using the
   proper documentation and by maintaining a good audit trail. At the time of the first material issue, and
   as POCs change with personnel changes, give the responsible POC a documented briefing (Attach-
   ment 7).
10                                                                      AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

     3.6.3. For accounting purposes, charge items to the individual work order authorizing the work, or
     use the appropriate work order for self-help not requiring an AF Form 327, Base Civil Engineer Work
     Order, as outlined in AFI 32-1031, Operations Management.
     3.6.4. If capitalization of self-help work is required, follow guidance in AFI 32-1031. Capitalization
     costs are based on total project cost (both funded and unfunded).

3.7. Self Inspection. Recommend using an all-purpose checklist (Attachment 8) to periodically review
your self-help program, to ensure you are following established procedures, and to find better ways to
serve your customers.



                                          EUGENE A. LUPIA, Maj General, USAF
                                          The Civil Engineer
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                               11

                                        Attachment 1

                              SELF-HELP CENTER LAYOUT

Figure A1.1. Self-Help Center Layout.
12                                                                  AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

                                           Attachment 2

                               SELF-HELP TRAINING RESOURCES

NOTE:
Use of a name of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publica-
tion does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
Publishers
Creative Homeowner Press
24 Park Way
Upper Saddle River NJ 07458
(201) 934-7100
(800) 631-7795
National Retail Hardware Association
5822 W. 74th St
Indianapolis IN 46278
(317) 290-0338
Ortho do-it-yourself books
Sarvis
6111 Gazebo Park Place North
Jacksonville FL 32257
(800) 334-0007 Ext 216
Sunset do-it-yourself books
Lane Magazine & Book Company
80 Willow Rd
Menlo Park CA 94025-3691
(415) 321-3600
(800) 227-7346
Cooperative Extension Service Publications on Landscaping and Grounds Maintenance
Garden Way Do-It Yourself books
Reader’s Digest Do-It-Yourself books
Books
Better Homes and Gardens Complete Guide to Home Repair, Maintenance, and Improvement, Meredith,
1980
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                                                                         13

Better Homes and Gardens Deck and Patio Projects You Can Build, Meredith, 1977
Tools and How to Use Them: An Illustrated Encyclopedia, by Albert Jackson and David Day, Knopf,
1978
The Homeowner’s Complete Manual of Repair & Improvement, Arco, 1983
The Ortho Problem Solver (Third Edition), by Michael Smith, 1989
Videos
HomeTime Do-It-Yourself series:
Common Home Repairs
Basic Landscaping
Bathrooms
Cabinets
Ceilings
Ceramic Tile
Children’s Playsets
Decks
Drywall
Electrical
Exterior Painting
Fences and Gates
Finish Carpentry
Finishing a Basement
Framing
Furniture Refinishing
Hand and Power Tools
Home Decorating
Home Security
Interior Paint and Wallpaper
Kitchens
Lawn Care
Lighting
Patios and Walkways
Plumbing
Roofing
14                              AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

Siding
Storage
Vinyl Flooring
Weatherization and Insulation
Windows and Doors
Wood Flooring
Available from:
HOMETIME
6213 Bury Drive
Eden Prairie MN 55346
(612) 937-2291
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                                                           15

                                     Attachment 3

                           SELF-HELP CENTER CRITIQUE
MEMORANDUM FOR BCE
FROM:
Work Order Numbers:___________________________Building No: ______________________
16                          AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

          Attachment 4

     TOOL SAFETY BRIEFING
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996   17
18                             AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

               Attachment 5

     RECORD OF SELF-HELP INSPECTION
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                                      19

                              Attachment 6

           SELF-HELP QUESTIONNAIRE (SUBMIT WITH AF FORM 332)
20   AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996   21
22                                  AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

                   Attachment 7

     CONFIRMATION OF BRIEFING SELF-HELP WORK
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996                                                                23

                                            Attachment 8

       SAMPLE QUESTIONS FOR SELF INSPECTION TITLE/SUBJECT/ACTIVITY/
                         FUNCTIONAL AREA/DATE


 No.                                 Item                                     YES   NO
  1 Is technical guidance available for store customers?
  2 Are records of issues maintained by dwelling to establish an audit
     trail and to monitor possible excessive material consumption?
  3 Have procedures been established to identify authorized users to
     draw material, tools, and equipment from the Self-Help Center
     (SHC)?
  4 Does Family Housing Management furnish the SHC with current
     changes to existing occupancy listings regularly?
  5 Is SHC receiving current listings of building custodians and alter-
     nates from the BCE Real Estate Branch?
  6 Are issued tools checked out on AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue
     Receipt, and followup action taken to retrieve overdue tools?
  7 Are total sales recorded in WIMS?
  8 Are line item levels properly maintained and inventoried at least
     annually?
  9 Is the Confirmation of Briefing checklist being utilized to brief
     Self-Help requesters prior to work commencement?
 10    Are in-progress and final project inspections being made as
       required?
 11    Do SHC personnel verify materials complete prior to issue ?
 12    Is Minor Construction type work being performed on facilities
       scheduled for demolition?
 13    Are tools periodically inspected for safe operation and inventoried?
 14    Do organizational supervisors have an AF Form 55, Employee
       Safety and Health Record, on file for each person working on the
       self-help project?
  15   Are Change Orders accomplished in a timely manner? Are the
       rationale and justification for Change Orders obtained, approved,
       and stored in the work order folders?
 16    Are Work Orders screened to ensure that all materials issued
       against the Work Order are properly charged before the Work Order
       is closed?
       Are planning estimates reviewed to ensure that they are realistic?
 17
       Are low estimates resulting in unnecessary Change Orders?
24                                                                  AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996

  18   Are WIMS reports being screened to ensure that inputs are being
       properly received?
  19   Are all issue documents secured inside the Work Order folder prior
       to closing the work order?
  20   Are issue documents compared to the final WIMS Bill of Materials,
       and the differerences resolved prior to closing the Work Order?
  21   Is sufficient time being allocated to input WIMS transactions to
       ensure that backlogs do not become excessive?
  22   Are applicable customers being given and signing for a power tool
       safety briefing?
  23   Does any Self-Help work require specialized safety equipment to
       be worn by the user?
  24   Is self-help minor construction work and donated materials requir-
       ing capitalization reported to Real Property?
  25   Does the work requested duplicate work already included in
       another in-house or contract program?
AFPAM32-1098 1 APRIL 1996   25
