BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                  AIR FORCE PAMPHLET 10-243
OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             1 AUGUST 2002

                                                             KIRTLAND AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            Supplement
                                                                            24 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                   Operations

                                                                   AUGMENTATION DUTY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                     e-publishing web site at: www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/DPXJ           (Mr. Ray)                            Certified by: HQ USAF/DPX
                                                                            (Maj Gen Speigel)
                                                                                   Pages: 26
                                     (KIRTLANDAFB)
OPR: 377 FSS/FSMM                                                    Certified by: 377 FSS/CL
                                                                      (Ms. Nanci E. Wildman)
Supersedes:   KAFBI 10-243, 15 April 2006                                             Pages:17


This pamphlet compliments AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAF/DPFJ, 1540 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington DC, 20330-1540 on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. The privacy act of 1974 affects this publication. The authority to collect and
maintain the data prescribed in this pamphlet is Title 10 United States Code (U.S.C.), Section
8013. System of Records Notice Numbers, F036 HQ AFPC, Military Personnel Records Systems
and F036 HQ AFPC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS), apply. Ensure that all records created by
this AFI are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, “Records Disposition Schedule.”

The former Resource Augmentation Duty (READY) program, AFI 10-217, has been replaced
with a more flexible, commander directed augmentation program. As such, this pamphlet
contains a compilation of processes and procedures to help implement an effective program. The
contents of this pamphlet are recommendations only and may be used entirely or in part.

(KIRTLANDAFB) This publication supplements Air Force Pamphlet (AFPAM) 10-243,
Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002. It applies to military members assigned to Kirtland Air
Force Base (KAFB). Individuals assigned to associate units on KAFB and in the surrounding
 2                                             AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


areas, who are not listed as designated members of the Augmentation Review Board, may
volunteer for augmentation duty taskings with approval from their Supervisors/Commanders.
This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or to the Air
National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, U.S.C., 8013 and E.O. 9397 (SSN), as
amended. The applicable System of Records Notice Number (SORN) is F036 AF A, 1 AFMC
B, Biographical Data and Automated Personnel Management System (January 22, 2009, 74 FR
4013),                   and                   is                 located                   at
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/component/airforce/F036_AF_A.html. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

(KIRTLANDAFB) In an effort to streamline KAFB‟s Augmentation Program, and to ensure a
more robust order of business, real world and exercise requirements have been addressed
separately; and a new process has been implemented that will standardize exemption and
augmentation requests as well as provide program continuity.

Section A—Mission                                                                                                                                   3
       1.        ...............................................................................................................................    3
       1.      (KIRTLANDAFB) The KAFB Augmentation Duty Program (ADP). ..................                                                           3

Section B—Responsibilities                                                                                                                          4
       2.        ...............................................................................................................................    4

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program                                                                                                  9
       3.      Processes and procedures .......................................................................................                     9
       4.      How to Use Augmentees. ......................................................................................                       11
       5.      Identifying Augmentees. ........................................................................................                    13
       6.      Augmentee Tracking and Training. .......................................................................                            14
       7.      Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation. ..........................................                                       14
       8.      (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Requesting Exemptions. .............................................                                            16
       9.      (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Conflict Resolution. ...................................................                                        16
       10.     (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Shortfall Requests. .....................................................                                       17
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                                 3


       11.     (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Use of Augmentees. ...................................................   17
       12.     (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Variations for Exercises. ............................................   18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                              21

Attachment 1—(KIRTLANDAFB) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION                                                                                    23

Attachment 2—(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) FORMAT FOR AUGMENTATION
             EXEMPTION REQUEST                                                                              25

Attachment 3—(Added-KIRTLANDAFB) FORMAT FOR AUGMENTATION
             REQUIREMENT REQUEST                                                                            26


Section A—Mission

1. An augmentation program can assist commanders in validating, approving and documenting
the need for additional personnel resources to support installation-level requirements. It can also
aid commanders in identifying, training, and tracking personnel to meet short-term augmentee
needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations/scenarios.
Use of an augmentation program is optional, and each installation should review its plans and
requirements appropriately.
1. (KIRTLANDAFB)The KAFB Augmentation Duty Program (ADP) is established to
provide a uniform system for identifying, training and placing augmentee personnel to
meet all installation-level augmentation needs. The intent is to help local Commanders make
the best possible use of existing resources to meet all requirements that support base plans.
   1.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) General Assumptions.
   1.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Units will support augmentation requests/requirements as
   outlined in wartime scenario and/or exercise plans.
       1.2.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Augmentation Program Coordinators (APC) will fill
       personnel requirements from internal resources (within reason) before seeking
       augmentation support through the Augmentation Program.
       1.2.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Unit core tasks/manning needs, under each plan, will
       consider plan specific assumptions.
       1.2.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Some plans may be implemented simultaneously;
       therefore, avoid multi-tasking individuals for augmentation requirements.
       1.2.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Programs are based on reasonable worst-case
       scenarios. NOTE: extreme situations may require additional unexpected augmentation
       support.
       1.2.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Civilian employees may or may not be available
       under all plans to assist with core tasks.
       1.2.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Implementation of more than a single plan at one
       time may require prioritization of augmentation requirements for fill action.
 4                                AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


        1.2.7. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) This supplement is directed specifically at real world,
        wartime responses in support of augmentation duty in regards to base level plans.
        Paragraph 12 of this supplement identifies items for this supplement that are waived or
        changed for installation level exercises and/or non-contingency operations.

Section B—Responsibilities

2. The Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander should
determine if an installation augmentation program is required. If a program is required, it‟s a
local decision how it will be implemented and managed. Should it be determined a program is
required, the processes and procedures in this pamphlet are offered as a structural framework for
an effective program and may be used entirely or in part.
     2.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) KAFB Specific Responsibilities.
     2.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ADP Director, 377th Force Support Squadron Civilian
     Leader (377 FSS/CL):
        2.2.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Central point of contact (POC) for the ADP Function
        or Team Chiefs and Group ADP Monitors (normally the Group Superintendents).
        2.2.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) When ADP requirement and tasking issues arise, the
        ADP Function or Team Chiefs and Group ADP Monitors will elevate them to the ADP
        Director for resolution.
        2.2.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Evaluates the performance of the ADP on an annual
        basis.
        2.2.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensures ADP Function or Team Chiefs are offering
        timely and appropriate training to augmentees.
     2.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Augmentation Review Board (ARB):
        2.3.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Designated Voting Members are: 377 ABW/CV, 377
        MDG/CC, 377 MSG/CC, 377 MXG/CC, 377 SFG/CC, 377 CPTS/CC, AFNWC/CV,
        AFNWC/NC (NCD), 58 SOW/CC, 705 CTS/CC, AFIA/CC, AFOTEC/CV, AFSEC/CD,
        AFRL PRS/CC, and SMC/SD. Advisors (non-voting members) are: 377 ABW/IDO, 377
        FSS/FSMM, 377 FSS/FSMP, and 377 ABW/XPO.
        2.3.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The ARB will meet at least quarterly, or as needed,
        to review requirements, approve any new requirements and/or exemptions,
        allocate/reallocate requirements to fill augmentation requests, and resolve any issues
        requiring attention.
        2.3.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The            ARB      approves    and    prioritizes   ADP
        requirements/requests.
        2.3.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) In the event of a tie, the Chairperson will carry the
        vote.
     2.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Augmentation Working Group (AWG):
        2.4.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Designated Voting Members are: ADP Director
        (Chairperson), 377 ABW/IDO, all ADP Function or Team Chiefs, and all Group ADP
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                  5


     Monitors (normally the Group Superintendents). Advisors (non-voting members) are:
     377 FSS/FSMM and 377 FSS/FSMP.
     2.4.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The AWG will meet at least quarterly, or as needed,
     to review requirements, make recommendations to the ARB regarding new requirements
     and/or exemptions, allocation/re-allocation of requests to fill augmentation requirements,
     and to forward to the ARB any issues requiring higher level attention.
     2.4.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) In the event of a tie, the ADP Director will carry the
     vote.
  2.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ADP Manager (APM) (377 FSS/FSMM):
     2.5.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Works directly for the ADP Director in all matters
     concerning the ADP.
     2.5.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensures ADP Function or Teams maintain current
     augmentee team rosters.
     2.5.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Reviews this supplement biannually and coordinates
     appropriate changes.
     2.5.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Coordinates annual review of ADP Function or Team
     requirements and group tasking allocations.
     2.5.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Schedules meetings and produces ADP agendas and
     meeting minutes.
     2.5.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Forwards validated requests for exemptions and/or
     additional requirements to the AWG for recommendation/non-recommendation and to
     the ARB for approval/disapproval.
     2.5.7. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Addresses all requests with the AWG prior to
     presenting them to the ARB.
     2.5.8. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensures all unresolved items from both the AWG and
     previous ARBs are brought before the ARB for resolution.
     2.5.9. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Facilitates AWG and ARB meetings.
  2.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ADP Function or Team Chiefs:
     2.6.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Coordinate ADP augmentee events in their respective
     functions (i.e., Cargo Deployment Function, Deployed Vehicle Ops, Search and
     Recovery).
     2.6.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Schedule, conduct and document augmentee training.
     2.6.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Provide a quarterly (or as needed) ADP training
     schedule to appropriate tasked Unit Commanders. See paragraph 6.1. for specific details
     on scheduling training.
     2.6.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Document training on an AF Form 2426, Training
     Request and Completion Notification or a training certificate, to provide a written record
     of training to the individual and his/her Unit ADP Monitor.
6                               AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


      2.6.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Provide a list of augmentee training no-shows to
      respective Unit ADP Monitors (or other POC as specified by the respective unit), tasked
      Commanders, Group ADP Monitors, and the ADP Director NLT 24 hours after
      augmentees are identified as unavailable for training.
      2.6.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Work with the Manpower Office (377 FSS/FSMM)
      to validate augmentee requirements.
      2.6.7. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensure all augmentees have received the equipment
      necessary to perform their augmentee duties.
         2.6.7.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The unit being augmented will fund and issue
         conventional purpose, personal wear clothing items (i.e., steel-toed boots, work
         gloves, parkas, rain gear, personal reflective belts, non-industrial hats) required for
         performance of augmentee duties.
         2.6.7.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Special purpose and professional-type clothing
         and equipment (“pro equipment”) such as reflective vests, industrial hats, special
         purpose boots and gloves, tools or toolboxes, aprons, coveralls, non-prescription eye
         protection, etc. will be provided by the ADP Function or Team Chief for common-use
         by augmentees.
      2.6.8. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Maintain an up-to-date listing of all augmentees
      assigned to their teams and coordinate augmentee requirements with the appropriate
      Group ADP Monitors.
      2.6.9. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Report unavailable individuals, vacancies, and
      augmentee problems to the ADP Director and tasked Group ADP Monitors for
      appropriate action.
      2.6.10. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Activate ADP augmentees using an Installation
      Command Directive (ICD), e-mail, or other approved activation communication
      document.
    2.7. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Group            ADP      Monitors     (normally     the    Group
    Superintendents):
      2.7.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Represent their Group Commanders by providing
      management oversight of the ADP requirements within their groups.
      2.7.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Are voting members of the AWG, and will attend all
      AWG meetings.
      2.7.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Serve as the central POC for their Unit ADP
      Monitors.
      2.7.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Forward augmentee issues to the ADP Director for
      resolution.
      2.7.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Are responsible for cross-filling ADP requirements
      when a specific unit within their group cannot fill its ADP tasking. This may include
      substituting members of another unit within their group. When no member of the group
      can fill an ADP tasking, the Group ADP Monitor will prepare a Group Commander-
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                 7


     signed ADP tasking reclama letter addressed to the 377 ABW/CC, 377 ABW/CV and
     377 FSS/CL (ADP Director).
     2.7.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Monitor their unit‟s ADP augmentee requirements.
  2.8. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Manpower Office (377 FSS/FSMM):
     2.8.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Reviews and validates all exemption requests (see
     Attachment 2), including both standard exemptions (see definition in paragraph 8.2.) and
     vacancy exemptions, and processes them through the AWG and ARB for final
     approval/disapproval.
        2.8.1.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Vacancies will be validated by comparing an
        organization‟s personnel manning document(s) against the Unit Manpower Document
        (UMD). Double or triple billeted position numbers that create vacancies will not be
        counted unless they are an authorized action (i.e., a double billeted position created
        when a gain is placed against an impending loss).
        2.8.1.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Validation of exemptions will also include
        verifying that an organization does not get credited for both a standard exemption and
        a vacancy exemption for the same position.
     2.8.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Validates all manpower requirements for each ADP
     Function or Team (see paragraph 4.2.5.) for both real-world operations and exercises.
     2.8.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensures all ADP requirements are distributed to the
     respective groups by using the “Fair-Share Quotient Formula” method as follows:
        2.8.3.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Determine the organizations total number of E-
        6 and below and O-3 and below authorized positions. Subtract all approved
        exemptions (see paragraph 2.8.1.). The remaining number equates to the unit‟s
        available positions.
        2.8.3.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Divide the unit‟s number of available positions
        for assignment as augmentees (see paragraph 2.8.3.1) by the total number of available
        positions on base for augmentee positions. Multiply the resulting number by the
        number of validated augmentee positions. This result equals the number of
        augmentees the unit will provide to the program.
     2.8.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Revalidate           all   requirements,   exemptions     and
     allocations on an annual basis.
        2.8.4.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The annual revalidation begins on 1 Oct every
        year (at the start of a new fiscal year). The changes will be presented for review at
        the quarterly AWG meeting in November, and for approval at the quarterly ARB
        meeting in December.
        2.8.4.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Additional revalidations may be requested as
        needed, based on significant changes to a unit‟s baseline numbers. Such revalidation
        efforts must be requested through, and approved by, the ARB.
  2.9. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Squadron/Group/Wing Commanders (i.e., the level at
  which a unit is tasked through the augmentation program):
8                              AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


      2.9.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Appoint an ADP Function or Team Chief for each
      ADP Function or Team assigned to their squadron (applicable to augmented units only).
      2.9.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Appoint a Unit ADP Monitor to administer personnel
      assigned to ADP position requirements and communicate projected changes in
      augmentee availability.
      2.9.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Appoint augmentees, in writing, to the ADP Function
      or Teams. Ensure augmentee selectees are able to serve a minimum of 1 year after
      becoming fully qualified. NOTE: Security Forces augmentees, if required, will only be
      assigned in the grades of E-6 and below due to the nature of the duties required to be
      performed under Security Forces Senior Non-Commissioned Officer (SNCO)/Non-
      Commissioned Officer (NCO) direct leadership.
      2.9.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensure their unit has an adequate number of alternate
      ADP augmentees that are qualified and able to replace a primary augmentee. Identify a
      replacement for any augmentee who is due to PCS, PCA, or is deemed to be unavailable
      for any other reason.
      2.9.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Release augmentees for ADP duty when tasked by
      the Installation Commander.
      2.9.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Release augmentees for scheduled ADP training.
      ADP training is essential for augmentees to attain and maintain position qualification.
      ADP training appointments are MANDATORY APPOINTMENTS; all no-shows are
      documented and briefed to Kirtland AFB senior leadership and tasked Unit Commanders.
      2.9.7. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensure the Unit ADP Monitor complies with the
      procedures outlined in this supplement.
    2.10. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Unit ADP Monitors (UAMs):
      2.10.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensure augmentees are identified, selected and
      notified of their responsibility to fulfill tasked ADP commitments.
      2.10.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Ensure replacement personnel are trained before the
      incumbent departs.
      2.10.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Work with their respective Group ADP Monitor to
      provide a permanent replacement if an augmentee receives a profile or notice for an
      extended TDY.
      2.10.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Review an individual‟s status on the ADP program
      with the Squadron Commander prior to their assignment to fill Unit-Type Code (UTC) or
      TDY requirements.
      2.10.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the member will be absent, TDY, or on leave for
      an extended period of time (more than 30 days), notify both the ADP Function or Team
      Chief and the ADP Director.
    2.11. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Unit Deployment Managers (UDMs):
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                  9


      2.11.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Work with Unit ADP Monitors to ensure
      appropriate ADP Function or Team Chiefs are notified prior to ADP augmentees going
      on extended TDYs (more than 30 days).
      2.11.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Relay information received from Concept Briefings
      pertinent to ADP augmentees (Concept Briefings notify Team Chiefs if a unit requires
      augmenting).
   2.12. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ADP Augmentees:
      2.12.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Perform ADP duties IAW this supplement.
      2.12.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Augmentees are obligated to serve a minimum of 1
      year after becoming fully qualified.
      2.12.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Coordinate with their Unit ADP Monitor and ADP
      Function or Team Chief regarding all leaves, TDYs, or other situations rendering them
      unavailable to perform ADP augmentee duties.

Section C—Recommendations for an Effective Program

3. Processes and procedures
   3.1. If the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or equivalent GSU Commander
   determines an augmentation program is required, recommend only one program for an
   installation.
   3.2. Tenant units, at the discretion of the Host Installation Commander (Wing/CC) or
   equivalent GSU Commander, should be encouraged to participate in and receive benefits of
   the Host Installation augmentation program.
   3.2. (KIRTLANDAFB) Unless otherwise exempted, all units assigned to the 377th Air
   Base Wing (ABW), as well as all Air Force mission partners, will participate in the Kirtland
   ADP. They will provide augmentees IAW this instruction and as specified by the
   Augmentation Review Board (ARB).
   3.3. All non-Air Force organizations (i.e., DoD, other Services, etc.) residing on Air Force
   installations are strongly encouraged to participate in the augmentation program. Individual
   volunteers should be utilized after they obtain approval from their immediate commander.
   3.4. Recommend appointment of an installation augmentation program OPR (generally the
   installation Vice Commander). The OPR should be responsible for establishing an
   augmentation review board (ARB) and appointing members.
   3.4. (KIRTLANDAFB) Augmentation Review Board (ARB) Chairperson is 377 ABW
   Vice Commander (377 ABW/CV), who serves as the installation ADP OPR.
      3.4.1. The ARB should manage all local augmentation programs. The augmentation
      program OPR should be the board chairperson and the approval authority for all
      augmentee call-ups.
      3.4.2. The ARB should be made up of two groups of people: the board members
      (paragraph 3.4.2.1) who represent the command structure at the group/wing level and
      those who function as board advisors (paragraph 3.4.2.2) because of their unique
10                             AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


     positions in manning and requirements management. Board members and advisors should
     provide the Host Installation Commander with advice on decisions needed to meet the
     temporary augmentation needs of the installation. Advisors are an integral part of the
     board and represent the base functions that provide key information for ARB action.
         3.4.2.1. Board Members: The Installation Vice Commander (or appointed
         augmentation program OPR) should be the chairperson. The Operations Group
         Commander (equivalent or deputy); Maintenance Group Commander (equivalent or
         deputy), Mission Support Group Commander (equivalent or deputy), Medical Group
         Commander (equivalent or deputy) and other commanders as applicable, should act
         as board members. The ARB Chairperson may designate key members from other
         installation organizations as required (i.e., tenant organizations and staff functions
         such as Staff Judge Advocate, Safety, etc.).
         3.4.2.2. Board Advisors: At a minimum, advisors should consist of the servicing
         Manpower Office (MO) representative (requirements and shortfall/reclama advisors)
         and a designated military/civilian personnel availability advisor. The chairperson may
         appoint additional advisors to attend the ARB as required.
         3.4.2.3. The ARB should be responsible for ensuring all local augmentation
         requirements are identified and met, and local training programs are established to
         meet those needs. The board should convene at least annually or more often, as
         directed by the chairperson, to revalidate requirements and prioritize exercise,
         contingency, wartime, or other emergency augmentation needs, and identify available
         resources to fill them. The board validates and approves augmentation requirements
         and exemptions based on the servicing MO representative‟s advice. The ARB has
         overall responsibility for tasking installation units to meet augmentation
         requirements.
         3.4.2.4. The servicing MO representative to the ARB, using approved management
         engineering methods, should assist units in determining total augmentation
         requirements under locally defined scenarios. The MO should advise units regarding
         documenting augmentee shortfall/reclama requests, attend all ARB meetings, and
         review all augmentation requirements and exemptions forwarded to the ARB for
         action. The MO should advise the ARB based on their assessment of the need for and
         utilization of augmentees, and recommend solutions to augmentee reclama/shortfall
         actions.
  3.5. The augmentation program OPR should appoint an installation augmentation program
  Manager for the day-to-day overall administration of the installation‟s program. Specific
  responsibilities should be:
     3.5.1. Schedule ARB meetings, provide agendas, minutes and other documents to all the
     members.
     3.5.2. Brief the augmentation program OPR on all actions and recommendations of the
     ARB as required.
     3.5.3. Maintain a database of all augmentation requirements and augmentee training
     status.
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                  11


      3.5.4. Ensure all requirements and exemptions are properly documented and validated by
      the manpower office before being sent to the ARB for action.
      3.5.5. Publish a local operating instruction (OI) to establish procedures and define
      responsibilities for the administration of the installations augmentation program. At
      locations where an Air Reserve Component (ARC) and active duty are co-located, the OI
      should be coordinated through each component‟s senior commander prior to finalization.
      The OI should include such things as:
          3.5.5.1. The procedures for determining exemptions, requesting exemptions,
          establishing requirements, tasking personnel, determining fair share taskings,
          replacing augmentees, and reporting shortfalls.
          3.5.5.2. The roles and responsibilities of the installation commander, augmentation
          program OPR, augmentation program manager, ARB members, and unit
          augmentation coordinators.
          3.5.5.3. Procedures to activate the augmentation program and what missions it would
          support.
          3.5.5.4. Procedures for identifying and tracking the training of augmentees.
          3.5.5.5. Any unique needs of the installation augmentation program.
   3.6. Each organization using or providing augmentation should appoint a unit augmentation
   coordinator to manage the unit augmentation program.
   3.7. The Installation Plans Office should ensure all appropriate installation plans/scenarios
   include ARB approved personnel augmentation requirements.
   3.7. (KIRTLANDAFB) Units will consider local plan requirements when determining
   augmentation needs. Each plan supported will be evaluated individually for augmentation
   requirements, considering general, local and plan specific assumptions.
4. How to Use Augmentees.
   4.1. Augmentation means using people in other than their assigned Control Air Force
   Specialty Code (CAFSC) duties. After unit commanders (who are seeking augmentees)
   exhaust their military personnel resource pool, recommend they look within their
   organization to see if there are skilled and/or trained Department of the Air Force (DAF)
   civilian members who can perform the duty prior to seeking assistance from other
   organizations through the ARB (see paragraph 5.2 and Section C, paragraph 7).
   4.2. Establishing and Implementing Augmentation Requirements:
      4.2.1. Consider local needs and conditions when determining augmentation
      requirements. Augmentation requirements are used primarily to support temporary, short-
      term workload surges during wartime, contingency, natural disaster, and exercise
      situations. Sustained use of augmentees should not be used to offset normal manpower
      shortfalls.
      4.2.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) Once augmentation sourcing is determined, the ADP
      Manager will notify the tasked organizations, who will in turn provide the appropriate
      APC with required information regarding each selected augmentee within 10 duty days.
12                             AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


     The APC will provide the augmentee‟s Unit Commander with any essential information,
     and will outline any necessary training.
     4.2.2. Units using augmentees decide augmentee duties and train the augmentees to
     perform those duties. Augmented units should fund for required training, necessary
     equipment, uniform items (rain gear, cold weather gear, etc.), and safety gear (steel toed
     boots, leatherwork gloves, reflective belts, etc.). The augmented unit tracks all required
     training and coordinates training with the augmentees‟ unit augmentation program
     coordinator.
     4.2.2. (KIRTLANDAFB) The augmented unit‟s APC will schedule the augmentees it is
     provided for any initial training required, and arrange for the augmentee to be issued any
     needed equipment/supplies, etc. To avoid conflicts, the appropriate APC will ensure all
     augmentee‟s training (either initial or follow-on) is fully coordinated with augmenting
     units (see paragraph 6.1.).
     4.2.3. Prior to augmentees departing for PCS, reassignment, separation, or retirement,
     the augmented unit augmentation program coordinator should assure replacements are
     identified and trained. Personnel who have established retirement or approved separation
     dates should not be selected for augmentation duties. Close coordination between using
     and providing units and the augmentation program manager should be established to
     ensure there are no shortfalls in providing augmentee replacements.
     4.2.3. (KIRTLANDAFB) UAMs will track the status of their augmentees to ensure
     availability for augmentation requirements.
     4.2.4. When relieved from augmentation duty, members should be given any
     documentation reflecting the state of their training, qualification, and/or certification.
     4.2.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) A unit will request approval to establish an
     augmentation requirement through its command channels (i.e., squadrons will submit to
     their Group Commanders) using the format in Attachment 3, Figure A3.1.
        4.2.5.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If approved for submission, the request will be
        forwarded to the Manpower Office (377 FSS/FSMM) for validation.
        4.2.5.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the Manpower Office determines the
        augmentation support request is valid, the requirement will be forwarded to the AWG
        for review and submission to the ARB for action.
        4.2.5.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the Manpower Office determines the
        requirement is not valid, the request will be returned, with appropriate rationale, to
        the command function involved.
        4.2.5.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The command function involved will be
        responsible for resolving any issues regarding the request with the Manpower Office,
        or for elevating the issue to the AWG for resolution and/or action by the ARB.
        4.2.5.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If disapproved, the request will be returned,
        with appropriate rationale, to the requesting unit.
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                    13


5. Identifying Augmentees.
   5.1. Members assigned to a Unit Type Code (UTC), primaries and alternates, generally
   should not be assigned augmentation duties until all other eligible resources are exhausted. In
   the event eligible resources are not available, commanders may assign personnel on UTCs.
   The augmentation duties of UTC personnel should not conflict with their UTC training and
   deployment/on-call timeframe. Members assigned to a UTC are subject to deploy in support
   of an Operations Plan (OPLAN) that takes priority over local augmentation requirements.
   Augmentation program duties should not be grounds for a shortfall or reclama of a
   deployment tasking.
   5.2. In addition to military personnel, commanders are highly encouraged to consider the use
   of DAF civilians, ARC, and contractor personnel in filling augmentation requirements.
      5.2.1. Before DAF civilian employees are used for augmentation duties all legal,
      regulatory and bargaining agreement stipulations should be followed closely.
      5.2.2. Collocated ARC units may be utilized to fill known augmentee requirements.
      Close coordination and scheduling with the ARC units is required to ensure availability
      of personnel and funding to meet the augmentation needs.
      5.2.3. Prior to placing contractor personnel in augmentation, the duty should be
      documented appropriately in the employee‟s contract.
   5.3. Types of augmentation performed by members assigned to a UTC should not require
   extensive or recurring training and should be for short-term usage.
   5.4. Augmentation trained people should not deploy in their augmentation duty. They may
   be dispatched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emergencies
   whenever the use of DoD personnel has been properly authorized. In overseas areas, they
   may also be dispatched to those locations where the commander has a co-located operating
   base (COB) or forward operating location (FOL) base reception responsibilities.
   5.5. In an emergency, deployed commanders should consider forming a Site augmentation
   program and use deployed personnel for those duties.
   5.6. Restrictions apply when individuals and selective reenlistment bonus (SRB) recipients
   perform duty outside their CAFSC. AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, paragraph
   3.34, and AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force, paragraph 2.13, should
   be reviewed and complied with if required. Suggest no more than 120 days (90 days for SRB
   specialties) per year for augmentation duty.
   5.6. (KIRTLANDAFB) Because AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel, provides
   that enlisted personnel in the rank of Amn to SMSgt cannot perform duty outside of their
   Controlled Air Force Specialty Code (CAFSC) for more than 130 days annually, and to
   ensure individual augmentees can be rotated on a regular basis so they do not exceed the 130
   day cap, identify the need for a sufficient number of augmentees to accommodate lengthy
   augmentation requirements. Extensions to the 130 day cap must be approved by MAJCOM.
   5.7. Trained augmentees should remain in the program for a minimum of one year after
   having been trained in their augmentation duties.
 14                               AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


   5.7. (KIRTLANDAFB) Personnel identified as augmentees will remain assigned to their
   augmentation duty unless/until replaced in writing.
       5.7.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) To ensure necessary stability and continuity, an
       augmentee should have a minimum of 12 months retainability from the date
       augmentation training is complete. Selecting individuals for augmentee duty who will
       not be able to remain in the Augmentation Program for at least one year will cause
       problems with augmentee training, utilization and replacement.
       5.7.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Augmenting units must coordinate actions such as
       PCS, PCA, TDY, medical or administrative disqualification, and placement on a UTC
       tasking, with the affected APC.
       5.7.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The ADP requirement does not move with the
       individual when he/she is reassigned. If an individual is assigned to an ADP Function or
       Team, and moves to a new unit (PCA action), the losing unit must continue to fill the
       ADP requirement, as the requirement is allocated to the group or unit and not to a
       specific person.
6. Augmentee Tracking and Training.
   6.1. The augmentation program manager and unit augmentation program coordinators
   should track all augmentees and the status of the augmentees‟ training.
   6.1. (KIRTLANDAFB) The APC will coordinate with augmenting units to schedule both
   initial and refresher training for augmentees. To allow for necessary adjustments to existing
   duty schedules, a minimum of 14 calendar days notice is required when notifying trainees of
   training requirements.
   6.2. Locally devised spreadsheets and/or databases and their contents can be locally
   determined. Recommend they contain, as a minimum, the name, grade, unit of assignment,
   UTC (if applicable), dates of deployment vulnerability (if applicable), type of augmentation,
   date assigned, date qualified, and other information needed to track the training status.
7. Using Federal Civilian Employees for Augmentation.
(Note: IAW Title 5 USC (Chapter 71), statutory, regulatory, collective bargaining agreements
and obligations must be following before using civilian employees.)
   7.1. Employee participation.
       7.1.1. Augmentation duties assigned to civilian employees should be assigned to those
       whose official position description requires them to perform similar tasks. Management
       should look for civilian volunteers within their own organization, then volunteers from
       other organizations prior to tasking civilians to accomplish augmentation duties.
       7.1.2. Key and Emergency-Essential (EE) employees are identified as such because their
       job skills are critical during emergencies. Also, certain other Air Force civilians are
       subject to military recall. Therefore, it‟s anticipated these categories of civilians would
       not be identified as augmentees for contingency/wartime operations.
       7.1.3. Upon determining that augmentation needs require the skills and qualifications of
       Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees or resources, the installation or other
       commander concerned should take necessary action to contract with the “owning” NAFI
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                    15


     (Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality) for those services or resources. Such contracts
     with NAFIs are permissible under the circumstances addressed in AFM 64-302,
     Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, paragraph 5.15. Prior to
     executing a contract, the 63- and 64- series Air Force directives should be reviewed and
     complied with if appropriate.
     7.1.4. Local National employees paid from Appropriated Funds may participate insofar
     as allowed by the Status of Forces Agreement of that country.
     7.1.5. Because of legal, regulatory, bargaining agreement and financial concerns, other
     than those already in like positions, civilian employees should not be allowed to perform
     duties where there is an inherent possibility of danger to life or limb, such as firefighters
     or security police.
  7.2. Official Credit for Augmentation. The augmentation duty to be performed by civilian
  employees should be described in a letter addressed to each employee and signed by the
  supervisor of the augmentee, with an informational copy to the employee‟s supervisor of
  record. The supervisor‟s employee brief should be annotated to reflect each time the
  employee is assigned to perform the augmentation duty. If assignment of duties is anticipated
  to be for 30 or more consecutive calendar days and if the augmentation duties differs
  sufficiently from the employee‟s permanent position to warrant a different classification,
  assignment should be handled as an official detail in compliance with the competitive
  process as outlined in AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions. Standard Core Personnel
  Documents (SCPDs) from the AF SCPD Library (http://www.afpc.af.mil) should be used to
  document augmentation duties whenever there is an SCPD that provides an accurate
  statement of the augmentation work assignment. Also, if during a 12-month period, the
  employee should accumulate 20 or more workdays performing augmentation and the duties
  differ sufficiently from the employee‟s permanent position to warrant a different
  classification, credit can be obtained by submitting proper documentation to the CPF. The
  request should indicate duties performed, the period of time they were performed, and
  certification by the augmentation supervisor the employee performed those duties in a
  satisfactory manner. These duties should be coded into the DCPDS as a detail. Details are
  considered when determining qualifications for vacant positions. (See AFM 36-505, Skill
  Coding)
  7.3. Additional Information. The augmentee should meet all requirements of the
  augmentation duties. The augmentation supervisor should ensure the employee is properly
  trained to perform these duties by providing on-the-job training or formal training.
     7.3.1. Physical Qualifications. The augmentation duty supervisor needs to work with the
     CPF to determine if the augmentee duties require any physical qualifications other than
     those required by the employee‟s regular job. If so, a physical examination should be
     conducted at no expense to the employee.
     7.3.2. Security Clearance. Augmentees selected for duties requiring special security
     clearances should be selected from those already possessing such a clearance.
     7.3.3. Compensation. Civilian employees required to work more than 8 hours a day or 40
     hours a week are usually compensated appropriately either in the form of compensatory
     time off or payment of overtime (paid from either owning or using organization funds).
 16                             AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


      Premium pay for work performed on a Sunday or a holiday plus shift differential could
      be a factor, depending on hours worked. Determination of funds to be used should occur
      prior to overtime being performed. (See AFI 36-802, Pay Setting and AFI 36-807, Weekly
      and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observations)
      7.3.4. Local Collective Bargaining Obligations. Prior to implementation of local
      procedures for the assignment of civilian employees to augmentation duties, appropriate
      local bargaining obligations must be satisfied IAW Title 5 USC, Chapter 71.
8. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Requesting Exemptions.
   8.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Units will consider local plan requirements when
   determining appropriate exemptions from participation in the ADP. Each plan supported will
   be evaluated individually for appropriate exemptions, considering general, local and plan
   specific assumptions. Units will also consider their “core” tasks (functions which must
   continue to be performed even during a contingency) and manning needs under each plan
   when determining appropriate exemptions.
   8.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If requested by the unit, and subsequently validated by the
   Manpower Office (see paragraph 2.8.1.), the following are classified as standard exemptions:
   Executive Officer, Trainer, UDM, deployable UTC‟s from the current Air Expeditionary
   Force (AEF) cycle which contain an Air Force World-Wide UTC Summary (AFWUS) code
   of „DP‟ or „DW‟ (not „DX‟), personnel performing Honor Guard duties, and vacant
   authorizations/positions within the requesting organization.
   8.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Mission related exemption requests will be reviewed and
   considered on a case-by-case basis.
   8.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) A squadron will request an exemption from the
   Augmentation Program through its command channels (i.e., squadrons will submit to their
   Group Commanders) using the format in Attachment 2, Figure A2.1.
      8.4.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If recommending approval, the command function
      will forward to the Manpower Office (377 FSS/FSMM) for validation.
          8.4.1.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the Manpower Office determines the
          exemption is valid, the request will be reviewed by the next scheduled quarterly
          AWG, and submitted to the subsequent ARB (usually held within 30 days of the
          AWG) for action.
          8.4.1.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the Manpower Office determines the
          exemption is not valid, the request will be returned within 30 days, with appropriate
          rationale included, to the command function involved.
      8.4.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The command function involved will be responsible
      for resolving any issues regarding the request with the Manpower Office, or elevating the
      issue to the AWG for resolution and/or action by the ARB.
      8.4.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If disapproved by the ARB, the exemption request
      will be returned, with appropriate rationale, to the requesting unit.
9. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Conflict Resolution. APCs and UAMs should work hand-in-
hand to ensure augmentation requirements are being met. For example, if a unit is tasked to
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                   17


provide three augmentees for the Search and Recovery Team, but the Search and Recovery APC
doesn‟t receive some or all of the augmentees, he/she should work directly with the augmenting
UAM to obtain the required augmentees.
   9.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Any conflicts which cannot be resolved at that level should
   be reported to the augmenting Unit Commander. In most cases, conflicts should be resolved
   at this level.
   9.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If a conflict cannot be resolved at that level, it will be
   elevated to the AWG for resolution.
   9.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the AWG cannot resolve the conflict, the AWG
   Chairperson will take appropriate action to attempt resolution through the appropriate
   command structure.
   9.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) As a last resort, forward the issue to the ARB for
   resolution.
10. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Shortfall Requests.
   10.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) A unit which can no longer support some or all of its
   augmentation requirements will notify the appropriate command function (Group
   Commander or associate unit Commander), in writing, as early as possible.
   10.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the appropriate command function recommends
   approval, it must first be determined if the shortfall can be filled from elsewhere within the
   organization.
       10.2.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If not approved as a shortfall, the request will be
       forwarded (within 30 days) to the APM, with a courtesy copy to the Manpower Office
       (377 FSS/FSMM) who will review for possible exemption issues. The APM will
       determine if coordination from the Manpower Office is needed and request input, if
       appropriate.
       10.2.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the shortfall request is validated, it will be
       forwarded for review by the next scheduled quarterly AWG, and then submitted to the
       subsequent ARB (usually held within 30 days of the AWG) for consideration and
       appropriate action (i.e., tasking reallocation, deletion).
       10.2.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If the APM and/or the Manpower Office (377
       FSS/FSMM) do not consider the request to be valid, the APM will, within 30 days,
       coordinate the request with the AWG Chairperson through the ARB Chairperson.
       Rationale and a recommended action will be included.
   10.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Within 30 days of a final decision, the APM, AWG
   Chairperson, or ARB Chairperson will notify the requesting command function of the final
   decision, as appropriate.
11. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Use of Augmentees.
   11.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) During a contingency, the augmented unit may “call up”
   needed augmentees.
 18                              AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


   11.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Augmented unit Commanders may consult with the APM
   for “fair share” requirements as approved by the ARB.
   11.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Prior to requesting augmentation, the augmented
   Commander must consider all other means (i.e., using internal resources and requesting IMA,
   Reserve or Guard support).
   11.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) It is imperative that the augmented Commander request
   the use of augmentees as soon as possible to minimize the impact on augmentees and their
   units.
   11.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Only the Installation Commander has the authority to
   approve augmentee call-ups. ADP Team or Function activations are accomplished using an
   ICD which will be routed to the Installation Commander by the ADP Function or Team
   Chief requesting the augmentees.
      11.5.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Full recall: Augmentees will report to their units for
      accountability upon release of the activation ICD. Immediately after sign-in, augmentees
      report to their ADP Function or Team Chiefs if they are designated to perform ADP
      duties.
      11.5.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Limited recall: Augmentees will report to their units
      for accountability upon release of the activation ICD. Immediately after sign-in,
      augmentees will standby for ADP activation and reporting instructions from their Unit
      ADP Monitor.
12. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Variations for Exercises. Items identified in this paragraph
are applicable to planned exercise activities and non-contingency operations only.
   12.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The ADP Function or Team Chief will staff the ICD, e-
   mail or memo completely through the augmented unit and Group Commanders, and the
   377th ABW/CC for final approval and release. (ref: para 2.6.10. (Added))
      12.1.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) The activation ICD, e-mail, or memo must provide
      all augmenting units a minimum of 14 calendar days advance notice of the planned
      activation date to ensure maximum augmentee availability and participation. (ref: para
      2.6.10. (Added))
      12.1.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) An advance copy of the draft ICD, e-mail, or memo
      and AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, will be provided to the 377 FSS/CL (ADP
      Director) to ensure augmentees can be identified in a timely manner for planned
      activation. (ref: para 2.6.10. (Added))
   12.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Squadron Commanders may excuse an ADP augmentee
   from ADP duties or training in the event of extenuating circumstances that would preclude an
   ADP Function or Team member from fulfilling his/her one year obligation after becoming
   qualified (i.e., pending legal action, personal problems, selection for extended TDY). If the
   Commander does not have a replacement, the Commander will elevate the fill action to the
   Group ADP Monitor to provide a replacement. (ref: para 2.9. (Added))
   12.3. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Unit ADP Monitors will contact supervisors to verify
   release of augmentees for training, exercises, and contingencies. Immediately elevate
   availability problems to the Squadron Commander. (ref: para 2.10. (Added))
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                                  19


     12.3.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Unit ADP Monitors will notify the ADP Function or
     Team Chiefs and ADP Group Monitors as soon as they know that personnel assigned will
     be unavailable for ADP duty. (ref: para 2.10. (Added))
     12.3.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) When no member of the unit can fill an ADP
     requirement, the Unit Commander will notify, in writing, their Group Commander,
     Group ADP Monitor and 377 FSS/CL (ADP Director). (ref: para 2.10. (Added))
  12.4. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) Should a mission-related scheduling conflict arise
  between the squadron and ADP Function or Team Chief regarding augmentee duties,
  attempts will be made to resolve such conflicts at the lowest level of authority. The
  applicable Group ADP Monitor, representing his/her Group Commander, is the final decision
  authority in these cases. (ref: para 2.)
  12.5. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) During non-contingency operations (such as special
  events), the augmented Unit Commander must request the use of augmentees through the
  augmented Group Commander. The Group Commander forwards the request to the 377
  ABW/CV for approval. The APM provides 377 ABW/CV the “fair share” requirements as
  approved by the ARB. A minimum of 14 calendar days advance notice must be given to the
  augmenting unit. (ref: para 11. (Added))
  12.6. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) For exercise or training call-ups, the ADP Director will
  send the request to the 377 MSG/CC who, in turn, will obtain the call-up approval from the
  377 ABW/CC. ADP Function or Team Chiefs will thoroughly justify and document all
  recalls. The ADP Function or Team Chiefs will contact the augmenting units using the "Go-
  to Person List" provided by the APM as the POC for augmentee notification of training or
  exercise-related recalls. An e-mail will also be sent to the leadership of each augmenting
  organization notifying them that the program is activated for “XXX” requirement. (ref: para
  11. (Added))
     12.6.1. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) All units tasked to provide augmentees will be
     given as much notice as possible, but at least a minimum of 14 calendar days notice, that
     augmentees will be required. This is to minimize the impact on day-to-day unit mission
     requirements. (ref: para 11. (Added))
     12.6.2. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ADP call-up without recall: ADP Function or
     Teams may be notified to report for their particular duties via an ICD without initiating a
     wing recall. Under these circumstances, the affected ADP Function or Team Chief will
     obtain approval from the Installation Commander to call-up ADP augmentees through the
     ADP Director. Once approved, the ADP Function or Team Chief will initiate and route
     an ICD, e-mail, or memo to activate their team. After activation release, they will contact
     the augmenting unit's "Go-to Person", who will in turn, notify the augmentee to report for
     ADP duties. Upon notification, augmentees will report to their respective ADP Function
     or Team Chiefs and notify their normal work center of their status. (ref: para 11.
     (Added))
  12.7. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ADP duty will take precedence over ordinary leave and
  will be deconflicted with the 377 ABW Exercise Calendar, managed by 377 ABW/XPO. For
  advanced planning purposes, dates for all exercise events requiring ADP participation will be
  locked in 90 days prior to the event and leaves can be taken based on the event dates as
20                              AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


  scheduled at that time. Should a change in the event dates occur within 90 days of the event,
  the augmenting unit CC will make every effort to fill any vacancies caused by the shift in
  dates. However, if unable to comply, the slot may go unfilled and the exercise will continue
  with a shortage.
  12.8. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) When a member is unable to perform their augmentee
  duty, the member's Unit Commander will provide the ADP Director with a memo, in writing,
  stating the validated reason for the absence (not required if the 14 calendar day notification
  was not provided).
  12.9. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) If a Commander excuses a member from augmentee duty,
  the Commander will provide an alternate (not required if the 14 calendar day notification was
  not provided). If the Commander does not have an alternate, then the Commander will
  elevate the shortage to the Group ADP Monitor to provide the alternate from another unit
  within the group.
  12.10. (Added-KIRTLANDAFB) ADP Function or Team Chiefs will closely monitor
  activation and/or training attendance, and report no-shows.




                                           CHARLES F. WALD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           DCS/Air & Space Operations

                                           (KIRTLANDAFB)

                                           JOHN C. KUBINEC, Colonel, USAF
                                           COMMANDER
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                            21


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Overtime
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFM 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions
AFM 36-505, Skill Coding
AFM 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAFSC—Control Air Force Specialty Code
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CSS—Commanders Support Staff
COB—Co-located Operating Base
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DIN—Data Identification Number
DoD—Department of Defense
DPXJ—Readiness and Joint Matters Division
DPW—Director of Personnel Accountability
DPX—Division of Personnel and Systems
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EE—Emergency-Essential
FOA—Field Operating Activities
FOL—Forward Operating Location
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
 22                             AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MO—Manpower Office
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
OI—Operating Instruction
OPLAN—Operations Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PC-III—Personnel Concept III
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
READY—Resource Augmentation Duty
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
SCPD—Standard Core Personnel Documents
SRB—Selective Reenlistment Bonus
TNG-YR-MO—Training-Year-Month
UTC—Unit Type Code
YYMM—Year Year Month Month (9812)
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                                   23


                             Attachment 1 (KIRTLANDAFB)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
AF Form 2426, Training Request and Completion Notification

Abbreviations and Acronyms

377 ABW/CC—377th Air Base Wing Commander
377 ABW/CV—377th Air Base Wing Vice-Commander
377 ABW/IDO—377th Air Base Wing Installation Deployment Officer
377 ABW/XPO—377th Air Base Wing Plans and Programs
377 MDG/CC—377th Medical Group Commander
377 MSG/CC—377th Mission Support Group Commander
377 MSG/CE—377th Mission Support Group Civil Engineering Division
377 MXG/CC—377th Maintenance Group Commander
377 FSS/CL—377th Force Support Squadron Civilian Leader
377 FSS/FSMM—377th Force Support Squadron Manpower and Organization
377 FSS/FSMP—377th Force Support Squadron Military Personnel Section
377 SFG/CC—377th Security Forces Group Commander
AFNWC/CV—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center Vice-Commander
AFNWC/NC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center, Nuclear Capabilities Directorate
58 SOW/CC—58th Special Operations Wing Commander
705 CTS/CC—705th Combat Training Squadron Commander
AFIA/CC—Air Force Inspection Agency Commander
AFOTEC/CV—Air Force Operational Test & Evaluation Center Vice-Commander
AFRL PRS/CC—Air Force Research Laboratory Commander
AFSEC/CD—Air Force Safety Center Executive Director
MDA/CC—Missile Defense Agency Commander
SMC/SD—Space Development and Test Directorate
ABW—Air Base Wing
ADP—Augmentation Duty Program
AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
 24                          AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


AFWUS—Air Force World-Wide UTC Summary
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ANG—Air National Guard
APC—Augmentation Program Coordinator
APM—Augmentation Program Manager
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
AWG—Augmentation Working Group
CAFSC—Controlled Air Force Specialty Code
CGO—Company Grade Officer
IAW—In Accordance With
ICD—Installation Command Directive
IDO—Installation Deployment Officer
KAFB—Kirtland Air Force Base
MAJCOM—Major Command
NCD—Nuclear Capabilities Directorate
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SNCO—Senior Non-Commissioned Officer
SORN—System of Records Notice
SSN—Social Security Number
TDY—Temporary Duty
UAM—Unit ADP Monitor
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
UMD—Unit Manpower Document
UTC—Unit Type Code
AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012                      25


                      Attachment 2 (Added-KIRTLANDAFB)
            FORMAT FOR AUGMENTATION EXEMPTION REQUEST

Figure A2.1. (Added) Format for Augmentation Exemption Request
 26                         AFPAM10-243_KIRTLANDAFBSUP_I 24 AUGUST 2012


                      Attachment 3 (Added-KIRTLANDAFB)
           FORMAT FOR AUGMENTATION REQUIREMENT REQUEST

Figure A3.1. (Added) Format for Augmentation Requirement Request
