BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER                                       INSTRUCTION 90-202

                                                                                    8 MAY 2014

                                                                           Special Management

                                                             AFPC GOVERNANCE PROCESS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on release of this publication.


OPR: HQ AFPC/DS                                                      Certified by: HQ AFPC/DS
                                                                       (Mr Michael K. Gamble)
                                                                                      Pages: 14
Supersedes:   AFPCI90-202,
              30 September 2011


This instruction provides information on the purpose, scope, structure, roles, and membership for
the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) Governance Process. The process utilizes an advisory
structure (AS) comprised of the AFPC Council, AFPC Board and Working Groups (WGs).
Duties and responsibilities of the chairs and members are described below in this publication.
AFPC/CC, advised by the AFPC AS, has final decision authority over issues submitted via the
AFPC Governance Process.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National
Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).            This publication may not be
supplemented or further implemented/extended.

The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
 2                                                                  AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014


numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Refer to attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Identifies
tiered waiver authorities for unit level compliance items.
1. Role of Governance Process Structure.
     1.1. The AFPC AS is designed to increase management effectiveness and improve cross-
     functional decision making by providing a forum where senior AFPC leaders can apply their
     collective judgment and experience to affect major programs, objectives and issues. The
     governance process ensures supporting and dissenting opinions for all major decisions are
     captured to enable senior Command leadership to make informed decisions.
     1.2. The AFPC AS will make recommendations relating to, but not limited to, the following
     domains: customer service, budget and manpower, training, career development, policy and
     program oversight, business process improvement, new program development and other
     program initiatives, data and information systems, facilities and governance.
     1.3. The governance process will capitalize on the members' experience and knowledge to
     facilitate open discussions and improved recommendations not possible in customary staffing
     actions. Members represent their particular functional areas, but are also required to take
     Command-wide, vice functional, perspectives in order to make advisory recommendations.
     The strength of the governance process is the consistency of reviews tied to successive staff
     levels. Full participation is expected of all Board and WG members.
     1.4. Since the various WGs represented are the bedrock for AFPC’s programs and processes,
     they serve as the initial entry point (voice) via their functional representatives, into the
     Center’s day-to-day business activities. The AFPC Commander (CC) expects each WG chair
     to provide their full support and participation.
2. Structure.
     2.1. The AFPC advisory structure is a hierarchical three tier structure comprised of the
     following echelons: AFPC Council, AFPC Board and WGs. See Attachment 2, AFPC
     Governance Process.
     2.2. The AFPC AS secretariat resides in the Directorate of Staff (AFPC/DS) and provides
     oversight for all AS activities (see paragraph 5).
     2.3. In general, all issues requiring AFPC Council approval are elevated through the AS as
     depicted in Attachment 2. Specifically, issues start at the WG level and continue through the
     AFPC Board to the Council. Exceptions: Issues that require no prioritization, or where
     timeliness or efficiency warrants specific review at only specific levels, may bypass the WG
     level review. Exceptions must be agreed to in advance of scheduling by the sponsoring
     directorate, AFPC AS secretariat and (if appropriate) AFPC/CC or AFPC/CA.
3. Membership. Content below is also represented in Attachment 3, Advisory Structure.
AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014                                                                      3


   3.1. AFPC Council.
      3.1.1. Chair: AFPC/CC.
      3.1.2. Vice Chair: AFPC/Executive Director (CA).
      3.1.3. Members: AFPC/CCC, AFPC/DS, Directors and Directorate senior CMSgts.
      3.1.4. Advisors: Judge Advocate (JA), Financial Management (FM) and others as
      required [e.g., Associate Directors].
      3.1.5. Non-Voting Members: AFPC/CCG and AFPC/CCR.
   3.2. AFPC Board.
      3.2.1. Chair: DS.
      3.2.2. Members: Associate Directors and Deputy Directors.
      3.2.3. Advisors: JA, FM, Training (DPL) and others as required.
      3.2.4. Non-Voting Members: AFPC/CCG and AFPC/CCR.
   3.3. WGs.
      3.3.1. Chair: WG Specific, as mentioned in paragraph 4.
      3.3.2. Members: WG Team members.
      3.3.3. Advisors: JA, FM, DPL and others as required.
4. Governing Bodies.
   4.1. AFPC Council.
      4.1.1. AFPC/CC, advised by the AFPC Council, has final decision authority over issues
      submitted by the Board.
      4.1.2. The Council will provide an overarching framework for governing the
      organization by establishing strategic priorities, making level-appropriate
      recommendations and overseeing AFPC enterprise processes. Specifically, the Council
      will make strategic planning, funding and budgeting, business and technology alignment,
      enterprise portfolio management, organization design and AFPC-wide technology
      acquisition recommendations. See Attachment 2 for a consolidation of all governing
      body decision levels.
      4.1.3. Membership is restricted to incumbents from the following offices: CCC, DS,
      Directors and Directorate senior CMSgts. Deputy Directors will attend in the
      incumbent’s absence. Others will attend by Council invitation. Technical or subject
      matter advisors will be used at the discretion of the AFPC Council. Examples of advisors
      include: JA, FM, DPL and Associate Directors. Non-voting members are CCG and
      CCR.
      4.1.4. The OPR for the issue being reviewed is responsible for the completion of
      assigned tasking. See paragraph 7 for administrative requirements.
   4.2. AFPC Board.
4                                                                  AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014


      4.2.1. The AFPC Board is the operational oversight level of the strategic plan and has the
      authority to execute, administer and ensure AFPC's strategic goals are met. The Board
      will make strategic service delivery decisions including, but not limited to, service
      delivery portfolio management, cross-directorate and/or cross-program integration and
      organizational design modifications. See Attachment 2 for governing body decision
      levels.
      4.2.2. The Board will decide if the WG should settle an issue or forward to the AFPC
      Council, along with the WG’s recommendation and any group members’ dissenting
      opinions. The Board reviews issues and decisions submitted by the WG chairperson and
      forwards to the AFPC Council for consideration/action.
      4.2.3. The AFPC/DS, or a designated alternate, is the Board chairperson. Group
      membership is comprised of Associate Directors and Deputy Directors. Advisors include
      JA, FM, DPL, and others as required. Non-voting members are CCG and CCR.
    4.3. AFPC WGs.
      4.3.1. WGs serve as the initial point of entry for issues requiring review of resources and
      non-resource issues covering major AFPC strategic programs and mission support areas.
      The WGs ensure the resources for AFPC programs and mission are fully validated,
      adequately justified and properly identified and/or allocated using standard business case
      analysis processes and procedures. Non-resource issues submitted for review will be
      fully justified and documented. Each WG determines the issues to be reviewed and
      prioritizes its programs for presentation to the AFPC Board. CC, CA, or DS may assign
      issues to the appropriate WGs. WGs develop and recommend courses of action for
      issues/actions as necessary.
      4.3.2. WG Designations. There are seven standing WGs supporting AFPC’s programs
      and mission. WGs convene, as necessary, and make decisions within their scope of
      responsibility.    Each WG provides the Board with integrated and coordinated
      recommendations on decisions requiring allocation of resources. The WG chair will
      appoint an action officer (AO) (lead integrator) to prepare the briefing package for
      presentation to the Chairperson and WG members.
         4.3.2.1. Financial Management. Gather and validate inputs for the following cross-
         cutting financial issues: Program Objective Memorandum, Execution Plan, Initial
         Distribution, End-of-Year Distribution, Work-year Execution and Central Air Force
         Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Budget Development and Annual Execution.
         Chairperson is AFPC/FM or as designated by AFPC/DS. Membership is composed
         of directorate and special staff financial resource advisors and appropriate personnel
         as assigned or recognized by the Chair.
         4.3.2.2. Program Administration and Innovation. Review customer service and
         effectiveness/efficiency metrics for A1 programs executed at AFPC; identify metrics-
         driven business line improvement recommendations; and identify, coordinate, and de-
         conflict cross-programs issues/requirements. Chairperson is Deputy Director for
         Personnel Programs. Membership includes Associate Directors and appropriate
         personnel as assigned or recognized by Chair.
AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014                                                                         5


        4.3.2.3. Facilities. Responsible for space allocation and building-wide issues.
        Chairperson is AFPC/DSF or as designated by AFPC/DS. Membership is composed
        of facility representatives, AFPC/FM, Safety Office representative and personnel
        assigned by the director where the issue resides. Directorates and/or special staffs
        submit requirements/issues to the chairperson for resolution and presentation to the
        AFPC Board. Air Force Personnel Operations Agency (AFPOA) is invited as a non-
        voting member.
        4.3.2.4. Training. Validate and prioritize all AFPC-sponsored education and training
        projects (external and internal training); ensure all education and training is
        responsive to the program needs to enable people to execute processes effectively and
        efficiently; ensure training programs align to AFPC competency models.
        Chairperson is AFPC/DPL or as designated by AFPC/DS. Members include
        Associate Directors and others as deemed appropriate by the Chair.
        4.3.2.5. Talent Management. Designed to focus on personnel development,
        succession planning and identifying and documenting the knowledge, skills and
        abilities (KSAs) employees required in order to be successful in working in a shared
        service and matrix organization. Also responsible for assessing AFPC personnel
        requirements; updating AFPC competency models; establishing and defining career
        ladders (cross-tier/cross-program); executing AFPC’s development positions;
        proposing personnel placement with employee development requirements and
        organizational needs; facilitating succession planning; and engaging with the
        Diversity Council to ensure AFPC population is representative of entire AF. May
        include issues addressed in AFI 36-502, Managing Civilian Personnel Resources.
        Chairperson is AFPC/DSH or as designated by AFPC/DS. Members include Talent
        Management designees for officer, enlisted, APF and NAF personnel and others as
        deemed appropriate by the Chair. AFPOA is invited as a non-voting member.
        4.3.2.6. Information Technology (IT). Submit/prioritize requirements and system
        change requests based on current AF/A1 policy. Chairperson is the Deputy Director
        for Technology and Information or as designated by AFPC/DS. Members include
        directorate deputies, Associate Directors and AFPOA. The AFPC IT representative
        serves as the AO for working all IT issues imposed by the Chief Information Officer
        (AFPOA). AFPOA and Air Reserve Component (ARC) CCR are invited as non-
        voting members.
        4.3.2.7. Emergency Management. Review compliance of AFPC Contingency of
        Operations Plan (COOP), Business Continuity Plans and Mission Essential Functions.
        AFPC/DS designates the chair and identifies membership.
        4.3.2.8. Ad Hoc. Set up for a specified period to work particular issues not covered
        in the above functional areas. AFPC/DS designates the chairperson and the
        chairperson identifies membership.
     4.3.3. In general, the WG chairperson determines membership to include, as a minimum,
     representatives from appropriate functional and cross-functional staff elements within
     AFPC. When appropriate, the chairperson may also serve as the group member for his or
     her respective directorate or special staff. The sponsoring directorate, or chief of special
     staff office, will prepare an appointment memorandum (listing primary and alternate
 6                                                                     AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014


        members’ names and contact information) and forward it to the AFPC AS secretariat.
        The chair will appoint an AO to serve as focal point and be responsible for complying
        with the administrative requirements outlined in paragraph 7.
5. AFPC AS Secretariat.
     5.1. The AFPC AS secretariat resides in AFPC/DS and is responsible for establishing all
     governance procedures/process operations. The AFPC/DS will appoint his/her Secretariat
     Representative. Specific policies and duties include:
        5.1.1. Ensures completeness of functional reviews by AOs, to include adequacy of data
        used and scoping of milestone schedule and determining appropriate levels for
        development and presentation to attain desired outcomes.
        5.1.2. Ensures AOs are scheduling, tracking attendance, keeping records, providing
        minutes, publishing decisions and tracking status of actions for Board and AFPC Council
        activities. Minutes, decisions and other staff actions will be generated and coordinated
        by the AO of the sponsoring directorate and signed by the secretariat and chairperson
        prior to publication.
        5.1.3. Reviews decision packages for completeness prior to Board and AFPC Council
        reviews.
        5.1.4. Maintains a master schedule for all AS activities and synchronizes the schedule
        with significant A1 and HAF planning events and deadlines.
        5.1.5. Determines the appropriate timing and flow of activities throughout the AS, when
        issues will be elevated to the next higher level in the AS after approval by the Chair.
6. Initiating the Decision Making Process.
     6.1. AS will use the decision making process outlined in Attachment 4 unless otherwise
     directed by AFPC/CC, CA, or DS.
     6.2. Initially, issues can be delegated to a WG by the AFPC Council or Board or originate
     from a WG, Directorate, or program line.
     6.3. Directorate or program line-specific issues will formulate their issue and initiate an Ad
     Hoc WG. This Ad Hoc WG will comply with administrative guidelines (paragraph 7) and
     the decision making process (see Attachment 4).
     6.4. The sponsoring WG will prepare an appointment memo (listing primary and alternate
     AO contact information) and forward to the AFPC AS secretariat. Suggested appointees will
     include colonels, their civilian equivalents, or (if necessary) lieutenant colonels or their
     civilian equivalents who will represent the director’s or chief of special staff’s view on issues
     presented to the group.
        6.4.1. The AO will comply with administrative requirements outlined in paragraph 7.
7. Administrative Requirements.
     7.1. Scheduling Meetings. The AS secretariat will schedule AFPC Council and Board
     meetings. Meetings will be held quarterly. The chairperson may convene special meetings
     as required. Pre-briefs will be provided as determined by the appropriate chairperson.
AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014                                                                         7


       7.1.1. The WG chairperson schedules meetings, as necessary, to review AFPC strategic
       programs and mission support areas for presentation to the AFPC Board. AOs are
       responsible for scheduling a meeting room (or appropriate virtual meeting space) large
       enough for the membership and notifying attendees of the date, time, location, subject
       and security classification (if applicable).
   7.2. Meeting Attendance. The chairperson will determine attendance requirements.
   Attendance at these meetings may be restricted to members and, as required, functional
   experts and program managers. The majority of voting members, or approved alternates,
   present shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum is present at a
   meeting, the actions taken shall reflect as the action of the Board or Council.
   7.3. Briefing Slides. The AO will provide electronic copies of briefing slides using, at a
   minimum, the format at Attachment 5.
   7.4. Documentation and Information Management. Each AO will keep a record file
   including, but not limited to, schedules, minutes, briefings, decision memorandums and
   status of actions. Use template at Attachment 6 to record minutes. This documentation will
   be forwarded to the secretariat once the decision making process is complete for a specific
   issue.
   7.5. Elevating Issues to the Next Level of the AFPC AS. Issues will be elevated to the next
   higher level in the AFPC AS after governing body chairperson and membership approval or
   when called forward by the convening authority at the next higher level of the AS.
   7.6. Status of Actions. For each issue, the assigned AO will track taskings and
   recommendations made throughout the governance process. Additionally, the AO will track
   status of action information on topics elevated at each successive level, as appropriate. The
   AO will document final recommendations and submit to the secretariat within 5 business
   days. (T-3)
   7.7. Release of Information. Information/recommendations made during sessions will be
   released in accordance with the direction of the Chair.
8. Waivers to this Instruction. In exceptional cases, it may be necessary to deviate from this
instruction when it is in the best interest of effective and efficient AFPC AS operations. Submit
waiver requests to the AFPC AS secretariat for review and approval. The AFPC AS secretariat
will forward appropriate waiver requests to AFPC/CA for review and approval.




                                            MARGARET B. POORE, Maj Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                                            AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-502, Managing Civilian Personnel Resources, 30 March 1994
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A1—Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPOA—AF Personnel Operations Agency
AFRIMs—Air Force Records Information Management System
AO—Action Officer
APF—Appropriated Fund
ARC—Air Reserve Component Representative
AS—Advisory Structure
CA—Executive Advisor
CC—Commander
CCC—Command Chief
CCG—Guard Representative
CCR—Reserve Representative
COOP—Contingency of Operations Plan
DPL—Training
DS—Directorate of Staff
DSF—Facilities
FM—Financial Management
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IAW—In Accordance with
IT—Information Technology
JA—Judge Advocate
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014                                                                             9


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
WG—Working Group

Terms
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, Office
of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equivalent).
 10                                                AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014


                                  Attachment 2
                         AFPC GOVERNANCE PROCESS

Figure A2.1. AFPC Governance Process.
AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014                             11


                                   Attachment 3
                              ADVISORY STRUCTURE

Figure A3.1. Advisory Structure.
 12                                                     AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014


                                  Attachment 4
       AFPC GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE RECOMMENDATION PROCESS

Figure A4.1. AFPC Governance Structure Recommendation Process.
AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014                                                                         13


                                         Attachment 5
                                  EVENT BRIEF OUTLINE

Title of Briefing - SUBJECT

EXPECTED OUTCOME:                 Decision      Direction    Information Only

ISSUE:
— State the issue clearly; keep the statement brief and use simple, common terms
— Spell out all acronyms the first time used

BACKGROUND:
— Provide concise, relevant background information; frame issue if new or unknown
— When did you last brief CC/CA?
— What’s happened since we last met? (internal or external events, decisions, etc.)
— What upcoming events are driving this meeting?

VIEWS OF OTHERS:

— Summarize potential conflicts or differing positions as articulated from the Air Staff, HQ
AFPC or other levels
— Summarize why your view is preferred over views of others—focus on specific facts

STAFF VIEW:
— Your 2-Ltr position/analysis if sponsoring from outside HQ AFPC
— Identify any coordination with other 2-Ltrs and/or other organizations
— Outline issues/concerns identified by others within HQ AFPC

RECOMMENDED ACTION FOR AFPC/CC/CA:
— What feedback are you expecting from CC/CA?
— What decisions are you expecting from CC/CA?
— What action is required from CC/CA?
 14                                                            AFPCI90-202 8 MAY 2014


                                      Attachment 6
      AFPC COUNCIL, BOARD AND WORKING GROUP MINUTES FORMAT

SUBJECT:

MEETING DATE:

TIME/PLACE:

CHAIRPERSON: BRIEFER:

MEMBERS PRESENT:

PURPOSE: (Overall reason presentation sent through the AFPC Corporate Process)

PRESENTATION: (How the information was collected, presented, etc.)

DISCUSSION/ISSUES: (Capture key discussion points and any dissenting opinions or issues
presented)

RECOMMENDATION/DECISION: (Specific recommendation [s]; also include any major
recommended changes to briefing charts)

ACTION ITEMS: (List all actions resulting from the meeting, the assigned OPR and projected
completion date)

PREPARER: (Name/Office Symbol/Extension)

Briefing Board or Group Member Approval: (Name/Office Symbol/Extension)
(Attach briefing slides to minutes)
