BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER                                        INSTRUCTION 36-106

                                                                                8 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                  BOARDS OF INQUIRY FOR PERSONNEL
                                                  MISSING UNDER HOSTILE CONDITIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFPC/DPFCM                                                  Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPF
                                                                          (Mr. Randy G. Tillery)
                                                                                      Pages: 18
Supersedes:    AFPCI36-106, 28 June 2011


This instruction establishes procedures for appointing and conducting boards of inquiry. It
applies to Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve personnel on active duty orders,
civilian employees of the Air Force, and employees of a contractor of the Air Force who serve in
direct support of or accompany the Air Force in the field under orders, and who become
involuntarily absent as a result of a hostile action or under circumstances suggesting that the
involuntary absence is a result of a hostile action. Source: Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.)
Chapter 76, Missing Persons and Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 2310.05, Accounting
for Missing Persons – Boards of Inquiry. For the purpose of Next of Kin (NOK) rights, Primary
and other NOK are defined in DODI 1300.18, Department of Defense (DoD) Personnel Casualty
Matters, Policies, and Procedures, Enclosure 2, Definitions.

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force and Executive
Order (E.O.) 9397 Social Security Number (SSN). The applicable System of Records Notice
(SORN[s]) A0600-8-1c AHRC DOD, Defense Casualty Information Processing System (DCIPS)
is available at: http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx. Requests for records or
documents contained in this System of Records should be processed under the guidelines
outlined IAW AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, Chapter 6,
Disclosing Records to Third Parties and DoD 5400.7-R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of
Information Act Program.
 2                                                              AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014


This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command Units. This publication does not
apply to Air National Guard (ANG). This publication may not be supplemented or further
implemented/extended. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Vigilance should be taken to
protect Privacy Act (PA) and Personally Identifiable Information (PII) when submitting or
sending nominations, applications or other documents to DoD agencies whether through
government internet systems (e-mail), postal methods, faxing or scanning.

The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Refer to attachment 1 for the Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
revision identifies tiered waiver authorities for unit level compliance items, updates applicable
SORN, and updates office symbols throughout publication.
1. Appointment of Board of Inquiry Officers.
     1.1. The Commander, Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC/CC), having been delegated
     authority to act on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force, appoints boards of inquiry and
     subsequent boards of inquiry for the purpose of determination of status of missing and
     deceased personnel in accordance with Title 10, U.S.C., Sections 1503 – 1505, Chapter 76;
     reviews board findings; and makes status determinations. Appointment of boards of inquiry
     includes appointment of a legal advisor (who provides counsel) and counsel for the missing
     person or persons.
     1.2. Board composition, qualifications, and duties will be as prescribed in Title 10, U.S.C.
     Sections 1503 and 1504, Chapter 76, except that:
        1.2.1. In the case of a board that will inquire into the whereabouts and status of one or
        more military personnel (and no civilians), the board will be comprised of three colonels,
        the senior board member serving as President of the board.
        1.2.2. In the case of a board that will inquire into the whereabouts and status of one or
        more civilian employees of the AF or contractors of the AF (and no military personnel),
        the board will be comprised of three civilian employees equal to or greater than grade
        GS-13.
        1.2.3. In the case of a board that will inquire into the whereabouts and status of both one
        or more military personnel and one or more civilians described in subparagraph 1.2.2, the
AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                         3


      board will include at least one colonel and one civilian employee equal to or greater than
      grade GS-13. The ratio of such officer and civilian board members will be roughly
      proportional to the ratio of military personnel and civilians who are subjects of the
      board’s inquiry. The board will be comprised of at least three members.
   1.3. The provisions of this instruction relating to boards of inquiry, and to the actions by
   AFPC/CC on the reports of those boards, will cease to apply in the case of a missing person
   upon the person becoming accounted for or otherwise being determined to be in a status
   other than missing.
2. Next of Kin Rights.
   2.1. For the purpose of NOK rights under this instruction, primary and other NOK are as
   defined in DoDI 1300.18, Enclosure 2. The individual who is primary NOK (PNOK) of any
   person covered by Title 10, U.S.C. Section 1501, Chapter 76, may designate another
   individual to act on behalf of that individual as PNOK. This designation may be revoked at
   any time by the person who made the designation.
   2.2. For boards of inquiry under Title 10, U.S.C. Sections 1503 and 1504, Chapter 76, the
   PNOK of a missing person and any other previously designated person will have the identity
   of the missing person's counsel made known to them and have the right to submit
   information to the missing person's counsel relative to the disappearance or status of the
   missing person.
   2.3. The proceedings of a board during an inquiry under Title 10, U.S.C. Section 1503,
   Chapter 76, will be closed to the public (including, with respect to the person or persons
   covered by the inquiry, the PNOK, other NOK, and any other previously designated person
   or persons).
   2.4. For subsequent boards of inquiry under Title 10, U.S.C. Section 1504, Chapter 76, the
   PNOK of a missing person, other members of the immediate family, and any other
   previously designated person of the missing person:
      2.4.1. May attend the proceedings of the board during the inquiry. Those attending will
      not be entitled to reimbursement by the government for any costs (including, but not
      limited to, travel, lodging, meals, local transportation, legal fees, transcription costs, and
      witness expenses) incurred by that individual.
      2.4.2. Will have access to the personnel file of the missing person, to unclassified
      reports, if any, of the board, and to any other unclassified information or documents
      relating to the whereabouts and status of the missing person.
      2.4.3. Will be afforded the opportunity to present information to the board that such
      individual considers relevant to those proceedings.
      2.4.4. Will be given the opportunity to submit in writing an objection to any
      recommendation of the board by providing the board a letter of intent not later than 15
      days after the date of board recommendations. Written objections should be submitted to
      the board not later than 30 days after the date of board recommendations.
      2.4.5. The PNOK or the previously designated person may attend the proceedings of the
      board with private counsel.
 4                                                                AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014


3. Notification and Election of Rights.
     3.1. The Missing Persons Branch (AFPC/DPFCM) will notify each individual referred to in
     paragraph 2.4 of the opportunity to attend the proceedings of a subsequent board of inquiry.
     Notification will be by certified letter not less than 60 days before the first meeting of the
     board. (T-0)
     3.2. AFPC/DPFCM will also provide a copy of this instruction, the Summary of Facts and
     Circumstances (compiled by AFPC/DPFCM), and a letter of election to attend the board
     (Attachment 2). (T-0)
4. Board Procedures.
     4.1. The Air Force is required to place before the board all relevant evidence in its
     possession on the absence or status of the missing member. If it appears to AFPC/CC that
     the absence or missing status of two or more persons is factually related, AFPC/CC may
     appoint a single board to conduct the inquiry into the whereabouts and status of all such
     persons. Neither the AF nor those having board rights are required to call witnesses.
     4.2. The board will:
        4.2.1. Collect, develop, investigate, and analyze all facts and evidence relating to the
        disappearance or whereabouts and status of the person(s).
        4.2.2. Deliberate in closed session, and arrive at its findings and recommendation by
        majority vote. The Board President uses the script (Attachment 3) to lead the board
        proceedings.
        4.2.3. Submit to AFPC/CC a complete report (normally recorded on DD Form 2811,
        Report of Proceedings by Initial/Subsequent Board of Inquiry or Further Review Board)
        which will include:
            4.2.3.1. A discussion of the facts and evidence considered by the board.
            4.2.3.2. Findings and conclusions of the board.
            4.2.3.3. A recommendation for a determination by AFPC/CC concerning the
            whereabouts and status of the missing person(s). A majority vote will determine the
            board’s findings and recommendations.
            4.2.3.4. Disclosure of whether classified documents and information were reviewed
            by the board or were otherwise used by the board in forming recommendations.
            4.2.3.5. The independent review submitted by the Missing Person’s Counsel.
            4.2.3.6. A legal review and any written objections.
5. Legal Advisor and Counsel for Missing Person.
     5.1. AFPC/CC will appoint, for the purposes of a board inquiry conducted in accordance
     with Title 10, U.S.C. Sections 1503-1505, Chapter 76:
        5.1.1. Legal Advisor. The AFPC Commander appoints a non-voting legal advisor. The
        legal advisor’s role is to conduct the hearing in an orderly manner and rule on any
        questions of law, and/or procedure pertaining to the hearing. The standard used to
        determine when evidence is admissible is relevance. The legal advisor instructs the board
AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                       5


      on the governing statutes and directives, but is not present for the board's deliberation in
      closed session. The legal advisor is not representing the Air Force.
      5.1.2. Missing Person Counsel. AFPC/CC appoints legal counsel to represent all
      missing person(s) considered at the board of inquiry. Missing Person Counsel does not
      represent the family or other interested parties of the missing person(s). If the board of
      inquiry involves more than one missing person, AFPC/CC may appoint one counsel to
      represent all persons covered by the board of inquiry. Qualifications and duties of
      missing persons counsel are as prescribed by Title 10, U.S.C. Section 1503(f), Chapter
      76.
6. Board Findings and Recommendations.
   6.1. The finding of the board will be one of the following:
      6.1.1. The person is placed (or continued) in a missing status.
      6.1.2. The person is declared to have deserted or to be absent without leave.
      6.1.3. The person is declared to be dead (subject to the requirements of Title 10, U.S.C.
      Section 1507, Chapter 76).
   6.2. Recommendations. A finding of paragraphs 6.1.1 or 6.1.2 must be supported by a
   preponderance of evidence. A finding of paragraph 6.1.3 may not be recommended unless:
      6.2.1. Credible evidence exists to suggest that the person is dead.
      6.2.2. The U.S. possesses no credible evidence that suggests that the person is alive.
      6.2.3. Representatives of the U.S. have made a complete search of the area where the
      person was last seen (unless, after making a good faith effort to obtain access to such
      area, such representatives are not granted such access); and have examined the records of
      the government or entity having control over the area where the person was last seen
      (unless, after making a good faith effort to obtain access to such records, such
      representatives are not granted such access).
   6.3. Submittal of Information of Death. If a board appointed under Title 10, U.S.C. Sections
   1503-1505, Chapter 76, makes a recommendation that a missing person be declared dead, the
   board will include in the report of the board with respect to the person under that section the
   following:
      6.3.1. A detailed description of the location where the death occurred.
      6.3.2. A statement of the date on which the death occurred.
7. Record of Board Proceedings and Legal Review.
   7.1. Any member of the Board or missing persons counsel may request a verbatim record for
   any part of the proceedings or the entire proceedings. AFPC/CC is the approval
   authority for such requests. In those cases, the court reporter prepares a verbatim record of
   the proceedings. The legal advisor will certify the record as accurate before it is distributed
   to anyone and will resolve any disagreement as to the accuracy.
   7.2. AFPC/JA will prepare a legal review for each board conducted.
8. Final Board Action.
6                                                               AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014


    8.1. AFPC/DPFCM will forward the findings of the board and legal review(s) through
    AFPC/DPF to AFPC/CC for final determination.
    8.2. In reviewing the report, AFPC/CC will determine whether the report is complete and
    free of administrative error. If AFPC/CC determines that the report is incomplete, or not free
    of administrative error, AFPC/CC may return the report to the board for further action. Upon
    a determination by AFPC/CC that the report is complete and free of administrative error,
    AFPC/CC will make a determination concerning the status of each person covered by the
    report.
    8.3. Not later than 30 days after the date on which AFPC/CC makes a determination of the
    status of a covered person (Title 10, U.S.C. Section 1503, Chapter 76), AFPC/CC will
    provide to the PNOK, the other members of the immediate family, and any other previously
    designated person of the missing person: (T-0)
       8.3.1. An unclassified summary of the unit commander’s report with respect to the
       covered person.
       8.3.2. The report of the board (including the names of the board members), and inform
       each person that the United States will conduct a subsequent inquiry into the whereabouts
       and status of the covered person on or about one year after the date of the first official
       notice of the disappearance of the covered person, unless information becomes available
       sooner that may result in a change in status of the covered person.
    8.4. Not later than 60 days after the date on which AFPC/CC makes a determination with
    respect to a missing person (Title 10, U.S.C. Section 1504, Chapter 76), AFPC/CC will
    provide a copy of that report to the PNOK, the other members of the immediate family, and
    any other previously designated person of the missing person, and inform each person that
    the United States will conduct a further investigation into the whereabouts and status of the
    person as specified in Title 10, U.S.C. Section 1505, Chapter 76. (T-0)




                                             MARGARET B. POORE, Major General, USAF
                                             Commander
AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                  7


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DODI 2310.05, Accounting for Missing Persons – Boards of Inquiry, 14 March 2008
DODI 1300.18, Department of Defense (DoD) Personnel Casualty Matters, Policies, and
Procedures, 14 August 2009
Title 10, U.S.C. Chapter 76, Missing Persons
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2811, Report of Proceedings by Initial/Subsequent Board of Inquiry or Further Review
Board

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—AF Manual
ANG—Air National Guard
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FOUO—For Official Use Only
IAW—In accordance with
NOK—Next of Kin
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
PNOK—Primary Next of Kin
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule (RDS
SORN—System of Records Notice
SSN—Social Security Number
U.S.C.—United States Code
 8                                                               AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014


Terms
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, Office
of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equiv).
AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                      9


                                        Attachment 2
                            SAMPLE, LETTER OF ELECTION

TO: AFPC/DPFCM
    550 C Street West, Suite 14
    JBSA-Randolph AFB, TX 78150-4717

(I, We) understand that the Air Force will upon (my, our) completion of this letter proceed with
                                               a
10                      AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014



review of the case of
                                                .
AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014   11


who is (my, our)
12                                                            AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014




(I, We) understand the rights which have been afforded to (me, us) and have indicated by
checking the appropriate block the rights desired in connection with the review to be
made.

(Please check one of the boxes below)

I. [ ]          Board of Inquiry Rights (Title 10, U.S.C. Sections 1504 or 1505): (I, We)
desire to attend the board of inquiry and understand that a civilian attorney may attend with
(me, us). (I, We) desire reasonable access to the information upon which the review will be
based. A summary of the information which (I, we) desire to be considered by the board (is, is
not) attached. (I, We) understand that (I, we) will not be entitled to reimbursement by the
United States for any costs (including, but not limited to, travel, lodging, meals, local
transportation, legal fees, transcription costs, and witness expenses) incurred by (me, us) in
attending such proceedings.

II. [ ]        Waiver of Rights: (I, We) hereby waive (my, our) right to attend the board
of inquiry.

III [ ]        Election of Waiver to Attend With Right to Submit Information: (I, We)
hereby waive (my, our) right to attend the board of inquiry, but have attached information
which (I, we) desire to be considered by the board.

                                             Relationship
                                                  to
Signature(s)                                 Service member Named Above           Date




                                            Sincerel
                                               y,
AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                         13


                                         Attachment 3
                    SAMPLE, MISSING IN ACTION BOARD SCRIPT

(This script is primarily written for an Initial Board of Inquiry. Should a Subsequent Board
of Inquiry be convened, the Board will be referred to as a “Subsequent Board.” Additionally,
the Board Legal Advisor will address other slight script changes with the President and the
Missing Person’s Counsel prior to opening the Subsequent Board.)

INTRODUCTION:

        PRESIDENT: Good (morning/afternoon). This Board will come to order. In
accordance with Department of Defense Instruction 2310.05 and Air Force Personnel Center
Instruction 36-106, this (initial/subsequent) Board of Inquiry is convened for the purpose of
determining the whereabouts and status of (Rank)(Full name), pursuant to the provisions of the
Missing Persons Act. The following individuals were appointed to this (initial/subsequent)
Board by (--- insert Commander’s title/name ---), Commander, Air Force Personnel Center,
JBSA-Randolph AFB TX:

               (Rank)(Full name), Board
               President (Rank)(Full name),
               Board Member (Rank)(Full
               name), Board Member

               (Rank)(Full name), Board Legal Advisor
               (Rank)(Full name), Counsel for (Rank, Full name)

PRELIMINARY ADVICE:

       PRESIDENT: Before the Board begins its inquiry, the Board Legal Advisor needs
to cover certain preliminary matters.

        BOARD LEGAL ADVISOR: Good (morning/afternoon). I am (Rank) (Full
name), legal advisor to this board. Before you begin your inquiry, I’d like to give you a
short briefing on your responsibilities.

       (--- Insert Commander’s title/name ---), Commander, Air Force Personnel
Center, JBSA-Randolph AFB TX, has appointed you, under the authority of Title 10, U.S.C.
Section 1503, to conduct an inquiry into the whereabouts and status of (Rank) (Full name).

       As members of this board, your duties are to:

        Collect, record, and safeguard all facts, documents, statements, photographs, tapes,
messages, maps, sketches, reports, and other information (classified or unclassified) relating
to the whereabouts and status of each person the inquiry covers;
        Gather information relating to actions taken to find the person, including any evidence
of the whereabouts and status of the person arising from such actions;
14                                                              AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014




        Arrive at your findings and recommendation by majority vote and ensure that
your findings are supported by a preponderance of the evidence; and

       Maintain a record of your proceedings.

       Your deliberations will be in closed sessions and you must arrive at your findings
and recommendations by majority vote.

        Within 30 days of the end of your deliberations, you will provide a complete
written report to AFPC/CC which will include:

A discussion of the facts and evidence you

       consider; Your findings and conclusions;

        A recommendation for a determination by AFPC/CC concerning the whereabouts
and status of the mission person; and

       Disclosure of whether you considered or used classified information during
your proceedings.

        (Rank)(Full name) has been appointed as Missing Person’s Counsel. (He/She) shall
        have
access to all facts and evidence considered by the Board during these proceedings;

        (He/She) will assist the Board in ensuring that all appropriate information concerning
the case is collected, logged, filed, and safeguarded;

       (He/She) will observe all official activities of the Board during these

       proceedings; (He/She) may question witnesses before the Board;

        (He/She) may submit information to the Board relative to the disappearance and status
of the missing person; and

       (He/She) will monitor and participate in the deliberations of the Board.

       A missing person’s counsel will review the report of the Board and submit an
independent review of that report which will be made an official part of the record of the Board.

       Before you begin your inquiry, are there any questions from the Board members or from
the Missing Person’s counsel on the matters I just covered?
AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014                                                            15


REVIEW OF EVIDENCE:
EV

      PRESIDENT: The following evidence will be reviewed by this Board of Inquiry:
16                                                                   AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014




         (List or identify the matters contained in the case file)

       (Rank)(Name), as the Missing Person’s Counsel, do you have any additional matters
to present to the Board? (If there are additional matters, the Missing Person’s Counsel
should list or identify them)

       PRESIDENT: At this point, I am going to recess the Board in order to give
everyone time to review the evidence presented. (The Board should recess for as long as
necessary to review the matters presented)

         (Board reconvenes after recess)

       PRESIDENT: This Board will come to order. Did everyone have enough time to
review the matters presented to this Board? In light of what we have just reviewed, does
any Board member or the Missing Person’s Counsel desire any additional information? (If a
Board member or the Missing Person’s Counsel desires additional information,
AFPC/DPFCM personnel can assist in determining its availability.)


     EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES: (Omit if no witnesses are called to the
                           Board)

        PRESIDENT: The following individual(s) (was/were) identified as witnesses for this
Board: (List and identify the witness(es)) Does the Missing Person’s Counsel desire to have
any additional witnesses called before this Board? (If so, have the Missing Person’s Counsel
list and identify the witness [es])

         PRESIDENT: Let’s call the first witness.

       LEGAL ADVISOR: Do you (swear/affirm) that the evidence you are about to
give shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth [so help you God]?

         PRESIDENT: Please state your full name (and Rank).

         PRESIDENT: (Military) What is your organization and
                   station? (Civilian) What is your current
                   address?

       PRESIDENT: This Board is convened for the purpose of determining the
whereabouts and status of (Rank)(Full name). Could you please tell the Board what
information you have relative to the whereabouts and status of (Rank) (Full name)?

         PRESIDENT: Does any Board member wish to question this witness?
AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014                                                             17



       PRESIDENT: Does the Missing Person’s Counsel wish to question this

witness? (Proceed with other witnesses in the same fashion, giving the above oath.)
18                                                           AFPCI36-106 8 AUGUST 2014




CLOSING FOR DELIBERATIONS:

        PRESIDENT: (If witnesses were called: That completes all the witnesses.) Just so
that everyone is aware of what documentary evidence the Board intends to consider, let me
state that we intend to consider the following documents: (list documents to be considered)

        PRESIDENT: Does any Board member wish to take up any matter(s) before I close
the Board for deliberations? Does the Missing Person’s Counsel wish to take up any matter(s)
before I close the Board for deliberations?

       PRESIDENT: This Board is closed for deliberations.

FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION:

       PRESIDENT: After reviewing and deliberating on all the matters presented to
this Board on the whereabouts and status of (Rank) (Full name), the Board makes the
following Findings and Recommendation:

       PRESIDENT: This Board is closed
