BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  AFPC INSTRUCTION 63-100
                                                                                             8 MAY 2006
                                                                           Certified Current 28 May 2010
                                                                                              Acquisition

                                                                    QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFPC/DPDXI                                       Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPD (Col John G. Clarke)
                                                                                           Pages: 9

This instruction outlines the Quality Assurance (QA) Program at the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).
It is provided to assist Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP) in executing their duties and responsibilities in
monitoring and assessing contractor performance against contract performance objectives in accordance
with the Performance Plan.
This instruction and the duties and responsibilities outlined in this instruction applies to AFPC’s service
acquisitions with an annual contract value above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (SAT) ($100,000)
(Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 2.101) and are in addition to those provided in (AFI 63-124, Per-
formance Based Service Acquisition [PBSA]). Additionally, it only applies to QA activities associated
with those contracts under the administration of HQ AFPC/DPDXC as AFPC’s contract liaison office to
12th Contracting Squadron (12 CONS).
Send comments and suggested improvements to this publication on Air Force Information Management
Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to HQ AFPC/DPDXI, Enterprise
Information Management Branch, 550 C Street West, Suite 48, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4750. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (to be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records and disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/.
2                                                                            AFPCI63-100 8 MAY 2006


                                                Chapter 1

                         QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. Objective. The objective of the QA Program is to provide guidance to QAP in performing their
duties in conducting a systematic and fair evaluation of the contractor's performance throughout the con-
tract period.

1.2. Authority to Conduct Surveillance. QAP authority to inspect and accept services is delegated to
the QAP by the Contracting Officer.
    1.2.1. The extent of QAP authority is specifically detailed in a letter issued by the contracting officer
    describing QAP duties, responsibilities, and limitations.
       1.2.1.1. QAP may not exceed their authority, nor act in such a manner as to imply that they pos-
       sess limits of authority other than those expressed.
       1.2.1.2. If QAP take actions outside the limits of their expressed authority, and the contractor per-
       forms services based upon QAP actions, QAP may be held personally liable for increased costs
       resulting from their improper actions.
       1.2.1.3. QAP are to be objective, fair, and consistent in evaluating contractor performance against
       the performance standards.
    1.2.2. Contract surveillance is a team effort, involving the Contracting Office, Functional Director
    (FD), QAP, Functional Area Experts (FAE), and the contractor. The most important ingredient of the
    team effort is communication.

1.3. Performance Plan. The Performance Plan is a guide used by QAP, the Contracting Officer (CO),
FD, FAEs, and the contractor. It provides a systematic method to evaluate the services the contractor is
required to furnish. The Performance Plan is based on the premise that the contractor, not the government,
is responsible for management and quality control actions to meet the terms of the contract. The Perfor-
mance Plan shall be coordinated with 12 CONS prior to implementation. While the Performance Plan is a
“living” document, and revisions are encouraged, coordinating with 12 CONS will ensure changes are
properly distributed. That is, it should be revised or modified as circumstances warrant throughout the
contract period.
AFPCI63-100 8 MAY 2006                                                                                3


                                               Chapter 2

                             KEY DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. 12th Contracting Squadron (12 CONS).
   2.1.1. Responsible for developing, implementing and executing base services contracts. This respon-
   sibility includes the acquisition strategy, source selection, and performance/contract management of
   the service throughout the life of the acquisition.
   2.1.2. Ensures Performance Based Contracts (PBC) are designed to support appropriate mission
   requirements and the Performance Plans identify mission essential performance standards. Promotes
   and fosters a government and contractor team concept to facilitate changes and unforeseen mission
   performance needs in the PBC.
   2.1.3. Provides Phase II Training via Post Award meeting.
   2.1.4. Base Quality Assurance Program Coordinator (QAPC) provides base-wide program guidance.
   2.1.5. QAPC provides Phase I Training via classroom instruction.
   2.1.6. QAPC responsible for obtaining CO’s Appointment letter assigning QAP responsibilities.
   2.1.7. QAPC reviews and approves Performance Plans.
   2.1.8. Duties and responsibilities for the 12th Contracting Squadron (12CONS) and the Quality
   Assurance Program Coordinator (QAPC) are outlined in AFI 63-124 and in AFFARS Mandatory Pro-
   cedure 5346.103 (AFFARS MP5346.103), Contracting Office Responsibilities.

2.2. Functional Director (FD).
   2.2.1. Nominates primary and alternate QAP responsible for surveilling contractor performance.
   2.2.2. Attends Multi-Functional Team meetings as required.
   2.2.3. Participates in the Wing Commander Health of Services Annual Briefing.
   2.2.4. Reviews Quarterly Reports.
   2.2.5. Reviews surveillance records as required.
   2.2.6. Assists in resolving issues relating to contractor performance.

2.3. Acquisition and Requirements Branch (HQ AFPC/DPDXC). Focal point for all AFPC acquisi-
tions of Information Technology (IT) hardware, software, and services. Provides acquisition guidance and
support to AFPC staff to include policy guidance and procurement documentation preparation.
   2.3.1. Forwards all nomination/appointment letters to 12 CONS and ensures each appointed QAP
   receives a copy.
   2.3.2. Reviews Contractor performance records prepared by QAP.
   2.3.3. Provides the FD copies of surveillance records for review as required.
   2.3.4. Forwards surveillance records to the 12 CONS CO as required.
   2.3.5. Ensures Primary and Alternate QAP are trained.
4                                                                            AFPCI63-100 8 MAY 2006


    2.3.6. Liaison between QAP and FD and between QAP and 12 CONS to resolve issues relating to
    contractor performance.

2.4. QA Program Monitor (QAPM). Monitors the AFPC QA Program ensuring all regulatory and
administrative requirements are met.
    2.4.1. Coordinates with HQ AFPC/DPDXC to ensure all QAP have received Phase I and Phase II
    training prior to assuming QA responsibilities.
    2.4.2. Develops checklists and implements procedures and policies to ensure a successful QAP pro-
    gram and to clarify and explain policy and regulatory material, or changes to meet the needs of the
    program.
    2.4.3. Reviews QAP developed criteria for evaluating contractor performance to ensure checklists or
    summaries correlate properly to contract provisions, and evaluation plans effectively capture all criti-
    cal elements of performance.
    2.4.4. Monitors and evaluates all QAP surveillance of contractor performance and compliance with
    contract provisions or regulatory requirements. Provides advice and assistance to QAP encompassing
    all services for which contracting support is provided.
    2.4.5. Inspects all QAP records quarterly. Provides feedback and suspenses corrective action as
    required and provides a quarterly report of findings to FD and HQ AFPC/DPDXC.
    2.4.6. Maintains a log of AFPC IMT 5s, QA Surveillance Deficiency Reports (SDR). Tracks and
    ensures all issues and concerns are resolved in a timely manner.
    2.4.7. Randomly spot checks QAP contract records to verify reports and identify QAP to correct
    problems and institute procedures to preclude recurrence as required.

2.5. Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP). Designated to evaluate and document contractor’s perfor-
mance in accordance with the Performance Plan. Provides insight to the contractor’s QA practices and
evaluates performance for acceptance of services. QA duties cannot be delegated to other than those des-
ignated.
    2.5.1. Completes Phase I and Phase II training prior to assuming QA responsibilities.
    2.5.2. Ensures a Performance Plan is in place for proper contract surveillance.
    2.5.3. Initiates, evaluates, and maintains QA records as required by this AFPCI (see Chapter 3).
    2.5.4. Records surveillance on AFPC IMT 4, QA Surveillance Checklist (see Chapter 3).
    2.5.5. Maintains monthly detailed records to substantiate services were received or not received (see
    Chapter 3).
    2.5.6. Partners with FAE and contractor to resolve, if possible, issues/concerns at the lowest level.
    2.5.7. Identifies all deficiencies, issues or concerns using AFPC IMT 5 (see Chapter 3).
    2.5.8. Provides advisory, assistance and recommendations to key personnel involved in developing
    and revising technical specifications of the contract.
    2.5.9. Must not interpret the contract for the contractor but should refer the contractor to HQ AFPC/
    DPDXC for assistance.
AFPCI63-100 8 MAY 2006                                                                        5


  2.5.10. Participates and attends meetings as a member of the Multi-Functional Team and attends
  pre-award conferences.
6                                                                           AFPCI63-100 8 MAY 2006


                                               Chapter 3

            SURVEILLANCE REQUIREMENTS AND REPORTING PROCEDURES

3.1. QAP Surveillance. QAP must document all surveillances. The surveillance documentation is an
important component of the official Air Force record of the contractor’s performance. The QAP has an
inherent responsibility to prepare and maintain all surveillance documentation during the contract’s life
cycle. All surveillance must be documented, whether it is acceptable or unacceptable.

3.2. Reporting Procedures. Surveillance is conducted in accordance with the applicable Performance
Plan using the following documentation:
    3.2.1. AFPC IMT 4, QA Surveillance Checklist. The completed IMT 4 must be electronically sub-
    mitted to HQ AFPC/DPDXC (courtesy copy to FAE) on the third duty day of every month. Refer to
    the last page of the IMT for instructions for properly completing the IMT. The IMT is available digi-
    tally on the HQ AFPC Publishing site at http://intraweb/im/Publishing/Pubs_and_Forms.htm. If
    you lack access, contact the HQ AFPC Publishing Office.
    3.2.2. AFPC IMT 5, QA Surveillance Deficiency Report (SDR). The QAP must document area(s)
    of non-compliance. Refer to the last page of the IMT for instructions for properly completing the IMT.
    The IMT is available digitally on the HQ AFPC Publishing site at http://intraweb/im/Publishing/
    Pubs_and_Forms.htm. If you lack access, contact the HQ AFPC Publishing Office. The QAP fol-
    lows these steps in processing AFPC IMT 5:
       3.2.2.1. Notifies FAE, HQ AFPC/DPDXC, and QAPM of findings.
       3.2.2.2. Forwards the AFPC IMT 5 to the contractor/manager (or authorized representative). The
       contractor/manager has three duty days to complete Section II, Contractor Validation, and return
       to the QAP.
       3.2.2.3. Reviews the contractor’s input in Section II and completes Section III, QAP Comments,
       to document if the deficiency has been satisfactorily addressed by the contractor. If satisfactorily
       addressed, the QAP will close the IMT. All open IMTs will be forwarded to HQ AFPC/DPDXC
       for resolution.
       3.2.2.4. HQ AFPC/DPDXC will forward any open issues or concerns to the FD and CO, as
       required.

3.3. QAP Surveillance Contract File. The following are included in the QAP’s contract file:
    3.3.1. QAP Nomination/Appointment Letters.
    3.3.2. CO’s letter to contractor of appointment and duties.
    3.3.3. Copy of contract with all modifications.
    3.3.4. Performance Plan.
    3.3.5. Contractor Quality Control Plan.
    3.3.6. AFPC IMT 4.
    3.3.7. AFPC IMT 5.
AFPCI63-100 8 MAY 2006                                                                           7


   3.3.8. Surveillance Supporting Documentation.

3.4. Information Collections, Records, and IMTs/Forms.
   3.4.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   3.4.2. Records. Records are created by this publication.
   3.4.3. IMTs/Forms Prescribed.
      3.4.3.1. IMTs Prescribed. AFPC IMT 4, Quality Assurance (QA) Surveillance Checklist and
      AFPC IMT 5, Quality Assurance (QA) Surveillance Deficiency Report (SDR).
      3.4.3.2. IMTs/Forms Adopted. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                              ANTHONY F. PRZYBYSLAWSKI, Maj Gen, USAF
                                              Commander
8                                                                    AFPCI63-100 8 MAY 2006


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Part 46, Quality Assurance
AFFARS Mandatory Procedure 5346.103, Contracting Office Responsibilities
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management
AFPD 63-1, Capability-Based Acquisition System
AFI 63-124, Performance Based Services Acquisition (PBSA)
AFMAN 37-123 (to be AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
12 CONS—12th Contracting Flight
AFFARS—Air Force FAR Supplement MP5346.103)
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
CO—Contracting Officer
DO—Delivery Order
FA—Functional Area
FD—Functional Director
FAE—Functional Area Expert
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
MP—Mandatory Procedures
PBSA—Performance-Based Services Acquisition
PBSC—Performance-Base Service Contract
QA—Quality Assurance
QAP—Quality Assurance Personnel
QAPC—Quality Assurance Program Coordinator
QAPM—Quality Assurance Program Monitor
QSR—Quarterly Surveillance Report
RDS—Records Dispositions Schedule
SAT—Simplified Acquisition Threshold
AFPCI63-100 8 MAY 2006                                                                                      9


SDR—Surveillance Deficiency Report

Terms
Contracting Office—The duly appointed government agent authorized to award and/or administer
contracts. The contracting officer is the only person authorized to contractually obligate the government.
Contracting Squadron—The Air Force office responsible for award and/or administration of contracts.
Functional Area—The organization having responsibility for the actual performance of a given service
whether it is performed in-house or by contract. For example, the transportation organization has
responsibility for packing and crating; the civil engineering organization has responsibility for custodial
services and family housing maintenance.
Functional Director—The person responsible for a functional area. For example, the Civil Engineer
Squadron Commander is the Functional Commander for the Civil Engineering performance-based work
statements.
Multi-Functional Team—A team of stakeholders responsible for a services acquisition. Includes not
only representatives of the technical and procurement communities, but also stakeholders of the service
acquisition and the contractors who provide the services. This team may consist of sub-group(s)
responsible for routine contract actions.
Performance Objective—The outcome associated with successful contract performance in a specific
area. This is a critical success factor in achieving the organization’s mission, vision and strategy which, if
not achieved, would likely result in a significant decrease in customer satisfaction or risk mission failure.
Obtaining multi-services/sub-services performed at a certain measurable standard and consistently
ensures success in achieving the objectives critical to the mission.
Performance Plan—An organized, written document that specifies the surveillance methodology to be
used during contractor performance. It provides a systematic method to evaluate the services the
contractor is required to furnish. The surveillance/evaluation methods identified in the Performance Plan,
in concert with the contractor’s quality control procedures will assure the government of satisfactory
contractor performance. Formerly known as the Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP).
Quality Assurance—A planned and systematic pattern of actions necessary to provide confidence that
adequate technical requirements are established; products or services conform to established technical
requirements; and acceptable performance is achieved.
Quality Assurance Personnel—Individuals designated to perform quality assessment functions, and
manage performance in accordance with the Performance Plan. They serve as on-site technical managers
assessing contractor performance against contract performance standards. Personnel in this area have
many titles, such as Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE), Quality Assurance Specialist (QAS), Functional
Area Evaluators (FAEs), and Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR).
Quality Assurance Program—The plans and procedures developed to implement and administer quality
assurance requirements for an installation.
Quality Assurance Program Monitor—Individual selected to coordinate and monitor the Quality
Assurance (QA) Program ensuring all regulatory and administrative requirements are met.
