BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER                                     INSTRUCTION 36-105

                                                                              1 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                                     CIVILIAN OVERTIME


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFPC/FMA                                                  Certified by: HQ AFPC/FM
                                                                      (Mr. Joseph F. Pollock)
                                                                                     Pages: 6
Supersedes:   AFPCI36-105, 4 April 2012


This instruction establishes policies and procedures for requesting, approving, and reporting
civilian overtime. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publications; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the
Air National Guard (ANG).          This publication may not be supplemented or further
implemented/extended.

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 8013, Secretary of the Air
Force and Executive Order 9397 Social Security Number (SSN), as amended. The applicable
Privacy Act System of Record Notice (SORN) F065 AF A, Time and Attendance Feeder
Records, is available at http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Vigilance must be taken to protect Privacy Act (PA) and
Personally Identifying Information (PII) when submitting or sending nominations, applications
or other documents to Department of Defense (DoD) agencies through government internet,
software applications, systems (e-mail), postal, faxing or scanning.
 2                                                               AFPCI36-105 1 AUGUST 2014


The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Refer to attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Inserts detailed
duties and responsibilities as required. Reiterates Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) policy for
excused absence for physical fitness for Air Force Appropriated Fund (APF) civilian employees
that Excused Absence for Physical Fitness cannot be taken on a day when overtime is earned,
unless it is taken before the overtime requirement is known (paragraph 1). Reiterates that to the
extent feasible, unscheduled annual leave is not permitted within the same pay period in which
overtime is earned. Amends the approval authority for all overtime requests (paragraph 2).
Outlines AFPC/FM’s roles for reconciling hours requested versus hours actually worked and
reiterates the requirement for supervisors to reconcile hours requested/approved with hours
actually worked (paragraph 5). Identifies tiered waiver authorities for unit level compliance
items.
1. Duties and Responsibilities.
     1.1. Director of Staff will:
        1.1.1. Review all AF Form 428’s, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and
        Compensatory Time for completeness and proper justification;
        1.1.2. Serve as the approval authority for all overtime; and
        1.1.3. Provide direction, guidance, and advice to directorates on proper implementation
        of overtime.
     1.2. Director, Financial Management and Comptroller will:
        1.2.1. Conduct periodic reconciliation of overtime approved to overtime paid;
        1.2.2. Prepare monthly overtime report of expenditures; and
        1.2.3. Provide direction, guidance, and advice to the commander and directors on
        execution of overtime dollars.
     1.3. Timekeepers and/or Supervisors will:
        1.3.1. Ensure that overtime reported on timecard does not exceed overtime hours
        approved.
        1.3.2. Maintain a copy of the approved AF Form 428 and ensure form is maintained for a
        minimum of 6 years, 2 months.
2. Policy. Only overtime determined to be absolutely necessary to carry out the assigned
mission on a timely basis will be considered for approval (Reference 5 U.S.C. 5542, 5 C.F.R.
550.111, and AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances).
Civilian overtime will be held to an absolute minimum by making every effort to accomplish
AFPCI36-105 1 AUGUST 2014                                                                     3


work within the normal 40-hour workweek. Management must use all resources, including
flexible scheduling, to avoid overtime during a normal 40-hour workweek. Careful planning of
projected workload surges requiring overtime and the approval of annual leave and/or Excused
Absence for Physical Activity during the same 40-hour workweek must be carefully evaluated
prior to approving known overtime requirements. There will be situations, however, where
known overtime requirements can only be scheduled outside a normal 40-hour workweek which
will allow for approval of scheduled leave and/or Excused Absence for Physical Activity during
the same pay period. Unless taken before the overtime requirement is known, Excused Absence
for Physical Activity is not permitted on a day when overtime is earned. To the extent feasible,
unscheduled annual leave is not permitted within the same pay period in which overtime is
earned. In situations where the employee was allowed to take unscheduled leave, the immediate
supervisor will document the reasons and/or justification on AF Form 428.
3. Requesting Overtime. Prior to overtime being worked, the immediate supervisor or higher
level manager prepares an AF Form 428, according to AFI 36-802, 1 September 1998,
Personnel, Pay Setting, Chapter 3 – Overtime Work, and forwards to applicable Director or
Chief of Special Staff for coordination and final submission for approval/disapproval to
AFPC/DS. Supervisor maintains copy of AF Form 428. At a minimum, a separate form is
required for each pay period. When an emergency situation occurs and the request cannot be
processed in advance of the work being performed, the immediate supervisor or higher level
manager can obtain verbal approval from the approval authorities listed in paragraph 3. Written
confirmation is required the following duty day. Include the name of the individual who gave
verbal approval in the justification section of the AF Form 428. Adequate justification is
required in the Justification block of the AF Form 428. A simple “surge in workload” does not
suffice. A detailed description of the requirement must be documented, such as the specific
work that will be accomplished; what is driving the work to be accomplished by a certain date;
why the work cannot be accomplished during regular work hours; what steps are being taken to
minimize or avoid overtime, and what the impact is if the overtime is disapproved.
4. Approval Authority. As much as practical, Directors and Chiefs of Special Staffs request
overtime by submitting a request to AFPC/DS Workflow prior to overtime being worked. If the
overtime cannot be requested prior to being worked, follow the approval guidance found in
Paragraph 2. Approval authority must properly date the AF Form 428 to show approval was
granted prior to working of the overtime. (T-3) The requester is not allowed to be the same
person as the approval authority. The approval authority for overtime requests regarding
Directors or Chiefs of Special Staff will be AFPC/CD or delegated approver. The approval
authority for all other overtime requests below the Directors or Chiefs of Special Staff is
AFPC/DS.
5. Reporting Overtime. Return original AF Form 428 to the originator after Director of Staff
signature. The employee creates a premium request in the Automated Time and Attendance
System (ATAAPS) for overtime worked. The supervisor reviews and reconciles the premium
request in ATAAPS against the approved AF Form 428. Once reviewed, the supervisor
approves the premium request in ATAAPS. The supervisor retains the original approved AF
Form 428 to support entries on the employee’s Time and Attendance Card and makes file
disposition.
6. Management Oversight Procedures. Supervisor Responsibility for Reconciling Hours
Requested with Hours Worked/Paid. The supervisor retains the annotated original AF Form
 4                                                      AFPCI36-105 1 AUGUST 2014


428 and makes file disposition. AFPC/FM will perform periodic reconciliations to ensure
overtime payments do not exceed overtime requested.




                                        MARGARET B. POORE, Maj General, USAF
                                        Commander
AFPCI36-105 1 AUGUST 2014                                                                      5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 21 June 1999
AFI 36-802, Personnel, Pay Setting, 1 September 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications

Abbreviations and Acronyms
APF—Appropriated Fund
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ATAAPS—Automated Time and Attendance System
DoD—Department of Defense
IAW—In accordance with
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PII—Personally Identifying Information
SORN—System of Record Notice
SSN—Social Security Number
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, Office
of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
 6                                                               AFPCI36-105 1 AUGUST 2014


Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equiv).
