BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AFPC INSTRUCTION 36-111
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
                                                                                13 JUNE 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                      SELECTIVE EARLY RETIREMENT
                                                   BOARDS AND ENHANCED SELECTIVE
                                                        EARLY RETIREMENT BOARDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing web site at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFPC/PB                                        Certified by: HQ AFPC/PB (Col Ramona
                                                                                  L. Dolson)
                                                                                   Pages: 14
Supersedes:   AFPCI 36-111, 6 December
              2013


This AFPC Instruction (AFPCI) provides guidance and outlines internal operating procedures to
be used in the administration and conduct of Selective Early Retirement Boards (SERBs) and
Enhanced Selective Early Retirement Boards (ESERBs) for the United States Air Force at the
Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center, USAF Selection Board Secretariat. The substance of
this instruction will be incorporated into Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-3203, Service
Retirements.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). This publication may not be supplemented or
further implemented/extended.

Vigilance must be taken to protect Personally Identifiable Information (PII) when submitting or
sending nominations, applications or other documents to Department of Defense (DoD) agencies
through government Internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal, faxing or scanning.
See DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, for guidance on Safeguarding
 2                                                                 AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014


Personal Information. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication
are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated
with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the
appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered
compliance items. Refer to attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This AFPCI
applies previously approved proceedings for Air Force Selective Early Retirement Boards to the
execution of Air Force Enhanced Selective Early Retirement Boards. The guidance includes
updated information regarding the inclusion of SOUIFs in records of colonels meeting Selective
Early Retirement Boards and Enhanced Selective Early Retirement Boards in Paragraphs 13, 19
and 26. References, Abbreviations and Acronyms were updated on attachment 1. Identifies
tiered waiver authorities for unit level compliance items.
1. Scope. This operating instruction will govern how all Air Force SERBs and ESERBS are
conducted.
2. General. Selection Board Secretariat personnel are responsible for conducting officer SERBs
and ESERBs for regular Air Force officers on the active duty list. (T-1) SERBs and ESERBs are
designed to achieve a "right-sizing" of the force through a review and selection of the best
qualified officers for retention on active duty. Those officers not selected for retention will be
recommended for early retirement. (For every board the criteria must be consistent with those
prescribed by the statute authorizing the board). See AFPD 36-32, Military Retirements and
Separations, for Air Force Policy on management of retirement and separation programs.
3. Responsibilities. Secretariat personnel will ensure this instruction is adhered to for all
SERBs and ESERBs. Board members and alternate board members should familiarize
themselves with this instruction, as well as with other applicable instructions and directives and
comply with them. See Alternate board members will remain on stand-by for the duration of
the board.
4. Rules Governing All Boards. When the board is in session, it works directly for the
Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) under the supervision of the board president. No person may
direct a particular individual be selected or not selected by the board, censure, reprimand, or
admonish the board or any member of the board for recommendations or for exercising any
function within the discretion of the board, or attempt to coerce or influence, by any
unauthorized means, any action of a board or any member of a board in formulating the board's
recommendations.
5. Organizing Boards. SERBs and ESERBs will consist of a board president, voting board
members (including a chairperson, who is the senior Line of the Air Force (LAF) voting
member), recorders, and administrative support staff.
6. Selection Board Members. Board membership will be in accordance with Title 10, United
States Code, Section 612. Membership consists of five or more officers on the Active Duty List
(ADL) who are senior in grade to the eligible officers, except that no member may be serving in
a grade below colonel. If there are no eligible officers of the competitive category on the ADL
AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014                                                                          3


serving in a grade higher than the officers being considered, it is permissible to appoint retired
officers, Reserve officers on active duty but not on the ADL, or members of the Ready Reserve.
Board membership should reflect eligible population in terms of minority and women officers
and MAJCOM of assignment when practical. Large MAJCOMs should not dominate the board
membership. Board membership may be structured to reflect career areas, aeronautical rating
and joint duty for the line competitive category, when practical. For a board considering a non-
LAF competitive category, the board shall include at least one member of the competitive
category under consideration, but under no condition will that competitive category form the
majority of the board. The board president and chairperson will be LAF officers.
7. Board President (BP). The BP is a nonvoting, nonscoring member of the board in the grade
of major general or above. The BP will oversee the conduct of the board and ensure that the
board is conducted in accordance with this instruction and SecAF guidance. While the BP may
participate in the discussions of the board, he/she may not constrain the voting members of the
board from selecting for retention those officers they consider best qualified to meet the needs of
the Air Force. The BP will conduct a quality review of records in accordance with paragraph 26
of this instruction. The BP will administer an oath to board recorders and administrative staff
before the board begins scoring records and perform other duties in connection with the board
proceedings as may be required. The BP is the authorizing official for directing that a SecAF-
approved alternate replace a primary board member and will make determinations on availability
of a primary board member when an alternate board member may be required. The BP will
advise the SecAF at the board outbrief if alternate(s) is/are used.
8. Board Members. The board members will perform their duties based on the best interests of
the Air Force as directed in the SecAF Memorandum of Instructions (MOI). They will request
relief from SecAF if they cannot, in good conscience, perform their duties without prejudice or
partiality. They will request relief from the SecAF of their obligation not to disclose board
proceedings if they believe the integrity of the board's proceedings has been affected by improper
influence of senior military or civilian authority, misconduct by the BP or a member, or any
other reason. Upon granting their request, the board member will report the basis for his or her
belief to the SecAF. The chairperson will facilitate "split" resolutions and ensure all panel
members have equal opportunity to discuss the strengths and weaknesses in the records and their
scores. The chairperson cannot decide the resolution or force a change in scores.
9. Board Recorders. The board recorders ensure procedures outlined in this instruction are
met. They will manage the flow of records to the board members, maintain the order of merit
established by the board members' scores, answer administrative questions, review information
for presentation to the board, and advise the BP and members on board processes and other
administrative matters. The board recorders will have completed a course of instruction during
the previous 12 months, approved by the SecAF, on recorder duties and responsibilities to ensure
compliance with law and DoD policy. There will be at least one board recorder present during
all board proceedings. A member will not serve as a recorder on boards for which they are being
considered. If a recorder requires relief for any of the reasons described in paragraph 8, he or she
will request relief from the SecAF and report as outlined in paragraph 8.
10. Administrative Support Staff. The board secretariat administrative support staff answers
administrative questions and follows standard written procedures governing the administrative
support for boards.
 4                                                                  AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014


11. Rules Governing Communications with Boards. The board recorders ensure all
communication with the board is in writing, to include guidance from the SecAF (for letters from
eligible officers, see paragraph 12). The board recorders will furnish all written communication
to all board members and record it as part of the board's record. An audio or video recording is
an acceptable means for providing guidance to the board, so long as a written transcript is a part
of the board record. No one other than the SecAF or a person duly appointed by the SecAF may
appear in person to address a selection board on any matter. Should the SecAF address a board
in person, HQ AFPC/PB will provide a verbatim transcript of his or her remarks to every board
member and include it in the record of the board. This does not restrict the staff from furnishing
administrative information to the board. Board members, recorders, and administrative staff may
orally communicate routine administrative information to the extent necessary to facilitate the
board's work.
12. Letters to a Board. Officers eligible for the SERB or ESERB may write a letter to the
board. Eligible officers must submit the letter, not to exceed 10 pages to include attachments (5
sheets if written on both sides), in good faith, and ensure it contains accurate information to the
best of their knowledge. The letter must be signed and dated. The eligible officer will send the
letter to the Air Force Colonel’s Management Office (AF/DPO) or HQ AFPC/DPSOR so it
arrives no later than 2359 hours (central time) on the day prior to the board convening date.
Letters arriving after that time will not be presented to the board for consideration. Address
letters IAW instructions in the Personnel Service Delivery Memorandum (PSDM). Immediately
after completion of the SERB or ESERB, the letter will be removed from the individual's
selection folder and a copy of the letter will be stored in the member’s master personnel record
for historical, legal, and appeal purposes only. Access will be limited to only those who have a
need to know. If the letter writer requests return of the letter, he/she must provide a stamped,
self-addressed envelope. Letters on behalf of other officers are not permitted, although
individuals may provide relevant attachments to their own letter. Attachments or documents of
the type that can become a permanent part of the officer's record; e.g., draft/ proposed/final
Retention Recommendation Forms (RRFs) or Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs)
considered by previous selection boards, unsigned draft/proposed Officer Performance Reports
(OPRs), training reports (TRs) or decoration narratives are not permitted. AF/DPO or HQ
AFPC/DPSOR advises the officer when a letter does not meet the above requirements. AF/DPO
and/or HQ AFPC/DPSOR collects all letters to the board and forwards to HQ AFPC/PB for use
during the board.
13. Information Meeting the Board. Only the following information is authorized to meet the
board:
     13.1. The name and Officer Selection Record (OSR), outlined in AFI 36-2608, Military
     Personnel Records System, of each eligible officer including the Officer Selection Brief and
     RRF.
     13.2. Letters submitted to the SERB or ESERB by eligible officers (see paragraph 12).
     13.3. Information not part of the official military personnel record of an officer, but which
     the SecAF or a civilian official, appointed by the President and with the advice and consent
     of the Senate and designated by the SecAF, determines as substantiated and which could
     reasonably and materially affect board deliberations. The SecAF, or designee, must ensure
     the procedures for identifying and proposing such information for consideration apply to all
AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014                                                                          5


   officers eligible for the board concerned. In these cases, the SecAF ensures the officer is
   notified and provided a copy of the information, or a factual summary of the information if it
   is not entirely available for reasons of national security or other lawful reasons, and allowed a
   reasonable opportunity to submit written comments, which if submitted will be attached to
   any such information considered by the board.
   13.4. For colonel selective early retirement boards and enhanced selective early retirement
   boards, Senior Officer Unfavorable Information Files (SOUIFs) as determined by the Air
   Force General Counsel (SAF/GC) in accordance with the procedures of AFI 90-301,
   Inspector General Complaints Resolution, paragraph 5.10.
   13.5. Information described in paragraphs 13.3 and 13.4 will not meet a subsequent SERB or
   ESERB unless the information is in the official military personnel record of the officer, or the
   SecAF or designee, makes a new determination. When rendering a new determination, the
   officer will have the opportunity to comment upon notification.
   13.6. Administrative information amplifying or clarifying the official military records,
   instructions, and information provided to the board.
14. Instructing Boards. The MOI, which provides policy and guidance to the board, will be
approved by the SecAF for each SERB and ESERB. Do not modify, withdraw or supplement
the instructions after the board submits its report to the SecAF.
15. Board Member Preparation. The Selection Board Secretariat will pre-brief the BP on the
board agenda, SecAF MOI, BP responsibilities, and the trial run exercise (practice scoring
session). Board recorders will conduct the first day administrative briefing to the board. The BP
will then read the SecAF MOI verbatim to the board and a copy will be provided to each board
member. To acknowledge receipt, each board member will sign a copy of the MOI to be
maintained in the permanent record. Oaths are administered to board members and to the
recorders and administrative staff. A trial run exercise will then be conducted to familiarize
board members with the selection records and situations the board may encounter during actual
scoring.
16. Conducting Trial Runs. A board recorder provides board members pre-identified records
to set their scoring standard and to acquaint them with some situations they may encounter
during the actual scoring for the record. A board member will not score a record during the trial
run that he or she may be asked to score during the actual scoring process. After the trial run, a
guided discussion facilitated by a recorder will occur to answer questions board members may
have, address unique situations which may occur during the board's conduct, ensure board
members' familiarity with the record format and its contents and ensure all members are
comfortable with their scoring baseline. There is no requirement for uniformity of scores.
17. Record Distribution Procedures. Each eligible record will be assigned a record number
which is based on the reverse of the member's social security number. All records will then be
numerically sequenced using these numbers and then distributed evenly.
18. Reviewing Records. Each board considers records within its purview and receives quotas
(see paragraph 24) that correspond to the appropriate losses needed.
19. Scoring Records. Records are scored on a best-qualified basis unless otherwise directed by
SecAF. In a SERB, records will be scored separately by grade and competitive category and
 6                                                                 AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014


officers within the same grade and competitive category compete only among themselves for
retention. In an ESERB, records will be scored (as provided in the board details) by grade and
competitive category; or by grade and competitive category and in particular year groups,
specialties, or retirement categories, or any combination thereof, within a competitive category.
See DoDI 1332.32, Selective Early Retirement of Officers on an Active Duty List, for enhanced
authority to conduct selective early retirement boards. For enhanced authority, scores are based
on the items referenced in paragraph 13 and any guidance the SecAF may provide to the board.
Generally, scoring is by secret ballot and without benefit of discussion, unless a significant
disagreement (a "split" see paragraph 21) occurs in the scores on a particular record. If a board
member identifies a record-based matter that causes concern, he/she will surface the matter to a
board recorder who may discuss it with the BP. The BP may approve bringing that matter to the
attention of the appropriate board members. Board members may discuss their own personal
evaluation of the professional qualifications of eligible officers as long as they discuss only
matters documented in accordance with paragraph 13 and any guidance the SecAF may provide
to the board. In such discussions, board members may rely upon their own experience and
knowledge of the Air Force. Board members may not discuss or disclose the opinion of a person
not a member of the board concerning the officer unless that opinion is in the material presented
to the board.
20. Scoring Scales. Boards will use the following scoring scale to score an officer's potential
for retention:

Table 1. Scoring Scales

Score       Potential for
            Retention


10.0        Absolutely superior


9.5         Outstanding


9.0         Few could be better


8.5         Strong


8.0         Slightly above average


7.5         Average


7.0         Slightly below average
AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014                                                                           7



6.5           Well below average


6.0           Lowest


21. Defining "Splits. " A "split" is a significant disagreement between voting board members
about the score of a record. A "split" is considered a difference in a score of two or more points
between any two or more board members (e.g., 6 and 8, or 8 and 10) evaluating the records.
22. Resolving "Splits. " All voting board members must be present and may discuss the
record involved in a "split." Only members with split scores may change their scores in the
process of resolving a split.
23. New Documents. If new information (e.g., decoration citation, officer performance report,
updated officer selection brief) concerning an individual's record is acquired during scoring, the
affected records will be brought back for rescoring as long as the initial order of merit has not
been derived.
24. Quota. Finalized quotas are staffed, reviewed, and approved by SecAF prior to the board
convening and will be available to the board for its use.
25. Establishing the Gray Zone. After scoring is complete, establish an order of merit and a
gray zone. In the event the retain quota is completely exhausted by all the records in a score
category (i.e., a clean cut), then the gray zone will consist of the score category that exhausted
the quota and the next lower score category. In the event the retain quota is exhausted in a score
category where there are more records tied at the score category than there is available quota
(i.e., not a clean cut), then the gray zone will consist of that score category, plus the next higher
and the next lower score categories. The appropriate respective quota will accompany the
records to the gray zone. See attachment 2 for illustration.
26. Board President's Quality Review. The BP conducts a quality review prior to beginning
the gray resolution process of all records above and below the gray zone with the characteristics
within them listed in paragraphs 26.1 and 26.2. If, in the BP’s opinion, one or more of these
records is of comparable quality or appears to have been inconsistently scored compared to those
records in the gray zone, he or she may add those records to the gray zone for the board's final
determination. If a record above the gray zone is added to the gray zone, the associated quota is
added to the gray zone as well.
      26.1. The BP may add selection records to the gray zone that are above the gray zone which
      have any of the following characteristics within them:
         26.1.1. A court-martial.
         26.1.2. An Article 15.
         26.1.3. A letter of reprimand (LOR).
         26.1.4. A "do not retain" RRF.
         26.1.5. A “do not retain me” letter.
 8                                                                   AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014


        26.1.6. Referral OPR on top.
        26.1.7. Current prisoner or appellate leave.
        26.1.8. A SOUIF.
     26.2. The BP may add selection records to the gray zone that are below the gray zone which
     have any of the following characteristics within them:
        26.2.1. Currently assigned to DE/AFIT in residence.
        26.2.2. Medal of Honor recipient.
        26.2.3. Prisoner of war (POW)/former POW.
        26.2.4. Missing in action (MIA)/former MIA.
        26.2.5. Astronaut.
        26.2.6. Wounded Warrior.
        26.2.7. Any officer possessing a unique skill (to include capabilities, experiences and
        other attributes) approved by SecAF and identified in the board details as critical to the
        Air Force.
27. Gray Resolution. After the BP has conducted a quality review and adds any records to the
gray, the records are scored again using the scoring scale described in paragraph 20. After
scoring, an order of merit will be established and the remaining quota applied. If records are tied
at the score which would result in retention, this establishes a new "gray". Continue to resolve
any "gray", without further BP quality review, until all available quotas are filled. Prior to
scoring any records in the gray, the BP will personally instruct all members to re-read the
SecAF's MOI. The BP will only be required to instruct the board to re-read the MOI during the
first gray resolution. For subsequent gray resolutions, the recorder will instruct the members to
re-read the MOI.
28. Board Report. Those officers not selected for retention will be recommended for early
retirement. Board members, recorders, and administrative assistants will sign a board report that
verifies the specific certifications in the SecAF’s MOI for that board were followed in their
entirety and includes a list of those officers recommended for early retirement. Certifications are
as follows, unless otherwise provided by the SecAF:
     28.1. That, to the best of their knowledge, the board complied with the Secretary's
     instructions, including those related to the critical skills needed by the Air Force;
     28.2. That he or she was not subject to or aware of any censure, reprimand, or
     admonishment about the recommendations of the board or the exercise of any lawful
     function within the authorized discretion of the board;
     28.3. That he or she was not subject to or aware of any attempt to coerce or influence
     improperly any action in the formulation of the board's recommendations;
     28.4. That he or she was not a party to or aware of any attempt at unauthorized
     communications;
     28.5. That, to the best of their knowledge, the board carefully considered the records of each
     officer whose name was furnished to the board; and
AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014                                                                        9


   28.6. That the officers recommended for early retirement are, in the opinion of the majority
   of the member of the board, those officers whose early retirement best serves the needs of the
   Air Force.
29. Outbriefing Board Members. Recorders outbrief the board members (discuss cautions and
destroy all notes).
30. Board Anomalies. Procedural anomalies occurring during a board that may require
variation from established procedures require BP resolution. During the board, the BP may bring
any matter to the attention of the SecAF, or designated representative, if he or she determines
that SecAF-level decision is required. The BP will advise the SecAF of any significant
procedural anomalies during his or her outbrief of the board. These responsibilities of the BP do
not limit in any way the right of a board member or Board Secretariat member to communicate
with the SecAF as provided by other authority.
31. Lists and Other Documents to be Retained. All scoring runs (which include and identify
those records in, above and below the initial "gray" as well as the BP Quality Review) will be
filed with the formal record of the Board, but not made part of that record. These scoring runs
will not reflect individual board member scores. Additionally, a copy of the final board room
graphic as well as letters preserved for appeal in accordance with paragraph 12 will be
maintained as permanent documents. They will be marked "For Official Use Only". These
records must not be released under Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) or the Privacy Act but
could become subject to discovery in litigation.
32. Oaths. The following oaths will be administered to board personnel as appropriate:
   32.1. Board Members: "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will, without prejudice or
   partiality, having in view both the special fitness of the officers and the efficiency and
   effectiveness of the United States Air Force, perform the duties imposed upon me and that I
   will not reveal information about the board conduct and results except as may be provided by
   the Secretary."
   32.2. Recorders and Administrative Support Staff: "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will
   keep a true record of the proceedings of the board and that I will not reveal information about
   the board conduct and results except as may be provided by the Secretary."
33. Disclosure of Board Recommendations and Board Proceedings. Before the report is
signed by each board member and board recorder, the recommendations may be disclosed only
to the board members, board recorders, and those administrative support personnel designated in
writing by the SecAF. Results of the board will not be released until after the SecAF approves
the SERB or ESERB report. Board proceedings will not be disclosed without the authority of
the SecAF. (T-0)
34. Summary. These selection board procedures were developed to give all eligible officers
fair and equitable consideration, not for ease of administration. These procedures will remain in
effect until otherwise modified in writing or incorporated into AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements.
10                   AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014


     MARGARET B. POORE, Maj Gen, USAF
     Commander
AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014                                                                        11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, U.S.C., Chapter 36, Promotion, Separation, and Involuntary Retirement of Officers on
the Active-Duty List
DoD Instruction 1332.32, Selective Early Retirement of Officers on an Active Duty List, 2 May
2014
DoD Instruction 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 8 May 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-32, Military Retirements and Separations, 12 May 2014
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements, 8 September 2006
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 August 2011
Prescribed Forms None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADL—Active Duty List
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPCI—Air Force Personnel Center Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
BP—Board President
DE—Developmental Education
DoD—Department of Defense
ESERB—Enhanced Selective Early Retirement Board
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
IAW—In accordance with
 12                                                                   AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014


LAF—Line of the Air Force
LOR—Letter of Reprimand
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIA—Missing in Action
MOI—Memorandum of Instructions
OPR—Officer Performance Report
OSR—Officer Selection Record
PAS—Privacy Act Statement
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
POW—Prisoner of War
PSDM—Personnel Service Delivery Memorandum
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RRF—Retention Recommendation Form
SAF/GC—Air Force General Counsel
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SERB—Selective Early Retirement Board
SOUIF—Senior Officer Unfavorable Information Files
TR—Training reports

Terms
Tier Definitions—Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress,
White House, Office of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-
applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equiv).
AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014                                    13


                                             Attachment 2
                                       ILLUSTRATIONS

"Establishing the Gray" slide illustration
14   AFPCI36-111 13 June 2014
