BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER                                         INSTRUCTION 36-109

                                                                                  1 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                              REDUCTION-IN-FORCE BOARD

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFPC/PB                                                        Certified by: HQ AFPC/PB
                                                                         (Col Ramona L. Dolson)
Supersedes:    AFPCI36-109, 13 October 2011                                             Pages: 13


This AFPC Instruction (AFPCI) provides guidance and outlines internal operating procedures to
be used in the administration and conduct of Reduction-in-Force Boards (RIFs) for the United
States Air Force at the Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center, USAF Selection Board
Secretariat. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 United States Code (U.S.C.)
8013, Secretary of the Air Force; as implemented by Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2608,
Military Personnel Records System and Executive Order (E.O.) 9397 Social Security Number
(SSN). The applicable System of Records Notice (SORN[s]) F036 AF PC C, Military Personnel
Records System is available at: http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx

This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National
Guard (ANG). This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended.
Vigilance must be taken to protect Personally Identifying Information (PII) when submitting or
sending nominations, applications or other documents to DoD agencies through government
Internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal, faxing or scanning. See DoD 5400.11-R,
Department of Defense Privacy Program, for guidance on Safeguarding Personal Information.
The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
 2                                                               AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014


Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Refer to attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
AFPCI updates guidance regarding Air Force Reduction-in-Force board proceedings. The
guidance includes a reference regarding Tier numbers in Paragraph 2 and Paragraph 33.
Paragraph 10 further clarifies the role of Administrative Staff. Updated office symbols to reflect
AFPC/DPSOR as the POC for letters to the board in Paragraph 12. Paragraph 28 updates Board
Report information as well as certification information. Identifies tiered waiver authorities for
unit level compliance items. Finally, Abbreviations and Acronyms were updated in attachment
1.
1. Scope. This operating instruction will govern how all Air Force Reduction-in-Force (RIF)
boards are conducted.
2. General. Selection Board Secretariat personnel are responsible for conducting RIF boards
for regular Air Force officers on the Active-Duty List (ADL). (T-1) RIF boards are designed to
achieve a “right-sizing” of the force through a review and selection of the best-qualified officers,
within specific Secretarial-designated groups (as defined in the board details), for retention on
active duty. Those officers not selected for retention will be recommended for early discharge
on a date established by the SecAF. Secretarial-designated-groups may be composed of officers
in a particular grade and competitive category, and may be further defined by year group, core
AFSC or both. (For every board the criteria must be consistent with those prescribed by the
statute authorizing the board).
3. Responsibilities. Secretariat personnel will ensure this instruction is adhered to for all RIF
boards. Board members and alternate board members should familiarize themselves with this
instruction, as well as with other applicable instructions and directives. Alternate board
members will remain on stand-by for the duration of the board.
4. Rules Governing All Boards. When the board is in session, all members, recorders, and
administrative support staff work directly for the SecAF under the supervision of the board
president. No person may direct the board members to recommend or not recommend a
particular individual; censure, reprimand, or admonish the board or any member of the board for
recommendations or for exercising any function within the discretion of the board; or attempt to
coerce or influence, by any unauthorized means, any action of a board or any member of a board
in formulating the board's recommendations.
5. Organizing Boards. RIF boards will consist of a board president, voting members,
recorders, and administrative support staff. The same officer will serve as BP for all boards
convened pursuant to the same Secretarial staff package. For RIF boards considering
competitive categories by core AFSC, career areas will be grouped with similar skill pairings
when practical. Officer Selection Records (OSRs) will be distributed to the respective boards
based on Secretarial-designated groups, commensurate with board composition.
AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014                                                                        3


6. Selection Board Members. Board membership will be in accordance with Title 10, United
States Code, Section 612. Board members must be serving in the grade of colonel or higher.
The voting membership of each board will consist of five or more officers on the ADL. The
board chair, (or panel chair if the board is subdivided into five member panels), will be a Line of
the Air Force (LAF) brigadier general. For LAF boards considering competitive categories by
core AFSC, board or panel chairs will not be from the career area of the records they will be
considering. A RIF will include at least one voting member from each competitive category
being considered by that board. For all RIFs considering competitive categories by core AFSC,
at least one voting member will be from each AFSC being considered, regardless of the
competitive category. Board membership for the Line of the Air Force Judge Advocate General
(LAF-J), Chaplain (CHAP), and Health Professions competitive categories will be structured to
ensure no more than two voting members (or not a majority or more for a larger board) are from
the same competitive category (or competitive category and AFSC) under consideration. The
remaining voting members will be line officers, except for boards considering health profession
competitive categories where the other voting members will be officers from a health profession
competitive category not under consideration on that board, if such officers are available. This
does not preclude LAF officers substituting for these other voting members when it is deemed
impractical for other health profession categories to be present. Board membership should
reflect the eligible population in terms of minority and women officers and MAJCOM of
assignment, as much as practical. An officer cannot serve as a member of two successive boards
considering officers of the same Secretarial-designated group.
7. Board President (BP). The BP is a nonvoting, non-scoring member of the board. He or she
must be at least a major general. The BP will oversee the conduct of the board and ensure the
board is conducted in accordance with this instruction and SecAF guidance. While the BP may
participate in the discussions of the board, he/she may not constrain the voting members of the
board from selecting for retention those officers they consider best qualified to meet the needs of
the Air Force. The BP will conduct a quality review of records in accordance with paragraph 26
of this instruction, including determining which letters written to the board expressly or
implicitly request the author not be retained ("Do Not Retain Me" letters). The BP will
administer an oath to board recorders and administrative support staff before the board begins
scoring records and perform other duties in connection with the board proceedings as may be
required. The BP is the authorizing official for directing that a SecAF-approved alternate replace
a primary board member and will make determinations on availability of a primary board
member to decide whether an alternate board member is required. The BP will advise the SecAF
at the board out-brief if alternate(s) are used.
8. Board Members. The board members will perform their duties based on the best interests of
the Air Force as directed in the SecAF Memorandum of Instructions (MOI). They will request
relief from SecAF if they cannot, in good conscience, perform their duties without prejudice or
partiality. They will request relief from the SecAF of their obligation not to disclose board
proceedings if they believe the integrity of the board's proceedings has been affected by improper
influence of senior military or civilian authority, misconduct by the BP or a member, or any
other reason. Upon the granting of their request, the board member will report the basis for his
or her belief to the SecAF.
9. Board Recorders. The board recorders ensure procedures outlined in this instruction are
met. They will manage the flow of records to the board members, maintain the order of merit
 4                                                                AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014


established by the board members’ scores, answer administrative questions, review information
for presentation to the board, and advise the BP and members on board processes and other
administrative matters. Board recorders will complete a course of instruction approved by
SecAF, during the previous 12 months, on recorder duties and responsibilities to ensure
compliance with law and DoD policy. There will be at least one board recorder present during
all board proceedings. A member will not serve as a recorder on boards for which they are being
considered. If a recorder requires relief for any of the reasons described in paragraph 8, he or she
will request relief from the SecAF and report as outlined in paragraph 8.
10. Administrative Support Staff. The board secretariat administrative staff answers
administrative questions and follows standard written procedures governing the administrative
support for boards.
11. Rules Governing Communications with Boards. The board recorders ensure all
communication with the board is in writing, to include guidance from the SecAF (for letters from
eligible officers, see paragraph 12). The board recorder will furnish all written communications
to all board members and record it as part of the board's record. An audio or video recording is
an acceptable means for providing guidance to the board, so long as a written transcript is a part
of the board record. No one other than the SecAF or a person duly appointed by the SecAF may
appear in person to address a selection board on any matter. Should the SecAF address a board
in person, HQ AFPC/PB will provide a verbatim transcript of his or her remarks to every board
member and include it in the record of the board. This does not restrict the staff from furnishing
administrative information to the board. Board members, recorders, and administrative support
staff may orally communicate routine administrative information to the extent necessary to
facilitate the board's work.
12. Letters to the Board. Officers eligible for the RIF may write a letter to the board. Eligible
officers may submit the letter, not to exceed 10 pages to include attachments (5 sheets if written
on both sides), in good faith, and ensure it contains accurate information to the best of their
knowledge. The letter must be signed and dated. The eligible officer will send the letter to HQ
AFPC/DPSOR so it arrives no later than 2359 hours (central time) on the established date
outlined in the Personnel Services Delivery Memorandum (PSDM). Letters arriving after that
time will not be presented to the board for consideration. Address letters to: MEMORANDUM
FOR (enter board identification number) Reduction-in-Force Board, HQ AFPC/DPSOR, 550 C
Street West, Suite 3, JBSA-Randolph TX 78150-4710. Immediately after completion of the
Reduction-in-Force Board, the letter will be removed from the individual's selection folder and
the letter, or a copy thereof, placed in the master personnel record for historical, legal, and appeal
purposes only. Access will be limited to only those who have a need to know. If the letter writer
requests return of the letter, he/she must provide a stamped, self-addressed envelope. Letters on
behalf of other officers are not permitted, although individuals may provide relevant attachments
to their own letter. Attachments or documents of the type that can become a permanent part of
the officer's record; e.g., draft/proposed/final Retention Recommendation Forms (RRFs) or
Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs), unsigned draft/proposed Officer Performance
Reports (OPRs), training reports (TRs) or decoration narratives are not permitted. HQ
AFPC/DPSOR advises the officer when a letter does not meet the above requirements and
preserves the letter for appeal by forwarding the letter to AFPC/PB for filing upon SecAF
approval of board results.
13. Information Meeting the Board.
AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014                                                                        5


   13.1. The name and officer selection record (OSR), outlined in AFI 36-2608, Military
   Personnel Records System, of each eligible officer including the Officer Selection Brief
   (OSB) and the RRF.
   13.2. Letters submitted to the RIF Board by eligible officers (see paragraph 12).
   13.3. Information not part of the official military personnel record of an officer, but which
   the SecAF or a civilian official, appointed by the President and with the advice and consent
   of the Senate and designated by the SecAF, determines as substantiated and which could
   reasonably and materially affect board deliberations. The SecAF, or designee, must ensure
   the procedures for identifying and proposing such information for consideration apply to all
   eligible officers for the board concerned. In these cases, the SecAF ensures the officer is
   notified and provided a copy of the information, or a factual summary of the information if it
   is not totally available for reasons of national security or other lawful reasons, and allowed a
   reasonable opportunity to submit written comments, which if submitted will be attached to
   any such information considered by the board.
   13.4. Information described in paragraph 13.3 will not meet a subsequent RIF unless the
   information is in the official military personnel record of the officer, or the SecAF or
   designee, makes a new determination. When rendering a new determination, the officer will
   have the opportunity to comment upon notification.
   13.5. Administrative information amplifying or clarifying the official military records,
   instructions, and information provided to the board (e.g., pre-board discrepancy reports).
14. Board Member Preparation. The USAF Selection Board Secretariat will pre-brief the BP
on the board agenda, SecAF MOI, BP responsibilities, and the trial run exercise (practice scoring
session). Board recorders will conduct the first day administrative briefing to the board. The BP
will then read the SecAF MOI verbatim to the board and a copy will be provided to each board
member. Each board member will sign a copy of the MOI to be maintained in the permanent
record. Oaths are administered to board members and to the recorders and administrative
support staff. A trial run exercise will then be conducted to familiarize board members with the
selection records and situations the board may encounter during actual scoring.
15. Instruction Boards. The MOI, providing policy and guidance to the board, will be
approved by the SecAF for each RIF. Do not modify, withdraw or supplement the instructions
after the board submits its report to the SecAF.
16. Conducting Trial Runs. A board recorder provides board members pre-identified records
to set their scoring standard and to acquaint them with some situations they may encounter
during the actual scoring for the record. A member will not score a record during the trial run
that he or she may be asked to score during the actual scoring process. After the trial run, a
guided discussion facilitated by a recorder will occur to answer questions board members may
have, address unique situations which may occur during the board's conduct, ensure board
members' familiarity with the record format and its contents, and ensure all members are
comfortable with their scoring baseline. There is no requirement for uniformity of scores. The
board members make the determination if a subsequent trial run is needed.
17. Record Distribution Procedures. Records are distributed to each board scoring the
appropriate Secretarial-designated group. Each eligible record within each Secretarial-
designated group will be assigned a record number which is based on the reverse of the
 6                                                               AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014


member's social security number. All records will then be numerically sequenced using these
numbers and then distributed to the appropriate board.
18. Reviewing Records. Each board considers records within a Secretarial-designated group
and receives quotas (see paragraph 24) that correspond to the appropriate losses needed for
each particular Secretarial-designated group.
19. Scoring Records.
     19.1. Records are scored on a best-qualified basis using the 6-10 scoring scale in paragraph
     20 unless otherwise directed by SecAF. Records will be scored separately by each
     Secretarial-designated group. Officers within the same Secretarial-designated group will
     compete only among themselves for retention. Scores are based on the material in each
     officer's OSR, RRF, any information the SecAF may provide to that board, and any
     information communicated by letter from the officer concerning his or her own record.
     Scoring is by secret ballot and without benefit of discussion, unless a significant
     disagreement (a "split") occurs in the scores on a particular record. If a board member
     identifies a record-based matter that causes concern, he/she will surface the matter to a board
     recorder who may discuss it with the BP. The BP may approve bringing that matter to the
     attention of the appropriate board members. Board members may discuss their own personal
     knowledge and evaluation of the professional qualifications of eligible officers as long as
     they discuss only matters documented in the OSR, RRF, any information the SecAF may
     provide to that board, and any information communicated by letter from the officer
     concerning his or her own record. In such discussions, board members may rely upon their
     own experience and knowledge of the Air Force. Board members may not discuss or
     disclose the opinion of a person not a member of the board concerning the officer unless that
     opinion is in the material presented to the board.
     19.2. Two-Step Scoring. If approved by SecAF in the details convening the RIF boards, the
     boards may conduct an initial review of the records (step one) using a “Yes” or “No” scoring
     system prior to 6-10 scoring on a best-qualified basis (step two). A “Yes” vote by a scoring
     member indicates the officer is “exceptionally well-qualified for retention” (EWQR).
     Consistent with SecAF’s guidance in the details convening the boards, a record identified as
     EWQR under this initial scoring process has the potential for being eliminated from any
     further consideration for early discharge in step two using the 6-10 scoring process. A “No”
     vote by a scoring member indicates the officer should be further considered during step two
     using 6-10 scoring.
20. Scoring Scales. Boards will use the following scoring scale to score an officer's potential
for retention:
AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014                                                                        7


Table 1. Scoring Scales.
  Score          Potential for Retention
  10.0           Absolutely superior
  9.5            Outstanding
  9.0            Few could be better
  8.5            Strong
  8.0            Slightly above average
  7.5            Average
  7.0            Slightly below average
  6.5            Well below average
  6.0            Lowest
21. Defining "Splits. " A "split" is a significant disagreement between voting board members
about the score of a record. A "split" is considered a difference in a score of two or more points
between any two or more board members (e.g., 6 and 8, or 8 and 10) evaluating the records.
22. Resolving "Splits. " All voting board members must be present and may discuss the
record involved in a "split." Only members with split scores may change their scores in the
process of resolving a split.
23. New Documents. If new information (e.g., decoration citation, officer performance report,
updated officer selection brief) concerning an individual's record is acquired during board
scoring, the affected records will be brought back to the same board for rescoring as long as the
final order of merit for that Secretarial-designated group has not been derived and gray zone
resolution under paragraph 27 has not commenced. If two-step scoring under paragraph 19.2
is used, new information will be brought back to the same panel for rescoring at the conclusion
of step one (EWQR), if necessary. No new information will be introduced once step two (6-10
scoring) has commenced.
24. Quota. The quota of required losses for each Secretarial-designated group is based on the
current inventory within the group and the numbers needed to maintain a sustainable force both
today and in the future. Finalized quotas are staffed, reviewed, and approved by SecAF or
Secretarially-designated authority, prior to the board convening. This information will be
available to the board for its use.
25. Establishing the Gray Zone. After board scoring is complete, establish an order of merit
for each Secretarial-designated group, and establish a gray zone. In the event the retain quota is
completely exhausted by all the records in a score category (i.e., a clean cut), then the gray zone
will consist of the score category that exhausted the quota and the next lower score category. In
the event the retain quota is exhausted in a score category where there are more records tied at
the score category than there is available quota, (i.e., not a clean cut), then the gray zone will
consist of that score category, plus the next higher and the next lower score categories. The
appropriate respective quota will accompany the records to gray zone. See attached slides for
illustration.
26. Board President's Quality Review. The BP conducts a quality review prior to beginning
the gray zone resolution process of all records above and below the gray zone with the
characteristics within them listed in paragraphs 26.1 and 26.2. If, in the BP's opinion, one or
more of these records is of comparable quality or appears to have been inconsistently scored
 8                                                              AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014


compared to those records in the gray zone, he or she may add those records to the gray zone for
the board's final determination. If a record above the gray zone is added to the gray zone, the
associated quota is added to gray zone as well.
     26.1. The BP may add selection records to the gray zone that are above the gray zone which
     have any of the following characteristics within them:
        26.1.1. A court-martial.
        26.1.2. An Article 15.
        26.1.3. A letter of reprimand (LOR).
        26.1.4. A "do not retain" recommendation RRF.
        26.1.5. A "do not retain me" letter.
        26.1.6. Referral OPR on top.
        26.1.7. Current prisoner or appellate leave.
     26.2. The BP may add selection records to the gray zone that are below the gray zone which
     have any of the following characteristics within them:
        26.2.1. Students attending school in PCS status.
        26.2.2. Medal of Honor recipient.
        26.2.3. Prisoner of war (POW)/former POW.
        26.2.4. Missing in action (MIA)/former MIA.
        26.2.5. A “definitely retain” recommendation RRF.
        26.2.6. Wounded Warrior.
        26.2.7. Any officer possessing a skill (to include capabilities, experiences, and other
        attributes) approved by SecAF and identified in the board details as critical to the Air
        Force.
27. Gray Zone Resolution. After the BP has conducted a quality review and adds any records
to the gray zone, the records are scored again by the appropriate board using the scoring scale
described in paragraph 20. After scoring, an order of merit will be established and the remaining
quota applied to it. If records are tied at the score which would result in retention, this
establishes a new "gray zone". Continue to resolve any "gray zone", without further BP quality
review, until all available retention opportunities are filled. Prior to scoring any records in the
gray zone, the BP will personally instruct all members to re-read the SecAF's MOI. On boards
conducting gray zone resolution the BP may instruct the board to re-read the MOI on subsequent
designated groupings.
28. Board Report. Board members, recorders, and administrative support staff will sign a
board report that verifies the specific certifications in the SecAF’s MOI for that board were
followed in their entirety and includes lists of those selected for retention as well as those
selected for early discharge. Certifications are as follows, unless otherwise provided by the
SecAF:
AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014                                                                       9


   28.1. That to the best of their knowledge, the board complied with the Secretary’s
   instructions, including those related to the critical skills needed by the Air Force;
   28.2. That he or she was not subject to or aware of any censure, reprimand, or
   admonishment resulting from the recommendations of the board or the exercise of any lawful
   function within the authorized discretion of the board;
   28.3. That he or she was not subject to or aware of any attempt to coerce or influence
   improperly any action in the formulation of the board’s recommendations;
   28.4. That he or she was not a party to or aware of any attempt at unauthorized
   communications;
   28.5. That, to the best of their knowledge, the board carefully considered the records of each
   officer whose name was furnished to the board;
   28.6. That the officers recommended for early discharge are, in the opinion of the majority
   of the scoring members of the board who reviewed the records of the officers, those offices
   whose early discharge best serves the needs of the Air Force.
29. Out-briefing Board Members. Recorders out-brief the board members (discuss cautions
and destroy all notes).
30. Board Anomalies. Procedural anomalies occurring during a board that may require
variation from established procedures require BP resolution. During the board, the BP may bring
any matter to the attention of the SecAF, or designated representative, if he or she determines
SecAF-level decision is required. The BP will advise the SecAF of any significant procedural
anomalies during his or her out-brief of the board. These responsibilities of the BP do not limit
in any way the right of a board member or Board Secretariat member to communicate with the
SecAF as provided by other authority.
31. Lists and Other Documents to be Retained. All aggregate scoring runs (which include
and identify those records in, above and below the initial "gray zone" as well as the BP Quality
Review) will be filed with the formal record of the Board, but not made part of that record.
These scoring runs will not reflect individual member scores. Additionally, a copy of the final
board room graphic depicting which boards scored which Secretarial-designated groups as well
as letters preserved for appeal in accordance with paragraph 12 will be maintained as permanent
documents. These documents will be marked "For Official Use Only". These records must not
be released under Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) or the Privacy Act but could become
subject to discovery in litigation.
32. Oaths. The following oaths will be administered to board personnel as appropriate:
   32.1. Board Members: "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will, without prejudice or
   partiality, having in view both the special fitness of the officers and the efficiency and
   effectiveness of the United States Air Force, perform the duties imposed upon me and that I
   will not reveal information about the board conduct and results except as may be provided by
   the Secretary."
   32.2. Recorders and Administrative Support Staff: "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will
   keep a true record of the proceedings of the board and that I will not reveal information about
   the board conduct and results except as may be provided by the Secretary."
 10                                                            AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014


33. Disclosure of Board Recommendations and Board Proceedings. Before the report is
signed by each board member board recorder, and the administrative support staff, the
recommendations may be disclosed only to the board members, board recorders, and those
administrative support staff designated in writing by the SecAF. Results of the board will not be
released until after the SecAF approves the board report. Board proceedings will not be
disclosed without the authority of the SecAF to do so. (T-0)
34. Summary. These selection board procedures were developed to give all eligible officers
fair and equitable consideration, not for ease of administration. These procedures will remain in
effect until otherwise modified in writing or incorporated into AFI 36-3207, Separating
Commissioned Officers.




                                            MARGARET B. POORE, Maj General, USAF
                                            Commander
AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014                                                                         11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, U.S.C., Section 638a, Modification to rules for continuation on active duty; enhanced
authority for selective early retirement and early discharges
DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 14 May 2007
DoDI 1312.03, Service Credit for Commissioned Officers, 22 November 2013
DoDI 6000.13, Medical Manpower and Personnel, 30 June 1997
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-332, The Air Force Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers, 9 July 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-32, Military Retirements and Separations, 12 May 2014
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3538, Retention Recommendation Form

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADL—Active Duty List
AFPCI—Air Force Personnel Center Instruction
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
BP—Board President
CHAP—Chaplain
CORE AFSC—Unless otherwise defined by the Secretary of the Air Force, a core AFSC is a
core ID as defined in AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (the first three digits of the
AFSC an officer was classified into when originally accessed into EAD, retrained, or approved
for a competitive category transfer.
DoD—Department of Defense
EO—Executive Order
EWQR—Exceptionally Well-Qualified for Retention
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
 12                                                              AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014


Health Professions—Medical Corps (MC); Dental Corps (DC); Nurse Corps (NC); Medical
Service Corps (MSC); and Biomedical Sciences Corps (BSC)
LAF—Line of the Air Force
LAF-J—Line of the Air Force Judge Advocate
LOR—Letter of Reprimand
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIA—Missing in Action
MOI—Memorandum of Instructions
OPR—Officer Performance Report
OSR—Officer Selection Record
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PII—Personally Identifying Information
POW—Prisoner of War
PRF—Promotion Recommendation Form
PSDM—Personnel Services Delivery Memorandum
RDS—Air Force and Disposition Schedule
RIF—Reduction-in-Force
RRF—Retention Recommendation Form
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
TR—Training Report

Terms
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, Office
of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority, is non-applicable, or external to the
AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with
concurrence of the AFI certifying official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director.
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equiv).
AFPCI36-109 1 AUGUST 2014                                                       13


                                             Attachment 2
                                        ILLUSTRATIONS

Figure A2.1. “Establishing the Gray Zone” Clean Cut Slide Illustration.




Figure A2.2. “Establishing the Gray Zone” Not a Clean Cut Slide Illustration.

                    “Establishing the Gray Zone”
                                                   Not a Clean Cut
                                                 Cumulative
  Records = 90          Scores       Records      Records
Quota = 81 Retain         43.0           7            40
   9 Separate
                          42.5          25            65

                          42.0           9            74
       Gray Zone          41.5           8            82
                                                                 81
                          41.0           6            88

                      Board will score 23 records to retain 16
                            Plus any records BP adds


                    Integrity - Service - Excellence
