BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AFPC INSTRUCTION 90-201
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
                                                                                 14 JULY 2011

                                                                          Special Management

                                                             AFPC INSPECTION PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFPC/DSXP                                                   Certified by: HQ AFPC/DS
                                                                     (Mr. Michael K. Gamble)
Supersedes:   AFPCI 90-201, 14 May 2004                                               Pages: 7


The objective of the AFPC Inspection Program is to help AFPC leaders accomplish their mission
while sustaining high levels of performance. The Inspection Program enables the center to
operate in a band of sustained excellence by establishing a knowledge base for key processes and
mission-essential tasks, ensuring compliance with regulatory guidance, documenting any
deviations and making lasting corrections. This instruction applies only to AFPC.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 to the AFPC Publishing Office, 550 C Street West Suite 48, Randolph AFB Texas
78150-4750, or email afpc.publications@us.af.mil.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

Vigilance should be taken to protect Privacy Act (PA) and Personal Identifying Information (PII)
when submitting or sending nominations, applications or other documents to DoD agencies
whether through government internet systems (e-mail), postal methods, faxing or scanning. As a
minimum review the following references and take appropriate actions to protect your PA/PII
that contains sensitive or For Official Use Only (FOUO) information before sending: AFI 33-
332, Air Force Privacy Program, Chapters 2 and 6, DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense
Privacy Program; AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, and AFI 33-129, Web Management and
Internet Use. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement.
 2                                                               AFPCI90-201 14 JULY 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised substantially since its last update in May 2004 and must be
reviewed in its entirety.

Section A—The AFPC Inspection Program

1. Overview. The AFPC Inspection Program consists of three primary tools designed to help
validate performance and ensure compliance: First, Self-Inspection (SI) is a comprehensive tool
for ensuring compliance with regulatory guidance, finding and documenting deviations from that
guidance, and making lasting corrections when deviations are discovered. Second, Information
Cross Feed (ICF) draws attention to formal evaluation reports from various government sources
for “lessons learned” information. Third, Special Interest Items (SII) provide a means to focus
management attention, gather data and/or evaluate the status of specific programs and conditions
in the field. SIIs also provide feedback from the field that functional staffs use to enhance
decision-making and policy adjustments.
2. Program Management. The AFPC Operations and Strategic Plans office (AFPC/DSXP) is
the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the AFPC inspection program to include the
oversight of Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Core Compliance Inspection (CI) checklists,
information cross feeds (ICFs), Air Force Special Interest Items (SIIs), and other pertinent
information. AFPC/DSXP serves as the liaison for Higher Headquarters (HHQ) IG inspections
and tracks follow-on actions to correct findings.

Section B—Responsibilities

3. AFPC Operations and Strategic Plans (AFPC/DSXP).
     3.1. Ensures guidelines to foster an effective inspection program consisting of HAF Core CI
     checklists, and utilization of SIIs and ICFs.
     3.2. Serves as inspection liaison for directors/special staff agency chiefs and program
     managers.
     3.3. Maintains file copy of CI and SII checklists.
     3.4. Manages SI program.
        3.4.1. Ensures program managers conduct AFPC self-inspections. Establishes suspense
        actions related to inspection procedures.
        3.4.2. Reviews and tracks corrective actions for any open items found during self-
        inspections.
     3.5. Manages SII program.
        3.5.1. Provides applicable Air Force SII information and monitors compliance when
        applicable.
        3.5.2. Reviews and tracks Air Force SII submissions.
AFPCI90-201 14 JULY 2011                                                                        3


   3.6. Manages ICF program.
       3.6.1. Provides cross feed information from HHQ IG inspection reports, inspection
       trends, hot topics, and other information as it becomes available.
   3.7. Manages HHQ IG inspections.
       3.7.1. Is the OPR for Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) IG inspection support
       preparation.
       3.7.2. Plans for and hosts AFIA inspection teams.
       3.7.3. Reviews and tracks all AFIA inspection findings.
4. Directorate/Special Staff Agency POCs and Program Managers.
   4.1. Implement an inspection program to effectively detect discrepancies and ensure prompt
   corrective/preventive action(s).
   4.2. Conduct comprehensive self-inspections, annually at a minimum.
   4.3. Manage and track all HHQ IG inspections, AFPC annual self-inspections/spot check
   inspections, and Air Force SII findings (within respective areas of responsibility).
       4.3.1. Document corrective actions for HHQ IG and AFPC annual self-inspection and
       Air Force SII findings and, utilizing the AFSO21 8-Step Problem Solving Model,
       monitor until compliance with the standard is achieved.
       4.3.2. Review AFPC annual self-inspection and official CI findings for accuracy of
       corrective actions, POC and estimated completion dates; and coordinate inspection
       findings through director/special staff agency chief prior to submitting to AFPC/DSXP.
       4.3.3. E-mail follow-up updates of AFPC annual self-inspection or official CI findings to
       the AFPC/DSXL workflow mailbox.
   4.4. Notify AFPC/DSXP when an HHQ IG, AFPC annual self-inspection, or Air Force SII
   finding has been corrected and subsequently closed.
   4.5. Distribute cross feed information for review to identify similar discrepancies or evaluate
   commendable/best practice items.
   4.6. Monitor currency of inspection program POC appointment letters (attachment 2).

Section C—Self-Inspection

5. Purpose. AFPC directors/special staff agency chiefs and inspection program POCs measure
program compliance IAW applicable regulatory requirements, including but not limited to
applicable laws, regulations, instructions, self-inspection checklists, HAF Core CI items, other
HHQ IG inspection requirements, and findings from other evaluations. Analysis through self-
inspection enables program compliance on a consistent basis. Any discrepancies noted will be
resolved utilizing the AFSO21 8-Step Problem Solving Model, accessible at:
https://www.my.af.mil/afknprod/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-TR-AF-43.                     The
result is intended to reflect “the source” of discrepancies, represent an objective view of
priorities, lead to rapid corrective action of the root cause of discrepancies and provide
“corporate memory” documentation.
 4                                                                 AFPCI90-201 14 JULY 2011


6. Timing and Methods. AFPC self-inspections will occur annually at a minimum.
Continuous processes will collect data/results as part of normal operations. Program managers
may take a phased approach to inspecting certain areas in any month to arrive at a full self-
inspection by the end of the self-inspection cycle. Only items which are currently open at the
time of the report will be included in the end-of-cycle report. If a HHQ IG inspection occurs
during the annual inspection cycle period, the program manager may decide to cancel a self-
inspection requirement. Coordinate this action with AFPC/DSXP via e-mail to the AFPC/DSXL
workflow mailbox.
7. Self-Inspection Checklists. The minimum baseline for AFPC self-inspections are the
applicable HAF Core CI checklists and applicable Air Force SIIs. The most up-to-date HAF
Core CI checklists may be accessed at: https://webapps.afrc.af.mil/afia/home.aspx.

Section D—Information Cross Feed (ICF)

8. Purpose. Cross feed is the sharing of knowledge and evaluation results and learning from
both positive and negative aspects of other agencies’ experiences. Sources include inspection
reports, audit reports, staff assistance visit (SAV) reports, The Inspector General (TIG) Brief
magazine articles, exercise reports, best practices, and other related guidance, directives, and
policy letters. AFPC/DSXP’s emphasis is on searching for cross feed information and
disseminating it throughout the organization. Program managers should periodically visit prime
cross feed sources for their functional area in order to contribute to a viable cross feed program.

Section E—Special Interest Items (SII)

9. Overview. SIIs are designed to achieve their purpose by enabling tasked
MAJCOMs/FOAs/DRUs to determine the degree of compliance with published directives,
policies and procedures; gather information on known or suspected problems; identify specific
deficiencies or confirm a problem has been resolved. The majority of SIIs are compliance-
oriented.




                                             ALFRED J. STEWART, Maj Gen, USAF
                                             Commander
AFPCI90-201 14 JULY 2011                                               5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-119, Air Force Messaging, 24 January 2005
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 June 2009
AFI 90-201, AFGM 1.1, Inspector General Activities, 10 February 2011
DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 14 May 2007
Prescribed Forms. No prescribed forms
Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CI—Compliance Inspection
DoD—Department of Defense
ECD—Estimated Completion Date
FOUO—For Official Use Only
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
ICF—Information Cross Feed
IG—Inspector General
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PII—Personal Indentifying Information
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RIA—Recommended Improvement Area
SAV—Staff Assistance Visits
SI—Self-Inspection
 6                                                                AFPCI90-201 14 JULY 2011


SII—Special Interest Item
TIG—The Inspector General

Terms
Best Practices— Superior methods or innovative practices which contribute to improved
performance.
HAF Core Compliance Inspection (CI) Checklists— Represent key processes, procedures and
requirements based on by-law requirements; executive orders; DoD directives; and Air Force,
MAJCOM, and applicable Air National Guard instructions. Checklists typically cover
requirements not identified in other Air Force checklists.
Comply (COM)— In compliance with applicable directives. Few, if any, discrepancies noted.
Best practices and information of cross feed value may exist.
Compliance Checklist Items— Key result areas for successful mission accomplishment
including but not limited to items where non-compliance could result in serious injury, loss of
life, excessive cost, or litigation.
Comply With Comments (CWC) (AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT)— In compliance with
intent of directive, but improvement required. This item has cross feed value.
Cross Feed—An item or observation (positive or negative) from which other units within the
Air Force can learn. Additionally, Cross Feed is information or inspection reports which enable
units to cross-utilize data and identify strengths and weaknesses of their own unit.
Does Not Comply (DNC)-Not in compliance— Could result in injury, loss of life, excessive
cost, litigation, or adverse mission impact. Cross feed value exists.
Finding(s)— Core problems within the scope of the unit’s authority, having significant mission
impact requiring formal attention to resolve. For CIs, inspection reports will only include write-
ups categorized as Strengths, Deficiencies, and Recommended Improvement Areas (RIAs).
Inspection Program— Establishes and implements an objective evaluation to detect
discrepancies and ensure prompt preventative or corrective action. The inspection program
includes HHQ inspections, CCCA, SII, and utilization of Information Cross Feed as a minimum.
Recommended Improvement Areas (RIAs)— One possible element of findings during official
CIs. RIAs will not be used to document procedural deviations or non-compliance; they are only
used to recommend a more efficient or effective course of action.
Special Interest Item (SII)— Any item/program which provides Air Force leadership a means
to communicate their concerns to, and obtain feedback from, the field. SIIs are used to determine
the degree of compliance with directives, policies, and procedures. They are also used to gather
information on known or suspected problems, to identify specific deficiencies, or to confirm that
a problem has been resolved.
AFPCI90-201 14 JULY 2011                                                                   7


                                          Attachment 2
                     SAMPLE, POC APPOINTMENT MEMORANDUM

                                                                       Date

MEMORANDUM FOR AFPC/DSXP

FROM: Office Symbol

SUBJECT: Appointment for AFPC Inspection Program POCs for (agency name)

1. IAW Air Force Personnel Center Operating Instruction (AFPCI) 90-201, paragraph 4, the
following individuals are appointed as AFPC inspection program POCs.

Primary POC: TSgt Martin, Stephen /office symbol/duty phone

Alternate POC: TSgt Lewis, Jerry/office symbol/duty phone

2. This letter supersedes all others, same subject.




                                                         UN O. WHO, Col, USAF
                                                         Director
