BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER                                        INSTRUCTION 33-105

                                                                               13 AUGUST 2014

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                            AFPC RECORDS MANAGEMENT
                                                                            PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFPC/DS1                                                      Certified by: HQ AFPC/DS
                                                                       (Mr. Michael K. Gamble)
Supersedes:    AFI33-322_AFPCSUP_I,                                                    Pages: 30
               16 July 10


This Air Force Personnel Center Instruction (AFPCI) implements Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 33-3, Information Management; DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program;
DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands;
and DoD Standard 5015.02 (DoD 5015.02-STD), Design Criteria Standard for Electronic
Records Management Software Applications. It establishes roles and assigns responsibilities for
the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) Records Management Program (RMP).

This instruction applies to all AFPC personnel located in San Antonio TX and Peterson AFB
CO, to include active duty, guard, reserve military, civilians employed by the Department of the
Air Force and Air Force contractor personnel. Contractors who perform roles associated with
records management, defined in this instruction, must fully comply with the duties for their
assigned role. Performance work statements for contracts awarded to perform any of the records
management roles in this instruction will reflect this requirement. Contractors are not authorized
to perform Chief of the Office of Record (COR) duties.

This instruction sets forth policies regarding penalties associated with unauthorized concealment,
removal, mutilation, obliteration or destruction of records without proper authority is applicable
to civilian and military personnel, including the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard.
Failure by military personnel to observe prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this directive
is a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice. Violations may also result in
administrative disciplinary action for civilian and contractor employee personnel.
 2                                                                                           AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The
authorities to waive FOA level requirements in this publication are identified with Tier 3
(delegable no lower than Group/CC or equivalent) following the compliance statement. See AFI
33-360, Publications and Forms Management, Table 1.1., for a description of the authorities
associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to
the appropriate tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the publication OPR for non-
tiered compliance items.

Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer to attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting
Information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The Supplement
to AFI 33-322 has been revised and is now AFPCI 33-105, AFPC Records Management
Program. This document has been revised to update roles and responsibilities for program and
portfolio managers. Reduces unauthorized personal data files from being scanned via NTP
software on the “O:” and “S:” drives. Deletes reference to scanning records over 365 days
(modified date). Includes co-located units and the 4th Manpower Requirements Squadron (4
MRS) records management support. Identifies tiered waiver authorities for unit level
compliance items.

       1.      General. ..................................................................................................................     3
       2.      Definition of Records. ............................................................................................             3
       3.      Users. .....................................................................................................................    4
       4.      Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................                4
       5.      Records Professionals. ...........................................................................................              4
       6.      Portfolio Manager (PfM) of IT investments. .........................................................                           13
       7.      Program Manager (PM) of an IT investment. ........................................................                             14
       8.      Publication and Form Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). ...........................                                       14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                16

Attachment 2—AFPC E-FARM HANDBOOK                                                                                                             21

Attachment 3—SAMPLE ELECTRONIC E-FARM HANDBOOK (T-3).                                                                                         22

Attachment 4—MANAGING AND STORING ELECTRONIC RECORDS ON SHARED
             DRIVES                                                                                                                           23
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                      3



1. General. This publication defines the roles and responsibilities to effectively manage Air
Force records. This publication establishes the AFPC program for Records Management (RM).
   1.1. AFPC personnel have a requirement to document their organization’s functions,
   policies, procedures, and activities. This documentation serves as the AFPC RM policy.
   These records must be preserved by implementing effective life-cycle management
   procedures and must be managed systematically to ensure they are complete, accurate,
   trustworthy, and easily accessible. Every Air Force activity must manage its records to
   comply with legal accountability requirements.
   1.2. Personnel employed by AFPC shall not conceal, remove, mutilate, obliterate or destroy
   records without proper authority.         Unauthorized concealment, removal, mutilation,
   obliteration or destruction of records, or any attempt to do so, is a violation of Title 18,
   U.S.C., Section 2071 and may be punished by up to 3 years confinement and a fine. Failure
   to obey the prohibitions in this paragraph is also a violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of
   Military Justice. Failure of civilian employees to follow the prohibitions in this paragraph
   may also result in administrative disciplinary action under applicable civilian personnel
   instructions without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions.
   1.3. The keys to an effective RM program are the integrity of the filing system and
   effectively resourced and trained personnel. The filing system ensures a standard
   methodology for filing, storing, retrieving, and ultimately disposing of records according to
   published retention schedules. Criteria for establishing a file plan is provided in AFMAN
   33-363 along with the AF RDS. The AF RDS is located in the AFRIMS located at
   https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
2. Definition of Records. Consistent with the definition of records used in 44 U.S.C. § 3301,
records include all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable materials, or other
documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an
agency of the United States Government under Federal law or in connection with the transaction
of public business and is preserved or is appropriate for preservation by that agency or its
legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policy, decisions, procedures,
operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value of data in
them. Materials exempt from the definition of records include extra copies of documents kept
only for reference, stocks of publications and processed documents, and library or museum
materials intended solely for reference or exhibit.
   2.1. Contractor Records. (T-3). Records relating to work contractors perform are
   maintained according to AFRIMS RDS, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and the Defense
   Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, as applicable.
       2.1.1. When contractors create data for the government’s use, the contract must identify
       the background data contractors must deliver to the government for possible reuse.
       2.1.2. Before identifying the background data contractors must deliver to the
       government, program and contracting officers must coordinate with records and
       information managers, historians and other government agencies as appropriate to ensure
       all government needs are met, especially when the data supports new missions or
       programs.
 4                                                               AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


        2.1.3. When the background data includes electronic records, the contractor must deliver
        enough technical documentation to allow the Air Force or other agencies to use the data.
3. Users. (T-3). Defined as all military, civilian, and contractors working at the Air Force
Personnel Center. Users will:
     3.1. Create and declare records that sufficiently document the function, organization,
     administration, policies and procedures. File records IAW office procedures.
     3.2. Notify the office Records Custodian (RC) upon notification of retirement, separation, or
     change of assignment.
     3.3. Comply with Functional Area Records Manager (FARM)/RC request to search using
     provided search terms, for all information including paper, non-electronic, and electronic
     within his or her assigned workspace, on his or her respective government provided
     desktop/laptop computer, and personal government e-mail accounts/.psts/and files in time to
     meet assigned suspense. The search will include all information, regardless of classification
     or format. All information in the custody, possession, or control of the Air Force is subject to
     the discovery process and may contain potentially relevant information. Notify the RC when
     the search has been completed. If responsive information is found, notify the RC as soon as
     possible for preservation guidance. Any potentially relevant information shall immediately
     be suspended from additional modification or destruction.
     3.4. Must inform the COR and RC of any actual or potential unlawful or inadvertent
     removal, change, or destruction of Air Force records.
     3.5. Must distinguish records from non-record materials and maintain personal papers
     separately.
4. Roles and Responsibilities. Effective management of records for an organization, the scope
and size of the Air Force, requires a network of records professionals. The network of roles
includes the AFPC Agency Records Manager (ARM), AFPC Base Records Managers (BRM),
Functional Area Records Managers (FARM), Chiefs of Office of Record (COR), and Records
Custodians (RC). (Reference AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, for further guidance.)
5. Records Professionals. (T-3) Records professionals must protect record content and comply
with For Official Use Only (FOUO), sensitive, Privacy Act, and other policy and legal
requirements.
     5.1. AFPC ARM. (T-3)
        5.1.1. Oversees records program as specified in Federal laws, National Archives and
        Records Administration (NARA) guidelines and applicable Air Force 33-series
        publications.
        5.1.2. Completes annual ARM role based training on ADLS site.
        5.1.3. Ensures AFPC internal record-keeping programs comply with host base records
        management program guidelines for staging and retrieval.
        5.1.4. Establishes and manages a training program for newly appointed FARMs and RCs
        for continuing training and education.
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                   5


     5.1.5. Enforces the federal mandate of the E-Government Act of 2002, requiring
     electronic processes be applied to records created and maintained electronically that have
     a retention disposition of 10 years or less.
        5.1.5.1. Ensures records professionals verify Office of Responsibility (OPR)s have
        authoritative guidance pertaining to legal recognition and validity before approving
        transfer (e.g., scanning documents) to electronic form. This includes protecting the
        scanned paper records from destruction until such authoritative guidance is provided.
        5.1.5.2. Evaluates and approve/disapprove requests to convert paper records to
        another record media (e.g., digital) and evaluates and approves proposals for
        automated information systems (AIS) storing electronic records with a 10 year or less
        retention.
     5.1.6. Reviews Agency directives, messages and forms before publication to ensure
     compliance with records management directives. Ensures records generated by the
     prescribed processes are scheduled, if not scheduled send AF Form 525, Records
     Disposition Recommendation, to the Air Force Records Office (AFRO).
     5.1.7. Provides assistance to OPR in submitting and ensuring requests for new, updated,
     or deleted records retention recommendations are properly coordinated using an AF Form
     525 or its equivalent.
     5.1.8. Reviews/approves documentation used to survey electronic data and records in AF
     information systems in Electronic Information Technology Data Records (EITDR).
     Validates proposals on information systems containing records or records data with an
     approved disposition schedule in the AF RDS for less than 25 years.
     5.1.9. Reviews and makes recommendations to the AFRO for pre-accessioning and
     accessioning permanent electronic records in NARA’s Electronic Research
     Administration (ERA) system.
  5.2. The BRM administers the AFPC RMO. The duties fall into three major areas: provides
  assistance, manages AFPC staging area, and training. (T-3)
     5.2.1. AFPC BRM provides assistance:
        5.2.1.1. The contractor serves as the BRM for AFPC and will comply with
        performance work statement (PWS) requirements in performance of duties.
        5.2.1.2. Provides assistance and oversight to FARMs and RCs as needed and reviews
        all file plans for accuracy.
        5.2.1.3. Provides inputs and recommendations to the ARM.
        5.2.1.4. Upon receipt of SAF-directed AFRIMS records search, litigations or records
        freeze, the BRM will assist ARM by preparing an email draft notification for ARM
        release to FARMs/RCs, track responses, and certify data as BRM.
        5.2.1.5. Reviews requests for e-storage/document imaging of records, makes
        recommendation to improve processes, and sends proposal to the ARM before
        implementation.
        5.2.1.6. Implements AFRIMS according to AFMAN 33-363.
6                                                      AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


    5.2.1.7. Develops, examines, and manages the AFPC Enterprise Records
    Management (ERM) hierarchy organizational directory structures for compliance
    IAW the Air Force ERM Solution Guide.
    5.2.1.8. Implements procedures for processing and approving file plans. The BRM is
    the file plan approval/disapproval authority.
    5.2.1.9. Ensures file plans (4 MRS and co-located AFPC units reviewed virtually) are
    reviewed and processed within 5 duty days of AFRIMS notification.
    5.2.1.10. Forwards records disposition waivers/requests from FARMs/RCs through
    the ARM, to SAF/A6PP for approval/disapproval IAW AFI 33-364 and provides
    FARM/RC status of requests, as required.
    5.2.1.11. Assists FARMs/RCs with executing ERM system using current Air Force
    guidance.
    5.2.1.12. Uses the current AFRIMS checklist to review electronic records during
    review of file plans and SAVs (office of records and unit).
    5.2.1.13. Investigates incidences of lost and unauthorized destruction of records.
    5.2.1.14. Provides guidance and assistance to reconstruct lost and destroyed records.
    5.2.1.15. Makes recommendations to management on preventing future records loss.
    5.2.1.16. Provides a report as prescribed by AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—
    Procedures and Responsibilities.
    5.2.1.17. Reviews Agency directives, messages, and forms before publication to
    ensure compliance with records management directives.
    5.2.1.18. Assists OPR identify the appropriate RDS for each local form and other
    local records prescribed in applicable directives.
    5.2.1.19. Provides instruction to the OPR on submitting AF Form 525,
    recommending new, modified, or deletion of a records schedule.
    5.2.1.20. Conducts biennial review during the month of September of Agency-owned
    tables and rules in Air Force RDS and assists OPRs in submitting updates through the
    ARM to the AFRO.
    5.2.1.21. Reviews documentation used to survey electronic data and records in AF
    information systems, Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository (EITDR),
    and proposed disposition (AF Form 525) of system from OPRs and Program
    Managers. Reviews documentation and informs the ARM. Information systems
    which contain Privacy Act System of Records, coordinate with the program manager
    to ensure disposition of data in the survey and schedule is consistent with the records
    disposition in the System of Records Notice.
    5.2.1.22. Serves as the Agency POC for Archives and Records Centers Information
    System (ARCIS) used for transactions with FRCs. There will be two ARCIS account
    holders; one primary and one alternate.
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                   7


        5.2.1.23. Performs staff visit on each unit FARM at least once every 24 months.
        Schedules, manages, and documents all staff visits in AFRIMS using the AF-wide
        checklist. Open findings must be tracked and documented using AFRIMS (virtual
        Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) for 4 MRF and co-located AFPC units).
        5.2.1.24. Conducts SAVs on offices of record/unit every 24 months and elevates
        repeat discrepancies to the chain of command through the ARM.
        5.2.1.25. Conducts a program evaluation of each assigned office of record to
        properly evaluate the records management program to determine program
        effectiveness and ensure appropriate corrective action. Furthermore, provides out-
        brief email message to the appropriate Directorate level.
        5.2.1.26. Conducts 6-week follow-up for any major noncompliance items; and
        ensures matters of noncompliance after the SAV follow-up are referred to the ARM
        for assistance as required. Ensures all noncompliance items are monitored until
        completed.
        5.2.1.27. When reorganizations/consolidations occur, the office being subsumed will
        merge its files into the gaining office/function’s file plan, as appropriate. A new
        office is defined as a function that has never existed. To facilitate the AFRIMS/ERM
        process prior to office symbols being documented in the most current Organizations
        and Functions (Chart Book or ARM approval, based on mission requirement), offices
        of records are authorized to use the new office symbol with the old office symbol
        placed in parentheses.
        5.2.1.28. When offices consolidate, use file plan that covers the majority of functions
        as the starting point for 24-month SAV requirement. If none of the consolidated
        offices have a file plan, gaining COR will coordinate with office they departed from
        for records and will identify the type records this function created in the past.
        Similarly, if the majority of functions in the new organization came from areas
        SAV’d in the last 24 months, use the latest SAV date as a starting point for the basis
        for the next SAV due date.
           5.2.1.28.1. If part of new function has been SAV’d, use that SAV date to
           establish due date for next SAV.
           5.2.1.28.2. When reorganizations/consolidations of an office of record occur, the
           gaining office FARM/RCs will create subject office on the official (“O:”), shared
           (“S:”), and restricted (“R:”) drives. RMO will create the office in AFRIMS.
           Once office is created, the gaining office has 30 days to move all records to the
           official drive and populate the AFRIMS file plan.
        5.2.1.29. Directs FARMs and RCs to conduct non-Freedom of Information Act
        (FOIA) records management data calls and record searches upon receipt of an official
        request from the ARM or AFRIMS.
        5.2.1.30. Ensures all subordinate FARMs and RCs complete and report responses to
        non-FOIA records searches in AFRIMS before closing out base response in AFRIMS.
        5.2.1.31. Ensures FARMs and RCs obtain appropriate network permissions upon
        completion of training.
8                                                              AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


          5.2.1.32. Coordinates on the AFPC Disaster and Recovery Plan to account for the
          Vital Records Program. At a minimum, plan will include a description of how vital
          records are protected and recovered during a disaster or link to the vital records plan.
    5.3. AFPC BRM manages staging area: (T-3)
       5.3.1. Manages a staging area for temporary storage of records pending destruction or
       transfer to a Federal Records Center (FRC) including centralized storage of electronically
       stored inactive records.
       5.3.2. Manages AFPC staging area located in Building 220 and assists FARMs with
       transfer of all temporary and permanent records (end of each calendar and fiscal year), as
       appropriate.
          5.3.2.1. Occupants located in Building 171, Joint Base San Antonio – Lackland, TX
          are granted in-place staging.
       5.3.3. Follows guidelines IAW AFI 33-364 for proper management of a records staging
       area and all required records are transferred to the staging area at the end of each calendar
       and fiscal record, as appropriate.
       5.3.4. Provides records staging service for AFPC directorates, co-located units, and Air
       Force tenant activities as provided for in a support agreement.
          5.3.4.1. Units will adhere to AFPC BRM procedures/guidelines, ensuring contents
          are visibly accounted for by directorate FARM and AFPC BRM representative prior
          to box being sealed.
       5.3.5. Maintains custody of and accountability for staged records, and accountability for
       records transferred to other agencies or FRCs.
          5.3.5.1. Maintains Standard Form (SF) 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, in
          AFRIMS and an official copy on ERM drive.
       5.3.6. Ensures eligible records are transferred to appropriate FRC (includes electronically
       stored inactive records), maintains accountability for the records IAW AFI 33-364, Air
       Force ERM Solution, and AFRIMS RDS; and maintains copies of SF 135s.
       5.3.7. Obtains ARM approval prior to shipping or destroying Agency records.
       5.3.8. Shares security responsibility of staging areas and limits entry to only personnel
       who require access. AFPC BRM escorts FARMs/RCs to staging area (Building 220),
       when access is required.
       5.3.9. Uses Optional Form 11 (OF 11), Reference Request–Federal Records Center, to
       monitor return of AFPC records retrieved and on loan from an FRC or staging area.
       5.3.10. Coordinates with AFPC Mail Center on shipment of AFPC records to FRC from
       base staging area, or if a large quantity, prepares paperwork and palletize boxes for
       shipment through transportation movement office (TMO) twice a year (FY/CY cutoff).
       5.3.11. Prepares required forms and makes arrangements with TMO to have pallets
       picked up.
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                      9


     5.3.12. Responsible for investigating incidences of lost or unauthorized destruction of
     records,
         5.3.12.1. Assists FARM/RC in preparing reports through ARM to SAF/A6PP of
         unauthorized removal/destruction, defacing, damage due to natural disaster or
         alteration of records.
     5.3.13. Conducts an annual inventory of records in AFPC staging area and validates
     holdings staged to FRC(s).
     5.3.14. Makes the determination as to whether records have met criteria for disposition.
     5.3.15. Shall ensure vital records maintained in the staging area are readily identified and
     properly documented in AFRIMS as to their location in the staging area.
  5.4. AFPC BRM training: (T-3)
     5.4.1. AFPC BRM completes BRM role-based training on ADLS.
     5.4.2. Ensures all records professionals receive role based training on ADLS site within
     3 months of assignment.
     5.4.3. Monitors records management training for role-based training as required.
         5.4.3.1. Reports incidences of non-compliance to ARM for further action after
         second attempt.
     5.4.4. Ensures newly assigned RCs/FARMs (to include co-located units) who have never
     received RM training receive classroom/appropriate training, unless waived by the
     AFRO.
         5.4.4.1. Training shall include command-unique or local operating procedures or
         requirements, particularly where electronic storage processes are implemented.
  5.5. Chief of the Office of Record (COR). (T-3) Defined as individual designated as the
  head of an office where records are created, received, or maintained. While it is preferred the
  COR be in the senior position of authority in the respective office of record, these duties may
  be delegated as appropriate. Delegation of the COR must be made in writing to the AFPC
  Records Management Office (RMO). The letter of appointment should include an overview
  of the primary responsibilities and contain information regarding any training required.
     5.5.1. Responsible for the physical and legal custody of all records the office creates or
     receives, regardless of their physical characteristics. In smaller organizations the COR
     can also serve as the records custodian.
     5.5.2. Completes annual COR role-based training in ADLS.
     5.5.3. Notifies directorate FARM upon completion to ensure certificate is placed in e-
     FARM Handbook. Upon receipt of certificate, AFPC RMO documents training in
     AFRIMS.
     5.5.4. Ensures AFRIMS file plan properly identifies records meeting definition of vital
     record. 5.5.4.1. Develops plan to account for Vital Records Program. At a minimum,
     plan will include a description of how vital records (paper and electronic) are protected
     and recovered during a disaster or link to the vital records plan.
10                                                           AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


     5.5.5. Ensures each office of record under his or her purview develops a file plan and
     approves by digitally signing the file plan coversheet (reference guidance for digital
     signatures found in AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records).
     5.5.6. Appoints a primary and alternate (if possible) RC in writing to the FARM. If an
     RC is unavailable for more than 90 days a new RC shall be appointed, unless he/she is
     deployed.
     5.5.7. Appoints an RC to implement electronic records-keeping, using a letter of
     appointment and forwards the completed letter to the FARM.
     5.5.8. Ensures RCs complete all required records management training within 30
     calendar days of appointment.
     5.5.9. Ensures a thorough office-wide search for all data calls (e.g., record searches), to
     include active and inactive, physical and electronically stored final and draft documentary
     materials both classified and unclassified.
     5.5.10. Assists FARM or RC to review, and evaluate automated information systems
     which creates transfer, store, retrieve, and disposes records.
     5.5.11. Ensures all electronic records and/or databases are properly scheduled IAW RDS.
     5.5.12. Ensures all personnel who create, maintain and dispose of records complete the
     appropriate records management training.
     5.5.13. Notifies FARM when newly assigned personnel require training.
     5.5.14. Ensures permission to destroy government records (inherently governmental) is
     obtained by the AFPC ARM through the AFPC RMO.
     5.5.15. Has overall responsibility for reporting any accidental, willful, or unauthorized
     disposition of or damage to records; reports any unauthorized or premature destruction or
     loss of records to the FARM.
     5.5.16. Has overall responsibility for ensuring corrective actions are taken on
     discrepancies noted during AFPC RMO or FARM SAVs.
  5.6. FARM. (T-3) Serves as the point of contact for and monitors the directorate/or
  functional RM program.
     5.6.1. Shall have knowledge of categories of records created and used by the units under
     his or her functional area.
     5.6.2. Serves as liaison with AFPC RMO for his or her functional area. If assigned, a
     knowledge operator (Air Force Specialty Code 3D0X1) will be the FARM; otherwise any
     military career field, civil service series, or contractor can perform these duties.
     5.6.3. Appointed at the discretion of each Director (or equivalent) by a letter of
     appointment (or for any change in status) and the COR will provide signed letter to the
     AFPC RMO.
        5.6.3.1. Receives one-on-one orientation from AFPC RMO on FARM
        responsibilities (e.g., review of file plans, assistance to, and evaluations of offices of
        record, etc.). Note: AFPC/CC/Special Staff FARM will coordinate with the AFPC
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                    11


        FARM located at Building 171, Joint Base San Antonio – Lackland, TX to conduct
        SAVs.
     5.6.4. Completes annual FARM role-based training on ADLS.
     5.6.5. Assists in preparing files maintenance and disposition plans.
     5.6.6. Conducts SAV on each office of record at least every 24 months using AFPC
     Form 132, Report of Records Management Staff Assistance Visits. If the FARM also
     serves as the office of record RC, AFPC RMO will perform SAV on respective office.
     5.6.7. Conducts follows up with the COR on corrective actions for discrepancies noted
     during visits, and provides a copy to the COR and AFPC RMO to update in AFRIMS.
     SAVs are performed during the alternating year of the BRM SAV schedule. New offices
     of record will receive a SAV within the first 6 months of establishment, but no later than
     1 year.
     5.6.8. Corrects BRM pre-SAV discrepancies on offices of records to ensure they are
     corrected prior to the BRM SAV.
     5.6.9. Ensures reorganized offices of records not yet included in the Organization and
     Functions Chart Book (or as approved by the ARM) are documented in AFRIMS and
     ERM with the new office symbol, plus the old office symbol placed in parentheses.
     Letters of appointments must also reflect new and old office symbols.
     5.6.10. Performs in-depth assessments of each assigned office of record. If discrepancies
     are noted, sufficient guidance must be provided on evaluation report so personnel
     understand what corrective action needs to be taken. Briefs COR on results of
     evaluations, and provides original report for filing to the office assessed for file.
     5.6.11. Conducts SAVs on offices of record in secure areas and provides BRM with the
     results of the SAV, and follows up as required.
     5.6.12. Assists offices of record to retire eligible records.
     5.6.13. Schedules attendance for all records professionals in their unit or functional area
     to take base records management classroom, hands on, or one-on-one training sessions,
     as required.
     5.6.14. Ensure CORs and RCs complete required annual role-based training.
     5.6.15. Assists the BRM in providing guidance on using document imaging systems and
     electronic storage media for records. Evaluates the effect of document imaging and
     electronic storage on creating, transferring, storing, retrieving, and disposing of office
     records. Reports problems to the COR and BRM.
     5.6.16. Participates in system designs and development process to ensure records
     management requirements are incorporated into the systems, and assists in the
     preparation of AF Form 525 to schedule records/data created and maintained in the
     system, and forward proposals to the BRM.
     5.6.17. Guides and assists assigned personnel in maintaining and disposing of records.
     5.6.18. Reviews record and non-records drives to ensure proper records management
     practices and procedures.
12                                                          AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


     5.6.19. Works with COR in conducting non-FOIA records management data calls and
     record searches upon receipt of an official request when the appointed RC will be
     unavailable to respond in a timely manner.
     5.6.20. Ensures all subordinate RCs complete and report responses to non-FOIA records
     searches in AFRIMS before closing out task in AFRIMS.
     5.6.21. Ensures establishment of (CY/FY) files, to include proper maintenance and
     disposition of records.
     5.6.22. Maintains any records necessary on each office of record within their jurisdiction
     relating to the management, evaluation, and state-of-health of the function’s records
     management program.
     5.6.23. Coordinates on AFPC-owned publications for compliance with records
     management procedures and ensures AF Forms 525 are prepared and submitted to the
     BRM for processing, if publication changes record keeping requirements/processes, are
     deleted, or new processes are implemented.
     5.6.24. Creates and manages directory structure on storage area networks (SAN).
        5.6.24.1. Provides AFPOA A1 Service Help Desk names and required permissions to
        establish global permission security groups for COR/RC/FARM.
        5.6.24.2. Manages/monitors electronic file plan creation.
        5.6.24.3. Responsible for deleting inactive files, but may delegate to RCs.
        5.6.24.4. Monitors directory to ensure records are deleted IAW AFI 33-364.
     5.6.25. Works closely with AFPOA Storage and Backup/Recovery Branch to validate
     need for additional storage devices.
        5.6.25.1. Evaluates record keeping procedures to ensure proper disposition of all
        eligible records and provides instructions to RCs to purge perpetual files.
     5.6.26. Creates directory structure for each office of record under his/her purview.
        5.6.26.1. Oversees file folder creation to ensure compliance.
     5.6.27. Establishes or updates global permission groups, as RCs are appointed.
        5.6.27.1. Use Letter of Appointment (LOA) to appoint RCs and forward completed
        document to AFPC BRM.
     5.6.28. Provides RMO with a scanned copy of records professionals’ completed
     certificate.
     5.6.29. Creates and maintains an e-FARM Handbook with the following categories IAW
     the Air Force ERM Solution Guide procedures (see attachments 2 and 3 for further
     guidance).
        5.6.29.1. FARM Letter of Appointment.
        5.6.29.2. FARM SAV Reports.
        5.6.29.3. BRM SAV Reports.
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                      13


          5.6.29.4. Training Certificates.
          5.6.29.5. Standard Form 135.
          5.6.29.6. Information Received from BRM.
          5.6.29.7. BRM Orientation, FOIA, and Privacy Act Guides.
   5.7. Records Custodian (RC). (T-3) The RC maintains and disposes of the office active and
   inactive records IAW the RDS. If assigned, a knowledge operator (Air Force Specialty Code
   3D0X1) will be the RC; otherwise any military career field, civil service series, or contractor
   can perform these duties. The RC:
      5.7.1. Completes annual RC role-based training on ADLS.
      5.7.2. Provides directorate FARM certificate to update e-FARM Handbook.
          5.7.2.1. FARM submits copy of certificate to AFPC RMO to update training in
          AFRIMS.
      5.7.3. Develops and maintains office file plan within AFRIMS, and establishes electronic
      and paper records in IAW AFI 33-364 and AFMAN 33-363.
          5.7.3.1. Maintains office file plan and accountability for active and inactive records.
      5.7.4. Transfers eligible records to base staging area or designated FRC.
          5.7.4.1. Prepares SF 135s utilizing Staging module in AFRIMS with FARM
          assistance.
          5.7.4.2. Maintains official record of SF 135 in active files.
      5.7.5. Consults with COR and FARM as necessary on records management issues.
      5.7.6. Conducts non-FOIA records management data calls and record searches.
      5.7.7. Ensures records concerning sensitive or Privacy Act (PA) material is safeguarded
      from unauthorized removal/access and properly disposed of IAW appropriate records
      disposition schedule in AF RDS.
      5.7.8. Provides office orientation to newly assigned personnel (to include new CORs).
      5.7.9. Ensures the latest AFPC RM SAV report on-hand, and discrepancies corrected.
      5.7.10. Ensures e-copy of approved AFRIMS file plan is placed in Item 01 of ERM “O”
      drive.
      5.7.11. Identifies vital record categories or series by placing a “V” or “Vital”
      immediately following the electronic file folder/directory title. Additionally, in
      AFRIMS, under VITAL RECORD section: Click the Yes or NO fields to identify if the
      item is a Vital record. The default is NO. If YES is clicked, a required drop-down menu
      will appear with the types of Vital records. Reselect the applicable type from the drop-
      down menu.
6. Portfolio Manager (PfM) of IT investments. (T-3)
   6.1. Communicates AFRO guidance and direction to his or her IT program/project managers
   and others responsible for IT portfolio management data collection and maintenance.
 14                                                          AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


   6.2. Partners with IT program/project managers and others to collect and manage data to
   support the Air Force Records Management process in addition to Air Force IT portfolio
   management and other processes in AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio
   Management and IT Investment Review.
   6.3. Informs the IT program/project managers’ functional process owner of non-compliance.
   6.4. Ensures IT Program Managers answer records management question in EITDR.
7. Program Manager (PM) of an IT investment. (T-3)
   7.1. Ensures records or records data in IT investments under his or her purview are
   compliant with records management requirements per AFMAN 33-363.
   7.2. Ensures accuracy of records management requirements in EITDR prior to AFPC ARM
   validation in EITDR.
   7.3. Prepares AF Form 1341, Electronic Record Inventory, or its AFRO-approved
   equivalent, to survey the IT investments’ records data and system characteristics as required
   by AFMAN 33-363 and 36 CFR 1236.26, What actions must agencies take to maintain
   electronic information systems?
   7.4. Proposes a customized records disposition using an AF Form 525, or its AFRO-
   approved equivalent, IAW AFMAN 33-363 and AFI 33-364 if an approved, applicable
   records disposition does not exist or if an existing one cannot be executed in the IT
   investment.
   7.5. Coordinates the AF Form 525 with relevant stakeholders before submission to Records
   Professionals and the AF Records Officer for review and approval.
   7.6. Ensures compliance with approved disposition for IT investment records or records data
   during normal operations and responds to authorized suspensions.
   7.7. Ensures the records or records data is not prematurely disposed upon decommissioning
   of the IT investment.
   7.8. Maintains required hardware and software to access records or records data until
   approved disposition is met.
8. Publication and Form Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). (T-3)
   8.1. A publication OPR ensures records created as a result of processes prescribed in his or
   her publication has a NARA approved RDS.
   8.2. A form OPR ensures the form has a NARA approved RDS.
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                              15


  8.3. If an approved disposition does not exist in the AF RDS, the publication or form OPR
  shall propose a customized records disposition using an AF Form 525, or its AFRO-approved
  equivalent, IAW AFI 33-364 and AFMAN 33-363. The OPR shall coordinate the AF Form
  525 with relevant stakeholders before submission to records professionals and the AF
  Records Officer for review and approval.




                                         MARGARET B. POORE, Maj General, USAF
                                         Commander
 16                                                         AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Subchapter B, Records Management
Title 36, CFR, Parks, Forests, and Public Property, Chapter XII, National Archives and Records
Administration, Part 1234, Electronic Record Management Facility Standards
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDD 5015.2, DoD Records Management Program, 6 March 2000
DoD 5015.02-STD, Design Criteria Standard for Electronic Records Management Software
Applications, 25 April 2007
DoDD 5100.3, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Joint Commands,
15 November 1999, Change 1, March 23, 2000, Change 2, 5 December 2003
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFI 33-141, Air Force Information Technology Portfolio Management and IT Investment
Review, 23 December 2008
AFI 33-321, Authentication of Air Force Records, 3 August 2011
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 4 June 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
AFPC Form 132, Report of Records Management Staff Assistance Visits
Adopted Forms
AF Form 525, Records Disposition Recommendation
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1341, Electronic Record Inventory
Standard Form 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt
Optional Form 11, Reference Request–Federal Records Centers

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF CIO—Air Force Chief Information Officer
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                17


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ARCIS—Archives and Records Centers Information System
ARM—Agency Records Manager
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
COR—Chief of the Office of Record
CRM—Command Records Manager
CUI—Controlled Unclassified Information
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EITDR—Enterprise Information Technology Data Repository
ERA—Electronic Records Archives
FARM—Functional Area Records Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FRC—Federal Records Centers
GSA—General Services Administration
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
ISO—Information System Owner
IT—Information Technology
MAJCOM—Major Command
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PFM—Portfolio Manager
PM—Program Manager
RC—Records Custodian
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 18                                                            AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


RM—Records Managers
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SCIF—Sensitive Compartmental Information Facility
TFAT—Total Force Awareness Training
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Agency Records Manager (ARM)—Records managers at FOAs, DRUs, and Combatant
Commands for which the Air Force is the executive agent.
Area of Responsibility (AOR)—The geographical area associated with a combatant command
within which a combatant commander has authority to plan and conduct operations.
Certifying Official—Electronic Records Archives role assigned to the individual who will
certify the agency is officially submitting a Records Schedule to NARA for approval. The paper
equivalent of this role is the person who signs in Box 6 of the paper Request for Records
Disposition Authority (SF 115).
Chief of the Office of Record (COR)—Person designated as head of an office where records
are created, received, or maintained; has responsibility for physical and legal custody of records.
COR duties may be delegated, as appropriate, to someone with adequate authority and a
thorough knowledge of the office’s mission and the records created by the office.
Command Records Manager (CRM)—Records managers responsible for management and
oversight of Major Command (MAJCOM) records programs centrally located at the Air Force
Network Integration Center, with the exception of the Air National Guard CRM.
Disposable—Temporary and approved by NARA for disposal, either immediately or after a
specified retention period.
Disposition—(1) A comprehensive term that includes destruction, salvage, or donation; transfer
to a staging area or records center; transfer from one organization to another; (2) Actions taken
with inactive records. These actions may include erasure of data, transfer to a records center, or
transfer to the National Archives (Title 36, CFR, Chapter XII, Part 1234).
Disposition Instructions—Precise instructions in the Air Force RDS located in AFRIMS,
specifying the date or event for cutoff, transfer, retirement, or destruction of records.
Electronic Records Archives—ERA is a technology system designed to preserve and manage
NARA’s electronic records and to manage the lifecycle of paper records and other holdings,
including support for records retention schedules and the accessioning process for all Federal
records.
Electronic Transfer Staff—A role in ERA used to package and transmit electronic files to ERA
via an electronic transfer method to the Transfer Approving Official.
File—An organized collection of related data, usually arranged into logical records stored
together and treated as a unit.
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                        19


Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Office of Record—An office within an organization, defined by its mission or function, that is
responsible for the creation and management of records that sufficiently document its function,
organization, administration, policies and procedures. Recommend geographically separated
offices be identified as individual offices of record. At Headquarters level, the span of control
for an office of record should be no larger than a staff agency or branch; at Squadron level, the
span of control for an office of record should be at or below flight level.
Personal papers—Include family and personal correspondence and materials documenting
professional activities and outside business or political pursuits. These materials belong to the
individual, and the Government exerts no control over them. Personal papers shall be clearly
designated as such and kept separate from Air Force records.
Program Manager (PM)—The individual specifically designated to be responsible for the life
cycle management of a system or end item. The PM is vested with full authority, responsibility,
and resources to execute and support an approved Air Force program. The PM is accountable
for credible cost, schedule, and performance reporting to the Milestone Decision Authority
(DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System). Throughout this document the term Program
Manager is used for consistency with DOD policy and documentation. Air Force organizations
may use System Program Manager as an equivalent to the DoDD 5000.01 PM term. (AFI 63-
101, Acquisition and Sustainment Lifecycle Management).
Records—Records include all books, papers, maps, photographs, machine-readable materials, or
other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, created or received
by the Air Force in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or
appropriate for preservation by the Air Force as evidence of the organization, functions, policies,
decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Air Force or because of the
informational value of the data in them. Library and museum material made or acquired and
preserved solely for reference or exhibition purposes, extra copies of documents preserved only
for convenience of reference and stocks of publications and of processed documents are not
included. Records are media neutral. Different content types such as e-mail, data in IT systems,
web pages, and instant messaging, etc. may be considered an Air Force record if they meet this
definition.
Records Custodian—Person designated within an office of record to manage the internal record
keeping program, having guardianship and control of records.
Records Professional (RP)—Individual whose area of expertise advances beyond introductory
records management. The term record professional encompasses AFRO, COR, CRM, ARM,
BRM, FARM, and RC. RP skills extend beyond familiarity to intermediate or advanced record
management.
Records Scheduler—Role in ERA assigned to users who prepare records retention schedules for
submission to the Certifying Official for approval.
Retire—The transfer of inactive records to a Federal Records Center (FRC).
 20                                                             AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


Routine Use—A disclosure of records to individuals or agencies outside DoD for a use that is
compatible with the purpose for which the Air Force created the records.
Scheduled—Having final retention approved by NARA. Scheduling provides mandatory
instructions for what to do with records (and non-record materials) no longer needed for current
Government business.
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, Office
of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equivalent).
Transfer Approving Official—A role in ERA assigned to users who have authority to approve
Transfer Requests and the Legal Transfer Instruments on behalf of the agency. The paper
equivalent of this role is the person who signs in Box 2A of the paper Agreement to Transfer
Records to the National Archives of the United States (SF 258).
Transferring Official—A role in ERA assigned to users who will create Transfer Requests and
submit them to the Transfer Approving Official for approval.
Users—All Air Force personnel to include military active duty, reserve, guard, civilian, foreign
nationals employed by the Department of the Air Force and Air Force contractor employees.
Working Documents/Drafts—Documentary materials in any media or format not been signed
or officially released; can be altered and are discoverable in response to litigation or FOIA
requests.
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                    21


                                         Attachment 2
                                AFPC E-FARM HANDBOOK

A2.1. Each AFPC designated FARM will maintain the following documents: (T-3)
Documents                                                           Comments

LOA of Records Management Personnel.               Ensure copies of each AFPC Designation of
Maintain copy of LOA appointing FARM. In           Records Management Personnel memorandum
addition, maintain copy of individual appointed    are forwarded to AFPC/DS1R records
as RC under your functional area of                management office organizational box.
responsibility. This letter is signed by the
COR for that office (maintain these records
using AF RDS, Table 33-46, Rule 19). A copy
of an LOA for COR is also maintained.
Records Management Training                        FARM provides AFPC/DS1R copy to update
Information. Maintain copy of RM training          AFRIMS.
certificates for each records professional under
your functional area (maintain these reports
using AF RDS, Table 37-19, Rule 17).
Files Maintenance and Disposition Plans.           FARM copies are considered to be info copies.
Maintain copy of each approved AFRIMS file
plan under your area of responsibility;
including the signed cover sheet IAW AF
RDS, Table 37-19, Rule 2.
Report of FARM SAV. Maintain copy of               Forward FARM SAV report to respective
FARM SAV reports IAW AF RDS, Table 33-             office of record IAW AF RDS, Table 33-46,
46, Rule 14.                                       Rule 15.
Report of RM SAV. Maintain a copy of each          Forward RM SAV report to respective office
RM SAV for each office of record under their       of record IAWAF RDS, Table 33-46, Rule 15.
area of responsibility IAW AF RDS, Table 37-
15, Rule 15.
SF 135. As applicable, maintain a copy of all      Each applicable AFPC office of record
finalized SF 135s for applicable office of         maintains copy of each finalized/signed SF135
record under functional area of responsibility     until records retention period has expired.
IAW AF RDS, Table 37-19, Rule 3.
Miscellaneous Records Management
Program Information. Miscellaneous RM
correspondence. This applies, but is not
limited to Air Force & AFPC RM policy
information; requests for exception to policy
memorandum, unauthorized disposition/loss of
records, etc. (maintain these records using AF
RDS, Table 37-19, Rule 17).
 22                                                       AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


                                       Attachment 3
                 SAMPLE ELECTRONIC E-FARM HANDBOOK (T-3).

References:
ERM Solution Guide, Version 7.4, 4 Sep 07, Figure 4.2.
Shared Network, Electronic Information Storage Area, O-Drive

XXX - Precedent Files; Office Instructions, Additional Duty Handbooks/Workbooks ...
[Cont.] (T33-45, R09) (e-folder)
1.   e-FARM Handbook Info by Office of Record (e-folder)
     1. DPAXXX (e-folder)
        1. Designation of Records Management Personnel
        2. Training Information
        3. File Maintenance and Disposition Plan
        4. Report of FARM SAV
        5. Report of RM SAV
        6. Standard Form 135, Records Transmittal and Receipt
        7. Miscellaneous Records Management Program Information
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                     23


                                         Attachment 4
    MANAGING AND STORING ELECTRONIC RECORDS ON SHARED DRIVES

A4.1. ERM Compliance. (T-3) ERM compliance is mandatory for all AFPC and tenant units
(military, civilians, and contractors). Users understand the federal record center definition of
electronic storage information (ESI) has been expanded to include any type of information, draft
and final records and non-record materials, relevant to an impending litigation. ESI includes any
information stored in a medium that can be retrieved and examined. The most common sources
of ESI are E-mails, working papers, drafts, duplicates, copies and contract records. Personal
records stored on Enterprise assets may be subject to discovery.
A4.2. Managing E-records on a Shared Network Drive. (T-3)             This involves the
participation of Air Force Personnel Operations Agency (AFPOA) A1 Enterprise Service Desk
staff, users, AFPC RM, AFPC RMO, FARM, RC, and COR.
A4.3. ERM Rules of Engagement: (T-3)
   A4.3.1. RCs will create office file plans using the tools in the AFRIMS located at
   https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The location of e-records must be
   included on file plans (do not list records in “R:” and “S:” drives on file plan).
   A4.3.2. The following are the authorized standardized assigned AFPC permission groups,
   with appropriate naming conventions: (a) ERM Admin (AFPC Agency Records Manager),
   (b) RM Office (AFPC Records Management Office), (c) XXX-FARM (designated
   Directorate FARM), (d) XXXXX-RCs (CORs, RCs), and (e) XXXXX-Users.
   A4.3.3. Transferring ESI to a Shared Drive. ESI may be placed on “R” drive (intra-office),
   “S” drive or SharePoint for collaboration, coordination, or sharing. After the ESI is signed or
   approved the document becomes a final record and must be transferred to the “O” drive,
   designated for official records to allow life-cycle management.
   A4.3.4. Systems Back-Up. AFPOA/DPOOS (Backup/Recovery Administration) provide
   daily back-up of the dedicated electronic storage areas. Back-ups are used for record
   restoration when the system becomes corrupt or ESI is lost. Duplicate back-ups are made for
   vital records and maintained in geographically separate locations.
A4.4. ERM Responsibilities by Role: (T-3)
   A4.4.1. Users provide ESI descriptions to the Records Professional (RP).
       A4.4.1.1. Records Custodian (RC) develops file plans to incorporate each ESI category,
       designate electronic-file (e-file) storage, and assign access.
       A4.4.1.2. COR reviews, approves, and digitally signs the Files Maintenance and
       Disposition Plan. (T-3) The COR’s signature indicates the COR approves the record
       categories and validates vital record identification, disposition, and folder access. After
       the COR digitally signs, file plans are work-flowed to the AFPC RMO for approval
       authority.
A4.5. Networked-Attached Storage (NAS). The NAS provides a single repository for
information and an effective electronic file and record management structure for users. Storage
 24                                                             AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


Area Network (SAN) Administration (AFPOA/DPOOS) provides storage space to each AFPC
and tenant Directorate; and data owners are responsible for managing their stored information.
A4.6. Shared Drives. (T-3) The “R:” restricted and “S:” shared drives provide storage space
for official electronic working files. Electronic personal working files consist of work-related
diaries, journals, personal calendars, appointment schedules, etc., and exist for personal use to
assist in conducting (but not transacting) Air Force business. The official record is complete
with attachments or related data when filed. Once the electronic document becomes the official
record it will not be changed, modified, or altered. To preserve the integrity of official records
save the official file copy as a read-only record.
   A4.6.1. Placing Personal Information (PII) on “S:” Shared Drives. NEVER place PII on the
   “S:” drives for access by groups of individuals unless each person has an official need to
   know the information to perform their job.
A4.7. Drive Structures. The NAS will be divided into three areas:
   A4.7.1. Official (“O:” drive) is the network resource used to store official records. The
   directory structure is based on organization and office symbols which maintain official
   records and have an approved file plan in AFRIMS. File retention is determined by the AF
   RDS located in AFRIMS on the Air Force Portal. Each office of record folder on the “O:”
   drive will contain the following folders:
       A4.7.1.1. 01-File Maintenance and Disposition (Media Neutral) contains a copy of the
       approved file plan exported from AFRIMS. It is a record keeping requirement to store
       the official file plan with the file folders it governs.
       A4.7.1.2. Disposition Control Labels. All folders, numbered as listed on the approved
       file plan, where electronic official files exist will contain a sub-folder named XX-00
       (where XX is the file number from the approved AFRIMS file plan) containing the
       applicable table and rule extracted from the RDS. Each major series e-folder will have an
       electronic disposition “label” in AFRIMS .PDF format. (T-3)
       A4.7.1.3. Inactive Files Folder contains records that have met cutoff Fiscal Year (FY) or
       Calendar Year (CY) but have not met their retention period according to Air Force RDS
       located on AFRIMS. Paper records will be retained in the inactive folder by year group
       until they are either eligible for destruction or required to be transferred to the appropriate
       National Records Center for storage. (T-3)
   A4.7.2. Office-Restricted (“R:” drive) is the network resource provided to share office-
   specific information. Access to the “R:” drive is limited to members assigned to the office.
   Offices may use the “R:” drive to maintain information that only pertains to the office. Data
   such as recall rosters, leave schedules, temporary duty (TDY) schedules, duty schedules, and
   internal office procedures may reside on the “R:” drive. End users will be responsible for
   maintaining this area. Unauthorized file types and duplicate files will be identified by the
   AFPC RMO and provided to the affected Directorate FARM for proper disposition. (T-3)
   FARMs may provide access to members from other directorates/offices for the purpose of
   working on special projects. (T-3)
       A4.7.2.1. 00-Electronic File Box contains official records placed by the users who do not
       know where to file the document in the file plan—the user drags and drops from the R &
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                       25


       S drives, local hard-drive, scanning machine, or MS Outlook for filing by the RC.
       Minimize the use of this box to the greatest extent possible. Users are responsible for
       filing their files/documents in the respective file plan folder. (T-3).
   A4.7.3. Organizational Shared (“S:” drive) is the network resource provided for storage of
   organizational data needing to be shared AFPC-wide. There is a single “S:” drive and all
   AFPC users will share this common path. Each organization will have a folder on the
   organizational drive with subfolders to the office level. Organizations may use the “S:” drive
   to maintain or share tasks-in-progress within AFPC.
       A4.7.3.1. The “S:” drive storage area is not for official records. Once a task is
       completed or an event has passed, the information owner will remove it from the “S:”
       drive, and dispose of it accordingly. To prevent storage limits from being exceeded,
       unauthorized files and duplicate files will be identified by AFPC RMO and provided to
       the affected Directorate FARM for proper disposition. Set the file attribute to “Read
       Only” when saving files to the “S:” drive that must be shared but also must remain intact.
   A4.7.4. SharePoint will be used for Official Multimedia files.          End users and content
   managers are responsible for maintaining this area.
A4.8. File Restrictions. (T-3). The following file types will not be stored on the “O:”, “R:”, or
“S:” drives:
   A4.8.1. Permanent backups and archives of desktop and portable computer hard drives (Files
   of this type will be identified for deletion by AFPC RMO (for “R:” and “S:” drives) or
   FARM/RC (for “O:” drive) 10 work days after creation). Desktop and portable computer
   data is commonly copied to network storage during personnel moves, computer replacement
   or upgrades. Entire hard disks (program files and Windows installation directory) will not be
   copied to network storage.
   A4.8.2. Libraries. Publications and forms available on official publication web sites will be
   downloaded as needed from official sources and will not be duplicated on network storage.
   A4.8.3. Personal data files including *.wav, *.jpg, *.mp3, *.mpeg, *.avi, *.pst, *:tmp, *. exe.
   The RMO will utilize a storage management product/tool (e.g., NTP Software) filter on the
   existing organization/office folders of the “O:” and “S:” drives to determine if additional files
   of these types are being saved to these shared drives.
A4.9. Roles and Responsibilities. The following paragraphs identify roles and responsibilities
required for effective management of electronic records on the NAS. (T-3).
   A4.9.1. The AFPC ARM:
       A4.9.1.1. Provides guidance and policy on file cleanup of “O,” “R” and “S” drives, and
       the records management program, to include establishment of policy for permissions to e-
       folders.
       A4.9.1.2. Coordinates with AFPC RMO to facilitate local implementation of records
       management program.
       A4.9.1.3. Coordinates on storage allocation increase requests for the “O”: , “R”:, ”S:”
       drives.
 26                                                          AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


       A4.9.1.4. Notifies applicable Directors whose offices of records that do not remove
       unauthorized and duplicate files, based on the AFPC RMO’s NTP quarterly (or as
       directed by the AFPC ARM) Software reports.
       A4.9.1.5. Authorizes unauthorized file extensions deemed mission essential. Once event
       is complete, action officer must remove from ERM drives.
A4.10. AFPC RMO. (T-3).
   A4.10.1. Serves as AFPC focal point for ERM and information migrated and stored on “O:”
   drive, to ensure established policy with respect to permissions to e-folders are implemented.
   A4.10.2. Informs ARM of storage allocation increase requests for the “O”: , “R”:, ”S:”
   drives.
   A4.10.3. Conducts periodic out-of-cycle desktop audits of the “O:” drive to ensure it
   matches the AFRIMS file plan IAW AF ERM Solution Guide.
   A4.10.4. Scans for potentially unauthorized and duplicate files stored on the “O:” and “S:”
   drives on a quarterly basis, or as required by the AFPC ARM.
   A4.10.5. Notifies applicable FARM/COR/RC to remove unauthorized and duplicate files,
   based on the RMO’s quarterly NTP Software scan reports for proper records disposition.
   A4.10.6. Notify the AFPC ARM if offices of records that do not remove unauthorized, and
   duplicate files, based on the AFPC RMO’s quarterly NTP Software reports.
A4.11. COR. (T-3) Responsible for official electronic records created by his or her office. The
COR:
   A4.11.1. Ensures office personnel are briefed on electronic filing structure and process to
   ensure they understand electronic filing requirements.
   A4.11.2. Coordinates on requests for storage allocation increase requests for “O:”, “R:”, and
   “S:” drives.
   A4.11.3. Ensures the RC reviews “R:” and “S:” drive files to identify official records and
   ensure they are moved to the “O:” drive.
   A4.11.4. Ensures RCs remove unauthorized, duplicate, and files over 365 days old, based on
   the AFPC RMO’s quarterly NTP Software scan for proper records disposition.
   A4.11.5. Notifies ARM through the RMO in writing authorization to maintain unauthorized
   file extensions deemed mission essential. Once event is complete, action officer must
   remove from ERM drives.
   A4.11.6. Implements AF ERM Solution Guide and AFPC Managing Government Records
   Plan requirements by eliminating paper records physical record storage space and paper
   holdings, eliminate/reduce workload related to sending products to staging areas and record
   centers, within legal guidelines.
A4.12. FARM. (T-3)
   A4.12.1. Assists offices of records within their organization or functional area set up their
   electronic records.
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                    27


   A4.12.2. Provides guidance/oversight on ERM processes and assists RCs with populating,
   migrating, and creating files plan structure on the “O:” drive, as required.
   A4.12.3. Notifies AFPOA A1 Service Desk of personnel who require immediate termination
   of access to NAS drives due to Permanent Change of Station (PCS), Article 32 or other
   Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), personnel actions, etc.
   A4.12.4. Coordinates with AFPOA A1 Service Desk and ensures personnel (additions and
   deletions) are assigned to permission groups (e.g., read, write, etc.).
   A4.12.5. Provides new offices of records information to AFPOA A1 Service Desk for
   creation of appropriate subfolders, via Remedy ticket.
   A4.12.6. Establishes and maintains organizational directory structures under their purview
   organizational directory structures (Note: FARMs will only update listings upon request
   from CORs or RCs.).
   A4.12.7. Acts as organizational custodians of the “R:” and “S: ”drives.
   A4.12.8. Reviews and coordinates on storage capacity increase requests for the “O:”, “R:”
   and “S:” drives.
   A4.12.9. Provides COR/RC with AFPC RMO’s quarterly (or as required by the ARM) NTP
   Software scan reports to remove/dispose of unauthorized and duplicate files IAW appropriate
   Records Disposition Schedule.
   A4.12.10. Coordinates on storage allocation increase requests for the “O”: , “R”:, and ”S:”
   drives.
A4.13. RC. (T-3)
   A4.13.1. Builds electronic file plan structure on “O:” drive IAW approved AFRIMS file
   plan.
   A4.13.2. Ensures individuals in their offices of record are provided file permissions on
   storage drives commensurate with their responsibilities.
      A4.13.2.1. Ensures electronic copy of approved AFRIMS file plan is placed in Item 01
      of AFPC ERM “O” drive.
   A4.13.3. Contacts FARM for approval for all permissions/issues, to include setting
   permissions.
   A4.13.4. Maintains electronic file location using the same principles applied to office paper
   files, including applying tables and rules, end-of-year close out (fiscal and calendar),
   transferring records to the inactive files area, and destroying records no longer needed IAW
   AF RDS located in AFRIMS.
   A4.13.5. Requests limited file-access permissions for members of the office of record if
   required, to include for the purpose of ensuring sensitive or Privacy Act material is properly
   safeguarded IAW AF and DoD directives.
   A4.13.6. Moves official records from 00-Scan_e-docs box on the “R:” Drive to the proper
   file folder in the electronic file plan on the “O:” drive as necessary.
 28                                                           AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


   A4.13.7. Within “O” drive, transfers electronic active records to inactive folder at end of
   FY/CY according to disposition of the records.
   A4.13.8. Removes unauthorized and duplicate files, based on the AFPC RMO’s quarterly
   NTP Software reports (or as required) for proper records disposition.
A4.14. End-Users. (T-3)
   A4.14.1. Complete training on proper use, filing and rules for storage of electronic records
   in accordance with the structure outlined in this supplement.
   A4.14.2. Determine which electronic records are official and manage those IAW federal
   laws and Air Force guidance.
   A4.14.3. Ensure proper permissions are assigned; coordinate with RC or FARM to gain
   permissions authorized via Remedy ticket for their work center.
   A4.14.4. Sanitize personal files to ensure only up-to-date, pertinent information are stored.
   A4.14.5. File official records in office of record file plan. If record is sensitive, password-
   protect the file to prevent unauthorized access.
   A4.14.6. Do not have capability or function to remove, replace, or delete official records.
   Notify the RC to remove official records from the “O:” drive.
   A4.14.7. File attachments are saved with the basic message as a combined, single record,
   preserving the integrity of the relationship between the component parts, while allowing
   retrieval of the complete item once it has been filed.
   A4.14.8. Monitor and maintain the “R”: and “S:” drives.
A4.15. AFPOA A1 Service Desk. (T-3)
   A4.15.1. Assists FARMs with assigning permissions, via Remedy ticket, and will not assign
   permissions to the “O:”, “R:”, & “S:” drives without prior approval and coordination from
   the appropriate Directorate/organizational FARM.
A4.16. Windows/Web Administration Section (AFPOA/DPOOW). (T-3)
   A4.16.1. Assists AFPC RMO in establishing and maintaining the organizational structure of
   data on the “O:” drive, via Remedy ticket. Office folders on this drive will be based on
   office of record loaded in AFRIMS (units with approved file plans).
   A4.16.2. Establishes and maintains the organizational structuring of data on the “R:” and
   “S:” drives using the current organizational office symbols two-digit levels (i.e., HQ
   AFPC/DS).
A4.17. System Back-Up. System Admin Backup/Recovery (AFPOA/DPOOS). (T-3)
   A4.17.1. Ensures regular backups of the “O:”, “R:”, & “S:” drives are accomplished. Ensure
   daily backups of the “O:” drive are maintained and a minimum of 90 days and maximum of
   120 days for restoration purposes. Maintains “R:” and “S:” drive backups, up to 30 days,
   based on availability of resources.
A4.18. Storage Area Network (SAN) Administration (AFPOA/DPOOS). (T-3)
AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014                                                                      29


   A4.18.1. Increases storage allocation as determined by AFPC ARM, via request from the
   COR through the AFPC RMO.
A4.19. Network-Attached Storage (NAS) Permissions. The following paragraphs describe
individual permissions for the NAS directories. (T-3)
   A4.19.1. FARM permissions apply to the organizational folders for the offices they oversee.
   A4.19.2. AFPC standardized permissions groups will be used for all AFPC and tenant units
   developed by AFPC ARM; e.g., ERM Admin; RM Office; DPS- FARM; DPS-RC; DPS-
   Users.
   A4.19.3. Permissions only apply to the organizational folders for an office of record where
   the individual works. For example, on the “O:” drive, a COR, RC, and end-user assigned to
   AFPC/DPSS will only have permissions to AFPC/DPSS folders. Also, folders and, or files
   on the “O:” drive that contain sensitive information (Privacy Act, FOUO, etc.) will only be
   accessible by the RC, COR, and end-user who are OPRs for the information. Password-
   protect extremely sensitive files to prevent unauthorized access. On the “S:” and “R:” drives,
   “modify” access permissions apply from the office symbol level down.
   A4.19.4. Change access to Read, Write, Modify, and Delete (R/W/M/D). The only
   individuals with full access are AFPOA Service Desk system administrators for all drives.
   The AFPC ARM, AFPC RMO, CORs, FARMs, and RCs have advanced privileges for the
   “O:” drive.
   A4.19.5. Permissions to the file structure on the “O:”, “R:”, and “S:” drives are only granted
   via office specific. No individual accounts will be listed on the file structure.
A4.20. Business Rules. (T-3)
   A4.20.1. Maintain electronic records with a retention period of 10 years or less in the
   electronic files area (inactive folder) on the “O:” drive. A backup of inactive file directories
   must be accomplished by the office of record at the end of each calendar year. Maintain
   records with a disposition greater than 10 years in a National Archives and Records
   Administration (NARA) approved format, such as PDF, ASCII, XML, etc. Electronic
   records with a retention period of greater than 10 years must be staged. A completed SF
   Form 135 must be sent through the appropriate Directorate or Tenant FARM for review and
   approval, and then submitted to the AFPC RMO for review. The AFPC ARM will make the
   final determination. For further guidance, contact the AFPC RMO.
   A4.20.2. Files to be sent to staging or transferred to NARA must be saved in one of the
   following formats:
      A4.20.2.1. Textual records (of or pertaining to text)—plain American Standard Code for
      Information Interchange (ASCII) or in Portable Document Format (PDF) format or
      scanned images will be used.
      A4.20.2.2. Scanned images of textual records—the preferred formats are Tagged Image
      File Format (TIFF) and Portable Network Graphics (PNG). Graphics Interchange Format
      (GIF) and, Basic Image Interchange Format (BIIF) are also acceptable.
      A4.20.2.3. Data files and databases—convert tables to files with fixed-length fields or
      fields defined by delimiters. NOTE: “Homegrown databases are not authorized.”
 30                                                           AFPCI33-105 13 AUGUST 2014


       A4.20.2.4. Digital geospatial data—Spatial Data Transfer Standard (SDTS) or
       Geography Markup Language (GML).
       A4.20.2.5. Digital photographic records—Tagged Image File Format (TIFF) and File
       Interchange Format (JFIF, JPEG) are also acceptable.
       A4.20.2.6. Web records—Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) and other formats such
       as TIFF or PDF that either are embedded in the HTML or referenced by it.
   A4.20.3. All work centers with a requirement to file official records on the “O:” drive will
   be an office of record, and must have an approved AFRIMS file plan prior to gaining access
   to the “O:” drive.
   A4.20.4. Maintain as much information electronically as possible (e-mail, correspondence,
   presentations, etc.); however, if a signature is required by statute or law (as in legal or
   financial purposes), maintain the paper copy as the official record.
   A4.20.5. If it is necessary to integrate official electronic records with paper records, one or
   the other must contain a complete official record copy. The COR, RC, and OPR must
   determine which version (electronic or paper) contains the official records and ensure the
   official record is managed according to records management instructions.
   A4.20.6. Do not file encrypted emails on the “O:” drive. The recipient must remove the
   encryption prior to filing. To accomplish this, the recipient must forward the email to him or
   herself as an un-encrypted email.
   A4.20.7. Offices of records that do not remove unauthorized and duplicate files, based on
   the AFPC RMO’s quarterly NTP Software reports, will be reported to the AFPC ARM upon
   the second request through the AFPC RM for final resolution.
A4.21. Process for requesting an increase in allocated space. (T-3)
   A4.21.1. Increase storage allocation as determined by the AFPC ARM, via request from the
   COR through the AFPC RMO.
A4.22. Managing and Storing Classified Electronic Records. (T-3)
   A4.22.1. AFPC customers having a need for acquiring classified (SIPRNet) electronic
   storage capability must coordinate the requirement with the 502 CS’ Network Control Center
   and the 502 CS Base Records Manager through the AFPC RMO and AFPC ARM.
