BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER                                       INSTRUCTION 36-107

                                                                              8 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                   OFFICIAL DUTY HOURS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFPC/DSHC                                                   Certified by: HQ AFPC/DS
                                                                      (Mr Michael K. Gamble)
Supersedes:   AFPCI36-107,                                                            Pages: 7
              25 February 2005


This instruction establishes and defines duty hours and requirements for all federal civilian
personnel assigned or attached to the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) at Joint Base San
Antonio (JBSA). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units. This publication does not apply to Air National Guard
(ANG). This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Vigilance
must be taken to protect Personally Identifiable Information (PII) when submitting or sending
nominations, applications or other documents to Department of Defense (DoD) agencies through
government Internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal, faxing or scanning.

The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Refer to attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting Information.
 2                                                             AFPCI36-107 8 AUGUST 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision is
driven by the implementation of the Automated Time Attendance and Production System
(ATAAPS); the deletion of AFPC Form 100, Time and Attendance Sheet. Additionally, updates
paragraph 4, Telework Program. Identifies tiered waiver authorities for unit level compliance
items.
1. Duties and Responsibilities. The Chief of Human Resources Program Branch will develop
implementation guidance on the operation, maintenance of AFPC Official Duty Hours; provide
direction, guidance, and advice regarding Official Duty Hours; establish guidance and
procedures for AFPC Telework Program; and serve as the approval authority for waiver requests
for AFPC Official Duty Hours.
2. Normal Duty Hours. Normal duty hours are from 0730 to 1630, Monday - Friday, with a 1-
hour lunch period unless an Alternative Work Schedule (AWS) or Uncommon Tour of Duty has
been approved by the employee’s director. The normal lunch schedule is between 1100 and
1300. Lunch may be scheduled at another time at the discretion of the supervisor; however, the
lunch period may not vary to shorten the duty day. Daily accounting of normal duty hours is
documented through utilization of the Automated Time Attendance and Production System
(ATAAPS).
3. Alternative Work Schedule (AWS). An AWS may be approved by the Director for
employees in lieu of the fixed Normal Duty Hours. AWS enables employees to select and alter
their work schedules to better fit personal needs and help balance work, family, and personal
responsibilities. One of the categories under AWS that is approved for AFPC usage is the
Flexible Work Schedule (FWS).
     3.1. Flexible Work Schedule (FWS). The FWS is used as a management tool to improve
     mission effectiveness and productivity by flexing work schedules to meet workload
     requirements. Directors have the authority to designate which of their offices may operate
     under a flexible work schedule. Supervisors of these designated areas approve flexible
     schedules to ensure effective use of personnel to meet mission requirements. The flexible
     work schedule, under the Flexitour model, consists of workdays with (1) core hours and (2)
     flexible hours. The employee is allowed to select starting and stopping times within the
     flexible hours which are approved by the supervisor. Supervisors will schedule all personnel
     to work a 5-day, 8-hour per day work week. Hours of work in excess of the scheduled 8
     hours a day for civilians must comply with AFPC Instruction (AFPCI) 36-105, Civilian
     Overtime, 4 April 2012. The following is criteria for a FWS:
        3.1.1. Fixed Core Hours are: 0900 - 1500, Monday - Friday.
        3.1.2. Permissible Flexible Hours are: Between 0600-0900 and 1500-1800, Monday -
        Friday. A variance to these hours may be allowed where customer service would require
        beginning and ending times to differ from the permissible flexible hours. (an example--
        extend 15 min past the permissible hours [1815 hours] to accommodate customers at
        closing time.)
        3.1.3. A minimum of 30 minutes for lunch break between 1100 and 1300, Monday -
        Friday. The lunch period may not vary to shorten the duty day.
AFPCI36-107 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                      3


       3.1.4. Supervisors maintain adequate staffing during normal duty hours to be fully
       responsive to mission and supervisory requirements.
   3.2. Credit Hours. Credit Hours are hours worked within a FWS. They are available to all
   civilian supervisory and non-supervisory employees which allows employees to periodically
   vary his/her work schedule based on working extra hours, within the FWS (0600 to 1800)
   listed in paragraph 2.1, for credit to be applied to extra hours or days off. Approval of
   Credit Hours must be requested by the employee, before they are worked, via written request
   to the first-line supervisor. (T-3) Supervisors will retain credit hour approval documentation
   to support Time and Attendance entries. (T-3) Supervisors’ certification of time and
   attendance in ATAAPS at the end of the pay period will validate all entries to include credit
   hours. No more than 2 Credit Hours can be earned in a workday, for a maximum 10-hour
   workday and 50-hour workweek. Credit Hours are generally earned during a normal
   workweek (Monday - Friday) and up to 8 Credit Hours can be earned on Saturday with prior
   approval. Credit hours may not be earned on Sunday; on a holiday; or on days when
   physical fitness (LN) is used. A maximum of 24 Credit Hours can be “banked” or carried
   over from one pay period to another. Credit Hours in excess of the 24-hour carryover
   limitation will be forfeited. Credit Hours may be earned and taken in 15 minute increments.
   Credit Hours are documented as earned on the time sheet using the code “CD” and as taken
   on the time sheet using the code “CN”. Credit Hour usage requires advance supervisor
   approval, and may be taken in the pay period in which they are earned or in subsequent pay
   periods, but not before they are earned. Employees participating in Credit Hours will
   normally work normal duty hours (5 days/8 hours) while either in a Temporary Duty (TDY)
   status or training for the pay period involved. When absent from work other than a holiday,
   employees will be charged with leave equal in hours to the scheduled length of his/her
   workday. While the goal is to allow as many employees as possible to utilize Credit Hours if
   they choose, management reserves the following rights: to determine participation, the level
   of participation, set up or change any work schedule in order to assure adequate employee
   and supervisory coverage to meet operational demands of mission requirements (this will be
   accomplished on a case-by-case basis and will be based on mission needs); to modify or
   discontinue the use of Credit Hours for individuals or group of employees at any time based
   on mission needs; to temporarily suspend Credit Hours to meet peak or unusual mission
   demands; and to limit participation for new hires requiring close supervision, employees
   scheduled for formal training, and for employees with documented performance deficiencies
   or misconduct which would require close supervision.
4. Uncommon Tour of Duty. An uncommon tour of duty is any 40-hour basic workweek
scheduled to include Saturday and/or Sunday, for four workdays or less but not more than six
days of the administrative workweek. An uncommon tour of duty may be established when
necessary for efficient operations or when the cost of operations can be reduced without
imposing undue hardship on employees. When supervisors schedule more than one 8-hour shift
in a 24-hour period and an overlapping of shifts to permit time off for lunch is not possible,
supervisors may authorize an on-the-job lunch period of 20 minutes or less. Supervisors will
document this schedule on the Uncommon Tour of Duty Worksheet (Attachment 2), also found
in AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, Randolph
Supplement, 3 March 2004, and file in the Supervisor’s Work Folder. Supervisors’ certification
of time and attendance in ATAAPS at the end of the pay period will validate all entries of this
 4                                                             AFPCI36-107 8 AUGUST 2014


schedule. AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 21 June
1999, requires the 802 FSS OL-B/FSMC to approve shifts that include a Saturday or a Sunday.
Any new requests for approval will be submitted via SSS through the Directorate office, and in
turn to AFPC/DSHC. (T-3) AFPC/DSHC will staff the request and provide to 802 FSS OL-
B/FSMC for final approval.
5. Telework Program. AFPC has established a Telework policy in accordance with the
requirements of Section 359 of Public Law No. 106-346 and Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 1035.01, Telework Policy, 4 April 2012. This policy outlines procedures for employees
that participate in teleworking, without diminished employee performance. The telework
agreement requires supervisor, division and directorate review and approval to go forward for
processing. (T-3) AFPC/DSHC reviews for accuracy and completeness. Once complete, DSHC
forwards information technology (IT) requirements to AFPOA and informs supervisor of
approval for employee to begin teleworking. (T-3) Note: DSHC does not determine the
effective date to begin teleworking; that is determined and passed on to the employee by the
supervisor. Telework is a management option and not an employee benefit or right. Some
factors to consider for program participation are: mission impact, funding, participant selection,
and appropriate position or billet. Program participation may be terminated at any time if the
participant fails to comply with provisions of the Telework Agreement. In-depth program
information and required documents for submission of a Telework Package are located on the
DSHC page on SharePoint.
6. Deviations. Any deviation from the normal tour of duty will be approved by the appropriate
AFPC employee’s supervisor/director.
     6.1. Excused Absence for Organizational Activities and Physical Fitness for Air Force
     Appropriated Fund (APF) Civilian Employees. The AFPC policy on excused absence for
     organizational activities/physical fitness is located on the AFPC/DSHC SharePoint at
     https://randolph.eis.aetc.af.mil/AFPC/DS/DSH/DSHC/Civilian%20HR%20Documents.




                                             MARGARET B. POORE, Maj Gen, USAF
                                             Commander
AFPCI36-107 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                      5


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1035.01, Telework Policy, 4 April 2012
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances;
Randolph AFB Supplement, 3 March 2004
AFPCI 36-105, Civilian Overtime, 4 April 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ATAAPS—Automated Time Attendance and Production System
AWS—Alternative Work Schedule
DoD—Department of Defense
FWS—Flexible Work Schedule
IAW—In accordance with
IT—Information Technology
JBSA—Joint Base San Antonio
OPR—Office of Responsibility
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, Office
of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
 6                                                               AFPCI36-107 8 AUGUST 2014


unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equiv).
AFPCI36-107 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                     7


                                          Attachment 2
                       UNCOMMON/IRREGULAR TOUR OF DUTY

1. Organizational Unit:
                                    (Complete in full and do not use office symbols)

2. Position Title:

3. Reason for uncommon/irregular tour of duty:

4. Propose Tour (do not include employee’s name):

   a. Complete the following items:

#of Employees        Work Days      Duty Hours       Lunch Period



                     For Example:     From To            From    To


                     Tuesday-Saturday
                     Monday-Friday


   b. Are employees to be rotated? Yes__ No__ If yes, how often?___




    Organizational Commander                                                           Date




  802 FSS OL-B/FSMC Reviewer                                                           Date
