BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER                                       INSTRUCTION 36-112

                                                                              8 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                LINE OFFICER INITIAL SKILL TRAINING
                                                     RECLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFPC/DPSIP                                                 Certified by: HQ AFPC/DPS
                                                                  (Col Archibald Bruns, USAF)
Supersedes:   AFPCI36-112, 13 April 2010                                              Pages: 8


This Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) Instruction (AFPCI) has been approved by the
Commander, AFPC and provides guidance and outlines internal operating procedures to be used
in the administration and conduct of Officer Eliminee Reclassification Panels. This publication
does not apply to the Air National Guard or the Air Force Reserve. This publication may not be
supplemented or further implemented/extended. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This publication requires the collection and or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United
States Code (U.S.C.), Section 630 and Department of Defense Instruction (DODI), 1332.30. The
applicable System of Records Notice (SORN[s]) F036 AF PC Q, Personnel Data System (PDS),
is available at http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx.

The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Vigilance must be taken to protect Personally Identifying Information (PII) when
submitting or sending nominations, applications or other documents to Department of Defense
 2                                                              AFPCI36-112 8 AUGUST 2014


(DoD) agencies through government Internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal,
faxing or scanning. Refer to attachment 1 a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially changed and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include: Adds the delegation of authority from the Director, Secretary of the Air Force
Personnel Council (SAF/PC) to the AFPC Commander. Allows the Director, Personnel Services
to delegate the Panel President responsibilities to Chief, Sustainment Division. Clarifies the use
of a “yes” or “no” vote by a majority of the panel members to resolve split recommendations to
the approval authority. Identifies notification procedures after approval of the panel results;
corrects spelling errors throughout the Instruction. Adds information as it relates to tiered
compliance required by AFI 33-360.
1. General. Line Officer initial skills training eliminees, whether elimination was self-initiated
or not, and whether before or after training commences (to include initial training declination),
will be considered for reclassification contingent on current AF requirements. A panel will be
convened as required to board all eliminee packages received by HQ AFPC/DPSIP since the last
board convened. AF/A1P will provide DPSIP all AF Specialty Codes (AFSCs) open to receive
eliminees, based on projected requirements and sustainment, without regard to training
availability. (T-3)
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Reclassification and Separation Authority. SAF/PC has delegated the authority to
     approve probationary officer discharges for officers who do not complete initial skills
     training and when there is no requirement for the officers’ continued service to the AFPC
     Commander. The AFPC Commander may further delegate this authority to the AFPC/CA in
     his or her absence. Based on the panel’s recommendation, the commander will reclassify or
     separate an officer; refer a case to the officer’s command for processing under AFI 36-3206,
     Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers; or forward the case to
     SAF/PC for action. (T-3)
     2.2. Panel President. The Director, Personnel Services (DPS), will serve as the panel
     president. and may delegate this responsibility to an O-6 Division Chief. The panel president
     will ensure panel members are properly charged and comply with panel procedures.
     Following the panel, the panel president will coordinate on the panel results prior to
     forwarding to the reclassification and separation authority for final approval. (T-3)
        2.2.1. Legal Review. AFPC/JA will perform a legal review of all eliminee cases when
        documentation in the elimination package indicates that discharge for substandard
        performance of duty or misconduct, moral or professional dereliction, or for other reasons
        under AFI 36-3206 might be appropriate. AFPC/JA will, as appropriate, discuss the case
        with the legal office responsible for providing advice to the officer’s commander and
        make recommendations to the reclassification panel and the Commander, AFPC, on
        whether the case should be referred to the officer’s command for action under AFI 36-
        3206. (T-3)
     2.3. Panel Members. The panel will consist of five members including the panel president.
     The panel president will appoint the four additional panel members, in the grade of Lt Col or
AFPCI36-112 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                       3


  above, for each panel from the various functional areas within AFPC. The panel membership
  will reflect the demographic of the eliminees to the maximum extent possible. (T-3)
     2.3.1. Panel members will review the elimination package using the whole person
     concept to determine if the officer should be reclassified or separated. The final
     determination must meet the needs of the AF and the officer’s ability to meet or exceed
     those needs. Panel members must comply with panel procedures. Panel members must
     carefully review the record provided and score the whole record considering the
     following:
         2.3.1.1. Officer’s potential to complete required training for AFSC qualification.
         Consider officer’s elimination reason and commander’s assessment. (T-3)
         2.3.1.2. Officer’s potential to develop and contribute in the subject career fields
         available. Consider degree, special coursework, commander’s assessment, and
         officer’s preferences. (T-3)
         2.3.1.3. Any unique or special abilities/skills in high demand language skills
         (Chinese, Russian, Arabic, Korean, etc) that could benefit the subject career fields
         available or the broader AF in the future. (T-3)
         2.3.1.4. Those eliminees with hard science and engineering degrees. (T-3)
         2.3.1.5. Officer’s demonstrated “officership” and commitment to the AF. Consider
         commander’s assessment/recommendation and the Training Elimination
         Acknowledgement (TEA); the number of times the officer has been reclassified and
         the reasons for any previous reclassification. Additionally, panel members must
         consider any quality force issues. All of these factors must be taken into
         consideration when determining the whole-person and the officer’s ability to succeed
         and lead if reclassified. (T-3)
         2.3.1.6. Officer’s potential payback to the AF. Consider educational investment
         already made by the AF. While this should not be an overriding factor, it must be a
         consideration. (T-3)
     2.3.2. Panel Members will have the following data available to ensure this task is
     accomplished. (T-3)
         2.3.2.1. Completed elimination package. (Note: Elimination package contents are
         available on the MyPers website in the Initial Skills Training Elimination Package
         Guide.) (T-3)
         2.3.2.2. Available AFSCs for which an officer qualifies. (T-3)
     2.3.3. Panel members should use careful consideration when reviewing/scoring. Officers
     not selected for reclassification via this panel face a high probability of separation. (T-3)
  2.4. In the instance a panel member knows an individual record; he/she will disclose this
  information to the panel president. The panel president will determine whether or not the
  individual record will be able to be scored fairly. These responsibilities of the panel
  president do not limit in any way the right of a panel member or recorder to communicate
  with the Reclassification and Separation Authority as provided by other authority. (T-3)
 4                                                                AFPCI36-112 8 AUGUST 2014


     2.5. Recorder. The Line Officer Classification Program Manager will serve as the panel
     recorder, ensuring all notes and information are recorded accurately. (T-3)
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Pre-Panel Actions. (T-3)
        3.1.1. As required, the recorder will consolidate all elimination packages that have been
        received. The recorder will obtain available AFSCs from AF/A1P for the panel and
        determine which AFSC’s each eliminee qualifies to reclassify into. If an eliminee does
        not qualify for reclassification, it will be annotated in the eliminee’s panel package. (T-3)
        3.1.2. All AFSCs the eliminee is qualified to hold will be annotated in the eliminee’s
        panel package. (T-3)
        3.1.3. The recorder will establish a panel date, as needed. (T-3)
        3.1.4. The recorder will assemble record(s) on the eliminee(s), which will include the
        following: the AFSCs the officer is qualified to hold; commander’s assessment with
        retention recommendation; legal review contemplated if applicable under paragraph
        2.2.1; dollar amount of the unserved/unearned portion of educational assistance, special
        pay or bonuses, for which the officer(s) is liable to repay the government, based upon the
        projected panel date; completed panel spreadsheet; degree information, eliminee’s
        reclassification preferences; training elimination acknowledgement; source of
        commissioning, and scholarship. (T-3)
        3.1.5. The recorder will prepare score sheets, spreadsheets to tally results, and make
        logistical arrangements for the panel. (T-3)
     3.2. Panel Actions. (T-3)
        3.2.1. When the panel convenes, the recorder will brief the panel on the procedures
        contained herein and the number of AFSCs to fill. (T-3)
        3.2.2. The panel president will ensure each member understands the charge to the panel
        and monitor the panel deliberations to ensure compliance with these instructions. (T-3)
        3.2.3. The recorder will rotate records to ensure each panel member scores the record of
        each eliminee being considered. (T-3)
            3.2.3.1. Each record will get a recommendation for reclassification or discharge, with
            or without recoupment, which will be recorded on individual score sheets. The
            individual score sheets used by each panel member will be signed by the panel
            member upon completion of the panel. (T-3)
            3.2.3.2. Panel member recommendations to the approval authority will be based on
            majority vote. For records where there is not a majority indication of a
            recommendation, panel members will make a final decision with the yes or no vote to
            determine if the eliminee should be reclassified and an AFSC recommendation for
            reclassification. If the panel determines an eliminee should be separated, the panel
            will also make, if appropriate, a recommendation on recoupment of unearned
            education assistance, special pay or bonuses. (T-3)
        3.2.4. The recorder will prepare the final results for review and coordination. (T-3)
AFPCI36-112 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                      5


       3.2.5. DPSIP will submit results to the panel president for review and coordination. (T-
       3)
       3.2.6. The panel president will coordinate and submit final results to AFPC/JA for legal
       review, and then on to the reclassification and separation authority. (T-3)
       3.2.7. The reclassification and separation authority will review recommendations of
       panel. If the reclassification and separation authority approves the results, he/she will
       sign the memorandum of decision. If the results are not approved, they will be returned
       to the panel president for further discussion and action. (T-3)
   3.3. Post-panel Actions.
       3.3.1. DPSIP will provide a letter of notification to the FSS commander of the member
       affected with instructions to provide the information to the member’s wing commander
       for final notification. (T-3)
       3.3.2. If selected for reclassification, DPAS will update the new entry-level AFSC. (T-
       3)
       3.3.3. DPSIP will work with AFPC/DPSOS to process all eliminees selected for
       discharge according to AFI 36-3207. (T-3)
       3.3.4. If the reclassification and separation authority recommends waiver of recoupment
       of an unearned/unserved portion of any educational assistance, bonus, or special pay in
       excess of $500, the case must be referred to SAF/PC for decision regarding recoupment
       liability. DPSIP will forward the case with appropriate recommendation to DPSOS for
       processing to SAF/PC for final disposition. (T-3)
4. Panel Report. Panel members will sign their individual score sheets and the recorder will
sign the master score sheet. A panel report that includes the list of officer(s) recommended for
reclassification with AFSC identified; officer(s) recommended for separation with recoupment
recommendations as applicable; and officers whose cases the panel believes should be referred
for AFI 36-3206 action will be forwarded to the panel president for coordination and
transmission to the reclassification and separation approval authority. The panel member’s
signature on the individual score sheet certifies the following:
   4.1. that to the best of his or her knowledge, the panel complied with the panel instructions;
   (T-3)
   4.2. that he or she was not subject to or aware of any censure, reprimand, or admonishment
   about the recommendations of the panel or the exercise of any lawful function within the
   authorized discretion of the panel; (T-3)
   4.3. that he or she was not subject to or aware of any attempt to coerce or influence
   improperly any action in the formulation of the panel's recommendations; (T-3)
   4.4. that he or she was not a party to or aware of any attempt at unauthorized
   communications; (T-3)
   4.5. that to the best of his or her knowledge, the panel carefully considered the records of
   each officer whose name was furnished to the panel. (T-3)
 6                                                               AFPCI36-112 8 AUGUST 2014


5. Outbriefing Panel Members. Recorders outbrief the panel members (discuss cautions and
collect all notes).
6. Panel Anomalies. Procedural anomalies occurring during a panel, that may require variation
from established procedures, require panel president resolution. During the panel, the panel
president may bring any matter to the attention of the Reclassification and Separation Authority
if he or she determines a reclassification and separation decision is required. The panel president
will advise the Reclassification and Separation Authority of any significant procedural anomalies
during his or her out-brief of the panel. (T-3)
7. Lists and Other Documents to be Retained. DPSIP will maintain, as permanent
documents, documents used in the panel proceedings. Documents will be marked “For Official
Use Only.” (T-3)
8. Oaths. The following oaths will be administered to panel personnel as appropriate:
     8.1. Panel Members: "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will, without prejudice or partiality,
     having in view both the special fitness of the officers and the efficiency and effectiveness of
     the United States Air Force, perform the duties imposed upon me and that I will not reveal
     information about the panel conduct and results." (T-3)
     8.2. Recorders and Administrative Support Staff: "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will
     keep a true record of the proceedings of the panel and that I will not reveal information about
     the panel conduct and results." (T-3)
9. Disclosure of Panel Recommendations and Panel Proceedings. Results of the panel will
not be released to the public until after the reclassification and separation approval authority
approves the results and eliminees are notified in writing. Additionally, those involved will not
disclose panel proceedings without the approval of the Reclassification and Separation Authority
to do so. (T-3)
10. Summary. These reclassification panel procedures have been developed to provide all
eligible officers fair and equitable consideration, not for ease of administration. These
procedures will remain in effect until otherwise modified in writing.




                                              MARGARET B. POORE, Maj Gen, USAF
                                              Commander
AFPCI36-112 8 AUGUST 2014                                                                        7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, U.S.C., Section 630 – Discharge of commissioned officers with less than six years of
active commissioned service or found not qualified for promotion for first lieutenant or
lieutenant (junior grade)
Department of Defense Instruction, 1332.30 – Separation of Regular and Reserve Commissioned
Officers, November 25, 2013
AFI 36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI 36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers, 9 July 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Secretary of the Air Force Personnel Council Memorandum, Delegation of Authority for
Discharge of Officers who do not Complete Initial Skills Training (IST), 12 January 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
PDS—Personnel Data System
PII—Personally Identifying Information
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
SAF/PC—Secretary of the Air Force Personnel Council
SORN—System of Records Notice

Terms
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, Office
of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
 8                                                               AFPCI36-112 8 AUGUST 2014


unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equiv).
