BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                       AFPC INSTRUCTION 36-103
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
                                                                                13 JUNE 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                          ENLISTED RETENTION BOARDS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing web site at www.epublishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFPC/PB                                        Certified by: HQ AFPC/PB (Col Ramona
                                                                                  L. Dolson)
                                                                                   Pages: 12




This AFPC Instruction (AFPCI) provides guidance and outlines internal operating procedures to
be used in the administration and conduct of Enlisted Retention Boards (ERBs) for the United
States Air Force at the Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center, USAF Selection Board
Secretariat or other designated locations as necessary. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command Units. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard
(ANG). This publication may not be supplemented or further implemented/extended.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a
Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier
numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier
 2                                                                AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014


waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Vigilance must be taken to protect Personally Identifiable Information (PII) when
submitting or sending nominations, applications or other documents to Department of Defense
(DoD) agencies through government Internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal,
faxing or scanning. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 United States Code (U.S.C.) 8013,
Secretary of the Air Force and Executive Order (E.O.) 9397 Social Security Number (SSN), as
amended. The applicable System of Records Notice (SORN) F036 AF PC C, Military Personnel
Records System is available at: http://dpclo.defense.gov/Privacy/SORNs.aspx. Refer to
attachment 1 for Glossary of References and Supporting Information.


1. Scope. This operating instruction will govern how all Air Force Enlisted Retention Boards
(ERB) are conducted.
2. General. Selection Board Secretariat personnel and all other personnel designated by the
Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) are responsible for conducting ERBs for regular Air Force
enlisted members on active duty. (T-2) ERBs are designed to achieve a "right-sizing" of the
force through a review and selection of the best qualified enlisted members within designated
grades and specialties (as defined in the board details) for retention on active duty. Those
members not selected for retention will be recommended for separation and/or retirement. See
AFPD 36-32, Military Retirements and Separations, for Air Force Policy on management of
retirement and separation programs and AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements, for voluntary and
mandatory retirement procedures.
3. Responsibilities. Responsible officials will ensure this instruction is adhered to for all ERB
boards. Board members and alternate board members should familiarize themselves with this
instruction. Alternate board members will remain on stand-by for the duration of the board.
4. Rules Governing All Boards. When the board is in session, it works directly for the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) under the supervision of the board president. No person may
direct a particular individual be selected or not selected by the board, censure, reprimand, or
admonish the board or any member of the board for recommendations or for exercising any
function within the discretion of the board, or attempt to coerce or influence, by any
unauthorized means, any action of a board or any member of a board in formulating the board's
recommendations.
5. Organizing Boards. Boards will consist of a board president, and at least one panel of
voting board members (including a chairperson, who is the senior voting member), recorders,
and administrative support staff. Panels will consist of one colonel and two chief master
sergeants. The SecAF will approve the board president, board members, recorders and
administrative support staff prior to the board convening.
6. Selection Board Members. Board membership should reflect the eligible population in
terms of minority and women, MAJCOM of assignment and career area when practical.
7. Board President (BP). The BP is a nonvoting, non-scoring member of the board in the grade
of brigadier general or above. The BP will oversee the conduct of the board and ensure that the
board is conducted in accordance with this instruction and CSAF guidance. While the BP may
participate in any discussions permitted other board members, the BP may not constrain the
AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014                                                                         3


voting members of the board from recommending for retention those Airmen they consider best
qualified to meet the needs of the Air Force. The BP will conduct a quality review of records in
accordance with paragraph 17.6 of this instruction. The BP will administer an oath to board
recorders and administrative staff before the board begins scoring records and perform other
duties in connection with the board proceedings as may be required. The BP is the authorizing
official for directing that a SecAF-approved alternate replace a primary board member and will
make the determinations on availability of a primary board member when an alternate board
member may be required.
8. Board Members. The board members will perform their duties based on the best interests of
the Air Force as directed in the CSAF Formal Charge. They will request relief from the CSAF or
SecAF if they cannot, in good conscience, perform their duties without prejudice or partiality.
They will request relief from the CSAF or SecAF of their obligation not to disclose board
proceedings if they believe the integrity of the board's proceedings has been affected by improper
influence of senior military or civilian authority, misconduct by the BP or a member, or any
other reason. Upon granting their request, the board member will report the basis for his or her
belief to the CSAF or SecAF.
9. Board Recorders. The board recorders will ensure procedures outlined in this instruction are
met. They will manage the flow of records to the board members, answer administrative
questions, review information for presentation to the board, and advise the BP and members on
board processes and other administrative matters. The board recorders will have received
training on their specific duties and responsibilities to ensure compliance with this instruction.
There will be at least one board recorder present during all board proceedings. A member will
not serve as a recorder on boards for which they are being considered. If a recorder requires
relief for any of the reasons described in paragraph 8, he or she will request relief from the CSAF
or SecAF and report as outlined in paragraph 8.
10. Administrative Support Staff. Additional administrative support personnel may be
designated to assist the recorders with other administrative tasks. A member will not serve as
Administrative Support Staff on boards for which they are being considered.
11. Rules Governing Communications with Boards. The board recorders ensure all
communication with the board is in writing, to include guidance from the CSAF (for letters from
eligible members, see paragraph 12). The board recorder will furnish all written communication
to all board members and document it as part of the board's record. No one other than the CSAF
or a person duly appointed by the CSAF may appear in person to address the board in any
matter. Should the CSAF address a board in person, a verbatim transcript of his or her remarks
will be provided to every board member and be included in the record of the board. This does
not restrict the staff from furnishing administrative information to the board. Board members,
recorders, and administrative staff may orally communicate routine administrative information to
the extent necessary to facilitate the board's work.
12. Letters to a Board. Board eligibles may write a letter to the board. Eligibles must submit
the letter, not to exceed one single-sided page, in good faith, and ensure it contains accurate
information to the best of their knowledge. The letter must be signed and dated. Send the letter to
the AFPC Retirements and Separations Branch HQ AFPC/DPSOR so it arrives no later than
2359 hours (central time) on 5 June 2014. Letters arriving after that time will not be presented to
the board for consideration. Address letters IAW instructions in the Personnel Service Delivery
 4                                                                  AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014


Memorandum (PSDM). HQ AFPC/DPSOR collects all letters to the board and forwards to
appropriate office for use during the board. Immediately after completion of the ERB, the letter
will be removed from the individual's selection folder and the letter, or a copy thereof, placed in
the master personnel record for historical, legal, and appeal purposes only. Access will be limited
to only those who have a need to know.
13. Information Meeting the Board. Only the following information is authorized to meet the
board:
     13.1. The name of each eligible member including the Enlisted Retention Brief (ERB) and
     Enlisted Retention Recommendation Form (ERRF).
     13.2. Letters submitted to the board by eligible members (see paragraph 12).
     13.3. All Enlisted Performance/Training Reports and Letters of Evaluation closing out
     within the last 10 years and before the designated cutoff date prior to a board.
     13.4. All citations and/or orders for approved decorations closing out prior to the designated
     cutoff date prior to a board.
     13.5. Article 15 documentation and Court-Martial orders issued within the 10 years
     preceding the board convening date. See AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System
     for Article 15 and Court-Martial filing procedures.
     13.6. Administrative information amplifying or clarifying the official military records,
     instructions, and information provided to the board (e.g. pre-board discrepancy reports).
14. Instructing Boards. The Formal Charge, which provides policy and guidance to the board,
will be approved by the CSAF or AF/A1 for each board. Do not modify, withdraw or supplement
the instructions after the board submits its report.
15. Board Member Preparation. The Selection Board Secretariat or other duly appointed
recorders or administrative support staff will pre-brief the BP on the board agenda, CSAF
Formal Charge, BP responsibilities, and the trial run exercise (practice scoring session). Board
recorders will conduct the first day administrative briefing to the board. The BP will then read
the Formal Charge verbatim to the board and a copy will be provided to each board member. To
acknowledge receipt, each board member will sign a copy of the Formal Charge to be maintained
in the permanent record. Oaths are administered to board members and to the recorders and
administrative staff.
16. Conducting Trial Runs. A trial run exercise, and/or a guided discussion will be conducted,
as necessary, to address unique situations which may occur during the board, ensure board
members' familiarity with the record format and its contents and ensure all members are
comfortable with the process.
17. Scoring Records. Records are scored on a best-qualified basis. Records will be scored
separately by grade and AFSC during ERBs. Scores are based on the items referenced in
paragraph 13 and any guidance the CSAF may provide to the board. Scoring is by secret ballot
and without benefit of discussion, unless a significant disagreement (a "split" see paragraph 17.2
and 17.3) occurs in the scores on a particular record. If a board member identifies a record-based
matter that causes concern, he/she will surface the matter to a board recorder who may discuss it
with the BP. The BP may approve bringing that matter to the attention of the appropriate board
members. Board members may discuss their own personal evaluation of the professional
AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014                                                                       5


qualifications of eligible Airmen as long as they discuss only matters documented in accordance
with paragraph 13 and any guidance the CSAF may provide to the board. In such discussions,
board members may rely upon their own experience and knowledge of the Air Force. Board
members may not discuss or disclose the opinion of a person not a member of the board
concerning the Airmen unless that opinion is in the material presented to the board.
   17.1. Scoring Scales. Boards will use the following scoring scale to score an Airmen’s
   potential for retention:

Table 1. Scoring Scales.

             Score                           Potential for Retention


              10.0                 Absolutely superior


              9.5                  Outstanding


              9.0                  Few could be better


              8.5                  Strong


              8.0                  Slightly above average


              7.5                  Average


              7.0                  Slightly below average


              6.5                  Well below average


              6.0                  Lowest


   17.2. Defining "Splits." A "split" is a significant disagreement between voting board
   members about the score of a record. A "split" is considered a difference in a score of 1.5 or
   more points between any two or more board members (e.g., 6 and 7.5, or 8 and 9.5)
   evaluating the records.
   17.3. Resolving "Splits." All voting board members must be present and may discuss the
   record involved in a "split." Only members with split scores may change their scores in the
   process of resolving a split.
 6                                                                     AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014


     17.4. Quota. Finalized quotas are staffed, reviewed, and approved by CSAF or AF/A1 prior
     to the board convening and will be available to the board for its use.
     17.5. Establishing the Gray Zone. After scoring is complete, an order of merit and a gray
     zone will be established. In the event the retain quota is completely exhausted by all the
     records in a score category (i.e., a clean cut), then the gray zone will consist of the score
     category that exhausted the quota and the next lower score category. In the event the
     retention quota is exhausted in a score category where there are more records tied at the score
     category than there is available quota (i.e., not a clean cut), then the gray zone will consist of
     that score category, plus the next higher and the next lower score categories. The appropriate
     respective quota will accompany the records to the gray zone. See attachment 2 for
     illustration.
     17.6. Board President's Quality Review. The BP conducts a quality review prior to
     beginning the gray resolution process of records above and below the gray zone as prescribed
     below. If, in the BP’s opinion, one or more of these records is of comparable quality or
     appears to have been inconsistently scored compared to those records in the gray zone, he or
     she may add those records to the gray zone for the board's final determination. If a record
     above the gray zone is added to the gray zone, the associated quota is added to the gray zone
     as well.
The BP may add selection records to the gray zone that are above the gray zone which have
any of the following characteristics within them: A court-martial, An Article 15, A "do not
retain" ERRF, A “do not retain me” letter, A current prisoner
The BP may add selection records to the gray zone that are below the gray zone which have
any of the following characteristics within them: Currently assigned to AFIT in-residence,
Medal of Honor recipient, Prisoner of War (POW)/former POW, Missing in Action
(MIA)/former MIA, Current or former 12 Outstanding Airman of the Year, Wounded Warrior
Airmen possessing a skill (to include capabilities, experiences, and other attributes)
approved by CSAF and identified in the board details as critical to the Air Force
18. New Documents. If information (e.g., decoration citation, enlisted performance report,
updated enlisted retention brief) concerning an individual's record is acquired during scoring, the
affected records will be brought back for rescoring as long as the initial order of merit has not
been derived and gray zone resolution under paragraph 19 has not commenced.
19. Gray Zone Resolution. After the BP has conducted a quality review and adds any records
to the gray zone, the records are scored again by the appropriate board using the scoring scale
described in paragraph 17.1. After scoring, an order of merit will be established and the
remaining quota applied to it. If records are tied at the score which would result in retention, this
establishes a new “gray zone”. Continue to resolve any “gray zone, without further BP quality
review, until all available retention opportunities are filled. Prior to scoring any records in the
gray zone, the BP will personally instruct all members to re-read the CSAF’s Formal Charge.
On boards conducting gray zone resolution the BP may instruct the board to re-read the charge
on subsequent designated grades and specialties.
20. Board Report. Board members, recorders, and administrative assistants will sign a board
report that verifies the specific certifications in the CSAF’s Formal Charge for that board were
followed in their entirety and includes a list of those Airmen recommended for separation.
AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014                                                                         7


   20.1. That, to the best of their knowledge, the board complied with the CSAF’s instructions,
   including those related to the critical skills needed by the Air Force;
   20.2. That he or she was not subject to or aware of any censure, reprimand, or
   admonishment resulting from the recommendation of the board or the exercise of any lawful
   function within the authorized discretion of the board;
   20.3. That he or she was not subject to or aware of any attempt to coerces or influence
   improperly any action in the formulation of the board’s recommendations;
   20.4. That he or she was not a party to or aware of any attempt at unauthorized
   communications;
   20.5. That, to the best of their knowledge, the board carefully considered the records of
   each Airmen whose name was furnished to the board; and
   20.6. That the Airmen recommended for early discharge or retirement are, in the opinion of
   the majority of the members of the board who reviewed the records of the Airmen, those
   Airmen whose early discharge or retirement best serves the needs of the Air Force.
21. Outbriefing Board Members. Recorders outbrief the board members (discuss cautions and
destroy all notes).
22. Board Report Approval. The AFPC/CC or CA is the designated approval authority for all
ERBs. If during his/her review it is determined the separation or retirement of any Airman does
not clearly serve the best interest of the Air Force, he/she may remove the Airman’s name from
the list.
23. Board Anomalies. Procedural anomalies occurring during a board that may require
variation from established procedures require BP resolution. During the board, the BP may bring
any matter to the attention of the CSAF, or designated representative, if he or she determines that
CSAF-level decision is required. The BP will advise the CSAF of any significant procedural
anomalies. These responsibilities of the BP do not limit in any way the right of a board member
or Board Secretariat member to communicate with the CSAF as provided by other authority.
24. Lists and Other Documents to be Retained. All scoring runs (which include and identify
those records in, above and below the initial "gray" as well as the BP Quality Review) will be
filed with the formal record of the Board, but not made part of that record. These scoring runs
will not reflect individual board member scores. Additionally, a copy of the final boardroom
graphic as well as letters preserved for appeal in accordance with paragraph 12 will be
maintained as permanent documents. They will be marked "For Official Use Only". These
records must not be released under Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) or the Privacy Act but
could become subject to discovery in litigation.
25. Oaths. The following oaths will be administered to board personnel as appropriate:
   25.1. Board Members: "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will, without prejudice or partiality,
   having in view both the special fitness of the Airmen and the efficiency and effectiveness of
   the United States Air Force, perform the duties imposed upon me and that I will not reveal
   information about the board conduct and results except as may be provided by the Chief of
   Staff of the Air Force.
 8                                                                   AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014


     25.2. Recorders and Administrative Support Staff "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will
     keep a true record of the proceedings of the board and that I will not reveal information about
     the board conduct and results except as may be provided by the Chief of Staff of the Air
     Force.
26. Disclosure of Board Recommendations and Board Proceedings. Before the report is
signed by each board member and board recorder, the recommendations may be disclosed only
to the board members, board recorders, and those administrative support personnel designated in
writing. Results of the board will not be released until after the approval authority signs the
report. Board proceedings will not be disclosed without the authority of the CSAF.
27. Summary. These selection board procedures were developed to give all eligible Airmen
fair and equitable consideration, not for ease of administration. These procedures will remain in
effect until otherwise modified in writing or incorporated into Air Force Instructions.




                                              MARGARET B. POORE, Maj Gen, USAF
                                              Commander
AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014                                           9


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-32, Military Retirements and Separations, 14 July 1993
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements, 8 September 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 3538, Enlisted Retention Recommendation Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFPCI—AF Personnel Center Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
BP—Board President
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
E.O——Executive Order
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
ERB—Enlisted Retention Brief
ERRF—Enlisted Retention Recommendation Form
ERB—Enlisted Retirement Board
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
IAW—In accordance with
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary responsibility
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
 10                                                                  AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014


PSDM—Personnel Service Delivery Memorandum
RDS——Records Disposition Schedule
SORN—System of Records Notice
SSN—Social Security Number
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Tier Definitions—Tier 0 (T-0)-Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress,
White House, Office of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-
applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T—1)-Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T—2)-Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
Tier 3 (T—3)-Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equiv).
AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014                                    11


                                             Attachment 2
                                       ILLUSTRATIONS

"Establishing the Gray" slide illustration
12   AFPCI36-103 13 June 2014
