BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER
HQ AIR FORCE PERSONNEL CENTER                                       INSTRUCTION 36-102

                                                                                26 JUNE 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                     ENLISTED QUALITY FORCE REVIEW
                                                                            BOARDS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFPC/PB                                                     Certified by: HQ AFPC/PB
                                                                      (Col Ramona L. Dolson)
                                                                                      Pages: 8


This AFPC Instruction (AFPCI) provides guidance and outlines internal operating procedures to
be used in the administration and conduct of Enlisted Quality Force Review Boards (QFRBs) for
the United States Air Force at the Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center, USAF Selection
Board Secretariat or other designated locations as necessary.

This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command Units. This publication does
not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). This publication may not be supplemented or
further implemented/extended. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

Vigilance must be taken to protect Personally Identifiable Information (PII) when submitting or
sending nominations, applications or other documents to Department of Defense (DoD) agencies
through government Internet, software applications, systems, e-mail, postal, faxing or scanning.
Forms containing PII require Privacy Act Statements (PAS). The authorities to waive wing/unit
level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier ("T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3") number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
 2                                                                AFPCI36-102 26 JUNE 2014


to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items. Refer to attachment 1 for Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.

1. Scope. This operating instruction will govern how all Air Force Quality Force Review
Boards (QFRBs) are conducted.
2. General. Selection Board Secretariat personnel and all other personnel designated by the
Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) are responsible for conducting Enlisted QFRBs for regular
Air Force enlisted members on active duty. (T-2) QFRBs are designed to achieve a "right
sizing" of the force through a review of records of enlisted members with identified negative
quality indicators and selection of quality enlisted members for retention on active duty. Those
members not selected for retention will be recommended for separation and/or retirement.
3. Responsibilities. Responsible officials will ensure this instruction is adhered to for all
QFRBs Board members and alternate board members should familiarize themselves with this
instruction. Alternate board members will remain on stand-by for the duration of the board.
4. Rules Governing All Boards. When the board is in session, it works directly for the Chief of
Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) under the supervision of the board president. No person may
direct a particular individual be selected or not selected by the board, censure, reprimand, or
admonish the board or any member of the board for recommendations or for exercising any
function within the discretion of the board, or attempt to coerce or influence, by any
unauthorized means, any action of a board or any member of a board in formulating the board's
recommendations.
5. Organizing Boards. Boards will consist of a board president, and at least one panel of
voting board members (including a chairperson, who is the senior voting member), recorders,
and administrative support staff. Panels will consist of one colonel and two chief master
sergeants. The SecAF will approve the board president, board members, recorders and
administrative support staff prior to the board convening.
6. Selection Board Members. Board membership should reflect the eligible population in
terms of minority and women, MAJCOM of assignment and career area when practical.
7. Board President (BP). The BP is a non-voting, non-scoring member of the board in the
grade of brigadier general or above. The BP will oversee the conduct of the board and ensure that
the board is conducted in accordance with this instruction and CSAF guidance. While the BP
may participate in any discussions permitted other board members, the BP may not constrain the
voting members of the board from selecting for retention those Airmen they consider qualified to
meet the needs of the Air Force. The BP will administer an oath to board recorders and
administrative staff before the board begins scoring records and perform other duties in
connection with the board proceedings as may be required. The BP is the authorizing official for
directing that a SecAF-approved alternate replace a primary board member and will make the
determinations on availability of a primary board member when an alternate board member may
be required.
8. Board Members. The board members will perform their duties based on the best interests of
the Air Force as directed in the CSAF Formal Charge. They will request relief from the CSAF if
they cannot, in good conscience, perform their duties without prejudice or partiality. They will
request relief from the CSAF of their obligation not to disclose board proceedings if they believe
AFPCI36-102 26 JUNE 2014                                                                         3


the integrity of the board's proceedings has been affected by improper influence of senior
military or civilian authority, misconduct by the BP or a member, or any other reason. Upon
granting their request, the board member will report the basis for his or her belief to the CSAF.
9. Board Recorders. The board recorders will ensure procedures outlined in this instruction are
met. They will manage the flow of records to the board members, answer administrative
questions, review information for presentation to the board, and advise the BP and members on
board processes and other administrative matters. The board recorders will have received
training on their specific duties and responsibilities to ensure compliance with this instruction.
There will be at least one board recorder present during all board proceedings. A member will
not serve as a recorder on boards for which they are being considered. If a recorder requires
relief for any of the reasons described in paragraph 8, he or she will request relief from the CSAF
and report as outlined in paragraph 8.
10. Administrative Support Staff. Additional administrative support personnel may be
designated to assist the recorders with other administrative tasks. A member will not serve as
Administrative Support Staff on boards for which they are being considered.
11. Rules Governing Communications with Boards. The board recorders ensure all
communication with the board is in writing, to include guidance from the CSAF (for letters from
eligible members, see paragraph 12). The board recorder will furnish all written communication
to all board members and document it as part of the board's record. No one other than the CSAF
or a person duly appointed by the CSAF may appear in person to address the board in any
matter. Should the CSAF address a board in person, a verbatim transcript of his or her remarks
will be provided to every board member and be included in the record of the board. This does
not restrict the staff from furnishing administrative information to the board. Board members,
recorders, and administrative staff may orally communicate routine administrative information to
the extent necessary to facilitate the board's work.
12. Letters to a Board. Board eligible may write a letter to the board. Eligibles must submit the
letter, not to exceed one single-sided page, in good faith, and ensure it contains accurate
information to the best of their knowledge. The letter must be signed and dated. Send the letter to
the AFPC Retirements and Separations Branch HQ AFPC/DPSOR so it arrives no later than
2359 hours (central time) on the day prior to the board convening date. Letters arriving after that
time will not be presented to the board for consideration. Address letters IAW instructions in the
Personnel Service Delivery Memorandum (PSDM). HQ AFPC/DPSOR collects all letters to the
board and forwards to appropriate office for use during the board. Immediately after completion
of the QFRB, the letter will be removed from the individual's selection folder and the letter, or a
copy thereof, placed in the master personnel record for historical, legal, and appeal purposes
only. Access will be limited to only those who have a need to know.
13. Information Meeting the Board. Only the following information is authorized to meet the
board:
   13.1. The name of each eligible member including the Enlisted Retention Brief (ERB) and
   Retention Recommendation Form (RRF).
   13.2. Letters submitted to the board by eligible members (see paragraph 12).
   13.3. All Enlisted Performance/Training Reports and Letters of Evaluation closing out
   within the last 10 years and before the designated cutoff date prior to a board.
 4                                                                   AFPCI36-102 26 JUNE 2014


     13.4. All citations and/or orders for approved decorations closing out prior to the designated
     cutoff date prior to a board.
     13.5. Article 15 documentation and Court-Martial orders issued within the 10 years
     preceding he board convening date.
     13.6. Administrative information amplifying or clarifying the official military records,
     instructions, and information provided to the board.
14. Instructing Boards. The Formal Charge, which provides policy and guidance to the board,
will be approved by the CSAF or AF/Al for each board. Do not modify, withdraw or supplement
the instructions after the board submits its report.
15. Board Member Preparation. The Selection Board Secretariat or other designated officials
will pre-brief the BP on the board agenda, CSAF Formal Charge, BP responsibilities, and the
trial run exercise (practice scoring session). Board recorders will conduct the first day
administrative briefing to the board. The BP will then read the Formal Charge verbatim to the
board and a copy will be provided to each board member. To acknowledge receipt, each board
member will sign a copy of the Formal Charge to be maintained in the permanent record. Oaths
are administered to board members and to the recorders and administrative staff.
16. Conducting Trial Runs. A trial run exercise, and/or a guided discussion will be conducted,
as necessary, to address unique situations which may occur during the board, ensure board
members' familiarity with the record format and its contents and ensure all members are
comfortable with the process.
17. Scoring Records. Records are scored on a "YES/NO" retain/do not retain basis with a
"Yes" vote indicating the Airmen is selected for retention and a "No" vote indicating the Airmen
is not selected for retention and should be separated or retired, if eligible.
     17.1. Defining "Splits." When using a "yes" or "no" scoring system for retention decision, a
     "split" occurs when the vote is not unanimous.
     17.2. Resolving "Splits." All voting panel members must be present and may discuss the
     record involved in a "split". When using a "yes" or "no" scoring system and a "split" cannot
     be resolved, the majority vote will rule. The chairperson will facilitate "split" resolutions and
     ensure all panel members have equal opportunity to discuss the strengths and weaknesses in
     the records and their scores. The chairperson may not constrain the votes of the other
     members.
     17.3. Board President's Quality Review. The BP reviews the records of those whose final
     panel scores are less than unanimous. If the BP determines that there is a rational basis to
     conclude that any of the records may have been voted upon in a manner inconsistent with the
     CSAF Formal Charge, he/she may return the record to the panel for rescoring. The second
     score will be used.
18. Quota. QFRBs are not subject to quotas. Each record meeting the board is individually
scored on a "retain/do not retain" basis.
19. Board Report. Those Airmen not selected for retention will be recommended for
separation or retirement, if eligible. Board members, recorders, and administrative assistants will
sign a board report that includes a list of those Airmen recommended for separation or retirement
and certify the following: (T-2)
AFPCI36-102 26 JUNE 2014                                                                         5


   19.1. That, to the best of their knowledge, the board complied with the Chief of Staff's
   instructions;
   19.2. That he or she was not subject to or aware of any censure, reprimand, or
   admonishment about the recommendations of the board or the exercise of any authorized
   function of the board;
   19.3. That he or she was not subject to or aware of any attempt to coerce or influence
   improperly any action in the formulation of the board's recommendations;
   19.4. That he or she was not a party to or aware of any attempt at unauthorized
   communications;
   19.5. That, to the best of their knowledge, the board carefully considered the records of each
   Airman whose name was furnished to the board; and
   19.6. That the Airmen recommended for early discharge or retirement are, in the opinion of
   the majority of the members of the board who reviewed the records of the Airmen, those
   Airmen whose early discharge or retirement best serves the needs of the Air Force.
20. Outbriefing Board Members. Recorders outbrief the board members (discuss cautions and
destroy all notes).
21. Board Report Approval. The AFPC/CC or CA is the designated approval authority for all
QFRBs. If during his/her review it is determined the separation or retirement of any Airman
does not clearly serve the best interest of the Air Force, he/she may remove the Airman's name
from the list.
22. Board Anomalies. Procedural anomalies occurring during a board that may require
variation from established procedures require BP resolution. During the board, the BP may bring
any matter to the attention of the CSAF, or designated representative, if he or she determines that
CSAF-level decision is required. The BP will advise the CSAF of any significant procedural
anomalies. These responsibilities of the BP do not limit in any way the right of a board member
or Board Secretariat member to communicate with the CSAF as provided by other authority.
23. Lists and Other Documents to be Retained. All scoring runs (which include and identify
those records in, above and below the initial "gray" as well as the BP Quality Review) will be
filed with the formal record of the Board, but not made part of that record. These scoring runs
will not reflect individual board member scores. Additionally, a copy of the final board room
graphic as well as letters preserved for appeal in accordance with paragraph 12 will be
maintained as permanent documents. They will be marked "For Official Use Only". These
records must not be released under Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) or the Privacy Act but
could become subject to discovery in litigation.
24. Oaths. The following oaths will be administered to board personnel as appropriate:
   24.1. Board Members: "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will, without prejudice or partiality,
   having in view both the special fitness of the Airmen and the efficiency and effectiveness of
   the United States Air Force, perform the duties imposed upon me and that I will not reveal
   information about the board conduct and results except as may be provided by the CSAF."
 6                                                                  AFPCI36-102 26 JUNE 2014


     24.2. Recorders and Administrative Support Staff" "I solemnly swear or affirm that I will
     keep a true record of the proceedings of the board and that I will not reveal information about
     the board conduct and results except as may be provided by the CSAF."
25. Disclosure of Board Recommendations and Board Proceedings. Before the report is
signed by each board member and board recorder, the recommendations may be disclosed only
to the board members, board recorders, and those administrative support personnel designated in
writing. Results of the board will not be released until after the approval authority signs the
report. Board proceedings will not be disclosed without the authority of the CSAF.
26. Summary. These selection board procedures were developed to give all eligible Airmen
fair and equitable consideration, not for ease of administration. These procedures will remain in
effect until otherwise modified in writing or incorporated into Air Force Instructions.




                                              MARGARET B. POORE, Maj General, USAF
                                              Commander
AFPCI36-102 26 JUNE 2014                                           7


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-32, Military Retirements and Separations, 14 July 1993
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 36-2608, Military Personnel Records System, 30 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 3538, Enlisted Retention Recommendation Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPCI—Air Force Personnel Center Instruction
ANG—Air National Guard
BP—Board President
DoD—Department of Defense
ERB—Enlisted Retention Brief
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
IAW—In accordance with
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PII—Personally Identifiable Information
PSDM—Personnel Service Delivery Memorandum
QFRB—Quality Force Review Board
RF—Retention Recommendation Form
RRF—Retention Recommendation Form
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
 8                                                                  AFPCI36-102 26 JUNE 2014


Terms
Tier Definitions—
Tier 0 (T-0)—Determined by respective non-AF authority (e.g. Congress, White House, Office
of Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff). The waiver authority is non-applicable, or external to AF.
Tier 1 (T-1)—Non-compliance puts Airmen, Commanders or the USAF strongly at risk of
mission or program failure, death, injury, legal jeopardy or unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse.
The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC, delegable no lower than MAJCOM Director, with the
concurrence of the AFI Certifying Official.
Tier 2 (T-2)—Non-compliance may degrade mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and
has potential to create moderate risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste or abuse. The waiver authority is the MAJCOM/CC (delegable no
lower than MAJCOM Director).
Tier 3 (T-3)—Non-compliance may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency and has
a relatively remote potential to create risk of mission or program failure, injury, legal jeopardy or
unacceptable fraud, waste, or abuse. The waiver authority is the Wing/DRU/FOA/CC (delegable
no lower than Group/CC or equiv).
