             THE INSPECTOR GENERAL (IG) COMPLAINT PROGRAM




                                                                                                  Lt Col Kelly Herd, AFPC/IG
                                                                                      AFPC Bldg 663, Room 128, (210) 565-3200


The Air Force has a well established Inspector General system. An IG’s charge is good order, discipline and readiness. The IG system is
comprised of IGQ (Inquiries & Investigations) and IGI (Inspections). The AFPC IG also oversees high level inquiries.

IGs assist commanders in identifying and resolving violations and complaints through appropriate analysis and investigation, as warranted.
They provide an autonomous, neutral perspective in accordance with Air Force Policy Directive and Instruction. These documents direct a
credible, fair and impartial Inspector General system able to provide the commander and AFPC an independent voice to assist in assessing
matters equally and fairly. (AFPD 90-3, Inspector General- The Complaints Program and AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints
Resolution)

Complaints can be filed at any level within the system; however, history shows commanders and supervisors are the people best equipped to
resolve your complaints. Therefore, we encourage you to discuss your problem with your supervisor or commander before visiting the IG.

 No one may act against you just because you contacted or prepared to contact the IG with your complaint. If you believe someone has acted
against you because you complained or prepared to complain to the IG, contact the AFPC/IG, located in AFPC Bldg 663, Room 128.

Who may file Air Force IG complaints? If you have a concern and are unsure if you should file a complaint, contact your local IG Office
in AFPC Bldg 663, Room 128 or call DSN 665-3200 or Commercial 565-3200 for guidance.

What types of complaints are appropriate? The IG Complaints Program does not generally handle matters covered under other AFIs or
directives. Any fraud, waste and abuse (FWA) or violations of law, Air Force instructions, or policy should be reported through the
appropriate grievance channels. The subject of your complaint must be an Air Force program or person. Bear in mind, the fact that you may
disagree with your supervisor(s) over management styles or have what you believe is a "personality conflict" does not constitute an injustice
or mismanagement. If you are not sure your concern is a reportable matter, contact your local IG office for guidance.

Policy directives or instructions that address a specific means of appeal must be exhausted first. You must be able to allege that the process
was mishandled or handled prejudicially before IG channels will process a complaint of mishandling. Mere dissatisfaction with the outcome
is not sufficient basis for an IG review or investigation.

AFPCVA 90-100, 31 July 2014 (Prescribed by AFI 90-301)                 OPR: HQ AFPC/IG Supersedes AFPCVA 90-100, 1 October 2012

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing website at
http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
