BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-16
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                31 AUGUST 2011

                                                                             Special Management

                                                  STUDIES AND ANALYSES, ASSESSMENTS
                                                               AND LESSONS LEARNED

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A9R                                                                   Certified by: AF/A9
                                                                       (Dr Jacqueline Henningsen)
Supersedes:    AFPD90-16, 4 June 2008                                                     Pages: 9


This Directive implements and supports DOD Instruction DODI 8260.01 Support for Strategic
Analysis, and DOD Instruction DODI 8260.2 Implementation of Data Collection, Development,
and Management for Strategic Analyses. It describes the specific responsibilities of the Director
of Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned (AF/A9) and identifies principles and
policies to enable all organizations with analytic functions to integrate and support staff decision
making processes. This publication applies to all Department of the Air Force military and
civilian personnel, including members of the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (NGB).
This publication will be applied to contractors or other persons through the contract or other
legally binding agreement with the Department of the Air Force. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Send
all recommendations for changes or comments to HQ USAF/A9E, 1570 AF Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1570, email: af.a9e@pentagon.af.mil using most current version of AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route requests from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision clarifies policy roles and responsibilities, updates policy on use of analyses and
assessment principles, and consolidates a number of administrative corrections.
1. Overview. This Directive describes Air Force policies for development, management,
conduct, and integration of studies, analyses, assessments, and lessons learned processes
supporting Air Force, Joint, and Coalition leadership decisions. Studies, analyses, assessments,
 2                                                                 AFPD90-16 31 AUGUST 2011


and lessons learned underpin strategic planning, operational and developmental planning,
requirements assessments, modernization and recapitalization of systems and programs, and the
Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution decision processes. The goal of this Policy
Directive is to enable a comprehensive framework that will standardize and integrate Air Force
studies, analyses, assessments, and lessons learned in order to support defensible, cost-effective,
and operationally relevant decision-making while leveraging the Air Force’s distinctive air,
space, and cyberspace capabilities in a Joint warfighting environment. This Directive outlines a
management structure for Air Force-level representation in analyses, assessments, and lessons
learned as decision support for Joint Staff and DOD level analysis, planning, and processes.
2. Policy.
     2.1. Analyses and Assessments Principles. Air Force studies, analyses, assessments, and
     their associated methodologies will adhere to sound, disciplined, and logical management
     and scientific principles to enable first-rate resource and planning decision processes. While
     analytic methods will vary in response to problem types, environments, applications, and
     technologies, Air Force study or analysis teams will apply the following universal principles:
        2.1.1. Transparency. Air Force organizations should be able to explain analytic
        methods, data, assumptions, and results to stakeholders and Air Force leadership when
        supporting Air Force decision making. AF/A9 or an appropriate functional authority will
        be used to identify and validate the source and characteristics of data used in analyses. In
        keeping with the Open Government Act of 2007 and balanced against operational
        security, proprietary restrictions, and other limiting factors, consideration should be given
        in making data sets available to the general public through venues such as the website
        data.gov (http://www.data.gov/).
        2.1.2. Consistency. Organizations should ensure analyses, source data, and results are
        traceable, repeatable, and based on validated data in approved analytic frameworks,
        models, applications, or processes.
        2.1.3. Integration. The Support to Strategic Analysis (SSA) process forms the common,
        joint starting point for integrating Air Force-level analyses, methodologies, data,
        scenarios, and assumptions within higher level Service, Joint, and DOD studies.
        Integrated analyses will enable effective reachback across multiple major commands
        (MAJCOM) and agency activities. Studies and analyses will provide major resource and
        strategy decision inputs within the context of a joint environment whenever practicable.
        These supporting analyses, data, standards, and tools will be based on analytical baselines
        developed under the SSA process and will match resources to platforms to capabilities to
        threats. Deviations in data or methodology will be accounted for and documented.
        2.1.4. Standardized Methodology. Analyses and assessments should follow the most
        appropriate scientific methods and frameworks available. Analytic methods will be
        standardized to the maximum extent possible for similar problems to enhance potential
        for integration and efficient support to decision and management processes.
        Commensurate with the decision at hand, organizations conducting analyses will
        designate proper authorities to validate methodologies and associated tools whenever
        appropriate. These validation authorities may include decision stakeholders, AF/A9,
        Field Analytic Support Agencies (FASAs), and functional offices.
AFPD90-16 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                         3


     2.1.5. Quantitative and Qualitative Factors. Analyses will identify both quantitative
     and qualitative decision factors to senior decision makers. When applying the scientific
     method, and when numerical data exists, analysts frequently will use quantitative
     methods to measure and analyze problems and to report results. Similarly, analysts often
     use qualitative variables to identify assumptions and other key variables in the problem
     environment and solution set. The influences of both quantitative and qualitative factors
     merit the attention of decision makers.
     2.1.6. Assumptions and Constraints. Analysts should appropriately identify and
     document assumptions that must be made to simplify the approach or to account for
     unknown variables. As studies, analyses, and assessments mature, analysts should strive
     to convert these assumptions to facts. In addition, policies, environmental factors,
     leadership decisions, and political realities will often impose constraints on analyses.
     Like assumptions, these constraints should be clearly identified and documented as they
     add context for decision makers.
     2.1.7. Collaboration. Air Force Organizations may require internal studies, analyses,
     and assessments as part of their unique technical or functional responsibilities. By
     maintaining consistency under this guidance in partnership with AF/A9 and other
     analytic units, Air Force organizations can improve or maintain the quality, consistency,
     and defensibility of their analytic products. Organizational analytic efforts will include,
     whenever possible, collaboration with Air Force and DoD units engaged in similar
     studies.
  2.2. Analytic Support Policies for Studies, Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons
  Learned. Air Force analysts will use common frameworks, developed through the SSA
  process or leadership approved alternatives, as baselines and document excursions to
  quantify performance of Air Force programs and operational concepts. Additionally,
  analysts will specify appropriate cost measures that allow for integration and comparison of
  alternatives in advance of resource decisions. These common frameworks support, at a
  minimum, the following areas:
     2.2.1. Strategic Planning Analyses. Air Force analysts will develop, integrate, and
     establish assumptions, constraints, data sets, and analytic frameworks as appropriate to
     inform strategic plans, goals, and processes at the Service, DOD, and national level.
     These baselines support the conduct of wargaming, exercises, experimentation, and
     examination of alternative force structures in terms of strategic level goals, effects, risks,
     and measurements to support senior leadership decisions. Air Force analyses will be
     structured to synchronize and align strategic guidance, resources, operational planning
     activities, and near and long-term force structure planning.
     2.2.2. Capabilities-Based Analyses. These analyses will provide the working
     foundation for identifying requirements and initiatives to modernize or enhance Air Force
     capabilities that benefit the Joint warfighter. AF/A9 and other Air Force analytic
     organizations will work within the Air Force Capability-Based Planning (CBP)
     framework to integrate analytic inputs from the requirements development, planning, and
     capabilities review and risk assessment processes into the Air Force program.
     Additionally, Air Force analysts will integrate their analytic efforts with those of all
     departments, services, and agencies to deliver optimum Joint capabilities. Air Force
4                                                              AFPD90-16 31 AUGUST 2011


    analysts will use standardized capabilities-based analysis and assessment methodologies
    to inform decisions in the context of operational effects, capability gaps or priority
    identification, trade space analysis and alternatives, and measures of effectiveness of
    fielded and future capabilities in terms of risk, cost, and sustainment consistent with Joint
    Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) processes. Capabilities-based
    analyses will be based on Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and
    Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy (DOTMLPF&P) solutions with an initial
    emphasis on non-materiel solutions prior to consideration of materiel solutions.
    2.2.3. Force Structure Analyses. The National Defense Strategy directs the Secretary
    of the Air Force, Chief of Staff, and other key leaders to employ resource planning
    processes, strategies, and concepts of operations to prepare for the full-spectrum of
    military operations against both potential state and non-state adversaries, all while
    striving to maximize Joint combat capability through greater Service-wide efficiencies
    and effectiveness. These processes and strategies, coupled with resource constraints,
    shape current and future force structure requirements. Force requirements are defined
    and modified through mission and campaign analyses using planned, programmed, and
    alternate force structures. Analysts will develop and use a suitable quantitative-based
    risk assessment framework to inform force structure decision processes. However,
    insights derived from other approaches (of a more qualitative nature) and frameworks can
    be useful when supported by defensible evidence. When feasible, frameworks that
    incorporate qualitative measures should also support quantitative analyses to inform the
    force structure decision processes. The force structure analysis framework described
    above will be compatible for use by HQ USAF, NGB, MAJCOMs, Air Force
    components of joint task forces, component commands, and combatant commands in
    their short and long-term planning activities.
    2.2.4. Resources, Recapitalization, Modernization, and Investment Analyses. As
    with all governmental organizations, the Air Force needs to account for resource
    investments, system and program effectiveness, and operational impacts of weapon
    systems in an enterprise environment. Supporting Air Force analyses will integrate
    performance measures and other measures of effectiveness with appropriate cost data to
    provide assessments, make resource recommendations, and provide decision support to
    the Air Force Corporate Structure during Program Objective Memorandum deliberations
    as well as during program and budget reviews, system effectiveness studies, analyses of
    alternatives, cost benefit analyses, and other program analyses that support Air Force
    corporate decisions. As the Air Force and DOD force structure continue to evolve, use of
    capabilities-based methodologies for evaluating Joint warfighting analyses will
    increasingly center on system-of-systems portfolio evaluation rather than platform-centric
    or single program analysis.
    2.2.5. Lessons Learned. The Air Force Lessons Learned (L2) program (AFL2P) exists
    to enhance readiness and improve combat capability by capitalizing on the experiences of
    Airmen and organizations. A lesson learned is an observation that, when validated and
    resolved, results in an improvement in military operations or activities at the strategic,
    operational, or tactical level and in long-term, internalized change to an individual or an
    organization. Coupling L2 with past experiences should also assist senior leaders in
    programming, budgeting, and allocating resources as well as making changes to
AFPD90-16 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                       5


       DOTMLPF&P. A lesson is not a compliance “report card” nor is it automatically
       accepted and implemented without the scrutiny of functional experts. A lesson learned is
       also not “owned” by any one organization. Rather, the mandate for all organizations
       participating in the AFL2P is to coordinate activities and collaboratively exchange
       observations for the benefit of the total Air Force mission. L2 products will be stored in
       the Joint Lesson Learned Information System (JLLIS) and disseminated for maximum
       accessibility and visibility throughout the joint community and the AFL2P.
       2.2.6. Operational Analyses and Assessments. Operational analyses and assessments
       will sharpen the warfighters’ edge by providing threat-based, combat, operational, and
       support assessments. By utilizing capabilities-based methodologies during operational
       and exercise support, operational analyses and assessments can help identify and mitigate
       risks. Analyses and assessments will integrate HQ USAF, MAJCOM, NGB, Numbered
       Air Force (NAF), and component command processes to provide insights to the Air Force
       component and Joint Force commanders regarding peacetime, contingency, and wartime
       operations. To be of value in assessment of joint effects, analyses must capture the
       impact on the Joint Force commander in achieving joint campaign objectives through
       changes in performance, force structure, and policy. Analyses at the campaign level
       provide appropriate vectors for AF investments within the context of joint effects.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   3.1. Director, Air Force Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned
   (AF/A9). AF/A9 is responsible for informing Air Force strategic decisions through the
   application of quality, independent and objective studies, analyses, assessments, and lessons
   learned. Areas addressed include strategic and developmental planning, force structure
   analysis, capabilities-based analysis, recapitalization and modernization, resource
   investments, lessons learned, and operational assessments. AF/A9 develops Air Force-wide
   policy and guidance for analytic baseline scenarios, models, toolkits, databases, analyst
   career management and development, and the AFL2P. AF/A9 also establishes frameworks
   for comprehensive and defensible Air Force studies, analyses, assessments, and lessons
   learned processes. In collaboration with other HQ USAF, MAJCOMs, NGB, NAFs, Direct
   Reporting Units, Field Operating Agency staffs, and FASAs, AF/A9 will provide reachback
   analytical expertise. AF/A9 is the Air Force focal point for resolving analytic integration
   issues with the Joint Staff and Office of the Secretary of Defense and develops traceable and
   integrated baselines in a joint, transparent, and collaborative manner to ensure they are in
   accordance with DODI 8260.01. To enhance oversight and implementation of study support
   and findings, AF/A9, as Air Force Chief Analyst representing the Secretary of the Air Force
   and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, will coordinate HQ USAF participation in the review,
   prioritization, and integration of studies and analyses efforts to maximize results and
   minimize redundancy.
 6                                                           AFPD90-16 31 AUGUST 2011


4. Summary. There is high demand for credible and timely studies, analyses, assessments, and
lessons learned processes as DOD is challenged with building force capabilities within a
constrained fiscal environment. While AF/A9 takes a leading role in ensuring independent and
comprehensive analyses and assessments support leadership decisions, all Air Force
organizations share a responsibility to ensure and support maintenance of analytically sound
methods whenever possible.




                                          MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                          Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD90-16 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                     7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning and Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 March 2009
AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development, 15 September 2003
AFI 10-604, Capabilities Based Planning, 10 May 2006
AFI 10-2801, Air Force Concept of Operations Development, 24 October 2005
AFI 16-1001, Verification, Validation and Accreditation (VV&A), 1 June 1996
AFI 16-1003, Air Force Standard Analysis Toolkit, 17 February 2006
AFI 90-1601, Air Force Lessons Learned Program, 22 September 2010
AFI 90-1602, Data Collection, Development, and Management in Support of Strategic Analysis
and the Analytic Agenda, 18 August 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Forces Command and Control Enabling Concept (Change 2), 25 May 2006
CJCSI 3150.25D, Joint Lessons Learned Program, 10 October 2008
CJCSI 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 1 March 2009
DODD 5000.59, DoD Modeling and Simulation Management, 8 August 2007
DODI 5000.61, DoD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification, Validation, and
Accreditation (VV&A), 9 December 2009
DODI 8260.01, Support for Strategic Analysis, 11 January 2007
DODI 8260.2, Implementation of Data Collection, Development, and Management for Strategic
Analyses, 21 January 2003
HAF MD 1-58, Air Force Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned, 11 September
2007
JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 November 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFL2P—Air Force Lessons Learned Program
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
 8                                                              AFPD90-16 31 AUGUST 2011


ARC—Air Reserve Component
CBP—Capability-Based Planning
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DOTMLPF&P—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership & Education,
Personnel, Facilities, and Policy
FASAs—Field Analytic Support Agencies
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
HAF MD—Headquarter Air Force Mission Directive
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JP—Joint Publication
L2—Lessons Learned
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NGB—National Guard Bureau
SSA—Support to Strategic Analysis

Terms
Accreditation—The official determination by the accreditation authority that the M&S is
acceptable for a specific purpose. (AFI 16-1001)
Analytic Baseline—A package comprising a scenario, concept of operations, and integrated data
used by the DOD components as a foundation for strategic analyses. Analytical baselines shall
be produced and reviewed in an open, collaborative, and transparent environment. (DODI
8260.01)
Capability—The combined capacity of personnel, materiel, equipment, and information in
measured quantities, under specified conditions, that, acting together in a prescribed set of
activities can be used to achieve a desired output. (AFI 10-604)
Capability—Based Planning—The planning process to provide capabilities suitable for a wide
range of challenges and circumstances, all designed to achieve certain battlespace effects. (AFI
10-604)
Data—Representations of facts, concepts, or instructions in a formalized manner suitable for
communication, interpretation, or processing by human or automatic means. Any
representations, such as characters or analog quantities, to which meaning is or might be
assigned. (AFI 16-1001)
Effect—The physical or behavioral state of a system that results from an action, a set of actions,
or another effect. The result, outcome, or consequence of an action. A change to a condition,
behavior, or degree of freedom. (JP 1-02)
AFPD90-16 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                         9


Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System—A Joint concepts-centric process
that supports the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Requirements Oversight Council in
identifying, assessing and prioritizing joint military capability needs and identifying integrated
DOTMLPF solutions (materiel and non-materiel) to fill those needs within the DOD CBP
process. Additionally, JCIDS is a key element in the Chairman's effort to realize the initiatives
directed in the Transformation Planning Guidance. (CJCSI 3170.01G)
Lesson Learned—An insight gained that improves military operations or activities at the
strategic, operational, or tactical level and results in long-term, internalized change to an
individual or an organization. (AFI 90-1601)
Model—A physical, mathematical, or logical representation of a system entity, phenomenon, or
process. (AFI 16-1001)
Risk—The quantifiable level of exposure to an undesirable outcome based on probability of
occurrence and consequence.
Scenario—An account or synopsis of a projected course of action or events. For the purpose of
this Directive, the focus of scenarios is on strategic and operational levels of warfare. Scenarios
include information such as threat and friendly politico-military contexts and/or backgrounds,
assumptions, operational objectives, and other planning considerations. (DODI 8260.01)
Simulation—A method for implementing a model over time for the purpose of testing, analysis,
or training.
Strategic Analysis—An analysis of force sufficiency and effectiveness conducted by the DOD
Components to support the development and evaluation of the defense strategy. Such analyses
address both forces and enablers (e.g., intertheater and intratheater lift capability, required
language region and cultural skills). (DODI 8260.01)
Validation—The process of determining the degree to which a model is an accurate
representation of the real world from the perspective of the intended uses of the model. (AFI 16-
1001)
Verification—The process of determining that a model implementation accurately represents the
developer’s conceptual description and specifications. (AFI 16-1001)
Wargaming—Simulating, by whatever means, a military operation involving two or more
opposing forces, using rules, data and procedures designed to depict an actual or assumed live
situation. Wargaming is generally not carried out for the purpose of providing training but often
explores emerging operational concepts or alternative force structures in a future scenario. (AFI
10-2305)
