BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-28
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     9 MAY 2014

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                 AWARDS AND DECORATIONS PROGRAMS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1S                                                                 Certified by: SAF/MR
                                                                              (Gordon O. Tanner)
                                                                                           Pages: 4
Supersedes:    AFPD 36-28, 30 July 2012


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive
(DoDD) 1348.19, Award of Trophies and Similar Devices in Recognition of Accomplishments
and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 1348.33, Military Awards Program. This directive establishes the
framework for the Air Force Awards, Decorations, and Special Recognition Program and applies
to units and personnel of the Regular Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve and
Air Force civilian employees specified by Air Force instructions. In collaboration with the Chief
of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the Deputy
Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy for Air
Force Awards, Decorations, and Special Recognition programs. This AFPD may not be
supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847’s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located
in the Air Force Records Information Management System.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This directive has been significantly revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. This revision
provides the board requirements (paragraph 3.4.) and deletes functional areas authority to create
and administer their own awards programs.
 2                                                                     AFPD36-28 9 MAY 2014


1. Overview. Air Force personnel make many personal and professional sacrifices to ensure the
Air Force accomplishes its missions and is a respected part of our society. Acts of valor,
heroism, exceptional service, and outstanding achievement deserve special recognition, and this
policy establishes guidance for recognizing individuals and groups.
2. Policy. The Air Force will have a recognition program to foster morale, incentive, and esprit
de corps.
     2.1. The Air Force will have an Awards and Decorations Program. Personnel or units who
     receive awards and decorations under this program must clearly demonstrate sustained and
     superior performance. This program will include campaign, expeditionary, and service
     medals.
     2.2. The Air Force will have a Special Recognition Program. It will recognize acts of
     bravery, outstanding achievements, or periods of meritorious service. This program will also
     encompass awards from private organizations that seek Air Force participation.
        2.2.1. In an effort to streamline the workload and to standardize the nomination process,
        nomination packages for Air Force level awards are limited to two pages and will be
        submitted on an Air Force Form 1206, Nomination for Award. Exceptions to this
        requirement must be approved by the Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel,
        and Services (AF/A1).
        2.2.2. To reduce the workload placed on units, functional areas which require the use of
        base visits to help determine award winners are limited to one visit per base per award.
     2.3. Major Commands (MAJCOM) may create and administer their own awards programs.
     2.4. MAJCOMs may participate in awards programs sponsored by national organizations.
     When they do participate in such programs, they will process their own submissions.
     2.5. Functional areas which require the use of base visits to help determine award winners
     are limited to one visit per base per award.
3. Responsibilities. This policy directive establishes the following responsibilities and
authorities:
     3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
     serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all
     matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and
     budgets addressing the Air Force Awards and Decorations Program. SAF/MR also interfaces
     with the Office of the Secretary of Defense concerning development of DoD policy and
     legislative initiatives.
     3.2. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) develops,
     coordinates, and executes personnel policy and essential procedural guidance for the
     management of the various award programs.
     3.3. With AF/A1 guidance and approval, the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) will
     develop specific requirements for each Air Force award and decoration. At a minimum,
     AFPC will specify the establishing authority, nomination or selection criteria, eligibility
     criteria, and the awarding authority for each award and decoration.
AFPD36-28 9 MAY 2014                                                                    3


     3.3.1. A general officer or civilian equivalent will chair all military and civilian
     nomination or selection boards for USAF/DoD/National award programs.
  3.4. Commanders and Civilian Directors administer and ensure compliance with the various
  Air Force recognition programs.




                                        Deborah Lee James
                                        Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                               AFPD36-28 9 MAY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 1348.19, Award of Trophies and Similar Devices in Recognition of Accomplishments, 12
May 1989
DoDI 1348.33, Military Awards Program, 1 July 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
