BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 16-4
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    1 JULY 2014

                                                                             Operations Support

                                                                       ACCOUNTING FOR
                                                                   UNITS, INSTALLATIONS,
                                                                AND AEROSPACE VEHICLES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at: http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A8PB                                                                Certified by: AF/A8
                                                                    (Lt Gen Michael R. Moeller)
                                                                                        Pages: 4
Supersedes:    AFPD 16-4,
               7 September 1993


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFDP) establishes Air Force policy for the accounting of units,
installations, and military aerospace vehicles to include the naming of military aerospace
vehicles. This directive implements policies in DoD Directive 4120.15E, Designating and
Naming Military Aerospace Vehicles, and DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition
Manual. It applies to all Air Force personnel, including Air National Guard and Air Force
Reserve, who review, validate, approve, and manage the accounting of units, installations, and
military aerospace vehicles and the naming of military aerospace vehicles. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the Air
Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route Air Force Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This directive has been substantially revised. Major revisions include an update of office
symbols to reflect current HQ Air Force organization, a format change to comply with current
publications management guidelines, an update to the publication roles and responsibilities
section, and elimination of the metrics used to measure compliance with this policy.
 2                                                                       AFPD16-4 1 JULY 2014


1. Policy. It is Air Force policy to:
     1.1. As the DoD Executive Agent, designate and name military aerospace vehicles according
     to established guidelines and standard conventions by assigning mission design series (MDS)
     designations.
     1.2. Maintain an accurate accounting of current installations, units, and military aerospace
     vehicles.
     1.3. Distribute and dispose of excess aircraft according to established guidelines.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8):
        2.1.1. Coordinates with other DoD Components and publishes an Air Force Instruction
        (AFI) with Joint applicability governing the designating and naming functions for
        military aerospace vehicles in accordance with DoD Directive 4120.15E, Designating
        and Naming Military Aerospace Vehicles.
        2.1.2. Assigns MDS designators to all military aerospace vehicles, coordinates the
        assignment of popular names to all aerospace vehicles to include establishing guidance to
        the same, and publishes and updates a list of approved MDS designators and names for
        military aerospace vehicles in a single DoD-wide source document in accordance with
        DoD Directive 4120.15E, Designating and Naming Military Aerospace Vehicles.
        2.1.3. Establishes guidance, processes and procedures to ensure accurate accounting of
        current installations, units, and military aerospace vehicles.
        2.1.4. Establishes guidance, processes and procedures for worldwide programming,
        assignment, transfer, distribution, accounting, and termination of Air Force aerospace
        vehicles.
        2.1.5. Establishes direction to ensure the transfer and disposal of excess Air Force
        aircraft in accordance with DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual.
        2.1.6. Following the completion of each President’s Budget (PB) exercise, publishes the
        US Air Force Aerospace Vehicles and Flying Hours document (also known as the Force
        Structure Worksheets) and USAF Program Installations, Units, and Priorities report.




                                               DEBORAH LEE JAMES
                                               Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD16-4 1 JULY 2014                                                                        3


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 4120.15E, Designating and Naming Military Aerospace Vehicles, 29 November
2004
DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Materiel Disposition Manual, August 1997
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DoD—Department of Defense
HQ—Headquarters
MDS—Mission Design Series
PB—President’s Budget
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Aerospace Vehicle—Collective term for military aircraft, rockets, guided missiles, boosters,
satellites, probes, airborne lasers, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)/remotely piloted aircraft
(RPAs), and UAV/RPA control segments used to launch, control, and recover UAVs/RPAs.
Installation—A grouping of facilities, located in the same vicinity, which support particular
functions. Installations may be elements of a base (see Joint Pub 1-02). Installations are HQ
USAF controlled.
Mission Design Series (MDS)—The official designation for aerospace vehicles used to
represent a specific category of aerospace vehicles for operations, support, and documentation
purposes.
Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA)—See Unmanned Aerial Vehicle.
Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)—A powered aerial vehicle that does not carry a human
operator, uses aerodynamic forces to provide vehicle lift, can fly autonomously or is piloted
 4                                                                 AFPD16-4 1 JULY 2014


remotely, and can be expendable or recoverable. Ballistic or semi ballistic vehicles, cruise
missiles, and artillery projectiles are not considered UAVs.
