BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 40-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           6 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                             Medical Command

                                                            FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMOA/SGHW                                             Certified by: AF/SG (Lt Gen Green)
                                                                                      Pages: 4
Supersedes:   AFPD40-3, 10 March 2005


This directive establishes the framework for the Air Force Family Advocacy Program (FAP).
This directive implements DoD Directive 6400.1, Family Advocacy Program. It incorporates
provisions of DoDI 6400.05, New Parent Support Program, to establish the Air Force (AF) New
Parent Support Program (NPSP) as a core service under the FAP. This directive applies to all
military and civilian AF personnel and their dependents entitled to receive medical care in a
Military Treatment Facility (MTF) as specified in AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and
Health Care Benefits in the Military Health Services System. Additionally, unmarried intimate
partners of active duty members (who are not military beneficiaries) are offered assessment,
safety planning, and referrals to non-military service providers when referred to FAP for
suspicion of maltreatment. Activated Reservists and National Guard members on Title 10
orders, regardless of branch of Service, who have family military medical benefits are eligible
for the full range of FAP services from the servicing AF MTF. Activated Guard members on
Title 32 orders are eligible for all voluntary prevention services and for emergency safety
planning by FAP at the servicing AF MTF, with subsequent referrals made to non-military
service providers for ongoing care. AF FAP cannot provide any interventions to Guardsmen on
Title 32 orders that require G-series Command involvement. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with      the      AF      Records       Disposition      Schedule      (RDS)       located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                               AFPD40-3 6 DECEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is a substantive revision of the superseded AFPD and must be reviewed in its
entirety. DoD requirements for the New Parent Support Program (NPSP) are implemented.
Requirements for offices within Headquarters AF organizations’ oversight are removed from this
Directive for description in supplementing AF Instruction(s). Eligibility for some FAP services
is extended to intimate partners.
1. DoD Directive 6400.1 requires the Secretaries of the Military Departments to establish
policies prohibiting child and spouse abuse. It is AF Policy that the abuse or neglect of family
members by AF personnel is prohibited. AF will provide family maltreatment prevention,
education, and intervention through its FAP to all eligible DoD families, coordinating with the
sponsor’s command as needed. Further, it is AF Policy that:
2. FAP is a medical program that enhances AF readiness by promoting family and community
health and resilience. FAP also advocates for nonviolent communities. These objectives are
accomplished through the use of FAP outreach and prevention programs and through the
identification and treatment of family maltreatment incidents. These services are empirically
designed to prevent family maltreatment, and in turn reduce negative impact upon AF members’
duty performance. This directive establishes policy for developing and managing the FAP
throughout the AF.
3. The AF offers maltreatment prevention services to active duty members and their
families. The NPSP is a core child abuse/neglect prevention program delivered by FAP in
accordance with DoDI 6400.05, with AF policy, and with implementing guidance published by
AF/SG.
4. AF members and DoD civilians who suspect maltreatment will report suspicions and/or refer
family members to the military treatment facility (MTF) FAP for assessment. FAP, in
compliance with DoD guidance, will assess all maltreatment allegations. AF/SG will establish
criteria to determine requirements for further assessment, intervention, and referrals by FAP for
eligible beneficiaries.
5. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
     5.1. The SAF/MR serves as agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and
     oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of policies,
     programs and budgets within the AF/SG Family Advocacy Program.
     5.2. AF/SG develops, coordinates and executes Family Advocacy policy.
        5.2.1. Interfaces with the Office of the Secretary of Defense staff in coordination with
        SAF/MR to recommend DoD policy and legislative initiatives.
        5.2.2. Designates, pursuant to DoDD 6400.1, an AF FAP Manager, to act as their agent,
        in carrying out approved and directed AF policies for FAP implementation.
        5.2.3. Provides implementing guidance and procedures for the FAP.
AFPD40-3 6 DECEMBER 2011                                                               3


  5.3. Major Commands (MAJCOM) support the FAP to ensure installations are in
  compliance with this directive, implementing guidance publications, and designate staff
  members to work cooperatively with AF/SG, or designee, in the delivery of FAP services.




                                        MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                        Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                          AFPD40-3 6 DECEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 6400.1, Family Advocacy Program (FAP), August 23, 2004
DoD Directive 6400.05, New Parent Support Program, December 20, 2005
DoD 6400.1-M, Family Advocacy Program Standards and Self-Assessment Tool, October 1,
2009
AF Instruction 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in the Military Health
Services System, December 28, 2001
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
NPSP—New Parent Support Program

Terms
Family Maltreatment—exists when a military family member or intimate partner experiences
non-accidental physical, sexual or emotional trauma, abuse, or neglect.
Maltreatment, Outreach, and Prevention Services—are programs and services for all eligible
beneficiaries aimed at building the resilience of installation communities, preventing family
maltreatment, and/or educating on how to recognize and report suspected maltreatment.
New Parent Support Program—is a voluntary maltreatment prevention program offered to
expectant families and families with children from birth to 3 years of age who are eligible
beneficiaries.
