BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 21-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        17 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                 Maintenance

                                                                                 MUNITIONS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on
               the e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on release of this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A4LW                                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/A4/7
                                                                                (Lt Gen Fedder)
                                                                                       Pages: 5
Supersedes:   AFPD21-2,
              20 September 2005


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) establishes Air Force policy for accountability and
maintenance of Air Force munitions. This directive implements DoD Directive (DoDD) 5160.65,
Single Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SMCA) and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 4540.05,
DoD Transportation of U.S. Nuclear Weapons. This directive is consistent with DoDD 4151.18,
Maintenance of Military Materiel, DoDI 4140.01, Supply Chain Materiel Management Policy
and AFPD 20-1/63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management. This policy directive applies to all Air
Force activities, including the Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve, tasked with the
responsibility to control, safeguard, manage, account for, and perform munitions maintenance.
This publication may not be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the Air Force Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route Air Force Form 847s from the field through
the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes include: change of AF/A4/7 and AF/A4LW office symbols; update to AFMAN 33-363
Management of Records title and Air Force Records Disposition Schedule website; the addition
 2                                                               AFPD21-2 17 DECEMBER 2012


of positive inventory control requirements; and adds DoDI 4540.05, DoD Transportation of U.S.
Nuclear Weapons, to the preamble.
1. Purpose. This publication establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for the
accountability and maintenance of munitions to meet operational needs, including mobilization
and surge requirements. This includes conventional munitions, nuclear weapons, cruise missiles,
intercontinental ballistic missiles, space launch weapon systems, and associated items.
2. Policy. The overarching objective is to maintain munitions, missiles, and space assets in a
safe, serviceable, and ready condition to meet mission needs and to ensure their full inventory
accountability. Toward that end, the Air Force shall:
     2.1. Support readiness objectives by maintaining equipment in optimum condition.
        2.1.1. Accountability and maintenance shall be performed at the lowest level to optimize
        readiness and resources.
        2.1.2. Organizations, tools, equipment, and skills shall be standardized where possible.
     2.2. Assign skilled personnel necessary to support expeditionary air forces and local mission
     requirements. Only fully-qualified technicians will inspect and maintain munitions and
     weapon systems to ensure that they are serviceable and available for sustained use.
     2.3. Manage systems health to ensure long-term capability of munitions equipment.
     2.4. Information systems shall leverage automated technology to provide accurate near real
     time inventory accountability, operational management, total asset visibility, and positive
     inventory control. Systems shall be used to provide accountability of munitions from the
     point of entry into the Air Force stockpile until it is expended, demilitarized, transferred to an
     authorized disposal activity, transferred via foreign military sales, or inter-Service release.
     2.5. Facilities and areas will be set aside exclusively for the storage, maintenance,
     inspection, and repair of munitions and weapon systems.
     2.6. Munitions shall be positioned in operational theaters, standard air munitions packages,
     force provider locations, on afloat prepositioned fleet ships, and in the continental United
     States (CONUS) to meet operational requirements, to include homeland defense
     requirements.
     2.7. Air Force nuclear weapons and conventional munitions must be moved by the most
     secure means over the safest routes practicable.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. Headquarters Air Force. The Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS)/Logistics, Installations, and
     Mission Support (AF/A4/7) is responsible for policy development, resources, and
     management of all munitions systems.
        3.1.1. Policy. Develops departmental policy.
        3.1.2. Resources. Advocates for resources to sustain munitions operations. Analyzes or
        summarizes munitions capabilities and maintenance trends to support resource allocation
        and advocacy.
AFPD21-2 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                                 3


  3.2. Major Command (MAJCOM). MAJCOMs will provide manpower, resources, and
  training consistent with their assigned mission to optimize readiness and ensure inventory
  accountability of all munitions and munitions items under their control.
     3.2.1. Prepare funding plans and budgets for out-year munitions support requirements,
     weapon system modifications, and service life extension programs, including
     infrastructure, manpower, and support equipment.
     3.2.2. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will provide responsive support for
     logistics, engineering and research, development, test and evaluation, technical
     sustainment, product assurance, and life-cycle sustainment to support all MAJCOMs.
         3.2.2.1. Ensure munitions operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness.
         3.2.2.2. Develop procedures for, schedule, and coordinate nuclear weapons and cargo
         shipments.
         3.2.2.3. Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center, as the Service Logistics Agent, will
         consider factors detailed in DoDI 4540.05 when determining whether to use military
         airlift or ground transportation by Department of Energy (DoE) safeguard transports
         for CONUS nuclear weapons movements.
     3.2.3. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) is responsible for providing
     training to individual technicians and leaders.
  3.3. Wings. Air Force wings are the primary maintenance level for munitions. Base-level
  activities must maintain the capability to support all operational and mobilization
  requirements and must ensure full inventory accountability of all munitions and munitions
  items under their control.
  3.4. Air Force commanders will ensure assets received, stored, and issued are accurately
  accounted for and reported within the established timeframe and that maintenance is
  performed at required intervals.




                                           Michael B. Donley
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                           AFPD21-2 17 DECEMBER 2012


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 31 March 2004
DoDD 5160.65, Single Manager for Conventional Ammunition (SCMA),1 August 2008
DoDI 4140.01, DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Policy, 14 December 2011
DoDI 4140.62, Materiel Potentially Presenting an Explosive Hazard, 25 November 2008
DoDI 4540.05, DoD Transportation of U.S. Nuclear Weapons , 23 June 2011
DoDI 5025.12, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology, 14 August 2009
AFPD 20-1/63-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRRS—Defense Readiness Reporting System
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Accountability—The obligation imposed by law or lawful order or regulation on an officer or
other person for keeping accurate record of property, documents, or funds. The person having
this obligation may or may not have actual possession of the property, documents, or funds.
Accountability is concerned primarily with records, while responsibility is concerned primarily
with custody, care, and safekeeping. The degree of responsibility for property that exists when a
record of property is maintained on a numbered stock record account is subject to audit. All
munitions maintenance functions have an inherent responsibility to ensure that accountability is
maintained.
AFPD21-2 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                                       5


Munition—A complete device charged with explosives, propellants, pyrotechnics, initiating
composition, or chemical agents for use as a military operations, including demolitions. This
includes bombs and warheads; guided and ballistic missiles; artillery, mortar, rockets and
ammunition; all mines, torpedoes, and depth charges; demolition charges; pyrotechnics; smoke;
flares; napalm; clusters and dispensers; cartridge and propellant actuated devices; electro-
explosive devices; clandestine and improvised explosive devices; and all similar or related items
and stores, or components explosive in nature. Certain suitably modified munitions can be used
for training, ceremonial, or non-operational purposes.
Nuclear Weapon—A complete assembly (i.e., implosion type, gun type, or thermonuclear type),
in its intended ultimate configuration which upon completion of the prescribed arming, fusing,
and firing sequence, is capable of producing the intended nuclear reaction and release of energy.
Readiness—The ability of U.S. military forces to fight and meet the demands of the national
military strategy. Unit readiness is the ability to provide capabilities required by the combatant
commanders to execute their assigned missions.
Total Asset Visibility—The capability to provide users with timely and accurate information on
the location, movement, status, and identity of units, personnel, equipment, materiel, and
supplies.
