Administrative Changes to AFPD 64-1, The Contracting System

OPR: SAF/AQCP


1. Certifying Official: SAF/AQC (Mr. Roger S. Correll)

2. References to AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, should be changed to AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, throughout the publication.

3. Delete the following three references in Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting
Information, and replace with HAF Mission Directive 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
(Acquisition), April 8, 2009, as these three references were revoked and incorporated into HAF
MD 1-10.

        (i)       Secretary of the Air Force Order 101.1. Authority and Responsibilities of the
                  Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), June 5, 1999 and SAF/AQ
                  Memorandum, Subject: Delegation of Contract and Agreement Authority, 30
                  Nov 1999;
        (ii)      Secretary of the Air Force Order 640.11, Amendment of Contracts Without
                  Consideration, Correction of Mistakes in Contracts, and Formalization of
                  Informal commitments Under Public Law 85-804, October 30, 1997; and
        (iii)     Secretary of the Air Force Order 650.3, Functions of the Air Force
                  Competition Advocate General and Procuring Activity Advocates for
                  Competition, October 30, 1997.

1 March 2011
BY THE ORDER OF THE                                             AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 64-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            7 DECEMBER 2006
                                                                            Certified Current 1 March 2011
                                                                                               Contracting

                                                                         THE CONTRACTING SYSTEM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publication and forms are available on the e-publishing site at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AQCP                                                                     Certified by: SAF/AQC
                                                                             (Mr. Charlie E. Williams, Jr.)
Supersedes AFPD 64-1, 22 Mar 1993                                                                Pages: 5

This directive defines and explains the Air Force contracting system, whose primary mission is to acquire
and support warfighter capabilities through responsive business solutions. See Attachment 1 for publica-
tions implemented by this policy direct ive. Ensure that all records crea ted as a result of processes pre-
scribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/. To recommend changes, conflicts, suggestions, or recommendations to departmental
publications, use the AF IMT 847 and route it throu gh the publishing channels to the OPR for the publi-
cation. This publication is applicable to the Air Force Reserve but not to the Air National Guard (ANG)
or the Civil Air Patrol (CAP).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
AFPD is revised to update OPR and Certifier individual, to remove requirement for Measures of Compli-
ance with Policy and to update the reference information.

1. The Air Force relies on its contracting system to acquire the supplies and services essential to its oper-
ations and warfighting mission. This directive establishes policies to ensure the Air Force contracting sys-
tem acquires supplies and services that support customer needs at reasonable prices. The system must also
meet statutory and regulatory requirements.

2. The contracting system will be responsive to missi n needs and requirements, and will award contracts
                                                       o
that are in the best interests of the Government. The Air Force will contract for supplies and services using
the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), current edition, the Defense FAR Supplement (DFARS), cur-
rent edition, the Air Force FAR Supplement (AFFARS), and related Air Force instructions (AFI), policy
memorandums (PM) and informational guidance (IG).
2                                                                        AFPD64-1 7 DECEMBER 2006


    2.1. The contracting system will foster an environment where contracting activities and their custom-
    ers are a team dedicated to meeting Air Force requirements. The customer and the contracting activity
    will follow sound business practices in making decisions to support the contracting process. They also
    will exercise the highest standards of ethical conduct and fiscal responsibility. Contract actions must
    inspire public trust in the Air Force acquisition process.
    2.2. The contracting system includes: effective acquisition planning, solicitation, cost or price analy-
    sis; evaluation of offers; source selection; contract award; and contract administration. The contract-
    ing activity will provide sound business advice on acquisitions accomplished by other non-Air Force/
    non-DoD activities for Air Force customers.

3. The Air Force will treat all offerors and contractors fairly and equitably. It also will ensure contractors
perform according to the contract terms and conditions. Procedures to resolve disputes between contrac-
tors and their employees are set by law; the Air Force will remain neutral in dealing with contract-related
labor disputes that may occur on Air Force installations.

4. Air Force contracting activities and their customers will consider bo th technical needs and business
strategies when defining and specifying requirements. They will ensure specifications reflect only what is
needed to meet the require ments of the mission. They will ensure sp ecifications and statements of work
will not unnecessarily restrict comp etition or innovation. They will use commercial item descriptions as
much as practicable and functional specifications instead of detailed design specifications whenever rea-
sonable.

5. Air Force contracting activities will employ qualified military and civilian members of the acquisition
work force. The Air Force will implement the Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) to
ensure all people in the contracti ng work force have the opportunity for training, education and experi-
ence needed to meet certification requirements and qualify for advancement.

6. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
    6.1. The Secretary of the Ai Force has delegated contracting authority to specific acquisition officials
                                 r
    who redelegate the authority to contracting officers. The authority delegated to contracting officers to
    bind the Government on behalf of the Air Force is specific and limited, and carries with it a responsi-
    bility to act with the ut most integrity and proprie ty. Those individuals dele gated this authority and
    responsibility, together with thei r commanders and supervisors, wi ll ensure their actions are within
    delegated authority and that the highest standards of conduct and business practices are maintained.
    6.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (A cquisition), SAF/AQ, is the Senior Procurement
    Executive (SPE).
    6.3. The Deputy Assistant Secretar y (Contracting), SAF/ AQC, develops and implements Air Force
    contracting policies and procedures, and performs surveillance of major command contracting activi-
    ties. SAF/AQC also serves as the Competition Advocate General for the Air Force, acts as the senior
    contracting advisor to the SPE and provides functional management for Air Force contracting person-
    nel.
AFPD64-1 7 DECEMBER 2006                                                                                  3


7. Terms Explained:
   7.1. The SPE is the individual responsible for the overall management of the Air Force acquisition
   and contracting system.
   7.2. The contracting of ficer (CO) is an individual specifically appoi nted by the Secretary of the Air
   Force or designee with th e authority to e nter into, administer, or terminat e contracts and execute
   related determinations and findings within the limits of the authority delegated. Only a properly war-
   ranted CO has the authority to contractually bind the Government on behalf of the Air Force.

8. This policy directive applies to purchases of and contracts fo r supplies or services using appropriated
funds. It may also apply to other business arrangements, such as leasing aircraft to outside parties, enter-
ing into Cable TV franchise agreem ents on Air Force ins tallations, and grants and cooperative agree-
ments. Purchases and cont racts using nonappropriate d funds (NAF) will comply with designated Air
Force instructions. Air Force contract ing offices will provide contracting surveillance assistance to NAF
purchasing activities.



                                                MICHAEL W. WYNNE
                                                Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                      AFPD64-1 7 DECEMBER 2006


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
This directive implements instructions from the following documents:
Title 10, United States Code
Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, as amended (Title 41, United States Code, 401, et seq.)
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS)
Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (AFFARS), Subpart 5301.6, Contracting Authority
and Responsibilities
Secretary of the Air Force Order 101.1,Authority and Responsibilities of the Assistant Secretary of the Air
Force (Acquisition), June 5, 1999 and SAF/ AQ Memorandum, Subjec t: Delegation of Contract and
Agreement Authority, 30 Nov 1999
Secretary of the Air Force Order 640.1 1, Amendment of Contracts Without Consideration, Correction of
Mistakes in Contracts, and Formalization of Informal Commitments Under Public Law 85-804, October
30, 1997
Secretary of the Air Force Orde r 650.3, Functions of the Air Force Competition Advocate General and
Procuring Activity Advocates for Competition, October 30, 1997
This directive interfaces with the following documents:
AFFARS, Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, 2002 Edition
AFPD 64-2, Small Business Program, 1 May 1996
AFPD 64-3, The Non-Appropriated Fund Contracting System, 1 December 2005
AFI 64-101, Cable Television (CATV) Systems On US Air Force Installations , 1 December 2005
AFI 64-102, Operational Contracting Program, 25 July 2005
AFI 64-103, Leasing US Air Force Aircraft and Related Equipment to Non-government Organizations,
1 May 1997
AFI 64-105, Contract Reporting and Contract Profit Reporting System, 1 August 2000
AFI 64-106, Industrial Labor Relations Activities, 25 March 1994
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-Wide Purchase Card (GPC), 31 January 2006
AFI 64-201, Small Business Programs, 1 January 1997
AFI64-301, Nonappropriated Fund Contracting Policy, 12 February 2002
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 1 August 1994
AFPAM 38-102, Headquarters United States Air Force Organization and Functions, 1 January 2004
AFPD64-1 7 DECEMBER 2006                                              5


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFFARS—Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
APDP—Acquisition Professional Development Program
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CO—Contracting Officer
DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
DoD—Department of Defense
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
IG—Informational Guidance
NAF—Nonappropriated funds
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PDO—Publishing Distribution Office
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Policy Memoranda
PMD—Program Management Directive
SAF/AQ—Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition)
SAF/AQC—Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting)
SAF/AQCP—Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting) (Policy Division)
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SPE—Senior Procurement Executive
U.S.C.—United States Code
