BY ORDER OF THE                                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-11
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                         26 MARCH 2009
                                                                                      Special Management

                                                                    STRATEGIC PLANNING SYSTEM



                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
                          Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no restrictions on release of this publication.


OPR: AF/A8XP                                          Certified by: AF/A8X (Brig Gen Mark F. Ramsay)
Supersedes: AFPD90-11, 27 October 2000                                                    Pages: 12


This policy directive establishes the Air Force Strategic Planning System (AFSPS) to ensure Air Force
capabilities meet the needs of the nation now and into the future. It provides direction for creating,
managing, and validating information for development of Air Force strategic guidance documents in
support of the strategic planning process and effective resource allocation. These processes are
complemented by those described in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-6, Capabilities-Based
Planning and Requirements Development, 31 May 06. This directive applies to all Air Force
organizations including the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). This
document supports the intent of the 1993 Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) for
development of departmental strategic and performance plans. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
This revision updates the entire document. It supersedes AFPD 90-11 dated 27 October 2000, titled
Planning System. Policy on the modernization planning process (MPP), subsequently referred to as
capabilities-based planning (CBP), contained in the October 2000 version of 90-11 is now addressed in
AFPD 10-6. Air Force Effects Management Program (AFEMP) guidance noted in this document will be
published separately.
1. Purpose and Overview.
   1.1. This directive prescribes policies, responsibilities, and relationships in the Air Force Strategic
   Planning System. The AFSPS consists of a series of processes, enabling methodologies, and
   complementary guidance and policy documents. The AFSPS links the strategic planning process to
2                                                                          AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009


    capabilities-based planning (AFPD 10-6), capabilities and risk assessment, a strategic assessment
    process, and effective performance measurement. The AFSPS provides the Air Force with a process
    by which to best manage risk, inform long range investment decisions and integrate national
    strategic guidance. Accordingly, the AFSPS provides the framework for Secretary of the Air Force
    (SECAF) and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF)-level focus on key Air Force planning and
    programming efforts.
2. AFSPS Framework.
    2.1. The AFSPS aligns Air Force guidance with guidance promulgated by the President, the Office
    of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In particular, the AFSPS supports
    the National Security Strategy (NSS), the National Defense Strategy (NDS), the National Military
    Strategy (NMS) and the associated Force Planning Construct (FPC). The FPC, specifically
    described in the Guidance for Development of the Force (GDF), outlines force structure capabilities
    and capacities required to support the NDS.
    2.2. The AFSPS employs a strategic assessment process that includes MAJCOM and Headquarters
    Air Force (HAF) operational capability and force structure analysis, Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
    (CJCS) readiness and risk assessments and Operational Availability (OA) analysis. The AFSPS
    aligns with processes described in CJCSI 3100.01A, Joint Strategic Planning System, particularly
    the Chairman’s Comprehensive Joint Assessment (CJA), Joint Combat Capabilities Assessment
    (JCCA), Joint Strategy Review (JSR) and the Chairman’s Risk Assessment (CRA).
    2.3. The AFSPS consists of the following elements: the Air Force Vision, the Air Force Strategic
    Plan, the Air Force Planning Force, and the Annual Planning and Programming Guidance (APPG).
       2.3.1. The Air Force Vision provides a top level description of what the Air Force should be
       capable of achieving. The purpose of the Vision is to provide each Airman a clear vector to a
       future outcome of Global Vigilance, Reach and Power. The Air Force strives to realize the
       Vision when considering approaches to meet strategic planning guidance.
       2.3.2. The Air Force Strategic Plan sets goals and objectives for the Air Force in support of
       national and joint objectives and is the primary source document identifying priorities for the
       development and alignment of organizational strategic plans across the entire Air Force. The Air
       Force Strategic Plan is also the primary basis of metrics and documentation related to assessing
       Air Force alignment with Joint and National priorities, including those activities related to the
       President’s Management Agenda, DoD Institutional Reform and Governance, and the DoD
       Performance-Based Budget. Aligning Air Force priorities and goals with national guidance
       frames planning and actions at successively lower Air Force organizational levels and forms the
       basis for the development of performance management plans for all Air Force civilian personnel.
           2.3.2.1. As a key element of the AFSPS, the Air Force Strategic Plan provides the mission,
           vision, priorities, goals, and objectives in a single statement of strategic intent. In addition to
           identifying the Air Force’s strategic priorities, the Strategic Plan establishes a methodology
           and supporting governance framework for creating goals and objectives with respective
           performance metrics to measure progress toward achieving each priority. The AFSP also
           assigns responsibility for accomplishing the strategic priorities to Priority Champions - senior
           members of the HAF staff. The Priority Champions, in concert with the Air Force Chief
           Management Officer serving as the Enterprise Process Champion, provide quarterly
           performance reviews to ensure effective execution of strategic objectives. Air Force senior
           leadership ensure enterprise-wide alignment with the strategic priorities through review of
           supporting strategic plans developed at the Major Command and functional levels.
AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009                                                                                3


          2.3.2.2. While the Air Force Strategic Plan is designed to set priorities to guide development
          of the Planning Force, the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) provides the mechanism by
          which limited resources are allocated to support planning decisions. The key output of the
          AFCS is the Program Objective Memorandum (POM) which forms the basis for the
          Programmed Force. This force identifies capabilities, capacities and resources the Air Force
          is programmed to acquire in the current Future Years Defense Program (FYDP). Following
          development of the Programmed Force, planners compare this AFCS outcome with the
          Planning Force to assess risk and aid in development of an Alternate Force Mix.
      2.3.3. The Planning Force is a 20-year force structure projection organized as an effects-based
      capability portfolio integrating MAJCOM strategic investment plans with a vector toward the Air
      Force Vision and the Strategic Plan. The Planning Force details the capabilities and capacities
      needed by the Air Force to execute the FPC through the mid- and far-term at low risk. The
      Planning Force is informed by technology and resource projections but is not limited to current
      fiscal guidance. It sets the baseline from which risk is measured when fiscal constraints are
      applied to the Planning Force.
      2.3.4. The APPG is the primary document linking Air Force planning and programming.
      Strategic planning activities are directed to produce a low to moderate risk, fiscally constrained
      force structure in accordance with guidance from the Secretary of the Defense. Program
      direction in the APPG is specified in a fiscally constrained force mix directive to the AFCS.
      This fiscally constrained force mix is not limited to a scaled version of the Planning Force.
          2.3.4.1. The APPG accomplishes several tasks. It outlines force structure and essential
          support requirements derived from the NDS and it provides a focus for leadership priorities.
          It details force planning assumptions to guide future force structure planning activities by
          MAJCOMs and key functional organizations. It references the Planning Force to provide a
          benchmark for risk assessment and, after planning is complete at the end of the cycle,
          provides a fiscally constrained Alternate Force Mix in a subsequent APPG to mitigate
          accepted risk and guide corporate decisions on required capacities and capabilities. The
          APPG directs how and where risk will be taken to align with resource availability.
          2.3.4.2. Overall, the APPG contains guidance for planning within the AFSPS and
          programming activity within the AFCS. By linking planning to programming at the front
          end of the resource allocation process, the APPG provides programmers with prioritized
          guidance for capabilities and capacities that will be included in the POM build and budgetary
          process. It is the method by which planning decisions are communicated to programmers.
3. AFSPS Assessment Process.
   3.1. The AFSPS incorporates a continuous process of strategic assessment to inform development of
   the Vision, the Air Force Strategic Plan and the future force structure of the Air Force. In addition,
   this assessment supports development of an Air Force position in preparation for the QDR and
   guides Air Force input to OSD and Joint strategic guidance. Ultimately, resource decisions that stem
   from the strategic assessment are communicated through the APPG to the AFCS.
   3.2. The strategic assessment process starts by broadly identifying opportunities, constraints and
   threats in the projected future security environment. Within these parameters, planners qualitatively
   evaluate risk associated with fulfilling the concurrent demands of the NDS; risk associated with the
   ability to achieve operational objectives of specific scenarios; and force structure risk associated
   with the ability to sustain a ready force structure over the longer term (e.g., readiness, utilization
   rates and system lifespan implications). From this assessment, both the Planning Force and a
 4                                                                       AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009


     fiscally constrained Alternate Force Mix (capacity and capability) are developed after being
     evaluated according to metrics that include cost, availability, time to create effects and likely
     wartime attrition. To support development of both the Planning Force and the Alternate Force Mix,
     roadmaps are developed to provide focus for specific elements of the overall force.
        3.2.1. A key planning excursion within the assessment process projects the current fiscal year’s
        Programmed Force two additional FYDP periods using current fiscal guidance (the
        Programmed Force Extended). This excursion is designed to assess the Programmed Force with
        respect to meeting the demands of the NDS in a future security environment. Risk mitigation is
        addressed in the APPG through the fiscally constrained Alternate Force Mix.
     3.3. Strategic assessments incorporate Defense Planning Scenarios (DPS) developed by OSD to
     describe elements of the future security environment, Operational Availability study results to
     provide sufficiency and capability analysis, and HAF/MAJCOM future force structure analysis to
     determine operational risk. In addition, assessments employ MAJCOM strategic planning products
     as well as readiness and risk assessments developed by the CJCS and results from the Air Force
     Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA) process.
4. AFSPS Timing.
     4.1. The AFSPS operates primarily on a biennial cycle synchronized to allow production of the
     APPG in time for program development beginning in February of each year. The APPG will be
     produced by the end of the even calendar year with a focus on planning and by the end of the odd
     calendar year with a focus on programming. See the illustrative schedule in Figure 1.
     4.2. AF/A8 oversees development of the Vision at SECAF/CSAF direction, the Air Force Strategic
     Plan every even year and the Air Force Planning Force every odd year or as required. A8 will
     produce the APPG each year.
     4.3. HAF two-letter organizations and major commands are required to create or update existing
     organizational level strategic plans and roadmaps to align with the Air Force Strategic Plan and the
     APPG. Further detailed guidance on force development, roadmaps and planning will be issued in
     the APPG and an implementing instruction to this directive.
     4.4. Inputs for the Air Force Planning Force are developed by Lead MAJCOMs (AFSPC, AMC,
     ACC, AETC, AFSOC, and AFGSC) and HAF functional elements during the spring of the odd-year.
     Lead MAJCOMs should complete their Planning Force updates by June and their fiscally
     constrained Alternate Force Mix by October. An adjusted Planning Force and Alternate Force Mix
     will be produced in the intervening even years if necessary to prepare for a QDR or account for fact
     of life changes associated with the program baseline, significant changes in the security
     environment, strategic guidance, or analytic results.
AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009                                                                            5


Figure 1. AFSPS Overview Illustrative Timeline




      4.4.1. Beginning in February of the odd year, investment MAJCOMs and HAF functional
      elements will develop an Alternate Force Mix at low to moderate risk to the defense strategy in
      order to support an AF/A8 integrated product for program guidance. This option will be
      constrained by specific fiscal and force structure guidance in accordance with APPG force
      planning assumptions. Development of this Alternate Force Mix will take into account priorities
      developed in the Air Force Strategic Plan, sufficiency and capability analysis from MAJCOMs,
      HAF and directed studies such as Operational Availability, as well as readiness and risk
      assessments developed by the CJCS and the CRRA.
   4.5. AF/A8 may explore force structure capacity and capability planning excursions at various risk
   levels within a range of fiscal constraints and consider potential changes to focus in the defense
   strategy. Investment MAJCOMs and key functional advocates will be invited to review these
   excursions.
5. Force Planning Assumptions.
   5.1. The GDF sets availability criteria for surge and steady state rotation and provides specific
   guidance on level of effort associated with primary missions (e.g., Homeland Defense, Conventional
   Campaigns). In addition, the Guidance for Employment of the Force (GEF) provides assumptions
   with respect to general force availability, force management and personnel usage. APPG planning
   assumptions will cover the near, mid- and far-term periods equivalent to three Future Year Defense
   Programs.
   5.2. Force planning assumptions for the Air Force will be published as an appendix to the APPG or
   as required to support development of the Planning Force and the fiscally constrained Alternate
   Force Mix. The FPC provides capstone guidance that determines the overall force size and
   composition required to implement the NDS during steady state and surge operations.
 6                                                                        AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009


6. Responsibilities and Authorities.
     6.1. The SECAF/CSAF establish the Vision to provide strategic direction for the USAF at two to
     four year intervals as appropriate.
     6.2. The Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US), when designated the Air Force Service
     Acquisition Executive (SAE) for Air Force space acquisition programs by the SECAF, develops,
     coordinates, and integrates plans, policy, and programs for space systems. SAF/US may also be
     delegated Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) for space major defense acquisition programs and
     will execute space SAE responsibilities outlined in the DOD 5000 acquisition series and National
     Security Space (NSS) 03-01 for all Air Force space programs.
        6.2.1. SAF/US is also designated as the Service Chief Management Officer (CMO). As CMO,
        SAF/US is responsible for ensuring the capability to carry out the department’s strategic plan in
        support of national security objectives; ensuring the department’s core business missions are
        optimally aligned to support DoD’s warfighting mission; establishing performance goals and
        metrics to improve and measure the department’s progress; and developing and maintaining a
        departmental strategic plan for business reform.
     6.3. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will serve as the Service
     Acquisition Executive (SAE) for all non-space programs, as outlined in the DOD 5000-series, and as
     Component Acquisition Executive (CAE) execute responsibilities as the senior corporate operating
     official for acquisition. SAF/AQ will provide direction for acquisition transformation across the Air
     Force.
     6.4. The Director of Public Affairs, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/PA) is responsible
     for supporting the AFSPS process through strategic communication of AFSPS efforts and products.
     The objective is to inform and appropriately influence key audiences by synchronizing and
     integrating communication efforts to deliver credible, accurate and timely information regarding the
     Air Force Vision, the Air Force Strategic Plan, the APPG and other strategic planning initiatives.
     6.5. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) establishes policy and
     direction on the Air Force Effects Management Program. AF/A1 has oversight responsibility for the
     Effects Management Program and supports the development of measures, roadmaps and periodic
     assessments of Alternate Force Mix options and the Air Force Strategic Plan.
     6.6. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) is responsible for
     capabilities-based planning and operational requirements as described in AFPD 10-6. Capabilities-
     based planning enables the AFSPS through its assessment of the air, space, and cyber challenges in
     the anticipated future security environment. The CRRA employs AF operational concepts to
     identify required Air Force capabilities and examine shortfalls, gaps, and trade space. The results of
     the CRRA support force structure planning during the strategic assessment process. Additionally,
     the CRRA identifies issues for consideration by the Air Force Requirements for Operational
     Capabilities Council (AFROCC). AF/A3/5 is responsible for providing the status of forces with
     respect to unit readiness and supporting an assessment of the risk to readiness associated with the
     Programmed Force and the fiscally constrained Alternate Force Mix.
     6.7. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) is the primary advisor to
     SECAF, CSAF, and the Air Force Council for strategic planning and programming. AF/A8 is the
     primary agent on the Air Staff responsible for strategic planning, establishing force planning
     assumptions, conducting strategic assessments and developing force structure options. AF/A8
     defines the Air Force position on and leads participation in development of OSD and joint planning
AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009                                                                               7


   guidance (e.g., NSS, NDS, NMS, GDF, and GEF) as well as Defense Planning Scenarios (DPS),
   Operational Availability studies and joint war fight assessments. The AF/A8 Director of Strategic
   Planning develops and updates the Air Force Vision, the Air Force Strategic Plan, and the APPG, as
   well as the Planning Force and the fiscally constrained Alternate Force Mix. The AF/A8 Director of
   Programs supports production and implementation of the APPG.
   6.8. The Director, Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (AF/A9) is responsible
   for informing Air Force strategic decisions through application of quality studies, analyses,
   assessments, and lessons learned as outlined in AFPD 90-16. AF/A9 supports AF/A8 development
   of force planning assumptions and will provide analytical support for current and future force
   structure options including the Planning Force, the Programmed Force and Alternate Force Mix
   options with respect to meeting the operational objectives of designated scenarios and vignettes.
   6.9. MAJCOMs/ARC/DRUs/FOAs/HAF will align with the Air Force Strategic Plan, the APPG
   and the associated force planning guidance when developing subordinate strategic plans and
   strategic guidance documents. Investment MAJCOMs (ACC, AMC, AFSPC, AETC and AFSOC)
   and HAF functional elements will conduct a strategic assessment and provide Planning Force
   updates and develop a fiscally constrained Alternate Force Mix in accordance with the APPG for
   integration by A8. Non-investment MAJCOMs and ARC/DRUs/FOAs/HAF will collaborate with
   investment commands to ensure representation in future force options. Non-investment command
   organizations may provide unit-specific perspectives of required capabilities in order to inform
   development of the Air Force Planning Force and the fiscally constrained Alternate Force Mix.
   6.10. The AFCS facilitates the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution System (PPBE)
   and provides the forum for deciding final Air Force resource allocation issues in accordance with the
   APPG. The Corporate Structure is composed of the Air Force Council, Air Force Board, Air Force
   Group, and Mission and Mission Support Panels. Related policy and instructions are in AFPD 16-5,
   Planning, Programming and Budgeting System and AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air
   Force Programs respectively. A modification of the AFCS may be developed within the planning
   community to improve integration and coordination of force mix options. Details will be included in
   an implementing AFI.
7. Glossary of References and Supporting Information.
   7.1. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
8.1. Prescribed Forms.
None.
8.2. Adopted Forms.
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            Michael B. Donley
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
 8                                                                   AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009


                                          Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning and Requirements Development,31 May 06
AFI 10-604, Capabilities-Based Planning, 10 May 06
AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development, 15 Sep 03
AFI 10-2801, Air Force Concept of Operations Development,24 Oct 05
AFPD 16-5, Planning, Programming, Budgeting System,29 Jul 94
AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs,15 Aug 06
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 4 Apr 06
Air Force Doctrine Document 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine,17 Nov 03
Air Force Vision,2006
Annual Planning and Programming Guidance(S),8 Feb 08
CJCSI 3100.01A, Joint Strategic Planning System, 1 Sep 99
Guidance for Development of the Force (GDF), April 08
Guidance for Employment of the Force (GEF), May 08
Joint Programming Guidance (S),Jul-Aug 06
Joint Publication 1-02,DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 12 Apr 01, as amended
through 4 Mar 08
National Military Strategy, 2004
National Defense Strategy, June 08
National Security Strategy,Mar 06
The Quadrennial Defense Review,6 Feb 06

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCS—Air Force Corporate Structure
AFEMP—Air Force Effects Management Program
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009                                              9


AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFSPS—Air Force Strategic Planning System
AFROCC—Air Force Requirements for Operational Capabilities Council
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
APOM—Amended Program Objective Memorandum
APPG—Annual Planning and Programming Guidance
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CAE—Component Acquisition Executive
CBP—Capabilities-Based Planning
CJA—Comprehensive Joint Assessment
CJCS—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
CMO—Chief Management Officer
CONOPS—Concepts of Operations
CRA—Chairman’s Risk Assessment
CRRA—Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DPS—Defense Planning Scenarios
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FPC—Force Planning Construct
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
GDF—Guidance for Development of the Force
GEF—Guidance for Employment of the Force
GPRA—Government Performance and Results Act
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IAW—In accordance with
JCCA—Joint Combat Capabilities Assessment
JPG—Joint Programming Guidance
JROC—Joint Requirements Oversight Council
JSR—Joint Strategy Review
MAJCOM—Major Command
 10                                                                     AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009


MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MPP—Modernization Planning Process
NDS—National Defense Strategy
NMS—National Military Strategy
NSS—National Security Strategy/ National Security Space
OA—Operational Availability
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PB—President’s Budget
PBR—Program Budget Review
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution System
QDR—Quadrennial Defense Review
QRM—Quadrennial Roles and Missions
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAE—Service Acquisition Executive
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense

Terms
Air Force Doctrine—Air, space, and cyber doctrine is a statement of officially sanctioned beliefs,
warfighting principles, and terminology that describes and guides the proper use of air and space forces
in military operations. (AFDD 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, 17 Nov 03)
Air Force Strategic Plan—The Air Force Strategic Plan sets goals and objectives for the AF in support
of national and joint objectives. The Air Force Strategic Plan is the primary source document for the
development and alignment of organizational strategic plans across the entire Air Force. The alignment
of Air Force priorities and goals to national guidance shall inform planning and actions at successively
lowers level of Air Force organizations and will form the basis for the development of future force
options and performance management plans.
Air Force Planning Force—The Air Force Planning Force details the capabilities and capacities
needed by the Air Force to execute the FPC through the mid- and far-term at low risk. The Planning
Force is a 20-year force structure projection organized as an effects-based capability portfolio. It
accounts for projected opportunities, constraints and threats associated with the future security
environment. The Air Force Planning Force integrates MAJCOM strategic investment plans with a
vector toward the Air Force Vision. The Planning Force is informed by technology and near-term
resource projections but is not limited to current fiscal guidance.
Air Force Programmed Force—The Programmed Force identifies capabilities, capacities and
resources the Air Force is programmed to acquire in the current FYDP.
AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009                                                                                 11


Air Force Programmed Force Extended—The Programmed Force Extended is a planning excursion
developed to support a strategic risk assessment. For planning purposes, the Programmed Force is
projected two additional FYDP periods in order to support a comparison with the Planning Force. This
comparison provides a basis for assessing strategic risk with respect to the future security environment.
Air Force Vision—The Air Force Vision is a top level view describing what the Air Force should be
capable of achieving. The purpose of the Vision is to provide each Airman a clear, fiscally
unconstrained vector to a future outcome of Global Vigilance, Reach and Power. The Air Force strives
to realize the Vision when considering approaches to meet planning guidance.
Annual Planning and Programming Guidance (APPG)—The APPG is the principal document
conveying guidance on force planning assumptions and resource allocation. The APPG contains
guidance for planning within the AFSPS and programming activity within the AFCS. The APPG
provides direction for corporate decisions on required capacities, capabilities and risk mitigation as well
as directed studies, analysis and Air Force leadership initiatives. The APPG details force planning
assumptions that form the basis for developing the Planning Force and additional force mix excursions.
The APPG references the Planning Force for planning purposes and the Alternate Force Mix when
developing programming guidance.
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU)—A subdivision of the Air Force, directly subordinate to the Air Force
Chief of Staff. A DRU performs a mission that does not fit into any of the MAJCOMs. A DRU has
many of the same administrative and organizational responsibilities as a MAJCOM. (AFI 38-101)
Field Operating Agency (FOA)—A subdivision of the Air Force under the operational control of a HQ
USAF functional manager. An FOA carries out field activities outside the scope of any of the
MAJCOMs.
Force Planning Construct (FPC)—Established by the 2006 Quadrennial Defense Review, the FPC
provides capstone guidance for overall size and composition of the joint force (capacity), types of forces
and systems (capabilities), and the levels of effort (steady-state or surge) needed to implement the
National Defense Strategy. The FPC focuses on three fundamental elements: (1) homeland defense, (2)
war on terror/irregular warfare, and (3) conventional campaigns.
Force Structure—Numbers, size, and composition of the units that comprise our Defense forces; e.g.,
wings. (JP 1-02)
Future Years Defense Program (FYDP)—Summarizes Secretary of Defense-approved programs for
the Department of Defense (DoD). The FYDP projects detailed source requirements for 6 years and
force structure for 9 years.
Guidance for Development of the Force (GDF)—This document, issued by the Secretary of Defense,
sets objectives for future force capabilities and is used to assess the planning and programming priorities
of the Military Departments and Defense agencies. The GDF’s main objectives are to (1) implement
aspects of DoD’s future force vision captured in the QDR, (2) guide development of planning and
programming initiatives, and (3) help meet Combatant Commander needs through development of joint
capability portfolios.
Guidance for Employment of the Force (GEF)—This document is designed to translate DoD’s
National Defense Strategy into supporting planning and action. The GEF helps guide planning in a
resource-constrained environment by establishing priorities and making key assumptions about future
resources. It recognizes the rotational demands current operations place upon the force as a whole and
takes into account that these demands are dynamic and will likely continue. The GEF also acknowledges
 12                                                                       AFPD90-11 26 MARCH 2009


the interrelationship between planning, force management, and global posture. Guidance is designed to
ensure the goals for all these areas are aligned and serve to mitigate risk to the greatest extent possible.
Long—term Planning-The period of planning beyond 15 years in the future. This time frame represents
a period of uncertain threat environment. It tests the bounds of revolutionary doctrine, tactics, and
capabilities.
Macro—Resourcing Analysis-A general approach to resource reasoning, which includes long-term
strategies and rational expectations in aggregate fiscal behavior. It is the analysis of collective behavior
and the study of the sum of individual resource decisions, e.g. historical financial information. It can be
used to identify strategic trends and overarching indicators predictive of future events and to influence
government policies such as budget decisions, economic growth, and acquisition strategies.
Mid—term Planning-The period of planning spanning from 9 to 14 years in the future. This time frame
represents a period of anticipated threats, environments, doctrine, tactics and capabilities.
Near—term Planning-A period of planning that includes the execution year, budget year, and POM
period. This period encompasses from current to 8 years into the future. This time frame represents a
period of known threats, environments, doctrine, tactics and capabilities.
Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBE)—A cyclic process containing
four distinct, but interrelated phases:
       Planning—produces a fiscal forecast, planning guidance, and program guidance;
       Programming—creates the Air Force portion of the DoD's Future Years Defense Program by
       defining and examining alternative forces and weapons and support systems;
       Budgeting—formulates and controls resource requirements, allocation, and use; and
       Execution—measures and validates the performance of the planning, programming, and
       budgeting phases.
Strategic Planning—The process of systematically evaluating the nature and direction of the strategic
environment, identifying long-term goals and objectives, and developing strategies to reach the goals
and objectives to support resource allocation. Strategic planning embraces a capabilities-based planning
methodology and performance planning, and covers near-, mid-, and long-term planning horizons as
determined by the needs of the specific organization.
