BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-39
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  27 JULY 2010

                                                                                  PERSONNEL

                                                       MASS TRANSPORTATION BENEFIT
                                                                    PROGRAM (MTBP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1PA                                                                Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                 (Lt Gen Richard Y. Newton III)
                                                                                        Pages: 5


This Policy Directive implements and complies with Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI)
1000.27, Mass Transportation Benefit Program (MTBP), October 28, 2008. This Directive
provides policy and assigns responsibility for implementing the MTBP across the Air Force for
both the National Capital Region (NCR) and outside the NCR (ONCR). This publication applies
to all eligible Air Force personnel assigned to the continental United States (CONUS), Alaska,
Hawaii, and the various territories of the United States - - active duty officer and enlisted
members, appropriated fund (APF) civilians, whether funded by Active, Guard, or Reserve
appropriations, as well as non-appropriated fund (NAF) civilians.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate chain of command.

1. Policy. The United States Air Force is committed to promoting quality of life for its military
and civilian workforce. Attracting and retaining valued personnel requires flexible, equitable,
and responsive programs to balance the need for uniformity with flexibility when appropriate.
Consistent with DoDI 1000.27, it is Air Force policy to:
 2                                                                   AFPD36-39 27 JULY 2010


     1.1. Provide mass transportation benefits (MTBs) to offset commuting costs to its eligible
     active duty military members and civilian employees, including non-appropriated fund
     (NAF) employees, to the extent authorized by DoDI 1000.27, to reduce pollution and traffic
     congestion, to preserve the environment, and to expand transportation alternatives inside the
     NCR and outside the NCR.
     1.2. Establish MTBs at installations when there is employee or military member interest,
     regardless of the number of personnel so interested.
     1.3. Authorize MTBs only when qualified means of transportation (QMOT) systems are
     used.
     1.4. Adequately fund the MTBP to prevent benefit restriction or denial. The U.S. Air Force
     shall adhere to the statutory increases governed by tax law (Section 132 of title 26, United
     States Code).
2. Responsibilities and Authorities. This Directive establishes the following responsibilities
and authorities:
     2.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
     serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all
     matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and
     budgets addressing military and civilian compensation, benefits, entitlements, and work/life
     programs.
     2.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) executes
     personnel policy and develops, coordinates, and approves essential procedural guidance for
     military and civilian compensation, benefits, entitlements, and work/life programs, to include
     the MTBP.
     2.3. The Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) implements the MTBP for Air Force Reserve
     personnel consistent with this Policy Directive and ensures development of essential
     procedural guidance for program administration and internal management controls.
     2.4. The Chief of the National Guard Bureau (NGB-ZA) implements the MTBP for Air
     National Guard (ANG) personnel, including both Title 5 and Title 32 employees, consistent
     with this Policy Directive and ensures development of essential procedural guidance for
     program administration and internal management controls.
     2.5. MAJCOM and Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) commanders implement the MTBP
     consistent with this Policy Directive and any other Departmental procedural guidance. The
     Air Force District of Washington (AFDW) commander implements the MTBP for
     Headquarters Air Force (HAF) in the NCR, to include all Field Operating Agencies (FOAs)
     in the NCR reporting to HAF.
     2.6. Installation commanders implement local MTB programs consistent with this Policy
     Directive, any other Departmental procedural guidance, and MAJCOM guidance. FOAs
     outside the NCR will follow their host installation procedures/guidelines.
AFPD36-39 27 JULY 2010                                               3


3. See Attachment 1 for references and supporting information.

4. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                        Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                              AFPD36-39 27 JULY 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5), Section 1151, February
17, 2009
DoD Instruction (DoDI) 1000.27, Mass Transportation Benefit Program, October 28, 2008
AFPD 65-2, Managers’ Internal Control Program, 28 August 2006
AFI 65-201, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures, 12 October 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AF RDS, https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDW—Air Force District of Washington
APF—Appropriated Funds
CONUS—Continental United States
DRUs—Direct Reporting Units
FOAs—Field Operating Agencies
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
MTB—Mass Transportation Benefits
MTBP—Mass Transportation Benefits Program
NAF—Non-appropriated Funds
NCR—National Capital Region
ONCR—Outside the NCR
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QMOT—Qualified Means of Transportation

Terms
Active Duty Military Member—Full-time duty in the Active Service in an Active Component
(AC) or Reserve Component (RC). In the case of an RC member, such service shall be under a
call or order to active duty as defined in section 101 of title 37, U.S.C.
Commander—An officer who occupies a position of command authorized by appointment or by
assumption of command.
Continental United States (CONUS)—The 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia.
AFPD36-39 27 JULY 2010                                                                          5


DoD Mass Transportation Benefit Program (DoD MTBP)—A DoD program whereby the
Department of Defense provides fare media or implements a cash reimbursement arrangement
for participant commuting costs to reduce traffic congestion and air pollution, and to expand
participant commuting alternatives.
MAJCOMs—The Major Commands of the Air Force
National Capital Region (NCR)—-Includes the District of Columbia; Montgomery, Prince
George’s, and Frederick Counties in Maryland; Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, and Prince William
Counties in Virginia; and all cities now or hereafter existing in Maryland and Virginia within the
geographic area bounded by the outer boundaries of the combined area of said counties.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for the publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Outside the National Capital Region (ONCR)—The 50 states (exclusive of the area included
in the definition of the NCR), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Policy—Corporate-level direction that guides decision-making and actions throughout the Air
Force. Policy translates the ideas, goals or principles into actionable and concrete plans, goals,
or objectives.
Qualified Means of Transportation (QMOT)—Commercial or public transportation operated
for use by the general public and/or modes of transportation that meet the requirements of
section 1.132-9 of Title 26, Code of Federal Regulations.
