BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 23-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           17 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                           Materiel Management

                                                  MANAGEMENT OF US AIR FORCE BULK
                                                  PETROLEUM AND RELATED PRODUCTS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AF/A4LE                                                                Certified by: AF/A4/7
                                                                        (Lt Gen Judith A. Fedder)
Supersedes:    AFPD23-2, 27 March 2009                                                    Pages: 3


This directive implements guidance in Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 4140.25, DoD
Management Policy for Energy Commodities and Related Services, and Defense Logistics
Agency (DLA) Energy interim policies and procedures guidance to DoDD 4140.25.
Additionally, this directive provides policy on managing and storing petroleum products,
propellants, chemicals, pure gases, and cryogenic fluids, quality assurance and quality
surveillance, and associated facilities. This directive applies to all active duty, Reserve, Guard,
contractors, Air Force personnel and personnel under contract, local national civilians employed
by the U.S. Air Force, and Civil Air Patrol personnel that receive, store, issue, perform quality
control, and/or account for energy commodities on U.S. Air Force installations. The use of any
specific manufacturer name, commercial product, commodity, or service created by this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW)
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) maintained in the Air Force Records
Information          Management             System           (AFRIMS)             located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. DLA Energy requires that Defense
Working Capital Fund (DWCF) records be maintained IAW DLA Energy-P-3, Document/Data
Control and Retention. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.
 2                                                            AFPD23-2 17 DECEMBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The major
changes include: global changes for Air Force Petroleum Office (AFPET) to Air Force
Petroleum Agency (AFPA) and Defense Energy Support Center to DLA Energy, updated
reference publication dates, deleting AFPA’s responsibilities and format changes to align with
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
1. Overview.
     1.1. Air Force petroleum products and missile propellants are required by the Air Force to
     properly support its weapon systems, facilities, and people.
     1.2. The Air Force must effectively manage its petroleum resources from the time that they
     are ordered until they are released for use.
     1.3. This directive provides policies for ordering, receiving, storing, and issuing petroleum
     products and missile propellants.
2. Policy.
     2.1. The Air Force will ensure compliance with Air Force Occupational Safety Instructions,
     environmental policies, and associated technical data for ordering, storing, and issuing
     petroleum products and missile propellants.
     2.2. The Air Force will take reasonable measures to ensure that stored petroleum products
     and missile propellants do not harm the environment.
     2.3. The Air Force will establish programs for storing and handling petroleum product and
     missile propellants and ensure that they are maintained in a ready status to prevent
     deterioration and/or loss of material.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Logistics, Installations, and Mission
     Support (AF/A4/7) is responsible for providing equipment, training, policy, and fuels
     management guidance for energy commodities handled by the Air Force.
     3.2. Air Force commanders/directors will ensure that all Air Force controlled petroleum
     supplies and related materiel are received, stored, issued, and accurately accounted for and
     reported to appropriate Air Force and Department of Defense agencies, as required.




                                             Michael B. Donley
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD23-2 17 DECEMBER 2012                                                                      3


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
DoDD 4140.25, DoD Management Policy for Energy Commodities and Related Services, 12
April 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DLA Energy-P-3, Documentation/Data Control and Retention, 21 February 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPA—Air Force Petroleum Agency
DLA Energy—Defense Logistics Agency Energy

Terms
Defense Logistics Agency Energy (DLA Energy)—An organizational component of the
Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). DLA Energy is the integrated materiel manager/Department
of Defense (DoD) central procurement agent for bulk petroleum, natural gas, coal, and associated
services. DLA Energy owns and manages the bulk petroleum products in the DoD to the point-
of-sale (end user).
Defense Working Capital Fund (DWCF)—A DoD revolving fund that finances the buying and
selling of goods and services. It also provides cost visibility and accountability to facilitate
business operations. DLA inventories are sold to end user organizational accounts (military units
and federal agencies) that reimburse the DLA Division–DWCF for costs incurred.
