BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 33-4
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            17 JANUARY 2013

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                                                                        GOVERNANCE


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/A6PP                                                        Certified by: SAF/CIO A6
                                                                      (Lt Gen Michael J Basla)
                                                                                     Pages: 15
Supersedes:   AFPD33-4, 27 June 2006


This Air Force (AF) policy directive establishes AF policy for information technology (IT)
governance and compliance under the direction of the Chief of Information Dominance and
Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6). This directive implements Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget; OMB
Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources; OMB Memorandum M-11-29,
Chief Information Officer Authorities; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 4630.05,
Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National Security
Systems (NSS); DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information
Enterprise; DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System; Department of Defense Instruction
(DoDI) 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System; Directive Type Memorandum
(DTM) 11-009, Acquisition Policy for Defense Business Systems; DoDD 8115.01 Information
Technology Portfolio Management; DoDI 8115.02 Information Technology Portfolio
Management Implementation; Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4630.8, Procedures for
Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and National Security
Systems (NSS); Subtitle III of Title 40 of the Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA) of 1996, National Defense
Authorization Act (NDAA) 2005 § 2222, NDAA 2009 (PL110-417) § 908, NDAA 2010 § 1072,
NDAA 2010 § 804 and NDAA 2012 § 901; Federal Information Security Management Act
(FISMA), 44 USC § 3541, 2002, Title 10, USC, Section 2223(b) Information Technology:
Additional Responsibilities of Chief Information Officers of Military Department, 2007. This
directive applies to all military and civilian AF personnel, members of the AF Reserve and Air
National Guard, and AF contractors. Comments and recommended changes regarding this
publication should be sent through appropriate channels using AF Form 847, Recommendation
 2                                                            AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013


for Change of Publication, to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for SAF/CIO A6 policy,
SAF/A6PPA, safa6ppa@pentagon.af.mil. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition
Schedule    (RDS)     located     at:    https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrms/rims.cfm.
AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                        3




SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and formalizes the Information Technology (IT)
Governance Executive Board (GEB) chartered in the terms of reference signed by the Secretary
of the Air Force (SECAF) on 3 April 2012. In addition to change in title, this directive aligns IT
management with current Air Force (AF) doctrine, statutory, and regulatory guidelines.
1. Overview.
   1.1. Purpose. This directive establishes the AF policy for IT governance to provide a process
   for the SAF/CIO A6 to fulfill the duties of the AF Chief Information Officer (CIO)
   established in federal laws and Department of Defense (DoD) issuances, SAF/CIO A6 and
   CIO are used interchangeably in this publication. This directive establishes the policy,
   guidance, and oversight as they apply to all information, information systems (IS), and IT
   infrastructure within AF purview. Non-AF space systems are multi-component space systems
   (e.g., those supporting more than one DoD component) and are under the purview of United
   States Strategic Command. This directive also establishes the AF ITGEB, which will oversee
   the execution of IT councils, boards, and working groups throughout the IT lifecycle, and
   provide a means in which the AF can cross functionally align AF Enterprise IT activities to
   effectively and efficiently deliver capabilities to users.
   1.2. Scope. This directive focuses on aligning IT policy, CIO policy, and capabilities
   management with doctrine, statutory, and regulatory guidelines that govern accountability
   and oversight over IT requirements. The scope of this directive includes but is not limited to
   IT governance in the context of IT business and mission strategy alignment, IT performance
   measurement and delivery, requirements definition, program development (including
   sustainment), test, deployment, and operations, under the direction and authority of the AF
   ITGEB, chaired by the AF CIO.
2. Policy. It is AF policy to establish guidance, objectives, and standards for IT compliance and
governance; to oversee IT investment strategy with business and mission strategy; and to
establish performance measures under which requirements, investments, programs, and
acquisitions will reach targeted results. Accordingly, the AF shall:
   2.1. Develop AF Enterprise Architecture (EA) guidance, objective, and standards consistent
   with DoDD 4630.05. The AFEA, as part of the DoD EA links the DoD Information EA and
   the subordinate AF network architecture. As such, the AFEA will be used to identify
   capability gaps, reduce duplication, and drive modernization efforts.
   2.2. Develop guidance, objectives, and standards for IT reporting, IT portfolio management,
   and IT investment management as prescribed by OMB Circular A-11, OMB Circular A-130,
   DoDD 8115.01, and DoDI 8115.02.
   2.3. Develop guidance, objectives, and standards for interoperability and supportability of IT
   systems as prescribed in DoDD 4630.05.
   2.4. Develop defense business systems (DBS) compliance guidance, objectives, and
   standards consistent with National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) 2005 § 2222, NDAA
   2009 (PL110-417) § 908, NDAA 2010 § 1072, NDAA 2012 § 901 and DoDI 5000.02.
 4                                                               AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013


     2.5. Develop guidance, objectives, and standards for compliance with the Clinger-Cohen Act
     of 1996 as prescribed in DoDI 5000.02 and 10 USC § 8014 and 1704.
     2.6. Develop AF Information Assurance (IA) and computer network defense guidelines,
     objectives, and standards in accordance with Federal Information Security Management Act
     (FISMA), 2002.
3. Responsibilities. The responsibilities for IT governance are shared among numerous key
stakeholders. CIO responsibilities are codified in Clinger-Cohen Act 1996, Title 40, 10 USC §
2222, 2223b, and 8014, and 40 USC § 11315; Acquisition authority in 10 USC § 8014 and 1704;
Chief Financial Officer authority in 10 USC § 8022 (a) and (b); and Chief Management Officer
authority in NDAA 2009 § 908, NDAA 2010 § 1072, and 10 USC § 2222. These key
stakeholders, along with the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ), the
Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans, Operations and Requirements (AF/A3/5), the Vice Commander,
Air Force Space Command (AFSPC/CV) and the Program Executive Officer (PEO) for
Command, Control, Communications and Information Networks (C3I&N), are members of the
ITGEB and are identified within this directive. Each position on the board holds important
responsibilities for IT governance, many of which are responsibilities previously established in
federal law and/or DoD issuances:
3.1. SAF/CIO A6 shall:
        3.1.1. Oversee governance and accountability of IT policy and capabilities IAW 10 USC
        § 2222, 2223b, and 8014, on behalf of the SECAF. As the AF CIO, chairs the ITGEB.
     3.1.2. Co-Chair Warfighting Systems Integration (WFI) General Officer Steering Group
     (GOSG).
        3.1.3. Focus on four main areas: governance, commodity IT, oversight of AF’s IT
        portfolio, and IA. In each of these focus areas; the AF CIO shall facilitate the resolution
        of issues that affect multiple organizational areas of responsibility (e.g., acquisition and
        functional, other Services and agencies). As such, the CIO engages and partners with
        other key stakeholders to reach resolution. The organizations with which the CIO
        engages include Headquarters (HQ) AF Space Command (AFSPC) for IT infrastructure
        requirements and operations; SAF/AQ and the AF Deputy Chief Management Officer
        (DCMO) as defined in the Cyberspace Core Functional Master Plan (CFPM); SAF/AQ
        for IT acquisition and program management policy and training; the AF DCMO and
        Assistant Secretary of the Air Force/Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM)
        for business system certification; the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Survellance,
        and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) as the functional manager for intelligence, survellance, and
        reconnaissance (ISR); and the AF/A3/5 for IT mission systems.
        3.1.4. Develop policy and guidance for AF IT portfolio management activities.
        3.1.5. Provide IT planning, budget, management, and compliance oversight and other
        measures deemed necessary to evaluate the adequacy and efficiency of information
        resources and compliance with statutory and regulatory guidelines.
        3.1.6. Ensure interoperability and supportability of IT in business and NSS programs
        across the AF and with the Joint community, as well as compliance with the associated
        baselines and standards and plans put forth by the DoD.
AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                       5


     3.1.7. Direct functionals, major commands (MAJCOMs), field operating agencies
     (FOAs), and direct reporting units (DRUs) to maintain a consolidated inventory of
     mission critical, mission essential, and mission support IT systems, identify interfaces
     between those systems and other IT systems, and develop and maintain contingency
     plans for responding to a disruption in the operation of any of those mission critical,
     mission essential, and mission support systems.
         3.1.7.1. Develop AFEA guidance, objective, and standards consistent with DoDD
         4630.05.
         3.1.7.2. Maintain the overarching AFEA that enables architecture artifacts and
         information to be exchanged across the AF and with other DoD elements. Ensure
         solution architectures are maintained and demonstrate the AF capabilities and
         mission/business processes that the systems support.
     3.1.7.3. Integrate architectures from the target organizations.
         3.1.7.4. Establish policy for the application of identity attributes into an operational
         environment.
         3.1.7.5. Standardize and integrate architectures from each AF Service Core Function
         (SCF) and lower-level domains where appropriate.
     3.1.8. Oversee AF emerging technology efforts for applicability to existing and future IT
     programs and systems. Identify relevant approaches through establishment and
     maintenance of the target baseline.
     3.1.9. Advise SECAF and the AF corporate structure on the budgetary implications of
     decisions concerning IT and on an annual basis provide the AF corporate structure with
     budgetary options to increase efficiency and effectiveness of AF IT expenditures.
     3.1.10. Integrate the target baseline (TB), implementation baseline (IB), and operational
     baseline (OB) with ITGEB coordination.
     3.1.11. Develop, implement, and provide oversight for the AF IA program in accordance
     with 44 USC § 3542 (PL 107-347), FISMA.
  3.2. AF/A3/5 shall:
     3.2.1. Serve as the coordination point between SAF/CIO A6 Cyber, and AF/3/5 Cyber
     Operations.
     3.2.2. Chair/Co-Chair the command and control (C2) GOSG.
     3.2.3. Co-Chair WFI GOSG.
     3.2.4. Coordinate with AF/A2 and SAF/CIO A6 and facilitate the cross Functional
     review of AF C2ISR policy, processes, requirements, and supporting systems.
     3.2.5. Provide status updates to the AF ITGEB as needed. Bring perspective, priorities,
     and challenges from the functional community.
  3.3. SAF/AQ shall:
     3.3.1. Execute delegated responsibilities for the SECAF as the service acquisition
     executive.
6                                                                 AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013


       3.3.2. Establish an acquisition approach to AF IT that applies the target, implementation
       and operational baselines and supports an AF commoditized IT infrastructure to the
       maximum extent possible.
       3.3.3. Align IT acquisition strategies and requirements across the mission capability
       PEOs, PEO Battle Management, and PEO C3I&N.
       3.3.4. Provide for the timely acquisition and lifecycle management of required IT.
       3.3.5. Oversee AF IT program execution and provide status updates, as needed, to the
       AF ITGEB. Provide acquisition policy, cost, schedule, risk, and performance inputs to
       the ITGEB.
    3.4. The SAF/FM shall:
       3.4.1. Ensure business case analysis (BCA) and economic analysis supporting IT
       requirements complies with policy, procedures, and guidance. Review and coordinate on
       BCAs and economic analysis supporting IT requirements when requested by senior HQ
       USAF functional leadership or senior leadership of MAJCOMs or other field units.
       3.4.2. IAW 10 USC § 8022, approve and supervise all financial IT programs to ensure
       achievement of finance and accounting standards and provide status updates, as needed,
       to the AF ITGEB.
       3.4.3. Provide budget and cost perspective, priorities, and challenges to the ITGEB.
    3.5. DCMO shall:
       3.5.1. Provide quantitative analysis addressing the use of IT and promote change
       management across the AF to improve productivity, efficiency, and effectiveness of AF
       mission and business processes, including those supported by IT capability.
       3.5.2. Coordinate and facilitate, IAW NDAA 2012 § 901, the cross-functional review of
       AF DBS and serve as the business systems Pre-Certification Authority.
           3.5.2.1. Coordinate and facilitate, with the AF functional leaders, the grouping of
           business capability requirements and assign priorities to the same.
       3.5.3. Coordinate and facilitate, with the AF functional leaders, the development of
       business sub-enterprise architecture, including the capture of business processes and
       supporting IT DBS.
           3.5.3.1. Coordinate and facilitate, with the AF functional leaders, validation and
           concurrence with the DoD business EA.
       3.5.4. Lead business process reengineering efforts across functional domains. Define AF
       information requirements in support of business processes through communities of
       interest.
       3.5.5. Provide relevant issue status updates to the ITGEB.
    3.6. Director, Air Force Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) shall:
       3.6.1. Function as the chief T&E advisor to AF senior leadership according to
       Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Mission Directive (MD) 1-52, Director of Test and
       Evaluation, and AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation. Responsible to the
AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                       7


     Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) for establishing AF T&E policy, determining the
     adequacy of T&E resources required to support weapons system development, and
     resolving T&E issues.
     3.6.2. Adjudicate T&E issues between MAJCOMs, contractor, developmental and
     operational test organizations, HAF principals, the Services, Office of the Secretary of
     Defense, and Congress.
     3.6.3. Oversee the AF T&E infrastructure by ensuring adequate T&E resources to
     support system acquisition activities. administer various T&E resources processes and
     chair or serve on various committees, boards, and groups listed in HAF MD 1-52.
     3.6.4. Coordinate with AF organizations and other DoD components to provision and
     maintain IT test environments in support of the continuum of T&E activities.
  3.7. AF Chief Technology Officer (CTO), under the guidance and direction of the SAF/CIO
  A6 shall:
     3.7.1. Advise the CIO and executive/senior level technical leadership on IT emerging
     technology, EA, enterprise infrastructure, and strategy including identifying short- and
     long-term goals of DoD-wide IT initiatives, ensuring the integrity, interoperability,
     supportability, and cost-effectiveness of the Department’s IT.
     3.7.2. Chair the AF Target Baseline (TB) Configuration Control Board (CCB).
     3.7.3. Develop, manage, and maintain the TB consisting of the architectures, standards,
     protocols, and guidelines that define an AF enterprise-wide and government-owned
     technical architecture required for inclusion in the IB and OB.
  3.7.4. Maintain constant communication and synchronization of the TB, under ITGEB
  authority, with the IB and OB.
     3.7.5. Partner with the Senior Information Assurance Officer (SIAO) to ensure emerging
     technologies, capabilities, enterprise architecture, and infrastructure are properly
     analyzed to assessed security risk, linkage to IA policies, and secure integration prior to
     implementation.
  3.8. AF SIAO, under the guidance and direction of the SAF/CIO A6 shall:
     3.8.1. Manage the AF IA program and serve as the senior advisor to the CIO on all
     matters related to IA, providing technical leadership, direction, and oversight of the
     department-wide IA program.
     3.8.2. Develop and certify IA policies and ensures AF compliance with statutory, DoD,
     and Joint directives to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability, authentication,
     and non-repudiation of AF information and ISs.
     3.8.3. Chair the AF IA Technical Advisory Group. This group assists the AF SIAO in the
     management and oversight of the AF IA program and escalates enterprise risk decisions
     to the ITGEB.
     3.8.4. Partner with the CTO to conduct programmatic risk analysis on emerging
     technologies, capabilities, enterprise architecture, and infrastructure.
  3.9. HQ AFSPC shall:
8                                                              AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013


    3.9.1. Serve as lead MAJCOM for cyberspace operations.
       3.9.2. Serve as Cyberspace Superiority (CS) Core Function Lead Integrator (CFLI).
       3.9.3. Work with SAF/CIO A6 on IT programs/concepts inside the CS Core Function
       Master Plan (CFMP).
       3.9.4. Establish capability needs and requirements for IT infrastructure within the cyber
       CFLI portfolio.
       3.9.5. Serve as final approving authority for deployment of mission and functional IT
       systems/applications into the OB.
       3.9.6. Designate the chair of the AF OB configuration management process.
       3.9.7. Establish, implement, and maintain AF processes that ensure configuration
       conformance for both infrastructure configuration and applications in the OB.
       3.9.8. Establish capability needs and requirements for IT infrastructure within the the
       scope of the CS CFMP.
       3.9.9. Plan, program, and execute approved investments for IT infrastructure. Operate
       the AF IT infrastructure worldwide per the CS CFMP.
       3.9.10. Provide oversight and guidance for the development, deployment, administration,
       maintenance, documentation, and sustainment of the AF IT Infrastructure OB.
       3.9.11. Maintains constant communication and synchronization of the OB, under CFLI
       authority, with the TB and IB.
    3.10. CFLIs shall:
       3.10.1. Plan and program investments for IT infrastructure for that SCF.
       3.10.2. Coordinate with CS CFLI to deconflict and prevent duplication of enterprise
       capabilities within the CS CFMP.
    3.11. PEO C3I&N, under the guidance and direction of the SAF/AQ shall:
       3.11.1. Develop and provide the AF a commoditized IT infrastructure environment, as
       specified by the IB, where possible.
       3.11.2. Designate the chair of the AF IB CCB.
       3.11.3. Develop, manage, and maintain the IB consisting of selected products and their
       allowed configurations that implement the technical architecture, standards, protocols,
       and guidelines specified in the TB.
       3.11.4. Coordinate with mission/business PEOs to ensure successful deployment of
       mission and functional IT systems/applications into the commoditized infrastructure.
       3.11.5. Assist HQ AFSPC with provisioning mission/functional systems/applications
       into the enterprise hosting environment.
       3.11.6. Provide mission/functional systems/applications access to AF enterprise test and
       development, certification and accreditation, and testing environment for pre-deployment
       test, evaluation, and accreditation.
AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                         9


       3.11.7. Maintains constant communication and synchronization of the IB, under ITGEB
       authority, with the TB and OB.
   3.12. Mission Capability PEOs, under the guidance and direction of the SAF/AQ.
       3.12.1. Shall coordinate, facilitate, and promote a process that captures and documents
       requirements, develops capability architecture artifacts that conform to the AFEA, and
       promotes reusable application designs.
       3.12.2. Implement Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) to develop
       common services.
       3.12.3. Deliver standards and processes that facilitate requirements analysis, product
       acquisition, and code development of service and capabilities.
       3.12.4. Maximize end-user participation to validate mission accomplishment through the
       use of automated test capabilities.
   3.13. All other HAF functional, MAJCOMs, DRUs, and FOAs:
       3.13.1. Support the governance structures with membership as each chair defines in
       AFIs.
       3.13.2. Implement policies as delegated and defined in AFIs by the IT governance
       structure.
       3.13.3. Ensure all IT investments are identified within AF data collection systems to
       support the AF CIO responsibility within paragraph 3.1.7.
4. IT Governance for ISR. Nothing in this directive shall alter or supersede the existing
authorities and policies of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) regarding the protection of
Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) or intelligence Special Access Programs. The
application of the provisions and procedures of this directive to SCI or other intelligence ISs is
encouraged where they may complement or address areas not otherwise specifically addressed.
AF ISR governance, compliance, and reporting is through DNI (per OMB Title 40 & 44), Under
Secretary of Defense (Intelligence) (AF DCGS Memo, 27 Mar 2012), and Director of Central
Intelligence Agency and Director of National Security Agency (National Institute of Standards
and Technology Special Publication 800-59 & Executive Order 12333).




                                             Michael B. Donley
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
 10                                                           AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Form Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 26 February 2008
AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), Published Annually
Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA), 1996
OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the Budget, 3 August 2012
OMB Circular A-130, Management of Federal Information Resources, 28 November 2000
OMB Memorandum M-11-29, Chief Information Officer Authorities, 8 August 2011
DoDD 4630.05, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT) and,
National Security Systems (NSS), 5 May 2004
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, 10 February
2009
DoDD 8115.01, Information Technology Portfolio Management, 10 October 2005
DoDI 8115.02, Information Technology Portfolio Management Implementation, 30 October
2006
DoDD 8500.01, Information Assurance, 24 October 2002
DoDI 4630.8, Procedures for Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology (IT)
and National Security Systems (NSS), 30 June 2004
DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
DTM 09-013, Registration of Architecture Descriptions in the DOD Architecture Registry
System, IC 2, 18 December 2009
DTM 11-009, Acquisition Policy for Defense Business Systems, 23 June 2011
FISMA, 44 USC § 3541, 2002
Title 10, USC, Section 2223(b) “Information Technology: Additional Responsibilities of Chief
Information Officers of Military Department, 2007
Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-52, Director of Test and Evaluation, 11 September
2007
National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-59, Guideline for
Identifying an Information System as a National Security System, August 2003
AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013                                11


Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—GIG—Air Force-Global Information Grid
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
BCA—Business Case Analysis
C2—Command and Control
C3I—Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence
CCA—Clinger-Cohen Act
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CTO—Chief Technology Officer
DBS—Defense Business System
DCMO—Deputy Chief Management Officer
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DTM—Directive Type Memorandum
DRU—Direct Report Units
EA—Enterprise Architecture
E-SWG—Enterprise Senior Working Group
FISMA—Federal Information Security Management Act
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GIG—Global Information Grid
GOSG—General Officer Steering Group
 12                                                            AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013


HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ—Headquarters
IA—Information Assurance
IAW—In Accordance With
IB—Implementation Baseline
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
IT—Information Technology
ITGEB—IT Governance Executive Board
ITIL—Information Technology Infrastructure Library
MAJCOM—-Major Command
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
NSS—National Security System
OB—Operational Baseline
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PEO C3I&N—Program Executive Officer for Command, Control, Communications and
Intelligence and Networks
SCF—Service Core Function
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
TB—Target Baseline
TEMP—Test and Evaluation Master Plan
T&E—Test and Evaluation
ToR—Terms of Reference
WFI—Warfighting Integration

Terms
Air Force Corporate Structure—Embodies the corporate review process for HAF. It does not
replace the functional staff but, rather, enhances it by allowing time critical or time limited
functional reviews at the appropriate levels. The deliberative components of the Corporate
Structure are the Air Force Council, the Air Force Board, the Air Force Group, and the thirteen
Mission and Mission Support Panels. This structure increases management effectiveness and
improves cross-functional decision-making by providing a forum in which senior AF leadership
can apply their collective judgment, experience, and analysis to major programs, objectives, and
issues. This process balances programs among mission areas, between force structure and
support, and between readiness, modernization, and transformation. Additionally, this approach
AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                      13


ensures the AF program is capabilities based and supports the Joint warfighter. Only military or
DoD civilian personnel assigned to the Air Staff or Office of the Secretary of the Air Force may
serve as members of the corporate structure.
AF-GIG Infrastructure—The AF cyberspace infrastructure consisting of AF-owned/leased and
controlled components (hardware, software, networks, systems, equipment, facilities, and
services) operated by DoD, AF, contractor or other entity on behalf of the AF, which stores,
transmits, receives, or processes information, regardless of classification or sensitivity.
Commoditize—to render (a good or service) widely available and interchangeable with one
provided by another company.
Community of Interest (COI)—COIs will detail the requirements for all information exchanges
within the entire material solution, regardless of the technical implementation of each
information exchange.
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU)—Has a specialized and restricted mission, and is directly
subordinate to the CSAF or to Chief of Staff’s representative on the Air Staff.
Enterprise Architecture (EA)—The explicit description and documentation of the current and
desired relationships among business and management processes and supporting resources (e.g.,
IT, personnel). It describes the "current architecture" and "target architecture," to include the
rules, standards, and systems life cycle information to optimize and maintain the environment
which the agency wishes to create and maintain by managing its IT portfolio. The EA must also
provide a strategy that will enable the agency to support its current state and also act as the
roadmap for transition to its target environment. These transition processes will include an
agency's capital planning and investment control processes, agency EA planning processes, and
agency systems life cycle methodologies. The EA will define principles and goals and set
direction on such issues as the promotion of interoperability, open systems, public access,
compliance with Government Paperwork Elimination Act, end user satisfaction, and IT security.
The agency must support the EA with a complete inventory of agency information resources,
including personnel, equipment, and funds devoted to information resources management and
information technology, at an appropriate level of detail.
Enterprise Senior Working Group (E-SWG)—The E-SWG provides cross-functional review
and guidance to AF modernization efforts with focus on Business Mission Area. It also supports
the SAF/CIO A6 AF CIO responsibilities of ensuring compliance with public law, Federal, DoD,
and AF directives regulating the investment in, and management and operation of IT.
Field Operating Agency (FOA)—A subdivision that carries out activities under the operational
control of a HAF functional manager.
Form—A document with a fixed arrangement of captioned spaces designed for entering and
extracting prescribed information. Categories of forms include internal, interagency, public use,
standard, and optional.
General Officer Steering Group (GOSG)—A forum that provides senior executive leadership
the venue to develop, review, and recommend guidance for the Air Force, synchronize
transformation, modernization, and functional support efforts. A GOSG, advises, assists, and
makes recommendations to the SECAF, CSAF, HAF, CFLIs, and the MAJCOMs on their focus
 14                                                             AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013


area(s). It is generally chaired by an Air Staff functional two-letter director (e.g. SAF/CIO A6)
and its members are selected, in part, by their equities in the steering group's focus area(s).
Implementation Baseline (IB)—The Implementation Baseline is the baseline of acquisition
selected products and their informed/allowed configurations that implement the architecture,
standards and protocols, and guidelines specified in the Target Baseline. The Implementation
Baseline informs the Operational Baseline of the acquisition selected products and how they are
to be configured to support deployment of user applications across the infrastructure topology.
The Implementation Baseline governs the implementation of the Development and
Integration/Test environments.
Information Assurance (IA)—Measures that protect and defend information and ISs by
ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-repudiation. This
includes providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating protection, detection,
and reaction capabilities. (DoDD 8500.01)
Information System (IS)—The entire infrastructure, organization, personnel, and components
for the collection, processing, storage, transmission, display, dissemination, and disposition of
information. (JP 3-13) A set of information resources organized for the collection, storage,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of
information. Includes automated IS applications, enclaves, outsourced IT-based processes, and
platform IT interconnections.
Information Technology (IT)—Any equipment, or interconnected system or subsystem of
equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or
information by the executive agency. This includes equipment used by a Component directly, or
used by a contractor under a contract with the Component, which (i) requires the use of such
equipment, or (ii) requires the use, to a significant extent, of such equipment in the performance
of a service or the furnishing of a product. The term “IT” also includes computers, ancillary
equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and
related resources. Notwithstanding the above, the term “IT” does not include any equipment that
is required by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract. Note: The above term is
considered synonymous with the term “information system” as defined and used in AF
programs.
Information Technology Governance Executive Board (ITGEB)—The scope for the ITGEB
includes the entire AF IT enterprise for business and mission capabilities, including business and
national security systems, and excluding the imbedded software in support of weapons platforms.
The senior leadership team shall include the SAF/CIO A6, SAF/AQ, AFSPC/CV, PEO C3I&N,
AF/A3/5, and SAF/US(M). SAF/CIO A6 shall chair this decision making body. This senior
leadership team shall charter a subordinate working group to plan, recommend, and support the
senior leaders in the implementation of process alignment initiatives, description of functions
and skill sets required to support enterprise capabilities, and development of the enabling
capabilities necessary to achieve the AF IT vision. This team shall focus on the commoditization
and operational configuration management of a baseline IT infrastructure and the business
practices to exploit that IT infrastructure for AF users.
Integrated Test Lifecycle Capability (ITLC)—A concept for organizing, integrating, and
directing widely distributed T&E organizations, skilled personnel, and capabilities at the Air
AFPD33-4 17 JANUARY 2013                                                                             15


Force Enterprise level into an efficient continuum that rapidly designs, develops, acquires, tests,
operates, and sustains IT systems throughout their life cycle. It is the basis for a common, secure,
agile, and versatile development environment for IT systems that integrates the efforts of
multiple AF functions, domains, and processes. It leverages and aligns policies, processes (e.g.,
requirements, funding, systems development, acquisition, T&E, training, operations,
management, systems sustainment), skilled IT practitioners, test “ranges” and capabilities, and
operational users to efficiently deliver IT capabilities and core services to support AF missions.
IT Portfolio Management (Portfolio management)—The management of selected groupings
of IT resources using strategic planning, architectures, and outcome-based performance measures
to achieve a mission capability (CJCSI 8410.01, Warfighting Mission Area Information
Technology Portfolio Management and Net-Centric Data Sharing). Source: DoDD 8115.01
National Security System (NSS)—Any information system (including any telecommunications
system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other organization on
behalf of an agency, the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities;
involves cryptologic activities related to national security; involves command and control of
military forces; involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or is
critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions; or is protected at all times by
procedures established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria
established by an Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of
national defense or foreign policy. (Adapted from NIST SP 800-59)
Operational Baseline (OB)—The Operational Baseline is the set of components of the AF IT
infrastructure that specifies the exact laydown and configurations of hardware and software
within all facilities in the AF infrastructure topology and provide the required warfighter
capabilities and performance.
Target Baseline (TB)—The Target Baseline specifies the standards, protocols, guidelines and
implementation constraints for the future state of the AF-GIG Infrastructure. It is used to inform
the development of the implementation baseline. The Target Baseline is thoroughly documented
and continually updated based upon emerging industry standards and the evolving AFEA.
