BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 24-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               9 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                 Transportation

                                                                   PERSONNEL MOVEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A4LE                                                               Certified by: AF/A4/7
                                                                       (Lt Gen Judith A. Fedder)
Supersedes:   AFPD 24-1, 1 Sep 1995                                                      Pages: 9


The purpose of this directive is to establish policy for the official movement of Air Force (AF)
personnel. It applies to all passenger movement chargeable to Air Force appropriated funds, and
to the use of Air Force aircraft. Personnel must travel throughout the world to support Air Force
missions. To move personnel efficiently, the Air Force must follow the Department of Defense
(DoD) order of precedence for travel and ensure that the most economical means of available
commercial and Government transportation is used. The Air Force must determine the traveler’s
needs, consider the mission and arrange for appropriate transportation and control movement.
This Publication applies to all levels of the Air Force to include the Air National Guard and Air
Force Reserve units and personnel.

This AF Policy Directive implements the following : Title 5, U.S. Code, (Government
Organization and Employees), Title 10, U.S. Code (Armed Forces) and Title 37, U.S. Code (Pay
and Allowances of the Uniformed Services); the Office of Management and Budget (OMB),
Circular No. A-126 (Revised), Improving the Management and Use of Government Aircraft;
Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Volume 1, (JFTR) and Joint Travel Regulations, Volume 2,
(JTR); DoD Directive 4500.09E, Transportation and Traffic Management; DoD Directive
4500.43, Operational Support Airlift (OSA); DoD Instruction 4500.53, DoD Commercial Air
Transportation Quality and Safety Review Program; DoD Directive 4500.56, DoD Policy on the
Use of Government Aircraft and Air Travel; DoD Instruction 4500.57, Transportation and
Traffic Management; DoD 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation(DTR), Part I,
Passenger Movement; DoD Support for Travel of Members and Employees of Congress; DoD
Regulation 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility; DoDI 4500.17, Proceedings Before
Transportation Bodies, through change 2; DoD Directive 5158.04, United States Transportation
Command; Use of Appropriated Funds for Official Representation Purposes; HAF
(Headquarters Air Force) Mission Directive 1-38, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force
 2                                                                  AFPD24-1 9 AUGUST 2012


Logistics Installations and Mission Support; Management Initiative Decision (MID) 921,
Commercial Travel Management; and Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) Premium
Class Travel Reporting Tool Guide, Version 1.1.

AFPD 24-1 may not be supplemented by any subordinate command or other organization
directives (see AFI 33-360). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records; and AFPD 33-3,
Information Management, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

The Per Diem, Travel, and Transportation Allowance Committee (PDTATAC) completed review
of AFPD 24-1 in accordance with DoDD 5154.29, DoD Pay and Allowances Policy and
Procedures, as PDTATAC Case RR10011. Any conflict between AFPD 24-1 and JFTR,
Volume 1 and JTR, Volume 2 is resolved based on the JFTR/JTR and not this directive.

This directive requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974 (authorized by 10 U.S.C. § 8013). System of records notices F024 AF USTRANSCOM B
DoD, DoD Transportation Repository Records, and F024 AF USTRANSCOM D DoD, Defense
Transportation System Records, apply. The applicable Privacy Act system notices are available
online at: http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

AFPD 24-1 has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
requires all Air Force (AF) users of the Defense Transportation System (DTS) to comply with
DTR 4500.9-R, (Part I); updates use of foreign-flag airlines if U.S. flag carriers are not available
or there is a threat to air travelers; identifies Air Force required users of government aircraft;
identifies the Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) as the single source for procuring
and managing commercial travel office (CTO) services world-wide; establishes requirement for
the AF/Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support to review DTMO
CTO contracts pertaining to the Air Force; requires the Air Force to use the DTMO premium
class travel (PCT) tool to report all approved first class/business class travel, as required, and
establishes Air Force PCT approval authorities and reporting requirements in compliance with
DoD established requirements; identifies Air Force requirements to comply with DoD policy
regarding tracking, turn-in, obtaining refunds, and reporting of unused and partially unused
tickets; establishes DTS as the primary tool for official travel arrangements; incorporates the
DTR/DoD requirements to collect and submit emergency contact data on all personnel
manifested on government aircraft; removes the annual requirement to measure and display
compliance with policy metric of use of government fares (rescinds AFPD 24-1, Attachment 1
requirements, dated Sep 95); identifies roles of the Special Air Missions Division, Office of the
Assistant Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CVAM); and directs the installation commander (equivalent or
the delegated representative(s)) to appoint a military member or civilian employee (not a
contractor) as Transportation Officer (TO) (or equivalent) to execute DoD traffic management
policy and procedures to obtain transportation services.
AFPD24-1 9 AUGUST 2012                                                                         3


1. Policy. This AFPD establishes Air Force policy and direction pertaining to movement of
employees and members worldwide. All Services and DoD agencies moving AF personnel must
comply with the guidance and procedures outlined herein and established in Air Force
Instruction 24-101, Passenger Movement.
   1.1. The Air Force uses its transportation resources and services only for official movement
   of personnel. It is essential that commanders and supervisors at all levels prevent both the
   misuse of transportation resources and the perception of misuse of DoD resources.
   1.2. The Air Force must use commercial air transportation (contracted through the GSA City
   Pairs Program (CPP)) for official travel before considering other sources. When Government
   contracted fares are not available, the least costly unrestricted economy transportation
   accommodation must be used as the normal class of service for commercial air movement.
   1.3. Government contractor personnel are not authorized to use government discount fares
   (including GSA City Pair fares) when purchasing commercial airline tickets (JFTR/JTR,
   Appendix E).
   1.4. Non-DoD personnel may use air transportation resources only when the DoD mission
   shall not be impaired and movement of such traffic is of an emergency, lifesaving nature,
   specifically authorized by statue, in direct support of the DoD mission, or requested by the
   head of an Agency of the Government in accordance with 31 U.S.C. §§ 1535 and 1536. The
   requesting Agency must provide a determination that the request is in the best interest of the
   Government/AF and that commercial transportation is not available, or for reasons which
   must be specified, is not capable of satisfying the movement requirement.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Deputy Chief of Staff of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
   (AF/A4/7). Implements transportation and travel policies in accordance with HAFMD 1-38.
   2.2. Special Air Missions Division, Office of the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff
   (AF/CVA). Processes, prioritizes and validates distinguished visitor (DV) airlift missions
   for senior national and Air Force leadership.
       2.2.1. Special Air Missions (SAM). Tasks/schedules executive aircraft in support of
       national leadership.
       2.2.2. Service Secretary Controlled Aircraft (SSCA). Tasks/schedules aircraft in
       support of Air Force senior leadership.
       2.2.3. Operational Support Aircraft (OSA). Validates Office Secretary of Defense
       (OSD) and Headquarters Air Force (HAF) military aircraft (MILAIR) requests and
       tasks/schedules DV missions on 1HS (Helicopter Squadron) aircraft.
       2.2.4. Presidential Flight Support (PFS). Provides Presidential advance agents for
       world-wide support of Air Force One and other select missions as directed by the
       Director, White House Military Office (WHMO).
   2.3. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
   (AF/A4/7). Develops policy for the SECAF’s approval and provides policy implementation,
   direction, and guidance for personnel movement.
 4                                                                 AFPD24-1 9 AUGUST 2012


        2.3.1. Exercises enterprise oversight for compliance for Air Force passenger/personnel
        movement requirements.
        2.3.2. Oversees Air Force passenger/personnel movement programs and cooperates with
        other military Services on Joint personnel transportation matters.
        2.3.3. Reviews DTMO CTO contracts pertaining to the Air Force.
     2.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1). Provides
     program management and budget oversight for both the military permanent change of station
     (PCS) program and the centrally-funded civilian career PCS program.
     2.5. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG).
        2.5.1. Establishes the medical criteria travelers must meet to qualify for transoceanic
        movement and premium class travel for medical conditions.
        2.5.2. Validates the air evacuation of DoD and non-DoD patients.
     2.6. Air Mobility Command (AMC). Operates the DoD Single Passenger Reservation
     System, the gateway aerial ports for departures and arrivals, and evacuates medical patients
     by air, when authorized/approved by competent authority.
     2.7. Air Force MAJCOMs. Implement Air Force policies for transporting passengers.
     2.8. Installation Commander (equivalent or their designated representative). Appoints
     a military member or civilian employee (not a contractor) as Transportation Officer to
     execute DoD traffic management policy and procedures to obtain transportation services.
     2.9. Transportation Officer (TO) or equivalent. Ensures fulfillment of official passenger
     travel requirements.
3. Approving Authorities.
     3.1. Travel of Family Member/Spouse Accompanying Personnel on Official
     Business. The following travel approval authorities are designated when the travel meets
     established criteria (JTR/JFTR):
        3.1.1. SECAF and CSAF for their own family member/spouse travel;
        3.1.2. SECAF for family member/spouse travel of members of the Secretariat;
        3.1.3. Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CV) for family member/spouse travel of
        personnel assigned to the HAF;
        3.1.4. AF/CV and four-star MAJCOM commanders (CC) for their own family
        member/spouse travel;
        3.1.5. AF/CV for three-star or lower MAJCOM/CC’s family member/spouse travel;
        3.1.6. Selected three-star general officers, when serving as combined commanders (i.e., 5
        AF/CC, 7 AF/CC and 11 AF/CC), for their own family member/spouse’s travel;
        3.1.7. MAJCOM/CC’s and CV’s for all family member/spouse travel of personnel
        assigned to their command; and,
AFPD24-1 9 AUGUST 2012                                                                           5


       3.1.8. AF/CV for family member/spouse travel of personnel assigned to DRUs (i.e., U.S.
       Air Force Academy) and FOAs, and for all other Air Force personnel not covered by an
       approval authority identified above.
   3.2. Premium Class Travel (First and Business Class). The following Air Force PCT
   approval authorities and reporting officials are designated to meet DoD PCT policy
   requirements (Note: Self approval of PCT is prohibited):
       3.2.1. SECAF or the Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US) for all first class travel;
       3.2.2. SECAF or SAF/US for business class travel of four-star general and civilian
       equivalents assigned to HAF;
       3.2.3. The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) for
       business class travel for three-star generals, and below, of personnel assigned to the HAF;
       3.2.4. AF/CV, or SAF/AA in the absence of the AF/CV, for business class travel of
       MAJCOM/CCs;
       3.2.5. MAJCOM/CC, or CV in the absence of the CC, for business class travel of
       personnel assigned to their MAJCOMs;
       3.2.6. AF/CV, or Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CVA) in the absence
       of the AF/CV, for DRUs and FOAs; and
   3.3. Use of Government Aircraft and Air Travel. The following approval authorities are
   established for the use of government aircraft and air travel, as it relates to the approval of
   use of MILAIR to meet DoD policy requirements:
Note: Travelers seeking SAF/AA, AF/CVA or higher approval must submit their MILAIR
requests to AF/CVAM for validation that will, in turn, route the request to the appropriate office
for approval.
       3.3.1. SECAF and CSAF are designated as “required use” travelers and can “self-
       approve” for official travel;
       3.3.2. SECAF approves SAF/US and SAF/AA requests;
       3.3.3. SAF/AA approves Secretariat requests;
       3.3.4. CSAF approves AF/CV requests;
       3.3.5. AF/CV approves MAJCOM/CC’s requests (when travel is primarily for Air Force
       purposes) and AF/CVA requests;
       3.3.6. AF/CVA approves Air Staff, FOA, and DRU requests;
       3.3.7. MAJCOM/CC’s approve their MAJCOM/CV requests;
       3.3.8. MAJCOM/CV’s approve their MAJCOM staff and subordinate requests; and,
       3.3.9. Combatant Commander (COCOM) approves MAJCOM/CC’s requests when
       travel is primarily for COCOM purposes.
6                         AFPD24-1 9 AUGUST 2012


    Michael B. Donley
    Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD24-1 9 AUGUST 2012                                                                         7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
Office of Management of Budget (OMB), Circular No. A-126 (Revised), Improving the
Management and Use of Government Aircraft, 22 May 1992
Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Volume 1 (JFTR) and Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Volume
2
DoD Directive 4500.09E, Transportation and Traffic Management, 11 September 2007
DoD Instruction 4500.43, Operational Support Airlift (OSA), 18 May 2011
DoD Instruction 4500.53, DoD Commercial Air Transportation Quality and Safety Review
Program, 20 Oct 2008
DoD Directive 4500.56, DoD Policy on the Use of Government Aircraft and Air Travel, 14 Apr
2009
DTR 4500.9-R, Defense Transportation Regulation, Part I, Passenger Movement; 1 September
2011
DoD Instruction 4500.57, Transportation and Traffic Management, 18 Mar 2008
DoD Regulation 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, through change 3, 9 Apr 1998
DoD Instruction 4500.17, Proceedings Before Transportation Bodies, 16 January 1969, through
change 2, 5 April 1978
DoD Directive 5158.04, United States Transportation Command, 27 Jul 07, through change 1, 11
Sep 07
DoD Report Control Symbol DD-P&R (SA) 2232 and DoD Report Control Symbol DD-P&R
(Q) 2257
DTMO Premium Class Travel Reporting Tool Guide, Version 1.1., 29 Apr 08
HAF Mission Directive 1-38, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force (Logistics, Installations and
Mission Support, 5 Oct 2009
Management Initiative Decision (MID) 921, “Commercial Travel Management,” 18 Oct 07
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms:
AF—--Air Force
AF/CV—Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force
AF/A4LE—--Air Force Vehicle, Equipment, and Fuels Management Division
AFI—--Air Force Instruction
 8                                                             AFPD24-1 9 AUGUST 2012


AFMAN—--Air Force Manual
AFPD—--Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—--Air Force Reserve Command
AMC—--Air Mobility Command
ANG—--Air National Guard
CC—-- Commander
COCOM—--Combatant Commander
CSAF—--Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CTO—--Commercial Travel Office
CV—Vice Commander
CVAM—--Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Special Air Mission Division
DoD—--Department of Defense
DoDD—---Department of Defense Directives
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—--Direct Reporting Units
DTMO—--Defense Travel Management Office
DTS—--Defense Travel System
E-Tickets—Electronic Tickets
FOA—--Field Operating Agency
GSA—--General Service Administration
HAF—--Headquarters Air Force
HS—--Helicopter Squadron
IAW—--In Accordance With
JFTR—--Joint Federal Travel Regulations
JTR—--Joint Travel Regulations
MAJCOM—--Major Command
MAJCOM/CC—--Major Command Commander
MAJCOM/CV—--Major Command Vice Commander
MILAIR—--Military Airlift
NGB—--National Guard Bureau
NGB/CF—--National Guard Commander of Forces
OCONUS—--Outside the Continental United States
AFPD24-1 9 AUGUST 2012                                              9


OMB—--Office of Management and Budget
OPR—--Office of Primary Responsibilities
OSD (P&R)—Office of Secretary of Defense, Personnel & Readiness
PCS—--Permanent Change of Station
PCT—--Premium Class Travel
PDTATAC—Per Diem, Travel and Transportation Allowance Committee
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RO—Reporting Office
SAF/AA—Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/US—Office of Under Secretary of the Air Force
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
TO—Transportation Officer
WHMO—White House Military Office
