BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 14-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                 2 APRIL 2004

                                                                                              Intelligence

                                                            INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND
                                                              RECONNAISSANCE (ISR) PLANNING,
                                                                 RESOURCES, AND OPERATIONS


NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ XOIIR (Mr. Albert J. Starnes)                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/XOI
                                                                              (Maj Gen Ronald F. Sams)
Supersedes AFPD 14-1, 1 June 1999, and                                                           Pages: 4
           AFPD 10-22, 1 December 1998                                                    Distribution: F

This Policy Directive provides guidance for ISR planning and operations. It implements DoD Directive
5100.1, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This publication updates infor-
mation to reflect the realignment of Air Force information operations and command and control forces.
Accordingly, it removes references to Air Intelligence Agency as a Field Operating Agency of HQ USAF/
XOI, since it has been realigned as a Primary Subordinate Unit to Air Combat Command. It also assigns
responsibilities to HQ USAF/XI concerning Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intel-
ligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (C4ISR) integration and innovation. References and terms that
no longer apply to this AFPD or appear herein have been deleted from the Glossary (Attachment 1). Def-
initions have been updated to reflect those listed in the most recent versions of their references (Attach-
ment 1). Other changes are administrative in nature.

1. Intelligence is essential to maintaining aerospace power. Accordingly, the Air Force will provide pre-
mier intelligence products and services to its aerospace customers (warfighters, policy makers, acquisi-
tion managers, etc.). The focus will be on maintaining a seamless flow of accurate, timely intelligence to
decision-makers at all levels. To this end, the Air Force will:
   1.1. Achieve horizontal integration of manned, unmanned, and space-based ISR systems to produce
   executable decision-quality knowledge in near real-time.
   1.2. Establish Predictive Battlespace Awareness (i.e., target development, course of action assess-
   ment, ISR battle management) as the core skill set for Air Force ISR personnel.
   1.3. Sustain readiness by developing and maintaining a force structure with the proper rank and spe-
   cialty allocations of military and civilian personnel, training and educating mission-ready profession-
   als, regularly exercising wartime system capabilities, and equipping and maintaining an infrastructure
   capable of supporting high operations tempo levels.
2                                                                               AFPD14-1 2 APRIL 2004


    1.4. Integrate information operations (IO) concepts and objectives into intelligence planning and
    resource allocation activities.
    1.5. Maximize use of national and joint intelligence production resources through cooperation and
    collaboration, while also thoroughly engaging in the design and establishment of a Department of
    Defense-wide virtual production capability.
    1.6. Provide specialized products and services to Air Force and other operational forces, complement-
    ing services provided by the rest of the Intelligence Community (IC).
    1.7. Invest in technology, focusing on applications that will upgrade exploitation and analysis for
    decision-maker needs. Maximize capabilities to seamlessly interoperate with Air Force customers as
    well as other services and agencies.
    1.8. Embed intelligence into Air Force acquisition programs to ensure early and sustained support
    throughout the life of a program.
    1.9. Foster strong relationships with allied partners to maximize the exchange of intelligence infor-
    mation in support of mutual interests.
    1.10. Respect the rights of US citizens, carefully heeding the rules and procedures in intelligence
    oversight-associated laws and directives.

2. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
    2.1. The Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, Deputy Chief of Staff for Air
    and Space Operations (HQ USAF/XOI), oversees implementation of Air Force strategy, policy, and
    guidance governing ISR operations. HQ USAF/XOI is the Air Force’s Senior Official of the Intelli-
    gence Community in accordance with E.O. 12333 and Director of Central Intelligence Directives. In
    this capacity, XOI serves as the senior Air Force official on the Military Intelligence Board and repre-
    sents the AF within the national intelligence community. XOI also oversees the programming and
    execution of resources for Air Force activities funded by the National Foreign Intelligence Program
    (NFIP), the Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities (TIARA), and Joint Military Intelligence Pro-
    gram (JMIP) aggregations.
    2.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Warfighting Integration (HQ USAF/XI) is responsible for aggregating
    Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
    (C4ISR) information and producing detailed communications and information systems architectures.
    HQ USAF/XI also represents the Air Force on C4ISR integration matters with other services, agen-
    cies, Joint Staff, OSD, and other outside organizations.

3. This policy directive applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel, to include AF Reserve and
Air National Guard.

4. See Attachment 1 for references and supporting information.



                                                      JAMES G. ROCHE
                                                      Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD14-1 2 APRIL 2004                                                                             3


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order No. 12333, United States Intelligence Activities
DoD Directive 5100.1, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components
DoD Directive-S3600.1, Information Warfare
Joint Pub 1-02, The Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms
Joint Pub 2-0, Joint Doctrine for Intelligence Support to Operations
Joint Vision 2020
Joint Military Intelligence Training Center, An Intelligence Resource Manager's Guide
AFDD 2.5.2, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Operations
AFPD 14-3, Control, Protection, and Dissemination of Intelligence Information
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation
Air Combat Command Mission Directive 206, Volume 1, Air Intelligence Agency

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AF—Air Force
AIA—Air Intelligence Agency
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IC—Intelligence Community
IO—Information Operations
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
JMIP—Joint Military Intelligence Program
NFIP—National Foreign Intelligence Program
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PBA—Predictive Battlespace Awareness
PSU—Primary Subordinate Unit
TIARA—Tactical Intelligence and Related Activities
XI—Deputy Chief of Staff, Warfighting Integration
XOI—Director of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance, Deputy Chief of Staff, Air and Space
Operations
4                                                                             AFPD14-1 2 APRIL 2004


Terms
Information Operations (IO)—Actions taken to affect adversary information and information systems
while defending one’s own information and information systems. (JP 1-02). The Air Force believes that in
practice a more useful working definition is: Those actions taken to gain, exploit, defend or attack
information or information systems and include both information-in-warfare and information warfare.
{Italicized definition applies only to the Air Force and is offered for clarity.} (Ref: AFDD 2-5)
Intelligence—The product resulting from the collection, processing, integration, analysis, evaluation, and
interpretation of available information concerning foreign countries or areas. Ref: Joint Pub 1-02.
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)—The capability to collect, process, exploit and
disseminate accurate and timely information that provides the battlespace awareness necessary to
successfully plan and conduct operations.
National Foreign Intelligence Program (NFIP)—The consolidation of funding programs that provide
the resources needed to develop and maintain capabilities to serve the intelligence needs of national
policy makers. The NFIP funds the national level intelligence activities of national civilian and defense
intelligence agencies, the Director of Central Intelligence staff elements, military intelligence,
cryptologic, foreign counter-intelligence, and reconnaissance activities, and intelligence programs of
other federal departments.
Surveillance—The systematic observation of aerospace, surface or subsurface areas, places, persons, or
things, by visual, aural, electronic, photographic, or other means. Ref: Joint Pub 2-0.
Reconnaissance—A mission undertaken to obtain, by visual observation or other detection methods,
information about the activities and resources of an adversary or potential adversary, or to secure data
concerning the meteorological, hydrographic, or geographic characteristics of a particular area. Ref: Joint
Pub 2-0.
Virtual Production—The coordinated production of intelligence by multiple, physically separated
organizations collaborating electronically in a fluid environment. (Ref: Program Manager's Guidance
Memorandum)
