BY ORDER OF THE                                                     Air Force Policy Directive 13-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   6 AUGUST 2012

                                                  Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                    COMMAND AND CONTROL ENTERPRISE
                                                                    (C2 ENTERPRISE)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for download or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AF/A3O-CS                                                                Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                             (Lt Gen Hawk Carlisle)
Supersedes:    AFPD 13-1, 11 May 1995                                                      Pages: 12


Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 13-1 establishes key, broad Air Force (AF) policy for the AF
Command and Control Enterprise (C2 Enterprise). This directive does not establish Air Force
policy for the unique requirements of Nuclear C2 (NC2) to include, but not limited to, nuclear
surety; execution authority; chain of command; nuclear operations and procedures; system and
facility robustness; and commander roles and responsibilities. For nuclear policy and guidance,
refer to applicable directives, instructions, etc. The intent of this directive is to establish policy
for the integrating aspects of C2 capabilities across functional and geographic forces and not to
address the functionally unique capabilities and terminologies of Nuclear, Special Operations
Forces, Mobility, Space, and Cyber C2. This directive applies to all Air Force active duty,
Reserve, Air National Guard, civilian, contractors and other personnel or organizations, as
required by binding agreement or obligation with the Department of the Air Force. This
publication may not be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Changed AFPD name to reflect broadened scope and purpose to cover the C2
Enterprise (vice Theater Air Control System (TACS) in previous version) across the range of
 2                                                                AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012


military operations; defined Air Force policy for the development of an enduring force; included
reachback and distributed operations as a concept to be leveraged by C2 Enterprise forces;
described the characteristics of an enduring and adaptable C2 force; added synchronization,
interoperability, and integration requirements; highlighted the need for proficient C2 operators;
added potential tasks/positions AF component commanders and staff must be prepared to
accomplish and fill; established requirement for Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR)/
Commander, Air Force Special Operations Forces (COMAFSOF) and staffs to use standardized
processes and procedures and commonly accepted Joint C2 tools and processes; provided a
description of span of operations for Installation Command and Control (IC2); outlined C2
Enterprise support requirements; added broad roles and responsibilities for AF A3/5, C2 Core
Function Lead Integrator (CFLI), and other stakeholders; directed C2 CFLI, with the assistance
of other stakeholders, to establish governance for the C2 Enterprise; deleted Attachment 1 from
the previous AFPD version, as TACS SORTS data guidance is included in applicable AFIs;
deleted Attachment 2; added a Glossary of References and Supporting Information at
Attachment 1 to reflect the appropriate references; and updated definitions and terminology.
AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012                                                                        3



1. Command and Control Enterprise Policy.
   1.1. The Command and Control Enterprise (C2 Enterprise) consists of the people,
   organizations, processes, procedures, information, communications, facilities and systems
   that are used to plan, direct, coordinate, and control forces and operations. It includes the
   infrastructure and life-cycle activities for C2 systems, components, and supporting systems;
   intellectual and technical competencies; and cultural mindset that ensures the effective and
   efficient employment of net-enabled, integrated, reliable and enduring AF C2 forces.
   1.2. The Department of the Air Force organizes, trains, and equips forces capable of
   effective C2 of air, space and cyberspace operations and supports joint and national
   capabilities across the range of military operations (ROMO) and throughout the conflict
   continuum (Figure 1).




                                           Figure 1

   1.3. The Air Force will develop sufficient C2 capability and capacity to accomplish assigned
   missions and ensure enterprise-wide agility and flexibility to plan early and respond
   effectively and in unison with interdepartmental, non-governmental, and international
   partners.
      1.3.1. AF C2 capabilities will be leader-centric, network enabled and ready to operate in
      complex, chaotic and degraded information environments.
      1.3.2. Agile and flexible C2 capabilities enable commanders and their forces to quickly
      transition from one operation to another or to conduct multiple operations
      simultaneously, regardless of location.
   1.4. To provide commanders with the ability to quickly respond to threats/events and
   integrate the appropriate mix of capabilities, the C2 Enterprise will include:
      1.4.1. An enduring force with the following characteristics:
          1.4.1.1. Tailorable: Designed to effectively and efficiently accomplish a range of
          assigned missions by task organizing a combination of one or more functional
          capabilities.
          1.4.1.2. Scalable: Functional capability modules designed to provide the appropriate
          magnitude of capability for the assigned mission.
4                                                                 AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012


           1.4.1.3. Modular: Functional capability elements (Unit Type Codes, UTCs)
           established with standardized processes, procedures and tools to the maximum extent
           practical that allows global augmentation for task organized mission.
           1.4.1.4. Deployable: Where required, select elements (e.g, air, ground, etc.) of the
           C2 Enterprise able to project capability into and operate in any theater of operations
           around the globe.
           1.4.1.5. Sustainable: Designed to ensure long-term mission accomplishment while
           remaining, to the maximum extent possible, cost-effective, and energy efficient.
       1.4.2. An integrated and interoperable force that:
           1.4.2.1. Leverages the concepts of reachback and distributed operations and is
           capable of decentralized execution during periods of degraded operations and prior to
           continuity of operations plan (COOP) implementation.
           1.4.2.2. Is vertically and horizontally integrated and interoperable with other Air
           Force and select joint, coalition, and allied forces; as well as synchronized with
           governmental organizations, select private sector agencies/individuals, and non-
           governmental organizations to ensure unity of effort, maximize the contribution of
           partners, and produce the desired effects necessary to achieve the mission.
       1.4.3. A sufficient number of trained, educated, and proficient C2 personnel capable of
       effective C2 operations and capable of performing and/or supporting the roles of
       Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR), Commander, Air Force Special
       Operations Forces (COMAFSOF), Combined/Joint Force Air Component Commander
       (C/JFACC), Joint Special Operations Air Component Commander (JSOACC), or
       Commander, Joint Task Force (CJTF).
    1.5. COMAFFOR, COMAFSOF, and their staffs will:
       1.5.1. Have the ability or reachback support to plan, direct, coordinate, and control air,
       space, cyberspace and support forces across the ROMO. This includes the personnel,
       technology and processes to make and disseminate informed and timely decisions to the
       appropriate forces and organizations. Tasks include but are not limited to deploying,
       receiving, sustaining, employing, reconstituting and redeploying forces as required.
       1.5.2. Execute standardized processes and procedures and employ integrated systems at
       all levels down to and including Installation C2 (IC2), as required.
       1.5.3. Use commonly accepted Joint C2 tools and processes (e.g., Operations Plans,
       Operations Orders, Fragmentation Orders), as required.
    1.6. IC2 must span the full range of in-garrison and expeditionary installation operations
    (e.g., emergency/disaster response/combat ops) and will transition to enable further in-
    garrison joint basing operations as well as more effective deployed joint IC2.
    1.7. Functional and geographic air component commanders will act in a
    supported/supporting manner to effectively C2 global and theater operations (respectively)
    and coordinate with other appropriately designated command authorities.
    1.8. When directed by the appropriate Joint Force Commander (JFC), AF component
    commanders and staffs (with appropriate augmentation) will be prepared to:
AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012                                                                        5


       1.8.1. Accomplish the tasks of the C/JFACC, JSOACC, Area Air Defense Commander
       (AADC), Airspace Control Authority (ACA), Space Coordinating Authority (SCA), and
       joint electronic warfare coordinator.
       1.8.2. Form the core of a Joint Task Force Headquarters (JTF HQ) as set forth in Joint
       Pub (JP) 3-33, Joint Task Force Headquarters.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF A3/5) is
   responsible for the development of C2 Enterprise policy IAW applicable directives.
   2.2. The C2 Core Function Lead Integrator (CFLI) will develop, in coordination with other
   stakeholders, governance for the C2 Enterprise and manage C2 capabilities as part of a single
   enterprise IAW policy set forth by this document or applicable Headquarters Air Force
   (HAF) policy directives and instructions.
       2.2.1. HAF, Major Commands, Field Operating Agencies, Direct Reporting Units, and
       other entities with functional C2 capabilities will assist the C2 CFLI in the development
       of implementation guidance and procedures for the C2 Enterprise.




                                            Michael B. Donley
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
 6                                                                 AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Department of Defense Directive 5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its
Major Components, 21 Dec 2010
Department of Defense Directive 5100.30, Department of Defense (DOD) Command and
Control, 5 January 2006
Department of Defense Directive 8320.02, Data Sharing In a Net-Centric Department of
Defense, 2 Dec 2004
Joint Publication 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, 20 March 2009
Joint Publication 1-0, Joint Personnel Support, 24 October 2011
Joint Publication 1-02, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 November 2010, as
amended through 15 November 2011
Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations, 11 August 2011
Joint Publication 3-05, Special Operations, 18 April 2011
Joint Publication 3-13, Information Operations, 13 February 2006
Joint Publication 3-30, Command and Control for Joint Air Operations, 12 January 2010
Joint Publication 3-33, Joint Task Force Headquarters, 16 February 2007
Joint Publication 3-52, Joint Airspace Control, 20 May 2010
Joint Publication 5-0, Joint Operation Planning, 11 August 2011
Air Force Doctrine Document 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, Organization, and Command, 14
October 2011
Air Force Doctrine Document 2, Operations and Organization, 3 April 2007
Air Force Doctrine Document 3-01, Counterair Operations, 1 October 2008
Air Force Doctrine Document 3-05, Special Operations, 16 December 2005
Air Force Doctrine Document 3-27, Homeland Operations, 21 March 2006
Air Force Doctrine Document 3-52, Airspace Control, 2 February 2011
Air Force Doctrine Document 3-72, Nuclear Operations, 7 May 2009
Air Force Doctrine Document 6-0, Command and Control, 1 June 2007
Air Force Policy Directive 10-8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support, 7 September 2006
Air Force Policy Directive 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
Air Force Policy Directive 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010
Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-54, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans, and
Requirements, 9 February 2012
AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012                                                                7


Air Force Instruction 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 Mar 2011
Air Force Command and Control Core Function Master Plan (C2 CFMP), 7 September 2011
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADC—Area Air Defense Commander
ACA—Airspace Control Authority
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSEA—Air Force Strategic Environmental Assessment
AFSPS—Air Force Strategic Planning System
C2—Command and Control
C2 Enterprise—Command and Control Enterprise
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CFMP—Core Function Master Plan
C/JFACC—Combined/Joint Force Air Component Commander
CJTF—Commander, Joint Task Force
COMAFFOR—Commander, Air Force Forces
COMAFSOF—Commander, Air Force Special Operations Forces
DOD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FRAGO—Fragmentary Order
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IC2—Installation Command and Control
JFACC—Joint Force Air Component Commander
JFC—Joint Force Commander
JP—Joint Publication
JSOACC—Joint Special Operations Air Component Commander
JTF—Joint Task Force
JTF HQ—Joint Task Force Headquarters
 8                                                                AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012


MAJCOM—Major Command
NGO—Non-governmental organization
OPLAN—Operation Plan
OPORD—Operation Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROMO—Range of Military Operations
SCA—Space Coordinating Authority
SCF—Service Core Function
TACS—Theater Air Control System
UTC—Unit Type Code

Terms
Agile—The ability to rapidly deploy, employ, sustain and redeploy capabilities in geographically
separated and environmentally diverse regions.
Airspace Control Authority (ACA)—The commander designated to assume responsibility for
the operation of the airspace control system in the airspace control area. (JP 3-52)
Alliance—The relationship that results from a formal agreement (e.g., treaty) between two or
more nations for broad, long-term objectives that further the common interests of the members.
See also coalition; multinational. (JP 3-0)
Area Air Defense Commander (AADC)—Within a unified command, subordinate unified
command, or joint task force, the commander will assign overall responsibility for air defense to
a single commander. Normally, this will be the component commander with the preponderance
of air defense capability and the command, control, and communications capability to plan and
execute integrated air defense operations. Representation from the other components involved
will be provided, as appropriate, to the area air defense commander’s headquarters. (JP 3-52)
Coalition—An ad hoc arrangement between two or more nations for common action. See also
alliance; multinational. (JP 5-0)
Command and Control (C2)—The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command
and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment,
communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing,
coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission. (JP 1)
Command and Control Enterprise (C2 Enterprise)—The people, organizations, processes,
procedures, information, communications, facilities and systems that are used to plan, direct,
coordinate, and control forces and operations. It includes the infrastructure and life-cycle
activities for C2 systems, components, and supporting systems; intellectual and technical
competencies; and cultural mindset that ensures the effective and efficient employment of net-
enabled, integrated, reliable and enduring AF C2 forces. For example, the C2 enterprise includes,
AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012                                                                        9


but is not limited to Air Force systems (e.g., Theater Air Control Systems, Deployable Air
Traffic Control and Landing Systems) and Service Core Functions (e.g., Rapid Global Mobility;
Special Operations; Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance; and Agile Combat Support).
Command and Control System (C2 System)—The facilities, equipment, communications,
procedures, and personnel essential to a commander for planning, directing, and controlling
operations of assigned forces pursuant to the missions assigned. (JP 1-02)
Core Function Lead Integrators (CFLI)—SECAF/CSAF-designated leaders who serve as the
principal integrators for their assigned SCFs and the corresponding CFMPs. CFLIs guide
Service Core Function (SCF) maturation and SCF-related investments by orchestrating the
development of SCF strategy in collaboration with key stakeholders across the Air Force,
including HAF functionals, MAJCOMs and the Air Reserve Components (ARC).
Core Function Master Plan (CFMP)—Developed by CFLIs, in collaboration with key
stakeholders across the Air Force, including HAF functionals, MAJCOMs and the ARC. CFMPs
align strategy, operating concepts, and capability development by SCF, to provide 20-year
constructs for enhancing Global Vigilance, Global Reach, and Global Power across the range of
military operations. These constructs include major investment plans in the form of Planning
Force Proposals. Along with other internal and external products, the Air Force Strategic
Environment Assessment, the Air Force Strategic Planning System (AFSPS), and the Annual
Planning and Programming Guidance provide the strategic context for CFMP production. When
developing CFMPs, CFLIs must account for all related authoritative perspectives across the Air
Force, including the perspectives of regional Air Force commands; and CFLIs will coordinate
their CFMPs with all HAF 2-letter/digit organizations and Offices of Collateral Responsibility
(OCRs) prior to submission. CFLIs update CFMPs every year. As an example of CFMP timing,
FY13 CFMPs are inputs to the FY13 APPG, which is designed to influence the FY13 POM and
FY14 CFMPs.
Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR)—The single Air Force commander of an Air
Force Service component assigned or attached to a JFC at the unified combatant command,
subunified combatant command, or joint task force (JTF) level. (AFDD 1)
Commander, Air Force Special Operations Forces (COMAFSOF)—The senior AFSOF
Airman on the Joint Force Special Operations Component or Joint Special Operations Task
Force chain of command. (AFDD 3-05)
Continuity of Operations (COOP)—The degree or state of being continuous in the conduct of
functions, tasks, or duties necessary to accomplish a military action or mission in carrying out
the national military strategy. (JP 3-0)
Decentralized execution—Delegation of execution authority to subordinate commanders. (JP 1-
02)
Direct Reporting Unit (DRU)—A subdivision of the Air Force, directly subordinate to the
Chief of Staff, US Air Force. A DRU performs a mission that does not fit into any of the
MAJCOMs. A DRU has many of the same administrative and organizational responsibilities as a
MAJCOM. (AFI 38-101)
Distributed Operations—The process of conducting operations from independent or
interdependent nodes in a teaming manner. Some operational planning or decision-making may
 10                                                                AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012


occur from outside the joint area of operations. The goal of a distributed operation is to support
the operational commander in the field; it is not a method of command from the rear. (AFDD 6-
0)
Field Operating Agency (FOA)—A subdivision of the Air Force, directly subordinate to a
Headquarters US Air Force functional manager. A FOA performs field activities beyond the
scope of any of the major commands. The activities are specialized or associated with an Air
Force-wide mission and do not include functions performed in management headquarters, unless
specifically directed by a DOD authority. Air Force FOAs usually have the word Agency as part
of their designation. NOTE: Organization guidance for MAJCOMs also applies to the large Air
Force FOAs that are structured along MAJCOM lines, e.g., Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance
and Reconnaissance Agency (AFISRA). (AFI 38-101)
Flexible—Capable of adjusting to changing requirements/conditions while taking advantage of
opportunities and maximizing efficiencies.
Fragmentary Order (FRAGO)—An abbreviated form of an operation order issued as needed
after an operation order to change or modify that order or to execute a branch or sequel to that
order. (JP 5-0)
Integration—The arrangement of military forces and their actions to create a force that operates
by engaging as a whole. (JP 1-0)
Interoperability—The ability of C2 systems to exchange information, allowing warfighters to
operate effectively together (AFDD 6-0)
Joint Force Air Component Commander (JFACC)—The commander within a unified
command, subordinate unified command, or joint task force responsible to the establishing
commander for recommending the proper employment of assigned, attached, and/or made
available for tasking air forces; planning and coordinating air operations; or accomplishing such
operational missions as may be assigned. (JP 3-0)
Joint Force Commander (JFC)—A general term applied to a combatant commander,
subunified commander, or joint task force commander authorized to exercise combatant
command (command authority) or operational control over a joint force. (JP 1-02)
Joint Command and Control (Joint C2)—The exercise of authority and direction by the
Combatant Commander, and designated others, that supports force-level planning, execution,
monitoring, and assessment of joint and multinational operations for the Joint Force
Commanders, Component Commanders, and the Joint Planning and Execution Community.
Joint C2 includes cross-Service C2 capabilities, infrastructure, programs, and processes. It also
includes the capability to extend to coalition forces. (DODD O-5100.30)
Joint Publication (JP)—A publication containing joint doctrine that is prepared under the
direction and authority of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and applies to all Armed
Forces of the United States. (CJCSI 5120.02)
Joint Special Operations Air Component Commander (JSOACC)—The commander within
a joint force special operations command responsible for planning and executing joint special
operations air activities. (JP 3-05)
Leader—Centric—Designed with a focus on leadership as the core customer. Leader-centric
C2 capabilities should, at every level of operations, provide commanders with high quality
AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012                                                                          11


decision-making information (i.e., brief, complete, timely, accurate, secure, usable, and relevant
[JP 3-13, AFDD 6-0]).
Major Command (MAJCOM)—A major subdivision of the Air Force that is assigned a major
part of the Air Force mission. A MAJCOM is directly subordinate to Headquarters US Air Force.
Most MAJCOMs have the word Command as part of their designation; MAJCOM headquarters
are management headquarters and thus have the full range of functional staff. (AFI 38-101)
Net—Centric—Relating to or representing the attributes of net-centricity. Net-centricity is a
robust, globally interconnected network environment (including infrastructure, systems,
processes, and people) in which data is shared timely and seamlessly among users, applications,
and platforms. Net-centricity enables substantially improved military situational awareness and
significantly shortened decision making cycles. Net-Centric capabilities enable network-centric
operations and network-centric warfare. (DODD 8320.02)
Non-governmental organization (NGO)—A private, self-governing, not-for-profit organization
dedicated to alleviating human suffering; and/or promoting education, health care, economic
development, environmental protection, human rights, and conflict resolution; and/or
encouraging the establishment of democratic institutions and civil society. (JP 3-08)
Operation Plan (OPLAN)—Any plan for the conduct of military operations prepared in
response to actual and potential contingencies. In the context of joint operation planning level 4
planning detail, a complete and detailed joint plan containing a full description of the concept of
operations, all annexes applicable to the plan, and a time-phased force and deployment data. It
identifies the specific forces, functional support, and resources required to execute the plan and
provide closure estimates for their flow into the theater. (JP 5-0)
Operation Order (OPORD)—A directive issued by a commander to subordinate commanders
for the purpose of effecting the coordinated execution of an operation. (JP 5-0)
Personnel—Those individuals required in either a military or civilian capacity to accomplish the
assigned mission. (JP 1-0)
Policy—Statements of important, higher-level direction that guides decisions and actions
throughout the Air Force. Policies are typically driven by higher headquarters (OSD) in the form
of DOD Issuances (DOD Directives, DOD Instructions, etc.) although occasionally directly from
the United States Code, Public Laws, or Executive Orders. (AFPD 90-1)
Private Sector—An umbrella term that may be applied in the United States and in foreign
countries to any or all of the nonpublic or commercial individuals and businesses, specific
nonprofit organizations, most of academia and other scholastic institutions, and selected
nongovernmental organizations. (JP 3-57)
Range of Military Operations (ROMO)—Military operations that vary in scope, purpose, and
conflict intensity across a range that extends from military engagement, security cooperation, and
deterrence activities to crisis response and limited contingency operations and, if necessary, to
major operations and campaigns. (JP 3-0)
Reachback—The process of obtaining products, services and applications or forces, equipment,
or material from AF organizations that are not forward deployed. (AFDD 6-0)
Service Core Functions (SCF)—Functional areas that delineate the appropriate and assigned
core duties, missions, and tasks of the Air Force as an organization, responsibility for each of
 12                                                                AFPD13-1 6 AUGUST 2012


which is assigned to a CFLI. SCFs express the ways in which the Air Force is particularly and
appropriately suited to contribute to national security. SCFs are an integral aspect of the AFSPS,
and provide the framework for Air Force organizing, training, and equipping efforts, however,
they do not necessarily express every aspect of what the Air Force contributes to the nation.
Space Coordinating Authority (SCA)—A commander responsible for coordinating joint space
operations and integrating space capabilities in the operational area. (JP 3-14)
Support—1. The action of a force that aids, protects, complements, or sustains another force in
accordance with a directive requiring such action. 2. A unit that helps another unit in battle. 3.
An element of a command that assists, protects, or supplies other forces in combat. (JP 1-02)
Theater—The geographical area for which a commander of a geographic combatant command
has been assigned responsibility. (This term and its definition modify the existing term and its
definition and are approved for inclusion in JP 1-02.)
Unit Type Code (UTC)—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of
five characters that uniquely identify a "type unit." (JP 1-02)
Unity of Effort—Coordination and cooperation toward common objectives, even if the
participants are not necessarily part of the same command or organization – the product of
successful unified action. (Approved for inclusion in JP 1-02.)
