BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 91-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               24 JULY 2012

                                                                                       Safety

                                                                       SAFETY PROGRAMS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSEC/SEA                                                            Certified by: AF/SE
                                                                     (Maj Gen Gregory Feest)
Supersedes:   AFPD 91-2, 28 September                                                 Pages: 8
              1993; AFPD 91-3, 27
              September 1993


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements DoD Directive (DoDD) 6055.9E, DoD
Explosives Safety Management and the DoD Explosives Safety Board; DoD Instructions (DoDI)
6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 6055.04, DoD Traffic Safety
Program, and 6055.07, Mishap Notification, Investigation, Reporting and Record Keeping. This
AFPD interfaces with and is consistent with AFPD 63-1_20-1, Integrated Life Cycle
Management, and DoDIs 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH), 6050.05,
DoD Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program, 6055.15, DoD Laser Protection Program,
6055.11, Protecting Personnel from Electromagnetic Fields, AFPD51-5, Military Legal Affairs,
AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident Investigations, and AFI 51-507, Ground Accident
Investigations. This AFPD may not be supplemented at any level per AFPD 90-1, Policy
Formulation, and AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. It applies to active duty
members, Department of the Air Force (DAF) civilians, Air National Guard (ANG) members
and Air Force Reserve (AFR) personnel.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                    AFPD 91-2 24 JULY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
publication rescinds and integrates AFPD 91-3. The Air Force will have a comprehensive safety
program to identify and control hazards and to prevent mishaps. This directive establishes policy
for the Air Force’s Safety Program. It consolidates Safety Program Management and
Occupational Safety and Health publications to provide an integrated framework for safety
management.
1. Overview. Air Force leadership is committed to providing safe, healthful environments both
for Air Force personnel and for those affected by Air Force operations. This Directive describes
the necessary overarching structure, including policies, roles and responsibilities that enable the
Air Force to manage its Safety Programs efficiently and effectively. Safety programs preserve
resources to maximize combat capability by eliminating mishaps through proactive hazard
identification and risk management. Foundational elements of this concept are:
     1.1. Identify and Mitigate Hazards. Airmen must be capable of: identifying threats/hazards
     to successful task accomplishment on- and off-duty; taking action to identify and implement
     measures to reduce the risk associated with those hazards; and elevating risk acceptance
     decisions to the appropriate level within the chain of Command.
     1.2. Investigate Reportable Mishaps. Understanding organizational, supervisory, and
     individual circumstances and pre-conditions surrounding mishaps is fundamental to
     preventing the recurrence of similar mishaps in the future and must be incorporated back into
     system design and acquisition processes. Safety Investigations focus solely on mishap
     prevention and will not be used for punitive purposes. Safety Reports, their attachments, and
     privileged information extracted from them will not be used as evidence for punitive,
     disciplinary, or adverse administrative actions. Privileged information will not be used as
     evidence in determining the misconduct or line-of-duty status of any personnel, or as
     evidence in a flying evaluation board. The Safety Investigation Board (SIB) is separate and
     distinct from the Aerospace or Ground Accident Investigation Board (AIB) convened under
     the auspices of AFI 51-503 or AFI 51-507 respectively to provide the publicly releasable
     record of the event.
     1.3. Prevent Mishaps. The Air Force goal is to reduce the number of mishaps, occupational
     injuries and illnesses to zero. To this end, commanders will establish and support Safety
     programs that reduce or eliminate risk to personnel, equipment, facilities, and operations.
     1.4. Safety Training. A workforce trained to recognize and assess hazardous situations and
     conditions is the first step toward mishap elimination. All personnel and their supervisors
     must be trained in the proper application of safety principles to reduce: personnel injury or
     fatalities; equipment damage or loss; and mission degradation or failure.
2. Policy. The Air Force shall:
     2.1. Support Hazard Identification and Mitigation. Commanders must identify and control
     hazards to prevent mishaps. When mishaps do occur, Air Force leaders must investigate to
     identify the causes and mitigate hazards to ensure those mishaps are not repeated.
     Commanders will identify and eliminate, where feasible, or reduce all hazards to personnel,
     property and the general public when those hazards result from its operations.
AFPD 91-2 24 JULY 2012                                                                           3


       2.1.1. Leaders and commanders must develop and support programs for hazard
       identification and mitigation. Air Force personnel must have the means to identify any
       real or potential condition that can: cause injury, illness or death to personnel; damage to
       or loss of equipment or property; mission degradation; or damage to the environment,
       with the expectation that commanders will employ the risk management process to
       eliminate or reduce the hazard.
       2.1.2. When hazards cannot be eliminated, leaders, commanders and subordinates must
       know the specific risks involved, and manage those risks to an acceptable level for
       mission accomplishment. Assess and document risks associated with the hazard and use
       protective measures to lower the risks to the lowest level feasible.
   2.2. Provide Mishap Prevention. Support Mishap Investigation. The Air Force will
   investigate mishaps/hazards involving its personnel and property, to include occupational
   injuries and illness. Investigative efforts will continue until the Air Force determines all the
   causal factors involved in the mishap and makes its recommendations for preventing
   recurrence.
       2.2.1. Safety mishap investigations have priority over all other related investigations of a
       mishap until competent authority determines the incident is outside the scope of this
       directive
       2.2.2. All Safety Mishap Reports are intended For Official Use Only; privileged
       information will not be disclosed outside the US Air Force safety community. Air Force
       Safety (HQ USAF/SE) is the decision authority on all requests for exceptions to this
       policy.
   2.3. At every level of its program, the Air Force will comply with Federal statutory and
   regulatory requirements and higher authority policy directives. This includes meeting all
   Federal mishap prevention objectives and safety provisions contained in status of force
   agreements between member nations. Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH)
   standards will apply in all areas except where otherwise prescribed or specified in status of
   forces agreements, or where specifically exempted. Safety and occupational health
   requirements will be incorporated as part of acquisition for new systems <system safety>.
   2.4. Provide Safety Training. The Air Force will train all employees in occupational safety
   and health—integrated as much as possible into job training. The Air Force will train and
   equip people to identify, evaluate and control workplace hazards.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics
   (SAF/IE) is responsible for Occupational Safety and Health policy matters as delegated by
   SECAF in HAFMD 1-18.
   3.2. The Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE), as delegated by the Secretary of the Air Force
   (SECAF) in HAFMD 1-46, is responsible for:
       3.2.1. Formation of safety policy, the execution of safety plans, and the establishment of
       safety programs. Provides instructions for field level programs and feedback on
       effectiveness of plans and programs.
4                                                                      AFPD 91-2 24 JULY 2012


       3.2.2. Formation of nuclear surety policy, the execution of nuclear surety plans, and the
       establishment of nuclear surety programs. Provides instructions for field level programs
       and feedback on effectiveness of plans and programs.
       3.2.3. Serving as the Commander of the Air Force Safety Center. In the capacity of
       Commander of the Air Force Safety Center, the AF/SE is responsible for:
           3.2.3.1. Developing all AFPDs, AFIs, Manuals and Standards that govern the AF
           Safety Program and the official interpretation of those policies and guidance.
           3.2.3.2. Establishing a Safety Management System (SMS) to include:
              3.2.3.2.1. Mishap Investigation and Reporting.
                  3.2.3.2.1.1. Maintaining mishap database and reports for mishap prevention
                  purposes.
                  3.2.3.2.1.2. Monitoring completion of recommendations and corrective
                  actions.
              3.2.3.2.2. Hazard Identification and Abatement.
              3.2.3.2.3. A System Safety Program.
              3.2.3.2.4. Risk Management.
              3.2.3.2.5. Maintaining statistics on occupational injuries and illnesses; fatalities
              and catastrophic incidents, trend of lost time injuries, and self evaluation, and
              reporting statistics to SAF/IE annually.
              3.2.3.2.6. Establish comprehensive Air Force traffic safety programs.
           3.2.3.3. Conducting the by-law Program Evaluations (PME) of MAJCOMs, FOAs,
           and DRUs to ensure compliance with all directives.
           3.2.3.4. Acting as a safety liaison with DoD components, Federal agencies and
           private organizations.
           3.2.3.5. Establishing safety training and qualification criteria.
           3.2.3.6. Managing the Air Force Safety Awards Program.
    3.3. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) is responsible for developing policy, managing
    programs and preparing guidance on approved policies and plans for the field in the general
    area of occupational health pursuant to authorities established in HAFMD 1-48, The Air
    Force Surgeon General, 17 November 2011.




                                              MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD 91-2 24 JULY 2012                                                                       5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 6055.9E, DoD Explosives Safety Management and the DoD Explosives Safety Board,
August 19, 2005
DoDI 6050.05, DoD Hazard Communication (HAZCOM) Program, August 15, 2006 (Certified
Current as of May 15, 2011)
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, August 19, 1998
DoDI 6055.04, DoD Traffic Safety Program, April 20, 2009 (Incorporating Change 1, April 2,
2010)
DoDI 6055.05, Occupational and Environmental Health (OEH), November 11, 2008
DoDI 6055.07, Mishap Notification, Investigation, Reporting and Record Keeping, June 6, 2011
DoDI 6055.11, Protecting Personnel from Electromagnetic Fields, August 19, 2009
DoDI 6055.15, DoD Laser Protection Program, May 4, 2007
HAFMD 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Logistics), 4
March 2009
HAFMD 1-46, Chief of Safety, 4 February 2011
HAF MD 1-48, The Air Force Surgeon General, 17 November 2011
AFPD51-5, Military Legal Affairs, 27 September 1993
AFPD 63-1_20-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 3 April 2009
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health, 1 September 2004
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and Systems Surety, 13 December 2010
AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident Investigations, 26 May 2010
AFI 51-507, Ground Accident Investigations, 28 May 2010
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
 6                                                                    AFPD 91-2 24 JULY 2012


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AIB—Accident Investigation Board
DAF—Department of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
JAG—Judge Advocate General
MAJCOM—Major Command
OEH—Occupational and Environmental Health
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PME—Program Management Evaluations
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIB—Safety Investigation Board
SOH—Safety and Occupational Health
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SMS—Safety Management System

Terms
Aerospace or Ground Accident Investigation—A Judge Advocate General (JAG)
investigation conducted under the procedures of AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident Investigations
and AFI 51-507 Ground Accident Investigations, respectfully. These investigations are used to
inquire into the facts surrounding Air Force aircraft, aerospace and ground accidents, to prepare a
publicly releasable report, to gather and preserve evidence for use in litigation, claims,
disciplinary action, administrative proceedings and for other purposes. This investigation is
conducted independently from the safety mishap investigation.
Civilian Personnel—Personnel who are in on-duty status and are Senior Executive Service,
General Schedule, and Wage Grade employees; non-appropriated fund employees (excluding
part-time military); Youth Opportunity and Student Assistance Program employees; and civilian
foreign nationals employed by the US Air Force.
Disabling Injury—Injury which results in death, permanent total, permanent partial or lost
workday case injuries.
AFPD 91-2 24 JULY 2012                                                                              7


Explosives—All items of ammunition; propellants (solid and liquid); pyrotechnics; explosives;
warheads; explosive devices; and chemical agent substances and associated components
presenting real or potential hazards to life, property, or the environment. Excluded are wholly
inert items and nuclear warheads and associated devices, except for considerations of storage and
stowage compatibility; and for considerations of blast, fire, and non-nuclear fragment hazards
associated with the explosives.
Flight Mishap—Mishap involving Air Force aircraft when intent for flight is established.
Ground Mishap—Nonnuclear mishap which occurs on ground or water, on or off an Air Force
installation, involving Air Force personnel, Air Force contractor operations, or Air Force
property.
Hazard—Any real or potential condition, procedure, or practice that can: cause injury, illness, or
death to personnel; damage to or loss of equipment or property; mission degradation; or damage
to the environment.
Military Personnel—All Air Force officers and airmen on active duty; Air National Guard and
Air Force Reserve personnel on active duty or in drill status; US Air Force Academy cadets
when engaged in directed training activities; members of other US Military Services serving on
extended active duty with the Air Force; and foreign national military personnel assigned to the
US Air Force. Air Force officers and airmen serving on extended active duty with another
Department of Defense component are excluded from this definition.
Mishap—An unplanned event, or series of events, which results in damage to Air Force
property; injury to Air Force personnel; injury to on-duty civilian personnel; occupational illness
to Air Force military or civilian personnel; or damage to property, injury, or illness to non-
Department of Defense personnel caused by Air Force operations.
Missile Mishap—Mishap involving missiles or missile support equipment.
Privileged <Safety> Information—Information that is exempt by law from disclosure outside
the DoD safety community and includes findings, conclusions, causes, recommendations, and
the deliberative process of the safety board. This category of information also includes
statements given to the safety board pursuant to a promise of confidentiality.
Reportable Mishap—An unplanned event or accidental occurrence, or series of events, which
results in damage to Air Force property in excess of $20,000; disabling injury to Air Force
personnel on- or off- duty; disabling injury to on-duty civilian personnel; occupational illness to
Air Force military or civilian personnel; or damage to public and private property or injury and
illness to non-Department of Defense (DoD) personnel caused by Air Force operations. Damage
or injury must fall within the reportable limits specified in DoD Instruction 6055.07. Mishaps are
classified by the total dollar cost of damage or the degree of injury or occupational illness. Class
A. Total cost of property damage is $2,000,000 or more; an injury or occupational illness which
results in a fatality or permanent total disability; or destruction of an Air Force aircraft. Class B.
Total cost of property damage is $500,000 or more, but less than $2,000,000; an injury or
occupational illness which results in a permanent partial disability; or when three or more
personnel are inpatient hospitalized. Class C. Total cost of property damage is $50,000 or more,
but less than $500,000; a non-fatal injury or occupational illness which results in the loss of one
or more days from work. Class D. Total cost of property damage is $20,000 or more, but less
 8                                                                    AFPD 91-2 24 JULY 2012


than $50,000; a recordable injury or occupational illness not otherwise classified as Class A, B or
C.
Safety Investigation—Investigation of an Air Force mishap for the sole purpose of mishap
prevention.
Safety Program—Those risk management activities designed to, and organizational and cultural
values dedicated to, preventing injuries and accidental loss of human and materiel resources.
Space Mishap—Mishap involving space systems or their unique support equipment and
systems.
System Safety—The application of engineering and management principles, criteria and
techniques throughout all phases of the system life cycle to optimize safety within the constraints
of operational effectiveness, time, and cost.
Weapons Mishap—A mishap involving explosives, small arms, guided missiles, chemical
agents or directed energy.
