BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 11-4
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           1 SEPTEMBER 2004

                                                                                         Flying Operations

                                                                                    AVIATION SERVICE




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOOT (Mr. Kyle W. Rensler)                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/XO
                                                                                  (Lt Gen Ronald E. Keys)
Supersedes AFPD 11-4, 30 November 1993                                                              Pages: 4
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This directive provides basic policy applicable to aviation service for active and reserve component units.
It specifies responsibilities, defines key terms, and notes policy interfaces. Ensure that records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFPD 37-1, Infor-
mation Management, and AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://webrims.amc.af.mil.
The flying force is the heart of Air Force’s combat capability. Sustaining the preeminence of this force
requires rigorous training and professional standards. Aviation service programs must ensure aircrew
members, and operational support fliers obtain and maintain the qualification and proficiency needed to
perform their missions. Only highly qualified members are eligible to enter this force and to remain qual-
ified for aviation duty.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision updates definitions of aircrew and operational support fliers, deletes parachutist references,
deletes the term “Mission Crew,” and provides for cadet participation in US Air Force Academy flying
programs. The format has been updated to include a glossary of references and supporting information.
The former Attachment 1, “Measuring and Displaying Compliance with Policy,” is now covered in
AFPD 10-2, Readiness.


1. General. The Air Force will maintain sufficient qualified flying personnel to accomplish its mission.
Every level of flying training must contribute to establishing and maintaining a force of unequaled qual-
ity.
   1.1. Initial entry training screens and qualifies candidates for the high standards of flying duty.
2                                                                        AFPD11-4 1 SEPTEMBER 2004


    1.2. Mission qualification and continuation training sustain the aircrew readiness levels required to
    accomplish the mission.

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. The Air Force Director of Operations and Training (HQ USAF/XOO) establishes and oversees
    the Air Force’s flying programs.
    2.2. Commanders of Major Commands provide subordinate units the guidance, criteria, and supervi-
    sion required to accomplish training requirements.
    2.3. Subordinate commanders ensure assigned personnel comply with published policies and proce-
    dures.
    2.4. Individual aircrew members safely and effectively use the flying resources available to them.
    Training for flying duties is voluntary, but once trained, individuals must treat these duties as military
    requirements.

3. Terms
    3.1. Aircrew. The total complement of rated (pilots, navigators, air battle managers, and flight sur-
    geons), career enlisted aviators (1AXXX Air Force Specialty Codes), and nonrated aircrew (K-, Q-, or
    X-prefixed Air Force Specialty Code) personnel responsible for the safe ground and flight operation
    of the aircraft and onboard systems, or for airborne duties essential to accomplishment of the aircraft’s
    mission. Includes members in initial formal training for immediate assignment to an authorized oper-
    ational flying position. Individuals must be on aeronautical orders and assigned to an authorized posi-
    tion according to AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, or nonrated aircrew not in an
    aircraft’s basic crew complement, but required for the mission. Aircrew members perform their prin-
    cipal duties inflight and their presence is required for the aircraft to accomplish its primary tasked mis-
    sion. Duties must be essential to operating the aircraft or mission systems and equipment used for
    completing a mission, or other duties essential to the aircraft’s mission.
    3.2. US Air Force Academy (USAFA)/Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC)
    cadets enrolled in approved USAFA flying programs are accorded aircrew status while actively par-
    ticipating in such programs. Cadets will be placed on aeronautical orders authorizing USAFA Air-
    manship Program flying status and will not be added in the operational ARMS database. An Aviation
    Service Code (ASC) will not be assigned and an Aviation Service Date (ASD) will not be established.
    Neither flying incentive pay nor flying duty credit are authorized.
    3.3. Operational Support Flier. An individual whose primary, full-time duty does not require fly-
    ing. The Air Force may require these individuals to fly on an occasional basis to perform a specific,
    essential inflight duty that cannot be performed by an assigned aircrew member. Duties may include,
    but are not limited to inflight test, operation, or inflight maintenance of specific aircraft systems or
    installed equipment. Operational support fliers must be placed on aeronautical orders and complete
    prescribed flying hour requirements in order for them to receive non-crew hazardous duty pay; autho-
    rized man-months are required prior to issuance of aeronautical orders.

4. Aviation Resource Management System (ARMS). ARMS is the designated Air Force management
system for aviation actions. All active and inactive aircrew members will be entered into ARMS. ARMS
will be used to manage flying qualification, operational training, and entitlements to flying incentive pay.
AFPD11-4 1 SEPTEMBER 2004                                                                                 3


An operational ARMS database will not be used to enter or track contract fliers or USAFA/AFROTC
cadets. An alternative training database may be employed.

5. Publications Interface. See Attachment 1 for publications that interface with this policy directive.



                                                    JAMES G. ROCHE
                                                    Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                         AFPD11-4 1 SEPTEMBER 2004


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References and Interfacing Publications
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFPD 11-2, Aircraft Rules and Procedures
AFPD 36-22, Military Training
AFPD 37-1, Information Management
AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management System
ASC—Aviation Service Code
ASD—Aviation Service Date
