BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-35
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            4 FEBRUARY 2005
                                                                         Certified current 23 March 2009
                                                                                               Operations

                                                                                BATTLEFIELD AIRMEN




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOOS (Major Jeffrey F. Staha)                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/XO
                                                                      (Lieutenant General Ronald E. Keys)
                                                                                                   Pages: 5
                                                                                            Distribution: F

Certain surface combatant capabilities are an Airman’s responsibility and require unique surface opera-
tions that are integral to the application of air and space power. To meet this responsibility, the Air Force
recognizes the need to organize, train, and equip a force of Battlefield Airmen (BA) capable of delivering
distinctive expertise in a ground combat environment with unequaled accuracy, responsiveness, flexibility
and persistence. This directive characterizes BA capabilities and identifies responsibilities for organiz-
ing, training, and equipping.

1. BA directly assist, control, enable, and/or execute operational air and space power functions (AFDD 1)
in the forward battlespace independent of an established airbase or its perimeter defenses. Comprising
several Air Force Specialties, BA primarily operate as surface combatants removed from traditional air-
base support, logistics, and sortie generation efforts. BA may be employed alone or as part of an AF,
joint, interagency or coalition force, to support Combatant Commander objectives and may operate under
the most austere conditions for extended periods.

2. The BA initiative encompasses the following specific Air Force Specialty Codes (AFSC); Combat
Rescue Officers (CRO, 13DXA), Special Tactics Officers (STO, 13DXB), Pararescue Airmen (PJ,
1T2X1), Combat Control Airmen (CCT, 1C2X1), Tactical Air Control Personnel (TACP/ASOC, 1C4X1),
Special Operations Weather Team (SOWT) Airmen (1W0X1)/Officers (15WX) and Battlefield Weather
Airmen (1W0X1)/Officers (15WX). Collectively, BA assist and enable the following mission areas:
   2.1. Battlefield Airmen Mission Areas:
       2.1.1. Joint Fires Integration
       2.1.2. Tactical Airlift Operations
       2.1.3. Special Operations
       2.1.4. Weather Support Operations
       2.1.5. Personnel Recovery/Recovery Operations
2                                                                     AFPD10-35 4 FEBRUARY 2005


    2.2. More specifically, BA provide or enable the following specialized capabilities:
       2.2.1. Reconnaissance and Surveillance
       2.2.2. Weather Operations
       2.2.3. Airfield Surveys and Assessments
       2.2.4. Effects Assessment
       2.2.5. Navigation and Positioning
       2.2.6. Command and Control (C2) Battle Management
       2.2.7. Air Traffic Control and Assault Zone Marking
       2.2.8. Terminal Attack Control
       2.2.9. Time-Sensitive Weaponeering/Targeting
       2.2.10. Personnel Recovery (Combat Search and Rescue and Isolated Personnel Repatriation)
       2.2.11. Field Trauma Care
       2.2.12. Information Operations
       2.2.13. Operational Preparation of the Battlespace

3. The Air Force will continue to organize, train, and equip BA to conduct operations on the ground in
hostile, uncertain, and permissive environments and under severe environmental conditions. Given the
unique nature of special operations, BA who support special operations will be specifically trained and
equipped to do so.
    3.1. Organize: BA are organized and employed in force packages tailored to their individual mission
    area doctrine, operational nature, operating environment and tactics, techniques and procedures
    (TTP).
    3.2. Train: Training of BA is accomplished via individual AFSC curriculums tailored to the special-
    ized missions of each functional area. Commonalities in individual BA training will be identified for
    inclusion in a shared training program designed to efficiently provide specialized instruction and pre-
    pare BA candidates for follow-on training and the rigorous nature of BA surface operations. BA train-
    ing will prepare BA to perform the missions they are required to conduct in accordance with the
    National Military Strategy, the Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan, applicable Operational Plans, and
    Designed Operational Capability (DOC) statements.
    3.3. Equip: BA require a broad spectrum of specialized and/or unique equipment items: individual
    equipment (clothing and protective gear), common equipment (i.e. weapons, airborne, amphibious,
    SCUBA, communications, and vehicles) and mission equipment (i.e. targeting, reconnaissance, mete-
    orological, medical, rescue). BA equipment must be lightweight, ruggedized, interoperable and capa-
    ble across the full environmental spectrum.

4. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
    4.1. HQ USAF/XO will:
AFPD10-35 4 FEBRUARY 2005                                                                               3


       4.1.1. In coordination with mission area lead-Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and the Headquar-
       ters Air Force (HAF) BA Integrated Process Team, develop and publish Battlefield Airmen policy.
       4.1.2. Provide capabilities-based reviews of MAJCOM requirements and coordinate with AFMC
       and lead MAJCOMs to align developmental and programming initiatives within the Program
       Objective Memorandum (POM).
       4.1.3. Provide corporate oversight of organization, equipping, training and utilization of BA.
   4.2. Lead MAJCOMs for respective BA functional areas will lead the development and publishing of
   tactics, techniques and procedures (TTP). Lead MAJCOMs for TTPs are delineated as follows:
       4.2.1. ACC is lead MAJCOM for Joint Fires Integration, Close Air Support, Terminal Attack
       Control, Tactical Air Control Party/Air Support Operations Center, and Battlefield Weather Team
       support to conventional Army forces.
       4.2.2. AFSOC is lead MAJCOM for Special Operations, Personnel Recovery/Recovery Opera-
       tions, Special Tactics, small UAVs, and Special Operations Weather Teams.
       4.2.3. Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA) is responsible for developing and publishing weather
       specific TTPs.
   4.3. MAJCOMs with assigned BA forces will organize, train, and equip sufficient BA to meet UTC
   requirements to accomplish missions in support of Combatant Commander objectives.
       4.3.1. AFWA is responsible for the AF Weather Weapon System and is responsible for providing
       common weather mission equipment used by both BA and non-BA weather personnel.
   4.4. AF Materiel Command will partner with BA MAJCOMs on capabilities development and full
   life-cycle acquisition management of equipment items to ensure interoperability of common use BA
   equipment and capitalization on opportunities for synergies across BA mission areas.
   4.5. Air Education and Training Command will optimize BA formal training to meet MAJCOM
   requirements. Emphasis will be on developing courses that leverage commonalities of training across
   the BA mission areas.

5. See Attachment 1 for the glossary of references and supporting information for related policies and
procedures.



                                              James G. Roche
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                               AFPD10-35 4 FEBRUARY 2005


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning, Air & Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy
AFPD 10-1, Operations Security
AFPD 15-1, Atmospheric and Space Environmental Support
AFPD 16-12, Pararescue
AFPD 31-1, Physical Security
AFDD 2-1.6, Combat Search and Rescue
AFDD 2-7, Special Operations
AFI 10-401, Operations Plan and Concept Plan Development And Implementation
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution
AFI 10-410 V.1, Mobility for Air Force Special Operations Command
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Training and Maintenance (CATM)
AFI 91-302, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
Standards
AFTTP (I) 3-2.18, Tactical Radios

Abbreviations and Acronyms
HQ—Headquarters
BA—Battlefield Airmen
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
CRO—Combat Rescue Officer
STO—Special Tactics Officer
PJ—Pararescueman
CCT—Combat Control Team
TACP—Tactical Air Control Party
SOWT—Special Operations Weather Team
CAS—Close Air Support
PR—Personnel Recovery
BWT—Battlefield Weather Teams
AFPD10-35 4 FEBRUARY 2005                             5


C2—Command and Control
TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
SCUBA—Self contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus
MAJCOM—Major Command
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
UAV—Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
UTC—Unit Type Code
