BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-29
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          24 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                                      MILITARY STANDARDS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1S                                            Certified by: SAF/MR (Daniel R. Sitterly)
                                                                                       Pages: 5
Supersedes:    AFPD 36-29, 29 October
               2009


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive
1308.1, DoD Physical Fitness and Body Fat Program; DoDD 1325.2, Desertion and
Unauthorized Absence, DoD Instruction (DoDI), Wearing of the Uniform; DoDI 1342.19,
Family Care Plans; DoDI 1344.12, Indebtedness Processing Procedures for Military Personnel;
DoDI 1344.7, Personal Commercial Solicitation on DoD Installations; DoDI 2200.01,
Combating Trafficking in Persons (CTIP). This directive establishes policy for appropriate
standards of conduct. This directive incorporates multiple, overarching DoD and Air Force
instructions, directives and policies to ensure members meet their interrelated personal,
professional, and family-care responsibilities. This directive applies to Regular Air Force
(RegAF), Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG). In collaboration with the
Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF) the
Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy
for military standards. This directive may not be supplemented. Send all recommended changes
or comments about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Waivers for this AFPD will not be
considered. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System Records
Disposition Schedule.
 2                                                           AFPD36-29 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This directive has changed to include language regarding family care plans and command
transition.
1. Overview.
     1.1. Air Force personnel have an inherit responsibility to the Nation by adhering to higher
     standards than normally found in civilian life. Air Force personnel are expected to maintain
     exceptional standards in both their professional and personal lives.
2. Policy.
     2.1. Present for Duty. All military personnel serving on, or ordered to, active duty will be
     present for duty unless their absence is authorized.
     2.2. Professional and Unprofessional Relationships. All Air Force members will refrain
     from relationships between Air Force members that violate the customary bounds of
     acceptable behavior, to include fraternization and other unprofessional relationships, due to
     the impact on good order, discipline, respect for authority, maintenance of unit cohesion, and
     mission accomplishment.
     2.3. Finances. All Air Force members will meet their financial obligations in a proper and
     timely manner.
     2.4. Family Care Plans. All Air Force members with family members will use all available
     military and civilian resources to make sure their family members receive adequate care,
     support, and supervision, compatible with the members’ military responsibilities to be
     worldwide deployable.
     2.5. Dress and Personal Appearance. When wearing the uniform, all Air Force members
     will adhere to standards of neatness, cleanliness, safety, and military image to provide the
     appearance of a disciplined Service member. This also applies to Air Force Retirees when in
     uniform.
     2.6. Fitness. Air Force members will adhere to standards for physical fitness and body
     composition.
     2.7. Violations. All commissioned officers and enlisted members who are on active duty or
     in an active status in a Reserve Component will report, in writing, any conviction for a
     violation of a U.S. criminal law to their first-line military supervisor or the appropriate
     official designated within 45 days of the date of conviction.
     2.8. Unfavorable Information File (UIF)s. Commanders will maintain an electronic or
     paper UIF to officially document substantiated adverse information regarding an Air Force
     member.
     2.9. Commercial Solicitation. Air Force installation commanders will ensure that all
     commercial soliciting and selling of all types of insurance, securities, and other goods,
     services, and commodities on their installations are monitored and controlled.
     2.10. Line of Duty Status. The Air Force will have procedures to determine whether
     certain diseases, injuries, or deaths are suffered by military members while in a Line of Duty
     status.
AFPD36-29 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     3


   2.11. Trafficking in Persons (TIP). The Air Force has a zero tolerance policy for TIP. The
   Air Force opposes prostitution, forced labor, and any related activities that may contribute to
   the phenomenon of TIP as inherently harmful and dehumanizing. TIP is a violation of
   United States law and internationally recognized human rights and is incompatible with Air
   Force core values.
   2.12. Foreign Government. Active duty, ANG, and members of the Air Force Reserve
   may neither be employed by a foreign government, directly or indirectly, nor accept any
   present, emolument, office, or title from a foreign government. Air Force Reserve Command
   (AFRC) inactive reservists are eligible but are discouraged from accepting employment with
   a foreign government. IAW AFI 51-901, Gifts From Foreign Governments, a member of the
   Air Force on active duty, a retired member of the regular component of the Air Force who is
   entitled to pay, a member of a reserve component of the Air Force regardless of duty status,
   members of the ANG, civilian employees, and dependents of any of the foregoing will not
   accept a gift from a foreign government unless it is of minimal value. Personnel should
   consult their ethics counselor for guidance on determining minimal value and the propriety of
   accepting a gift under these provisions.
   2.13. Command Transition. Guidance will be provided for outgoing and incoming
   commanders to effectively command.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
   serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all
   matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and
   budgets addressing military standards.
   3.2. AF/A1 develops, coordinates, and executes personnel policy and essential procedural
   guidance for the management of military standards in collaboration with Chief, Air Force
   Reserve while liaising with the ANG.
   3.3. NGB/CF develops, coordinates, and executes personnel policy and essential procedural
   guidance for the management of Air National Guard programs and identifies the office of
   primary responsibility to liaise with AF/A1 and AF/RE.




                                            Deborah Lee James
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                      AFPD36-29 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 1308.1, DoD Physical Fitness and Body Fat Program, 30 June 2004
DoDD 1325.2, Desertion and Unauthorized Absence, 2 August 2004
DoDI 1334.1, Wearing of the Uniform, 26 October 2005
DoDI 1342.19, Family Care Plans, 7 May 2010
DoDI 1344.7, Personal Commercial Solicitation on DoD Installations, 30 March 2006
DoDI 1344.12, Indebtedness Processing Procedures for Military Personnel, 18 November 1994
DoDI 2200.01, Combating Trafficking in Persons, 15 September 2010
AFI 36-2901, General Officers Visiting the Washington DC Area, 6 December 2000
AFI 51-901, Gifts From Foreign Governments, 16 February 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AF/RE—Chief of Air Force Reserve
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CVAP—Air Force Protocol office symbol
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
IAW—In Accordance With
NGB/CF—Director of the Air National Guard
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RE—Reserve Element
AFPD36-29 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                        5


SAF/MR—The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
TIP—Trafficking in Persons
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
