BY ORDER OF THE                                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-37
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             23 MARCH 2006

                                                                                          PERSONNEL

                                                          SPACE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFSPC/A1FX                                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/A3SP
     (Col Edward A. Fienga)                                                       (Col Wayne P. Hudson)
                                                                                                Pages: 5
                                                                                         Distribution: F



1. This policy directive implements DoDD 5101.2, “DoD Executive Agent for Space,” 3 Jun 03, para-
graph 6.3.5: “(Heads of the DoD Components shall) develop and maintain a sufficient cadre of
space-qualified personnel to support their Component in space planning, programming, acquisition, and
operations. Support the DoD Executive Agent for Space with space cadre personnel to represent their
Component in DoD-wide planning, programming and acquisition activities.” The purpose of this Direc-
tive is to delineate key leadership responsibilities and authorities for managing the Air Force Space Pro-
fessional Development Program (SPDP). The SPDP is derived from the USAF Space Professional
Strategy (16 Apr 2003), developed in response to a report by the Congressionally-appointed “Commis-
sion to Assess United States National Security Space Management and Organization” (Jan 2001), and a
subsequent SECDEF implementation memorandum (18 Oct 2001) on “National Security Space Manage-
ment and Organization.” This AFPD does not supersede any existing AFPD. It applies to the Total Force
Credentialed Space Professional Community (CSPC), which includes officers, civilians, enlisted, Guard
and Reserve who design, acquire, employ, operate, and integrate our nation’s military space capabilities.
Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ AFSPC/A1FX, 150
Vandenberg Street, Suite 150, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4450, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommen-
dation for Change to Publication.

2. SPDP is designed to expand knowledge, increase understanding and raise the overall qualifications of
Air Force Credentialed Space Professionals (CSP) to serve as equal partners with other warfighting com-
ponents in the joint warfare environment. This directive establishes policies to ensure appropriate space
education, training and experience programs are available to all eligible Air Force and DoD personnel.

3. The Air Force provides general professional development to Space Professionals along with special-
ized training and education to fill requirements established by the Space Professional Functional Author-
ity (AFSPC/CC), as well as applicable Force Development teams and career field functional managers
(AFPD 36-23). A comprehensive SPDP will produce highly qualified experts to build, operate and inte-
2                                                                         AFPD36-37 23 MARCH 2006


grate military space capabilities; master complex technology; and develop new doctrine and concepts of
operations to achieve national security space objectives.

4. The cornerstone of SPDP is a space education continuum—Space 100, 200 and 300—that reinforces
USAF space cultural awareness throughout a CSP’s career. These courses are intended to advance the
space knowledge of all officer, enlisted and civilian CSPs. The Air Force will endeavor to eliminate
redundancies and overlaps with other DoD and government agencies and will pursue multi-Service train-
ing and education programs to the maximum extent possible.

5. Credentialed Space Professional members are expected to attain appropriate education, training and
experience commensurate with their rank, responsibilities and career progression, as mandated by
approved Space Professional certification standards. At a minimum, SPDP is designed to improve joint
warfighting knowledge and skills, and prepare individuals in space-related duties to assume progressively
higher levels of responsibility.

6. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
    6.1. The Under Secretary of the Air Force, as DoD Executive Agent for Space, facilitates the devel-
    opment and maintenance of a cadre of space professionals who possess the depth and breadth of train-
    ing, education, and experience required to advance the use of space power in future military
    operations.
    6.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ) serves as the Functional Author-
    ity for the 61XX, 62XX, 63XX, and 64XX career fields and is responsible for Force Development
    procedures and policies unique to these career fields in accordance with doctrine and HQ USAF/A1
    program direction.
    6.3. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel (HQ USAF/A1) develops, coordinates, and executes per-
    sonnel policies and essential procedural guidance for managing the Space Professional Development
    programs.
    6.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Air and Space Operations (HQ USAF/A3/5) is the Functional Author-
    ity for the 13SXX and 1C6XX career fields and is responsible for Force Development procedures and
    policies unique to these career fields in accordance with doctrine and HQ USAF/A1 program direc-
    tion.
    6.5. The Commander, Air Force Space Command (AFSPC/CC) is responsible for the overall health
    and development of the Air Force’s CSPC. The SECAF, in a 15 Jul 2003 memorandum, identified the
    AFSPC/CC as the Space Professional Functional Authority (SPFA), which fulfilled the Space Com-
    mission recommendation for the most senior AF space leader to manage all aspects of the “space
    career field.” The SPFA is unique since this oversight extends across a number of space-related career
    fields including officer, enlisted, civilian and ARC components. AFSPC/CC executes this responsibil-
    ity through the Space Professional Management Office (HQ AFSPC/A1FX) and other affiliated units
    as necessary.
    6.6. The Air Reserve Command and Air National Guard will coordinate with AFSPC to ensure their
    Space Professional Development programs are compatible with personnel utilization in their compo-
    nent while still fulfilling AFSPC requirements.
AFPD36-37 23 MARCH 2006                                                                               3


   6.7. Air Education and Training Command will develop programs to satisfy initial qualifications of
   Credentialed Space Professionals based on AFSPC requirements.
   6.8. Air University will provide procedures for executing Developmental Education to ensure ade-
   quate representation of space capabilities and graduate education focused on appropriate space disci-
   plines.

7. See Attachment 1 for DoD and related guidance implemented by this directive, as well as publications
and related guidance that interface with this directive.



                                              MICHAEL W. WYNNE
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                       AFPD36-37 23 MARCH 2006


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
IMPLEMENTED POLICY AND RELATED GUIDANCE
DoD Directive 5101.2, DoD Executive Agent for Space, 6 March 2003
INTERFACING GUIDANCE
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 18 February 2004
AFPD 10-12, Space Operations, 1 February 1996
AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education and Development, 12 February 2004
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training, 22 March 2004
AFPD 36-23, Military Education, 27 September 1993
AFI 36-601, Air Force Civilian Career Program Management, 25 July 1994
AFI 36-2301, Professional Military Education, 27 June 2002
AFI 36-2302, Professional Development (Advanced Academic Degrees and Professional Continuing
Education), 11 July 2001
AFI 36-2611, Officer Professional Development, 1 April 1996
AFI 36-2640, Volume I, Total Force Development (Active Duty Officer), 23 January 2004
SECDEF Memorandum, “National Security Space Management and Organization,” 18 October 2001
Space Human Capital Resources Strategy, February 2004
Space Human Capital Resources Strategy Implementation Plan, December 2004

Abbreviations and Acronyms
SPDP—Space Professional Development Program
SPFA—Space Professional Functional Authority
CSP—Credentialed Space Professionals
CSPC—Credentialed Space Professional Community

Terms
Space Professional Development Program (SPDP)—An Air Force-level personnel development
program designed to build a group of space experts who thoroughly understand the medium of
space--from concept to sustainment--including design, acquisition, fielding, operations, maintenance. The
SPDP is a multi-faceted plan to ensure deliberate, purposeful individual development highlighted by
expanded space education, training, and experience-building opportunities. The elements of this program
are formalized through a three-level certification program to create and manage a knowledgeable
community of CSPs to meet the nation’s space needs and national security objectives. SPDP is the official
AFPD36-37 23 MARCH 2006                                                                                 5


Air Force response to the 2001 Space Commission’s recommendation to “develop the space cadre the
nation needs.”
Space Professional Functional Authority (SPFA)—The SECAF identified the Commander of Air
Force Space Command (AFSPC/CC) as the Space Professional Functional Authority. In this role the
Commander, in concert with other space-AFSCs Functional Authorities, is responsible for the overall
health and development of the Air Force Credentialed Space Professional Community. The SPFA
provides strategic oversight of this group to include prioritization of functional requirements based on
mission needs.
Credentialed Space Professionals (CSPs)—Personnel identified in the Space Commission Report as
operators and acquirers specializing in the national security space arena. This group includes scientists,
engineers, program managers and space operators who require specialized space education, experience
coding and tracking to meet rigid certification requirements.
Credentialed Space Professional Community (CSPC)—Formerly known as the Space Cadre. The
collective group of CSPs consists of space-experienced scientists, engineers, program managers and
operators, which includes officer, civilian, and enlisted personnel.
