BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-35
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     25 MAY 2011
                                                                Certified Current 2 February 2012
                                                                                        Personnel

                                                    UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-publishing web site at: http:www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/MRM                                                               Certified by: SAF/MR
                                                                         (Mr. Daniel B. Ginsberg)
Supersedes:    AFPD 36-35,                                                                Pages: 5
               1 February 2007


This Directive provides policy and establishes responsibility for the accomplishment and
oversight of the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) mission, and establishes command
relationships, authorities and responsibilities in support of the USAFA mission. This publication
does not apply to Air Force Reserve (ARC) Units or the Air National Guard. It complies with
Title 10 United State Code Section 903 and Department Directive 1322.22, Service Academies.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through appropriate chain of command to the OPR of this
publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Major changes include the replacement of enduring leadership competencies with Air Force
Institutional Competencies as the basis for USAFA’s single Course of Instruction (COI); the
addition of cyber; the expansion of MAJCOM Commanders’ role in supporting USAFA; and the
incorporation of a requirement for the USAFA Superintendent to provide complete and candid
information to Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and the USAFA Board of Visitors.
1. Policy. The United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) will develop and commission
officers of character, and serve as a proud symbol of the Air Force to the American people.
 2                                                                     AFPD36-35 25 MAY 2011


     1.1. Character Development. Instill in cadets an unwavering commitment to Air Force Core
     Values, to include a strong sense of honor, moral-ethical strength, duty, and discipline.
     Develop military professionals who:
        1.1.1. Place loyalty to the U.S. Constitution and the Air Force above loyalty to
        individuals, peers, or self.
        1.1.2. Conduct themselves with humility, serving as ambassadors of the Air Force in all
        their endeavors.
        1.1.3. Embrace stewardship of the Cadet Honor Code, Honor Oath, and Honor System.
     1.2. Development of officers will be supported by a single Course of Instruction (COI)
     which:
        1.2.1. Ensures Air Force Institutional Competencies become internalized behavioral and
        personal characteristics. Cadets shall:
            1.2.1.1. Exemplify exceptional followership and aspire to be leaders in the Air Force
            and society.
            1.2.1.2. Focus and orient on the mission and seek to excel in each assignment,
            mission, and task they are given.
            1.2.1.3. Commit to career-long mentoring and developing Airmen for the future, and
            life-long personal growth.
        1.2.2. Provides an accredited Bachelor of Science degree program, led by a world-class
        faculty which imparts the knowledge and skills required for success in the Profession of
        Arms and to excel in a global expeditionary air, space and cyber force. Cadets shall:
            1.2.2.1. Possess capability to sustain and operate advanced systems, as well as
            contribute to the conceptualization, design, testing, and acquisition of innovative
            technologies.
            1.2.2.2. Possess mastery of reasoning, clarity of expression, public speaking and the
            ability to make sound decisions while applying their knowledge to the unique
            political, legal and ethical circumstances involved with national security and military
            operations.
        1.2.3. Provides an intensive program of physical education for all cadets, deliberately
        designed for character and leadership development through physical education classes,
        intercollegiate, intramural and club competition. Cadets shall:
            1.2.3.1. Sustain a high standard of health and physical fitness.
            1.2.3.2. Contribute to diverse teams in healthy competitive fashion while in a
            stressful environment.
2. Responsibilities and Authorities.
     2.1. The Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) and the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF)
     establish policy for USAFA.
AFPD36-35 25 MAY 2011                                                                         3


     2.1.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
     (SAF/MR) is responsible for implementation of SECDEF and SECAF policy and
     guidance concerning USAFA, and for strategic oversight of USAFA.
     2.1.2. Other Assistant Secretaries and HAF two-letter organizations conduct USAFA-
     related matters in their functional areas, and keep the SECAF and the Chief of Staff of
     the Air Force (CSAF) informed on matters of concern.
  2.2. The CSAF assists the SECAF in carrying out the SECAF’s responsibilities to organize,
  train, and equip the Air Force. In this capacity, the CSAF serves as the immediate superior
  of the Superintendent, as USAFA is a Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) to the CSAF.
     2.2.1. The Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (VCSAF) assists the CSAF in exercising
     his responsibilities for USAFA.
     2.2.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, and Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) is
     the primary HAF focal point for activities related to this Directive, to include resourcing
     of the mission and reporting on mission accomplishment. AF/A1 will:
         2.2.2.1. Develop Air Force Instructions (AFIs) implementing this Directive, making
         maximum use of goals, objectives, and performance-based measures.
         2.2.2.2. Facilitate assignments to provide USAFA with exemplary role models with
         strong academic capabilities, and to maximize the career value of successful USAFA
         assignments.
  2.3. MAJCOM Commanders will support the Superintendent in execution of this directive,
  as required to include:
     2.3.1. Nomination and release of exceptionally qualified officers and NCOs for faculty
     and staff duty at USAFA.
     2.3.2. Nomination and release of exceptionally qualified enlisted members to attend
     USAFA or the USAFA Preparatory School.
  2.4. The Superintendent of the USAFA is the Commander of HQ USAFA (USAFA/CC) and
  the installation. The Superintendent will:
     2.4.1. Develop and implement a USAFA Strategic Plan and subordinate operational
     plans, to include goals, objectives, and performance-based measures, and an assessment
     program, to comply with the guidance provided in this Directive.
     2.4.2. Maintain an organizational culture across cadets and permanent party that values
     our diversity and is characterized by mutual respect and care for each other.
     2.4.3. Rotate USAFA permanent party members back into the operational Air Force to
     ensure USAFA maintains currency in functional expertise and cultural parallels with the
     operational Air Force.
     2.4.4. Integrate the operational Air Force into USAFA programs, aligning USAFA
     training methods, organizational processes and procedures with those of the operational
     Air Force to the greatest extent possible given the unique USAFA mission.
     2.4.5. Keep HAF personnel updated on the status of the cadet culture and any significant
     challenges facing USAFA, and consistent with applicable laws and current policy,
4                                                               AFPD36-35 25 MAY 2011


    provide the USAFA Board of Visitors candid and complete information with respect to
    institutional problems.
    2.4.6. Maintain a preparatory school in accordance with law and DODD 1322.22,
    Service Academies. Developing recruited athletes is an authorized part of the preparatory
    school mission.




                                         MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                         Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD36-35 25 MAY 2011                                                                          5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
DoD Directive 1322.22, Service Academies, August 24, 1994
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
COI—Course of Instruction
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ—Headquarters
MAJCOM—Major Command
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
VCSAF—Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force

Terms
Functional—Senior leader, generally at the two-letter level, who serves as the approving official
for publication.
Headquarters Air Force (HAF)—The senior headquarters of the Air Force, which is comprised
of both Secretariat and Air Staff offices.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for the publication; the author
of the publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy,
currency, and integrity of their publications and forms.
Operational Air Force—That segment of the United States Air Force which conducts or
directly supports military operations.
Policy—Statements of important, higher-level direction that guides decisions and actions
throughout the Air Force. Policies are typically driven by higher headquarters (OSD) in the form
of DoD Issuances (DoD Directives, DoD Instructions, etc.) although occasionally directly from
the United States Code, Public Laws, or Executive Orders.
