BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 47-1
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               26 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                           Dental

                                                                           DENTAL SERVICES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMOA/SG3D                                                               Certified by: AF/SG
                                                                        (Lt Gen Charles B. Green)
Supersedes:    AFPD47-1,                                                                  Pages: 4
               7 September 1993


This Directive establishes the Air Force Dental Services (AFDS) policy for developing and
maintaining comprehensive programs for the prevention and treatment of dental disease to
ensure personnel dental readiness in support of expeditionary operations. This Directive applies
to all active duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard personnel in military
status. It establishes individual dental health and readiness classifications and establishes
responsibility for the performance of clearance evaluations and provision and documentation of
dental treatment(s). Air Reserve Component (ARC) personnel, Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard, are eligible to be seen in an active duty dental clinic. ARC members need not
be in military status to schedule an appointment, however, they must be in military status (active,
inactive, or points only) at the time the examination is performed.

This Directive implements the dental readiness policy portions of DoD Instruction 6025.19,
Individual Medical Readiness; DoD Directive 6200.04, Force Health Protection (FHP) and
OASD(HA) policy letters: 97-061, Policy on Reporting Dental Workload and Diagnostic Data;
98-031 Revised Utilization Management Policy for the Direct Care System when applied to
dental practice; 02-011, Policy on Standardization of Oral Health and Readiness Classifications;
05-020, Policy for Cosmetic Surgery Procedures in the Military Health System when applied to
oral surgeons, 06-001, Policy on Oral Health and Readiness and 07-011, Policy on Space
Available Dental Care. The Air Force also recognizes, and this policy implements, civilian
standards reflected by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm .
 2                                                                 AFPD47-1 26 AUGUST 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been completely revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. The
provision of periodic dental examinations for Air Reserve Component personnel and the
performance of clearance examinations for all AF personnel was added. Reference to all offices
subordinate to the HAF two-letter/digit were removed. Dental health classifications were
removed from the body of this Directive and placed in Attachment 1.
1. Policy
     1.1. Oral health and hygiene are important components of force fitness and deployment
     readiness. The Air Force will establish and maintain comprehensive programs for the
     prevention and treatment of dental disease to ensure dental readiness for personnel in support
     of expeditionary air, space and cyberspace operations.
     1.2. The base dental service will provide for periodic examinations for all Air Force
     personnel to include Air Reserve Component, establish individual dental health and readiness
     classification, perform clearance evaluations, and provide and document dental treatment(s).
     A priority-based appointment system will be used to maximize dental readiness. Air Reserve
     Component personnel are eligible to be seen in an active duty dental clinic. ARC members
     need not be in military status to schedule an appointment, however, they must be in military
     status (active, inactive, or points only) at the time the examination is performed.
2. The Air Force Surgeon General is responsible for policy oversight and advocacy of the Air
Force Dental Service and for interface with the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense
(Health Affairs) (ASD(HA)) concerning development of Department of Defense (DoD) policy
and in coordination with the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, (Manpower and
Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MR).




                                              Michael B. Donley
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD47-1 26 AUGUST 2011                                                                      3


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 6025.19, Individual Medical Readiness, Jan 3, 2006
DoDD 6200.04, Force Health Protection (FHP), 9 Oct 2004
OASD(HA) Policy Letter P97-061, Policy on Reporting Dental Workload and Diagnostic Data,
August 14, 1997
OASD(HA) Policy Letter P98-031 Revised Utilization Management Policy for the Direct Care
System, April 15, 1998.
OASD/HA Policy Letter P02-011, Policy on Standardization of Oral Health and Readiness
Classifications, June 4, 2002
OASD(HA) Policy Letter P05-020, Policy for Cosmetic Surgery Procedures in the Military
Health System, October 25, 2005.
OASD(HA) Policy Letter P06-001, Policy on Oral Health and Readiness, January 9, 2006
OASD(HA) Policy Letter P07-011, Policy on Space Available Dental Care, July 25, 2007.
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation to Change a Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
OASD(HA)—Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense(Health Affairs)

Terms
Oral Health—affects overall health and reduces the likelihood of dental emergencies in a
deployed environment. The goal for all Air Force personnel is to be in Dental Class 1.
Dental Health and Readiness Classifications—:
Class 1 (Optimum Oral Health): Patients with a current dental examination who do not require
treatment or reevaluation. Class 1 patients are worldwide deployable.
Class 2 (Satisfactory Oral Health): Patients with a current dental examination who require
non—urgent dental treatment or reevaluation for oral conditions which are unlikely to result in
dental emergencies within 12 months. Class 2 patients are worldwide deployable.
Class 3 (Unsatisfactory Oral Health): Patients who require urgent or emergent dental
treatment.
Class 3 patients are normally not considered to be worldwide deployable.
 4                                                              AFPD47-1 26 AUGUST 2011


Class 4 (Indeterminate Oral Health): Patients who require periodic dental examinations or
patients with unknown dental classifications. Class 4 patients are not considered ready for
deployment.
