BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                               AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 16-7
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             19 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                               Operations Support

                                                                SPECIAL ACCESS PROGRAMS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: SAF/AAZ                                                                Certified by: SAF/AA
                                                                           (Mr. Timothy Beyland)
Supersedes:    AFPD 16-7, 29 December 2010                                               Pages: 11


This Directive implements DoD Directive 5205.07, Special Access Program (SAP) Policy. It
establishes policies and responsibilities for the management, administration, and oversight of
SAPs for which the Air Force has cognizant authority (CA), hereafter referred to as SAPs. Air
Force shall issue guidance to implement this Directive and DoD Instruction 5205.11,
Management, Administration, Oversight of DoD Special Access Programs. This directive applies
to: all military including members of the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, government
civilian personnel, contractors and consultants when contract performance depends on access to
SAPs, non-DoD U.S. Government Agencies whose personnel, by mutual agreement, require
access to SAPs. The terms of any Air Force contract or agreement where SAP access is
foreseeable shall require the non-DoD party’s compliance with this policy and implementing
instructions. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. This publication may not be supplemented at any level per Air Force Policy
Document (AFPD) 90-1, Policy Formulation and AFI 33-360, Publication and Forms
Management. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/cfm. This directive does not supersede any
superior authority or supplant specific authorities provide for by Air Force directives or
instructions, to the extent they are inconsistent with this Directive. The disclosure provisions in
this directive are consistent with and do not supersede, conflict with, or otherwise alter the
employee obligations, rights, or liabilities created by existing statute or Executive order relating
to (1) classified information, (2) communications to Congress, (3) the reporting to an Inspector
 2                                                             AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014


General of a violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or mismanagement, a gross waste of funds,
an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety, or (4) any
other whistleblower protection. The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions, and
liabilities created by controlling Executive orders and statutory provisions are incorporated into
this directive and are controlling.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Directive has been revised to comply with new DoD Directives and Instructions and it must
be reviewed in its entirety.
1. Overview. SAPs shall be established and maintained only when absolutely necessary to
protect the Nation's most sensitive capabilities; information; technologies; operations; and
research, development, test and evaluation (RDT&E); or when mandated by statute pursuant to
DoDD 5205.07. Establishment shall be consistent with Executive Order (E.O.) 13526.
2. Policy.
     2.1. The Air Force shall establish a SAP only after formal recommendation to and
     subsequent approval by the Secretary of Defense (SecDef) or Deputy Secretary of Defense
     (DepSecDef).
     2.2. SAPs shall comply with all applicable statutes, regulations, directives and instructions.
     All exceptions must be approved, in writing, by the appropriate waiver authority. Approval is
     required from Security and Special Program Oversight (SAF/AAZ) when policy dictates
     entry of sensitive information pertaining to SAPs into any unclassified or collateral
     information systems (IS).
     2.3. The Air Force shall establish procedures for all SAPs that allow individuals to report
     irregularities of fraud, waste, abuse and corruption within secure channels.
     2.4. No DoD contractor entity, contractor employee, contractor representative or consultant
     shall provide SAP material to any members of Congress or congressional staff without DoD
     Special Access Program Central Office (SAPCO) approval. An employee of the Air Force or
     an appropriately accessed organization or company is not authorized to brief or provide SAP
     material to any Congressional Member or staff without the DoD SAPCO approval.
     SAF/AAZ shall review all reported non-compliance. Failure to comply may be cause for
     adverse actions, up to and including, revocation of SAP access.
     2.5. Members of Congress assigned to designated Defense and Intelligence committees shall
     be authorized access to SAPs within the respective committee’s oversight role, except for
     waived programs. Unless approved by the SecDef or DepSecDef, only the chair, the ranking
     minority member and the staff directors of the defense and intelligence committees shall be
     authorized access to waived SAPs within their committee’s respective oversight role.
     2.6. Office of Secretary of Defense (OSD) may, on a selective basis, request that the SecAF
     approve Air Force execution of non-Air Force and non-DoD SAPs (including acting as
     cognizant authority or executive agent). A memorandum of agreement (MOA) identifying
     acquisition, contracting, fiscal, legal, manpower, operational and security responsibilities
     consistent with this AFPD shall be reviewed, at a minimum, by the offices with those
AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                      3


   responsibilities. Following the review a recommendation will be made to the SecAF. Offices
   or organizations executing these SAPs shall comply with the SecAF approved MOA.
   2.7. The Air Force shall ensure that SAPs are properly evaluated for potential critical assets
   that are identified, prioritized and assessed by authorized SAP personnel IAW Defense
   Critical Infrastructure Program guidance.
   2.8. Use of a polygraph examination as an initial SAP access determination requirement
   shall be specifically approved by the SecDef or DepSecDef as part of the approval of the
   prospective SAP (PSAP) and consistently applied to all candidates.
   2.9. Air Force participation in non-DoD SAPs and joint SAPs with entities of foreign
   governments shall be governed by MOAs establishing the relationship of the participants
   regarding security, administration, decision making, and resourcing. MOA terms shall be
   consistent with national foreign disclosure policy when foreign governments are signatories,
   and shall follow the disclosure and approval policies established in DoDI 5143.01. The Air
   Force components shall determine the applicability of DoDD S-5210.36 prior to participating
   in SAPs or establishing a relationship with entities of foreign governments.
   2.10. The SecDef or DepSecDef may approve access of foreign nationals to SAPs. The
   SecDef or the DepSecDef may make specific delegation of this authority to another official
   in writing. Foreign nationals shall maintain an equivalent level of clearance and access to
   classified information based upon commensurate U.S. standards and SAP access agreements
   negotiated with the foreign government. MOAs for international involvement with SAPs
   shall be submitted to SAF/AAZ, for review and forwarding to the DoD SAPCO and then to
   the DepSecDef for approval. Access for foreign nationals not covered in an MOA shall be
   approved by the SecDef or DepSecDef on a case-by-case basis. All program access requests
   (PARs) shall be forwarded to SAF/AAZ.
   2.11. Treaty compliance requirements, obligations, or constraints shall be considered as an
   integral part of the policy, planning, operations, and acquisition process for all SAPs.
   2.12. The approved Original Classification Authority (OCA) for SAPs are the heads of
   SAF/AA, The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ), The Deputy
   Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2), The Deputy Chief
   of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5), and The Director, Test and
   Evaluation (AF/TE). Additional SAP Top Secret OCAs may be designated by the SecAF
   and additional SAP Secret OCAs may be designated by SAF/AA. This designation shall be
   done in writing and a copy provided to SAF/AAZ. The approved AF SAP OCA list is
   maintained by SAF/AAZ. SAP OCAs must receive training in proper classification
   (including the avoidance of over-classification) and declassification and
   classification/declassification directives at least once a calendar year. SAP OCAs that do not
   receive such mandatory training shall have their classification authority suspended by
   SAF/AA until such training has been taken. SAP OCA training is conducted by SAF/AAZ.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The SecAF is responsible for developing and implementing policies and procedures for
   the management, administration and oversight for SAPs. The SecAF renders the final
   decision to submit proposals to establish or terminate SAPs, remove programs from special
4                                                             AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014


    access controls, alter the scope, category and type of SAP and use Air Force resources to
    support non-Air Force SAPs.
    3.2. The Under Secretary of the Air Force (USecAF) is responsible to represent the Air
    Force as a member of the SAP Oversight Committee (SAPOC) and, in conjunction with the
    Vice Chief of Staff (VCSAF), shall designate primary and secondary Senior Review Group
    (SRG) members.
    3.3. The Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) and VCSAF provide strategic direction for
    the acquisition, fielding, operations and sustainment of SAPs. The VCSAF shall serve as a
    member of the SAPOC, and in conjunction with the USecAF, shall designate primary and
    secondary SRG members. The VCSAF will also serve as the Air Force representative to the
    Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) for SAPs.
    3.4. The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) shall:
       3.4.1. Serve as the senior security official for the Air Force and is responsible for the
       efficient and effective implementation of a SAP security program.
       3.4.2. Establish an AF SAPCO and designate a Director who is responsible for general
       oversight for all SAPs.
       3.4.3. Assume industrial security oversight responsibilities which shall, at a minimum,
       meet the standards outlined under the National Industrial Security Program (NISP) and
       include inspection oversight for those cleared defense contractors executing programs
       that have been carved-out by SecDef or DepSecDef. SAF/AA is also the responsible
       senior official to coordinate compliance with current DoD policy on national interest
       determinations (NIDs).
       3.4.4. Serve as the Principal Accrediting Authority (PAA) for all SAP ISs.
       3.4.5. Coordinate with SAF/AQ on the nomination of the Director of SAF/AQL, prior to
       SecAF approval.
       3.4.6. Coordinate with AF/A3/5 in the formulation of guidance for Air Force SAP
       participation in the negotiation, inspection, verification, and compliance support of
       international arms control and nonproliferation agreements.
    3.5. The Auditor General (SAF/AG) is responsible for staffing and maintaining an audit
    system for SAPs.
    3.6. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) is responsible for
    acquisition oversight and contracting policy, management and administration of SAPs.
    SAF/AQ shall nominate an individual for the Director of SAF/AQL, in coordination with
    SAF/AA, for SecAF approval. Additionally, SAF/AQ shall ensure the appropriate acquisition
    documents, to include test documents, are provided to AF/A3/5 and SAF/AA for review and
    assessment of international arms control and nonproliferation implications for SAPs.
    3.7. The Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6) is
    responsible to integrate Air Force air, space and cyberspace information and systems into the
    joint fight. Additionally, as the Chief Information Officer coordinates on SAP policy to
    ensure compliance with information technology and information assurance statutory
    requirements.
AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                       5


  3.8. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
  (SAF/FM) is responsible for financial oversight policy, management of SAP financial
  structure, fiscal accountability, audit liaison and financial reporting of SAP resources.
  Additionally, SAF/FM is responsible for supporting all AF SAP meetings with congressional
  appropriation committees after coordination with the Special Programs Oversight Committee
  (SPOC) Executive Secretary and approval by the DoD SAPCO.
  3.9. The General Counsel (SAF/GC) is responsible for legal reviews of SAPs to ensure
  compliance with international law, U.S. statutes, Executive Orders, and DoD and AF
  directives and instructions. The General Counsel shall be accessed to all SAPs for which the
  AF participates.
  3.10. The Inspector General (SAF/IG) is responsible for performing program security,
  inspection, investigative, intelligence oversight, and counterintelligence functions for all
  SAPs and for maintaining a sufficient cadre of special agents, analysts and program security
  officers (PSOs) to do so. In addition, SAF/IG is responsible for establishing a polygraph and
  credibility assessment (PCA) program for personnel accessed to SAPs. Through the Air
  Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), SAF/IG shall appoint a SAP Security
  Director to execute SAP security responsibilities for all SAPs consistent with the NISP and
  shall ensure inspections are accomplished for cleared defense contractors supporting
  programs that have been carved-out by SecDef or DepSecDef.
  3.11. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) is
  responsible for supporting manpower requirements and allocations, as well as personnel
  assignments for SAPs.
  3.12. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2)
  is responsible for advocating intelligence requirements, providing substantive intelligence
  support (i.e. analysis), overseeing acquisition intelligence support (i.e. intelligence missions
  databases), and providing intelligence oversight for all SAPs. In addition, the AF/A2 shall
  support AF/TE in the Foreign Material Program (FMP) for SAPs.
  3.13. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) is
  responsible for the Air Force implementation of the Joint Capabilities, Integration and
  Development System (JCIDS), operations planning for all SAPs, and advocating operational
  requirements for SAPs. AF/A3/5 is the Air Force central authority for activities related to
  international arms control and nonproliferation agreements and oversees formulation of
  guidance for Air Force SAP participation in the negotiation, inspection verification, and
  compliance support of these agreements. AF/A3/5 develops Air Force critical infrastructure
  strategy, policy and objectives, prepares and implements plans and programs, and advocates
  plans, operations and funding to Departmental and governmental agencies for SAPs. In
  addition, AF/A3/5 serves as the Air Force Critical Infrastructure Assurance Officer (AF-
  CIAO) and the office of primary responsibility for the central management and oversight of
  the Air Force’s critical asset risk management (CARM).
  3.14. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (AF/A4/7)
  is responsible for supporting SAP acquisitions, life cycle sustainment, representing Air Force
  product support equities, and providing broad policy implementation guidance to Air Force
  logistics, installations, and mission support activities.
 6                                                               AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014


     3.15. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8), is responsible for
     the Planning, Programming Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) submissions, the strategic
     basing process for SAPs and the integration (as required) of SAPs into long range strategic
     planning.
     3.16. The Director, Air Force Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned
     (AF/A9), is responsible for advising SAP investment decisions by the SPOC with decision-
     quality analysis.
     3.17. The Assistant Chief of Staff, Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10),
     is responsible for guidance and oversight of SAP activities with nuclear and strategic
     deterrence equities.
     3.18. The Director, Test and Evaluation (AF/TE), is responsible for guidance, direction and
     oversight of matters affecting test equities for SAP activities. In addition, serve as the lead
     for the FMP for SAPs.
     3.19. MAJCOM Commanders are responsible for establishing a SAP Management Office
     (SAPMO) and appointing a Director (O-6 or civilian equivalent) as the single focal point
     within their respective command for coordination, dissemination and reporting of SAP
     activities and notifying SAF/AAZ of this appointment in writing. MAJCOMs will determine
     the appropriate staffing and resources necessary for their respective SAPMO.
4. SAP Governance.
     4.1. The Air Force shall utilize a resource allocation process that is parallel to the Air Force
     Corporate process, but is segregated to provide appropriate security. The SPOC shall serve as
     the senior AF review committee for oversight of resource allocation, acquisition,
     management, security, and execution of SAPs, including the Military Intelligence Program
     (MIP). The SPOC is a separate and distinct decision making body from the Air Force
     Council. At least annually, the SPOC will review the execution and security status of all
     SAPs. The SPOC review shall be conducted prior to submission of the Program Objectives
     Memorandum/Budget Estimate Submission (POM/BES) to OSD. SecAF POM/BES
     approval obtained via the SPOC provides the basis of the Air Force SAP input to the OSD
     President’s Budget (PB) documentation. The SPOC review will also result in the Air Force
     input to the required OSD review of security administration of DoD SAPs. After the SPOC
     approves SAP resource levels, no one may make resource adjustments to a SAP without
     approval of the SPOC Executive Secretary and the SecAF. The SPOC shall:
        4.1.1. Review security procedures to ensure the development and application of an
        appropriate security structure for each SAP.
        4.1.2. Eliminate unnecessary duplication of capabilities between SAP, non-SAP, and
        other DoD programs.
        4.1.3. Provide management oversight and guidance for SAPs. This requires reviewing
        status at program milestones, reviewing audit results, and evaluating other information
        necessary to assess the progress of a SAP. The SPOC Executive Secretary keeps SPOC
        members apprised of program status during regular interactions or as required. The SPOC
        Executive Secretary or appropriate SAP action officers or program managers shall review
        or provide data as necessary to the SPOC on:
AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    7


         4.1.3.1. The portfolio of SAPs.
         4.1.3.2. Program objectives and milestones.
         4.1.3.3. Current programmatic funding, manpower, facility, and other resource
         requirements.
         4.1.3.4. The existence of any other known programs that may overlap with the SAP
         being reviewed.
         4.1.3.5. The results of internal and external program audits.
         4.1.3.6. The programs’ current security posture.
         4.1.3.7. The justification of retaining SAP status.
         4.1.3.8. Discussions of any major security weaknesses and actions to correct those
         weaknesses, and/or a review of any programs’ plan for termination from SAP status.
  4.2. The Director, SAF/AQL, shall serve as the SPOC Executive Secretary and is the
  SPOC’s representative for all day-to-day SAP activities and represents the SPOC for daily
  coordination required within the Air Staff and Secretariat on SAP activity.
  4.3. The SPOC is chaired by the SecAF. Membership in the SPOC is comprised of the
  following principals: SAF/US, SAF/AA, SAF/AQ, SAF/CIO A6, SAF/FM, SAF/GC,
  AF/CC, AF/CV, AF/CVA, AF/A1, AF/A2, AF/A3/5, AF/A4/7, AF/A8, AF/A9, AF/A10, and
  AF/TE. Principals must make every effort to attend. If unable, an appropriately SAP-
  accessed deputy may substitute, but must be coordinated with the SPOC Executive Secretary
  in advance. Advisors to the SPOC are SAF/AG, SAF/AAH, SAF/AAZ, SAF/AQC,
  SAF/FMB, SAF/IG, AF/A8P, and AF/A9F. The SPOC Executive Secretary shall identify
  SPOC special topic advisors, as required.
  4.4. The SecAF may designate specific SAPs to be managed outside the SPOC governance
  structure. A separate agreement, detailing responsibilities for SAP governance, shall be used
  to document this exception. This agreement must also identify any specific portions of this
  directive and AFI 16-701 that are also exempt.




                                           DEBORAH LEE JAMES
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
 8                                                           AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFRENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 3020.40, DoD Policy and Responsibility for Critical Infrastructure, 14 January 2010
DODI 5100.94, Oversight, Coordination, Assessment, and Reporting of DoD Intelligence and
Intelligence-Related Sensitive Activities, September 27, 2011; Incorporating Change 1, October
15, 2013
DoDD 5101.1, DoD Executive Agent, 3 September 2002, incorporating change 1, 9 May 2003.
DoDD 5143.01, Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD(I)), 23 November 2005
DoDD 5205.07, Special Access Program (SAP) Policy, 1 July 2010
DoDD S-5210.36, Provision of DoD Sensitive Support to DoD Components and Other
Departments and Agencies of the U.S. Government, 6 November 2008
DoDD 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments and
International Organizations, 16 June 1992.
DoDD 5210.48, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment Program, 25 January 2007
DoDD 5210.91, Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA) Procedures, 12 August 2010.
DoDI 5205.11, Management, Administration, and Oversight of DoD Special Access Programs
(SAPs), 6 February 2013
DoDI 7050.01, “Defense Hotline Program,” 17 December 2007
AFPD 10-24, Critical Infrastructure Program (CIP), 28 April 2006, (Incorporating AFPM, 6
January 2012)
AFPD 16-6, International Arms Control and Nonproliferation Agreement, and the DoD Foreign
Clearance Program, 29 December 2010 (Certified current as of 20 March 2012)
AFPD 71-1, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 6 January 2010
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, 6 October 2010
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General – The Inspection System, 26 April 2006.
AFI 10-601, Operational Capabilities Requirements Development, 12 July 2010.
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 23 April 2012
AFI 14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life-Cycle, 18 May 2012.
AFI 16-501, Control and documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 August 2006.
AFI 16-601, Implication of, and compliance with, International Arms Control and
Nonproliferation Agreement, 18 February 2011 (Incorporating Change dated 15 November
2011)
AFI 16-701, Special Access Programs, 1 November 1995.
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                    9


AFI 71-101, Criminal Investigations, Volume 1, 1 December 1999 (Incorporating Change 1, 17
March 2009)
AFI 99-114, Foreign Material Program, 25 Oct 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Prescribed Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
DD Form 254, Contract Specification Classification Specification

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
BES—Budget Estimate Submission
CA—Cognizant Authority
CARM—Critical Asset Risk Management
DepSecDef—Deputy Secretary of Defense
DoD—Department of Defense
E.O.—Executive Order
FMP—Foreign Material Program
IS—Information System
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MIP—Military Intelligence Program
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
NISP—National Industrial Security Program
OCA—Original Classification Authority
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense
PAA—Principal Accrediting Authority
PB—President’s Budget
PCA—Polygraph and Credibility Assessment
 10                                                           AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014


POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
PSAP—Prospective Special Access Program
PSO—Program Security Officer
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAP—Special Access Program
SAPCO—Special Access Program Central Office
SAPOC—Special Access Program Oversight Committee
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SecDef—Secretary of Defense
SPOC—Special Programs Oversight Committee
SRG—Senior Review Group

Terms
Carve-out— A provision approved by the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense that
relieves DSS of its National Industrial Security Program obligation to perform industrial security
oversight functions for a DoD SAP.
Cognizant Authority— The DepSecDef-designated DoD Component Heads, PSAs, or DoD
agency heads accountable for management and execution of their respective DoD SAPs.
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)— Written agreement among relevant parties that
specifies roles, responsibilities, terms, and conditions for each party to reach a common goal.
MOAs are required when SAP resources are committed between Air Force SAPs and DoD or
non-DoD SAPs. MOAs define general areas of conditional agreement between two or more
parties -- what one party does depends on what the other party does (e.g., one party agrees to
provide support if the other party provides the materials). MOAs establish responsibilities for
providing recurring reimbursable support should be supplemented with support agreements that
define the support, basis for reimbursement for each category of support, the billing and payment
process, and other terms and conditions of the agreement. MOAs must be updated or recertified,
in writing, every five years.
Oversight— Authority to monitor, review, inspect, investigate, analyze, evaluate and advise an
organization's management, operation, performance, and processes through policy, guidelines,
instructions, regulations or other structures to maintain compliance and effectiveness within the
National Security construct. (This authority does not limit in any way the authority of an
Inspector General or others in execution of their lawful duties.)
Oversight Authority— Designated official assigned oversight responsibility for a SAP.
Oversight responsibilities include, but are not limited to, endorsing change of category,
endorsing apportionment into or de-apportionment from IJSTO, conducting program reviews,
endorsing termination or transition plans, ensuring SAPs do not duplicate or overlap, and
coordinating SAP annual reports with DoD SAPCO.
AFPD16-7 19 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                      11


Polygraph and Credibility Assessment (PCA)— The overarching term covering programs,
research, training, and procedures that employ technologies to assess an individual’s truthfulness
with the aid of technical devices that measure physiological data or behavioral activity.
Principal Accrediting Authority (PAA)— The principal official with the authority to formally
assume responsibility for operating a SAP IS at an acceptable level of risk.
Special Access Program— A program established for a specific class of classified information
that imposes safeguarding and access requirements that exceed those normally required for
information at the same classification level.
