BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 65-5
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              5 AUGUST 2008
                                                                        Certified Current 3 October 2013
                                                                                 Financial Management

                                                                             COST AND ECONOMICS




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFCAA/FMCP                                            Certified by: SAF/FM (Mr. John Gibson)
Supersedes AFPD65-5, 17 May 1993                                                            Pages: 7

This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements Department of Defense Directive 5000.04, Cost
Analysis Improvement Group, August 16, 2006, and Department of Defense Instruction 7041.3, Economic
Analysis for Decision Making, November 7, 1995. This AFPD applies to all Air Force organizations that
oversee or manage Air Force funded acquisition or sustainment programs to include, but not limited to,
aircraft, weapons, space, and information technology; it applies to both military and civilian Air Force
personnel. This publication shall be applied to contractors or other persons through the contract or other
legally binding agreement with the Department of the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and ques-
tions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Rec-
ommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Air Force offices implementing the AFPD will ensure that all records cre-
ated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially changed and must be reviewed in its entirety.
The changes to this AFPD constitute a complete policy directive update. Included are requirements for
conducting cost, economic, business case, and financial analyses with specific emphasis on acquisition
program cost estimates and Non-Advocate Cost Assessments (NACAs) for milestone reviews, annual
programming and budgeting decisions, source selections, Analysis of Alternatives (AoA), and program
and unit cost breaches (potential Nunn-McCurdy cost breaches). In addition, the AFPD defines key roles
and responsibilities for Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and Major Commands (MAJCOMs).

1. The Air Force shall support the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES)
and the acquisition system within the Department of Defense, by providing decision makers with credible
2                                                                         AFPD65-5 5 AUGUST 2008


and objective cost, economic, and business case analyses. In addition, the Air Force shall provide finan-
cial oversight of Air Force Services Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality (NAFI) activities and analy-
sis of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES).

2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management (SAF/FM) is responsible for Air
Force cost, economic, and business case analysis and will work collaboratively with other headquarters
organizations (SAF/AQ, SAF/US, etc.) to ensure analyses provided to decision makers are realistic, reli-
able, and complete.

3. The following are the types of analyses that shall be conducted across the Air Force:
    3.1. Program cost estimates for Acquisition Category (ACAT) I programs and selected ACAT II/III
    programs.
       3.1.1. ACAT I cost estimates shall be led by a properly qualified member of the Armed Forces or
       full-time employee of the Department of Defense.
       3.1.2. Estimates shall be updated annually and used to support milestone decisions, PPBES for-
       mulation, source selections, program and unit cost breaches (potential Nunn-McCurdy cost
       breaches), and Analysis of Alternatives on programs expected to meet ACAT I thresholds.
    3.2. Non-Advocate Cost Assessments (NACAs) for ACAT I programs and selected ACAT II/III pro-
    grams.
       3.2.1. All NACAs shall be led by a properly qualified member of the Armed Forces or full-time
       employee of the Department of Defense.
       3.2.2. The Service Acquisition Executive (SAE), or delegate, and the Air Force Corporate Struc-
       ture (AFCS) shall consider the NACA in ACAT I program milestone and PPBES decisions. In a
       similar fashion, the Program Executive Officer (PEO)/Center Commander shall use selectively
       generated NACAs at programmatic decision points and in support of PPBES activities for ACAT
       II/III programs.
       3.2.3. NACAs shall be updated annually and used to support milestone decisions, PPBES formu-
       lation, source selections, program and unit cost breaches (potential Nunn-McCurdy cost
       breaches), and Analysis of Alternatives on programs expected to meet ACAT I thresholds.
    3.3. Independent Cost Estimates (ICEs) / Component Cost Analyses (CCAs) for Major Defense
    Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) and Major Automated Information Systems (MAISs) milestones
    where decision authority has been delegated to the SAE.
       3.3.1. All ICEs/CCAs shall be led by a properly qualified member of the Armed Forces or
       full-time employee of the Department of Defense.
       3.3.2. SAF/FM or the SAE may direct stand-alone ICEs/CCAs on a case-by-case basis.
    3.4. Economic analysis (EA), business case analysis (BCA), financial analysis, and special studies.
       3.4.1. Develop inflation indices based on OUSD (Comptroller) guidance.
       3.4.2. Develop discount rates based on OMB guidance.
AFPD65-5 5 AUGUST 2008                                                                                  3


       3.4.3. Develop, review, maintain, and apply cost and planning factors in support of Air Force pro-
       gram and budget decisions to include the cost per flying hour factors developed for the flying hour
       program.
       3.4.4. Obtain data for the United States and world economy, including foreign exchange rates.
       3.4.5. Maintain a program to determine and apply the effects of changes in the economy to the
       PPBES.
       3.4.6. Provide guidance for comptroller participation in the Air Force Commercial Activities Pro-
       gram; assist with the development of all cost data inputs for the OMB Circular A-76 Performance
       of Commercial Activities agency cost estimate.
       3.4.7. Conduct a Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) oversight program of all active Air Force Ser-
       vices NAFIs and analysis of AAFES corporate operations.
       3.4.8. Assess the financial health of defense firms and the defense and aerospace industry.

4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. The Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cost and Economics (SAF/FMC) shall:
       4.1.1. Develop and administer cost, economic, financial, and business case analysis policy and
       guidance; standards and templates; training, education, and professional certification programs;
       analyst qualification criteria; cost estimating performance and budget risk metrics; participate in
       cost and technical data collection efforts; develop cost estimating methods and model develop-
       ment projects; maintain a historical cost database; and provide support to other HAF functional
       organizations.
       4.1.2. Prepare or delegate NACAs and review program cost estimates.
       4.1.3. Develop ICEs/CCAs.
       4.1.4. Approve waivers for program cost estimates and NACA requirements (unless required by
       statute) with the concurrence of SAF/AQ, SAF/US (or their delegate PEO).
       4.1.5. Develop EAs, BCAs, and financial analyses when requested by HAF or considered
       high-level interest items, or in support of installations and MAJCOMs via the FM Center of
       Expertise (CoE). Responsibility for certification and approval remains with the supported unit.
       4.1.6. Review and comment on technical propriety and sufficiency of any cost, economic, finan-
       cial, or business case analysis (whether developed by the MAJCOM, acquiring organization or
       HAF organization) when the analysis will be presented to the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF),
       the Under Secretary of the Air Force (USecAF), the Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF), or the
       Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (VCSAF), OSD, OMB, or Congress.
       4.1.7. Establish and maintain NAFI oversight; and provide AAFES analysis.
       4.1.8. Develop inflation indices, discount rates, cost per flying hour factors, OMB Circular A-76
       analysis, and other cost and economic support required in paragraph 3.4.
   4.2. The PEOs for space and non-space acquisition programs shall prepare and maintain program cost
   estimates.
   4.3. Major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies and direct reporting units will:
4                                                                         AFPD65-5 5 AUGUST 2008


       4.3.1. Establish and maintain cost, economic and financial management expertise to support the
       resource allocation process; certify economic and business case analyses within their command;
       support training, education, professional development and certification programs; and develop
       knowledge management tools.
       4.3.2. Develop AoA cost estimates, economic and business case analyses, and provide other cost
       and economic support required in paragraph 3.4.
       4.3.3. Establish and maintain NAFI oversight expertise to accomplish independent financial over-
       sight of AF NAFI activities under their command.
       4.3.4. Prepare NACAs when delegated by SAF/FMC.
       4.3.5. Request financial analytical support as needed from the FM CoE.

5. Information Collection, Records, and Forms.
    5.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
    5.2. Records. The program records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication
    are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 and disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS
    RDS located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.
    5.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
       5.3.1. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
       5.3.2. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this publication.



                                               Michael B. Donley
                                               Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD65-5 5 AUGUST 2008                                          5


                                       Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
ANG—Air National Guard
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
AFCS—Air Force Corporate Structure
APB—Acquisition Program Baseline
BCA—Business Case Analysis
CoE—Center of Expertise
CCA—Component Cost Analysis
EA—Economic Analysis
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
ICE—Independent Cost Estimate
MAIS—Major Automated Information System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDAP—Major Defense Acquisition Program
NACA—Non-Advocate Cost Assessment
NAF—Non-appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
NSSA—National Security Space Acquisition
PCE—Program Cost Estimate
PEO—Program Executive Officer
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBES—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution System
SAE—Service Acquisition Executive
USC—United States Code
6                                                                           AFPD65-5 5 AUGUST 2008


Terms
Analysis of Alternatives (AoA)—A study conducted to explore numerous conceptual solutions with the
goal of identifying the most promising options. The AoA is used to justify the rationale for formal
initiation of the selected course of action.
Business Case Analysis (BCA)—A decision support document that identifies alternatives and presents
business, economic, and technical arguments for selecting an alternative to achieve organizational or
functional missions or goals.
Component Cost Analysis—An independent cost estimate or analysis conducted by the Air Force Cost
Analysis Agency.
Cost Estimate / Analysis—A documented analysis that predicts future costs, including profit, to develop
and field a desired system. This requires evaluation of costs and risks of the development, production,
operation, support and disposal of a system. A key element of a comprehensive estimate is a cost risk/
uncertainty analysis of relevant cost, schedule, and performance factors.
Cost Risk / Uncertainty Analysis—The process of quantifying the uncertainties associated with
elements of the cost model such as cost estimating relationships (CERs), technical parameters that drive
CERs, labor and other rates, and the schedule. The probability (risk) that a specific cost target will be
exceeded is derived from the total uncertainty of the estimate.
Economic Analysis (EA)—A systematic approach to the allocation of scarce resources. It compares the
present value of the monetary costs and benefits of the alternatives under consideration, and describes and
analyzes relevant non-monetary costs and benefits.
Independent Cost Estimate (ICE)—A cost estimate / analysis prepared by an organization not directly
responsible for the development, acquisition, or support of the program. The ICE must include a cost risk/
uncertainty analysis and complete documentation.
Major Automated Information System Program Change—MAIS programs that experience: a) a
schedule delay of more than six months, but less than one year or b) development cost or full life-cycle
cost growth of at least 15 percent, but less than 25 percent over the original estimate or c) a significant,
adverse change in the expected performance from the parameters originally submitted to Congress, shall
notify congressional defense committees in writing within 45 days of the determination.
Non-Advocate Cost Assessment (NACA)—An analysis of program cost / price, as well as schedule and
technical risk, prepared by an organization not directly responsible for the development, acquisition, or
support of the program. NACAs are designed to support the AFCS and acquisition milestone decision
process, and can range from a simple sufficiency review of an existing estimate to a complete ICE. The
NACA should include a cost risk/uncertainty analysis (when possible) and complete documentation.
Program Deviation—A cost, schedule or technical deviation from the approved Acquisition Program
Baseline (APB).
Unit Cost Breach (potential Nunn-McCurdy Cost Breach)—Major Defense Acquisition Programs
experiencing: a.) significant cost growth of 15% or more in Program Acquisition Unit Cost (PAUC) or
Average Procurement Unit Cost (APUC) over the current baseline estimate or b.) 30% or more in PAUC
or APUC over the original baseline estimate, are required to notify Congress of the cost growth and
submit a Selected Acquisition Report (SAR) during the quarter the breach was determined. Programs with
critical unit cost increases of at least 25% in PAUC or APUC over the current baseline or 50% in PAUC
AFPD65-5 5 AUGUST 2008                                                                             7


or APUC over the original baseline estimate are required to notify Congress, submit a SAR, and submit
SecDef certification (10 USC 2433).
Program Cost Estimate (PCE)—The cost estimate produced by the acquiring organization (i.e., Product
Center, ALC, or Laboratory).
