BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 61-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                 28 MARCH 2014

                                                           Scientific, Research and Development

                                                       MANAGEMENT OF SCIENTIFIC AND
                                                             TECHNICAL INFORMATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQR                                                                Certified by: SAF/AQ
                                                                        (Dr. William A. LaPlante)
Supersedes:    AFPD61-2, 7 April 1993                                                     Pages: 5


This directive establishes policies for managing scientific and technical information. It applies to
all Air Force military and civilian personnel; members of the Air Force Reserve; members of the
Air National Guard; and other individuals or organizations as required by binding agreement or
obligation with the Department of the Air Force. This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical
Information Program (STIP); DoDI 3200.14, Principles and Operational Parameters of the
DoD Scientific and Technical Information Program; DoDI 5230.24, Distribution Statements on
Technical Documents; Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5230.25, Withholding of
Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure; DoDI 5230.27, Presentation of DoD-
Related Scientific and Technical Papers at Meetings. If there is any conflicting guidance
between this AFPD and Department of Defense (DoD) issuances, the latter shall take
precedence. This AFPD cannot be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This directive has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It updates Air
Force policy to provide greater clarity concerning the roles and responsibilities of all Air Force
 2                                                                  AFPD61-2 28 MARCH 2014


organizations directly involved in the creation and dissemination of scientific and technical
information.
1. Policy. The Air Force will efficiently and effectively manage scientific and technical
information created or acquired in the execution of research, development, test and evaluation
(RDT&E) activities. The purpose of this policy directive is to ensure scientific, technical, and
engineering information is appropriately identified, documented, disseminated, preserved,
marked, protected, and accessible to the research and acquisition community, policy makers,
industry, and the general public within the boundaries of laws, regulations, Executive orders, and
other requirements. Use this policy directive with AFI 61-101, Management of Science and
Technology, and AFI 63-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management. Regardless if an Air Force
organization is a creator or user of scientific and technical information, all Air Force personnel
should have an understanding of how to manage scientific and technical information.
     1.1. The Air Force ensures scientific and technical information is a key outcome and record
     of Air Force basic research, applied research, and advanced technology development in
     accordance with DoDI 3200.12. Research progress and final results are reported to the
     Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC).
     1.2. The Air Force communicates, collaborates, and shares scientific, technical, and
     engineering information among DoD scientists, engineers and acquisition professionals,
     other federal agencies, and academic, private sector, and international partners in accordance
     with DoDI 3200.20, Scientific and Engineering Integrity.
     1.3. The Air Force appropriately marks with distribution statements all technical
     information, regardless of media type, resulting from RDT&E efforts and operations and
     maintenance (O&M) efforts in accordance with DoDI 5230.24.
     1.4. The Air Force withholds all unclassified technical data that discloses critical technology
     or information with military or space application in the possession or under the control of a
     DoD Component that may not be exported lawfully without an approval, authorization, or
     license in accordance with DoDD 5230.25.
     1.5. Technical information may be classified, controlled unclassified information, or
     unclassified public releasable and will be controlled in accordance with DoD Manual
     5200.01-V1, DoD Information Security Program: Overview, Classification, and
     Declassification, DoD Manual 5200.01-V2, DoD Information Security Program: Marking of
     Classified Information, DoD Manual 5200.01-V4, DoD Information Security Program:
     Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI), and DoD Directive 5230.09, Clearance of DoD
     Information for Public Release.
     1.6. This directive does not apply to DoD programs involving day-to-day operations the
     warfighter uses unless required for scientific and technical analysis, DoD scientific and
     technical information the intelligence community produces, or signals intelligence and
     communications security information.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ):
AFPD61-2 28 MARCH 2014                                                                    3


     2.1.1. Develop Air Force scientific and technical information policy and provide
     oversight and guidance.      Information equities include scientific, technical, and
     engineering information from pre-acquisition through the acquisition life cycle.
     2.1.2. Designate an Air Force scientific and technical information manager to serve as
     the single, authoritative point of contact for all scientific and technical information
     matters.
  2.2. Commanders and directors of major commands, direct reporting units, and field
  operating agencies, Air National Guard units, and Air Force Reserve units:
     2.2.1. Execute a scientific and technical information program to ensure scientific,
     technical, and engineering information is properly created, documented, controlled, and
     disseminated. As appropriate, designate scientific and technical information managers.
     2.2.2. In accordance with DoDI 5230.24, establish and maintain training and education
     to provide a basic understanding of distribution statement markings. Training and
     education may be incorporated into required information security training.




                                         Deborah Lee James
                                         Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                                  AFPD61-2 28 MARCH 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 5230.09, Clearance of DoD Information for Public Release, August 22, 2008
DoDD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure, November
6, 1984
DoDI 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical Information Program, August 22, 2013
DoDI 3200.14, Principles and Operational Parameters of the DoD Scientific and Technical
Information Program, May 13, 1997
DoDI 3200.20, Scientific and Engineering Integrity, July 26, 2012
DoDI 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents, August 23, 2012
DoDI 5230.27, Presentation of DoD-Related Scientific and Technical Papers at Meetings,
October 6, 1987
AFI 61-101, Management of Science and Technology, March 14, 2013
AFI 63-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, March 7, 2013
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, August 29, 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
MAJCOM—Major Command
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation

Terms
Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC)—Collects, indexes, catalogs, and provides
storage for scientific and technical information obtained from DoD components and their
contractors, non-DoD domestic sources and foreign sources. Maintains and operates centralized
AFPD61-2 28 MARCH 2014                                                                            5


databases of technical and management-related information describing the content and scope of
research and engineering programs. Operates under the authority, direction, and control of the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
Scientific and Technical Information—Findings and technological innovations resulting from
basic research, applied research, and advanced technology development efforts and science and
technology work of scientists, researchers, and engineers, whether contractor, grantee, or federal
staff. Scientific and technical information also conveys the results of demonstration and
commercial application activities as well as experiments, observations, simulations, wargames,
studies, and analyses. Scientific and technical information is found in many forms and formats
including textual, graphical, numeric, multimedia, and digital data, technical reports, scientific
and technical conference papers and presentations, theses and dissertations, scientific and
technical computer software, journal articles, workshop reports, program documents, system
concepts, patents, and other forms or formats of technical data. Scientific and technical
information may be classified, controlled unclassified information (including export controlled
or personally identifiable information), or unclassified publically releasable. DoD-funded
scientific and technical information originates primarily from research and other activities
performed by direct DoD-executed prime procurements, DoD-operated research activities, and
financial assistance recipients, as well as DoD employees.
Technical Document—any recorded information that conveys scientific and technical
information or technical data. This includes such informal documents as working papers,
memoranda, and preliminary reports when such documents have utility beyond the immediate
mission requirement or will become part of the historical record of technical achievements.
Technical Information—this term is broader in scope than the Scientific and Technical
Information definition and is applicable when determining distribution statements for technical
documents. It includes technical data or computer software of any kind that can be used, or
adapted for use, in the design, production, manufacture, assembly, repair, overhaul, processing,
engineering, development, operation, maintenance, adapting, testing, or reconstruction of goods
or material or any technology that advances the state of the art or establishes a new art in an area
of significant military applicability in the United States. The data may be in tangible form, such
as a blueprint, photograph, plan, instruction, or an operating manual, or may be intangible, such
as a technical service or oral, auditory, or visual description. Examples of technical data include
research and engineering data, journal articles, workshop reports, program documents, wargame
system concepts, patents, data sets, engineering drawings and associated lists, catalog-item
identifications, specifications, standards, process sheets, technical manuals, technical reports,
technical orders, and studies and analyses.
