BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             18 AUGUST 2009
                                                              Certified Current 24 October 2013
                                                                           Special Management
                                                            INSPECTOR GENERAL--THE
                                                    COMPLAINTS RESOLUTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/IGQ                                             Certified by: SAF/IG (Lt Gen Ronald F.
                                                                                         Sams)
Supersedes:   AFPD90-3, 1 November 1999                                                Pages: 7



This directive implements Title 10, United States Code (USC), Section 8020 (10 USC 8020),
Inspector General; Title 10, USC, Section 1034 (10 USC 1034), Military Whistleblower
Protection Act; Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5505.06, Investigations of Allegations
Against Senior Officials of the Department of Defense; DoD Directive 7050.06, Military
Whistleblower Protection; DoD Instruction 7050.01, Defense Hotline Program, and
Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-20, The Inspector General. It establishes
the framework for the Air Force Inspector General (IG) Complaints Resolution and Fraud,
Waste, and Abuse (FWA) programs. It applies to all Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard (ANG) personnel. This directive requires collecting and maintaining
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 as implemented by AFI 33-332, Privacy Act
Program and authorized by 10 USC 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; and 10 USC 8020.
Department of the Air Force Systems of Record notice F090 AF IG B, Inspector General
Records applies. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate MAJCOM IG. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes described in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The title of
this AFPD was changed from Inspector General--The Complaints Program to the current title to
2                                                                   AFPD90-3 18 AUGUST 2009


emphasize the resolution function of the IG. This revision updates and incorporates key policies
for the Air Force Complaints Resolution and FWA Programs and strengthens requirements to
carry out Air Force Inspector General Programs within established DoD limits.
1. The Office of the Inspector General of the Air Force (SAF/IG) is responsible for the
management and administration of the Air Force Inspector General Complaints Resolution
Program. As such, SAF/IG will:
    1.1. Issue guidance for the administration and management of credible and responsive AF
    Complaints Resolution and FWA Programs.
    1.2. Inquire into and report on the discipline, efficiency, and economy of the Air Force.
    1.3. Direct investigations and provide oversight for all Air Force IG investigations regardless
    of what level IG conducts the investigation. This includes the authority to comment on and
    to overturn the findings and conclusions of any IG investigation.
    1.4. Assess and determine the disposition of all allegations of misconduct made against Air
    Force Senior Officials.
    1.5. Review all potentially adverse information and adverse information of a credible nature
    against colonel-selects, colonels, and general officers, and draft an Adverse Information
    Summary for possible inclusion in a Senior Officer Unfavorable Information File (SOUIF).
    1.6. Act as the central repository for all adverse information on colonel-selects, colonels, and
    general officers for the purpose of possible disclosure during general officer promotion
    selection or federal recognition boards, nomination and confirmation processes as well as
    possible disclosure to CSAF regarding officers placed on the command candidate list, or
    other disclosure as directed by SECAF or CSAF.
    1.7. Act as central repository for all adverse information on Air Force senior executives, Pay
    Band 3s, and GS-15s for the purpose of possible disclosure when an individual is considered
    for a leadership assignment as part of the Leadership Development Board, appointment to the
    senior executive service, or considered for a major award.
    1.8. Investigate alleged ethics violations in accordance with (IAW) DoD 5500.7-R Joint
    Ethics Regulation (JER),
    1.9. Investigate allegations of a violation of any law, rule, regulation, gross mismanagement,
    gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health
    or safety referred through SAF/GC as part of an Title 5 United States Code § 1213 OSC
    investigation IAW AFI 51-1102, Cooperation with the Office of Special Counsel.
    1.10. Designate a Defense Hotline Component Coordinator to report the results of inquiries
    conducted in response to Defense Hotline referrals.
2. MAJCOM, NAF, DRU, FOA, Center, and Installation commanders and the Director, Air
National Guard will:
    2.1. Establish procedures to manage the Air Force Complaints Resolution and FWA
    Programs at their level and below.
    2.2. Appoint an independent IG for their organization who is directly responsible to the
    commander. An IG is optional at the NAF level.
AFPD90-3 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                       3


3. Subject to the right against self-incrimination and other Constitutional rights, Air Force
military and civilian members have a duty to promptly report all allegations of wrongdoing to an
appropriate supervisor or commander, the IG, an inspector, or through an established grievance
channel upon becoming aware of the matter.
4. Air Force military members will not be restricted from making a lawful communication to a
Member of Congress or an IG.
5. Air Force military members and civilian employees will not be reprised against for making
or preparing to make a protected communication.
6. Air Force military members will not be referred for a mental health evaluation without being
afforded their rights as outlined in DoDD 6490.1, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the
Armed Forces; DoDI 6490.4, Requirements for Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the
Armed Forces and AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law.




                                            MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                AFPD90-3 18 AUGUST 2009


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Section 1034, Military Whistleblower Protection Act
Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013, Secretary of the Air Force
Title 10, United States Code, Section 8020, Inspector General
DoDD 5505.06, Investigations of Allegations Against Senior Officials of the Department of
Defense, 10 Apr 2006
DoDD 6490.1, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed Forces, 1 Oct 1997
DoDD 7050.06, Military Whistleblower Protection, 23 Jul 2007
DoDI 6490.4, Requirements for Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed Forces, 28
Aug 1997
DoDI 7050.01, Defense Hotline Program, 17 Dec 2007
DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation, 1 Aug 1993
AFI 36-1201, Equal Employment Opportunity Complaints, 12 Feb 2007
AFI 36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) Program, 29 Jul 2004
AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law, 1 Mar 2000
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, 24 Sep 2007
AFI 51-1102, Cooperation with the Office of Special Counsel, 16 Jan 2009
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 15 May 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ANG—Air National Guard
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FWA—Fraud, Waste, and Abuse
IG—Inspector General
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USC—United States Code
AFPD90-3 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                               5


Terms
Abuse—Intentional, wrongful or improper use of Air Force resources. Examples include misuse
of rank, position, or authority that causes the loss or misuse of resources such as tools, vehicles,
computers, or copy machines.
Adverse Information—Information that constitutes:
1. A violation of criminal law; the UCMJ; DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER); the
Anti-Deficiency Act; DoD Directives and Instructions; Air Force Instructions; or military or
civilian personnel policies.
2. An abuse of authority, especially when an element of personal benefit accrues to the official,
a family member, or an associate.
3. Fraud, waste, and abuse or mismanagement, governed by this instruction or involving non-
appropriated funds or morale, welfare, and recreation assets, including personnel and facilities,
as governed by AFI 34-124, Air Force Morale Welfare and Recreation Advisory Board
(AFMWRAB), and AFI 34-202, Protecting Non-appropriated Funds Assets.
4. Misconduct by a medical provider requiring actions to suspend, limit, or revoke clinical
privileges, as governed by AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations.
5. Prohibited discrimination or sexual harassment as described by AFI 36-2706, Military Equal
Opportunity Program, and AFI 36-1201, Equal Employment Opportunity Complaints.
6. A matter not included above which may reflect adversely on the individual’s judgment or
exercise of authority.
Adverse Information of a Credible Nature—as defined by DoDI 1320.14, Commissioned
Officer Promotion Program Procedures and DoDI 1320.4, Military Officer Actions Requiring
Approval of the Secretary of Defense or the President, or Confirmation by the Senate and
implemented by AFPD 36-25, Military Promotion and Demotion:
Any substantiated finding or conclusion from an officially documented investigation or inquiry,
or other official record or report. Adverse information of a credible nature does not include
information that is more than 10 years old or records of minor offenses that did not result in
personal harm or significant property damage.
Fraud—Any intentional deception designed to unlawfully deprive the Air Force of something of
value or to secure from the Air Force for an individual a benefit, privilege, allowance, or
consideration to which he or she is not entitled. Such practices include, but are not limited to:
1. The offer, payment, acceptance of bribes or gratuities, or evading or corrupting inspectors or
other officials.
2. Making false statements, submitting false claims or using false weights or measures.
3. Deceit, either by suppressing the truth or misrepresenting material facts, or to deprive the Air
Force of something of value.
4. Adulterating or substituting materials, falsifying records and books of accounts.
5. Conspiring to carry out any of the above actions.
6. The term also includes conflict of interest cases, criminal irregularities, and the unauthorized
disclosure of official information relating to procurement and disposal matters.

For purposes of this instruction, the definition can include any theft or diversion of resources for
personal or commercial gain.
6                                                                AFPD90-3 18 AUGUST 2009


Investigation—A duly authorized, systematic, detailed examination to uncover the facts and
determine the truth of a matter. IG investigations are administrative in nature--they are fact
finding rather than judicial proceedings. They are not criminal proceedings in which proof
beyond a reasonable doubt is required. Rather, the standard of proof that applies is proof by a
preponderance of the evidence. Investigations require formal collection of evidence, taking
sworn testimony from complainants, witnesses and subjects, and documentation of the findings
in a Report of Investigation. An investigation is an evidence-gathering exercise to substantiate
or not substantiate an allegation.
Lawful Communication—Any communication, whether verbal or written or otherwise
transmitted, including complaints, witness statements, and testimony, which is not otherwise
unlawful.
Mental Health Evaluation (MHE)—-A clinical assessment of a service member for a mental,
physical, or personality disorder to determine the member’s mental health status and fitness for
duty. It does not include interviews under Family Advocacy programs or Air Force Drug and
Alcohol Abuse Rehabilitation programs.
Protected Communication—1. Any lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an IG.


2. A communication in which a member of the Armed Forces communicates information that
the member reasonably believes evidences a violation of law or regulation, including a law or
regulation prohibiting sexual harassment or unlawful discrimination, gross mismanagement, a
gross waste of funds or other resources, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific
danger to public health or safety, when such communication is made to any of the following:
1. Member of Congress or a member of their staff.
2. An inspector general or a member of the inspector general’s investigative staff.
3. Personnel assigned to DoD audit, inspection, investigation, law enforcement, equal
opportunity, and family advocacy organizations.
4. Any person in the member’s chain of command.
5. The Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force, Command Chiefs, and First Sergeants.
Reprisal—Reprisal is taking or threatening to take an unfavorable personnel action or
withholding or threatening to withhold a favorable personnel action on a military member for
making or preparing to make a protected communication.
Senior Officer Unfavorable Information File (SOUIF)—A SOUIF is a written summary of
adverse information pertaining to a colonel or a general officer, plus any comments from the
subject officer regarding the written summary. SOUIFs are created for use during the general
officer promotion process and exist solely for that purpose. The Secretary of the Air Force or
designee (SAF/GC) determines if a SOUIF is provided to a promotion board.
Senior Official—A Senior Official is defined as any active or retired Regular Air Force, Air
Force Reserve, or Air National Guard military officer in grades O-7 (brigadier general) select
and above; Air National Guard Colonels with a Certificate of Eligibility (COE) as senior
officials. Current or former members of the Senior Executive Service (SES) or equivalent; and
current and former Air Force civilian Presidential appointees.
AFPD90-3 18 AUGUST 2009                                                                    7


Waste—-The extravagant, careless, or needless expenditure of Air Force funds or the
consumption of Air Force property that results from deficient practices, systems controls, or
decisions. The term also includes improper practices not involving prosecutable fraud.
