BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 25-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                            8 NOVEMBER 2004

                                                                                             Logistics Staff

                                                                            WAR RESERVE MATERIEL




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILGM                                                            Certified by: HQ USAF/ILG
       (Lt Col Ricky L. Milligan)                                           (Maj Gen Craig P. Rasmussen)
Supersedes AFPD 25-1, 30 May 1995                                                                 Pages: 3
                                                                                           Distribution: F

This policy implements DoD Directive 3110.6, dated 11 September 2000 War Reserve Materiel Policy
(WRM). The USAF War Reserve Materiel (WRM) program supports our national strategy by acquiring,
positioning, and maintaining WRM to meet objectives in the Secretary of Defense Strategic Planning
Guidance (SPG) and approved implementing instructions. WRM is materiel required, in addition to pri-
mary operating stocks and deployment equipment, to support wartime activities reflected in the USAF
War and Mobilization Plan (WMP). WRM authorizations are based on supporting major combat opera-
tions (MCOs) of the defense strategy outlined in the SPG. This directive establishes the USAF WRM pro-
gram to include WRM requirements, use of WRM, and identifies responsibilities and authorities.
Munitions WRM is governed by AFPD 21-2 and AFI 21-201, Chapter 33, Management of WRM Muni-
tions (AF/XO).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
The purpose paragraph links national strategy via the SPG to the Air Force’s WRM program. Preposition
of WRM is a vital aspect of Agile Combat Support (ACS) and reduces the requirement of transportation
resources (paragraph 1.). Organizational symbols have been changed to reflect current USAF structure
(paragraph 3.). Direction of the WRM program establishes a series of executive boards and teams, which
provide oversight and ensure compliance with current directives and policy (paragraph 3.2., 3.2.1.,
3.2.2.).

1. The Air Force establishes WRM requirements based on the approved SPG planning scenarios docu-
mented in the Air Force WMP Volume 4 (WMP-4). WRM is positioned as either starter or swing stocks
to meet current threats while maximizing flexibility to support multiple theaters. Starter assets are defined
as those resources required at or near the point of intended use until air and sea lines of communication
are capable of sustaining operations. Starter quantities for each theater are determined by periods listed in
the WMP-1, Annex E, Logistics. Swing quantities are the total OPLAN/CONPLAN requirement minus
the starter quantity. WRM is an integral tenet of ACS through prepositioning and enables transportation
resources to initiate force sustainment as planned.
2                                                                     AFPD25-1 8 NOVEMBER 2004


2. WRM use is authorized for wartime. With proper approval/authorization and funding, it may be used
for small-scale contingency, noncombatant evacuation order, steady state AEF, JCS exercises and emer-
gencies. The use of WRM should be contingent upon the impact on our ability to support the National
Military Strategy. As a minimum, the critical factors such as airlift cost, operational timeliness, other
sources of support, and the ability and timeliness of reconstituting WRM assets must be considered.

3. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
    3.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Installations and Logistics (HQ USAF/IL), directs the WRM program
    and provides policy to achieve Air Force objectives for planning, programming, budgeting, acquisi-
    tion, distribution, storage, and maintenance of WRM.
    3.2. HQ USAF/ILG is the directorate responsible for development of WRM policy and coordinates
    with appropriate functional directorates to ensure WRM policy is consistent with DoD guidance. The
    Air Force WRM Executive Review Board (AFWERB), chaired by ILG, is responsible for reviewing
    the AF WRM program to ensure effective and efficient support of the SPG. The AFWERB utilizes
    two Integrated Process Teams to accomplish WRM program objectives.
       3.2.1. The War Reserve Materiel Integrated Process Team (WRMIPT) is responsible for ensuring
       the AF WRM program is capable of meeting deliberate and crisis action taskings through AF pol-
       icy guidance and programming actions. To achieve these goals, the WRMIPT evaluates the full
       range of WRM policies and procedures, including requirements determination, authorization
       allowances, acquisition strategies, allocation priorities, and prepositioning, storage and mainte-
       nance concepts.
       3.2.2. The Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources (BEAR) Integrated Process Team (BIPT) is
       responsible for ensuring AF BEAR capability meets DoD mission needs consistent with supported
       command requirements and overall AF and DOD policy and programming guidance for BEAR
       and related systems indicated in PMD 2054.
    3.3. HQ USAF functional staff directorates assist ILG, major commands (MAJCOMs), and subordi-
    nate units in managing WRM commodities within their areas of responsibility. These directorates
    ensure WRM program objectives are incorporated into their functional instructions and are compliant
    with WRM policy.
    3.4. MAJCOMs establish and manage their WRM programs IAW AF procedures and guidance.

4. This policy directive applies to personnel involved in the acquisition, management, and use of WRM.

5. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references, abbreviations, acronyms, and terms.



                                                     JAMES G. ROCHE
                                                     Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD25-1 8 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                                   3


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 3110.6, War Reserve Materiel Policy (WRM)
DoD 4500-9R, Part VI, Defense Transportation Regulation (DTR)
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-4, Operations Planning
AFPD 21-2, Nonnuclear and Nuclear Munitions
AFPD 24-3, Operations, Maintenance, and Use of Transportation Vehicles and Equipment
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 25-101, War Reserve Materiel (WRM) Program Guidance and Procedures

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFWERB—Air Force WRM Executive Review Board
BEAR—Basic Expeditionary Airfield Resources
BIPT—BEAR Integrated Process Team
MCO—Major Combat Operations
SPG—Strategic Planning Guidance
WMP—War Mobilization Plan
WRM—War Reserve Materiel
WRMIPT—WRM Integrated Process Team

Terms
Strategic Planning Guidance—The official Department of Defense (DoD) document that establishes
overall DoD strategy, policy, and programming guidance.
USAF War and Mobilization Plan—The official Air Force document that provides a consolidated
reference for policies and guidance concerning mobilization planning and support of combat forces.
War Reserve Materiel—Materiel required in addition to primary operating stocks and mobility
equipment to attain the operational objectives in the scenarios authorized for sustainability planning in the
Strategic Planning Guidance. Broad categories are consumables associated with sortie generation (to
include munitions, aircraft external fuel tanks, racks, adapters, and pylons [TRAP]); vehicles; 463L
pallets and nets; materiel handling equipment; BEAR; individual clothing and equipment; munitions,
support equipment and subsistence.
