BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 38-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              24 AUGUST 2011

                                                                   Manpower and Organization

                                                                 ORGANIZATION AND UNIT
                                                                         DESIGNATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1MO                                                                Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                          (Timothy A. Beyland)
Supersedes:   AFPD 38-1, 1 Jun 96, and                                                  Pages: 4
              AFPD 38-5, 1 Jul 96


This Directive specifies policies concerning organization of the Air Force, including designation
of units. This Directive implements statutory requirements in Title 10, United States Code,
Section 8013. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve and the Air National Guard.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Form 847s from the field through the Major Command (MAJCOM) manpower, organization and
resources division. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates policy from AFPD 38-5, Unit Designations, and changes the name of
the document from Organization to Organization and Unit Designations. Procedural guidance
from AFPD 38-5 has been incorporated into AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, and AFPD 38-
5 has been rescinded.
1. Organization.
   1.1. The Air Force must be organized to best use available resources. This requires simple,
   streamlined structures designed for seamless transition from peace to war.
 2                                                                  AFPD 38-1 24 AUGUST 2011


     1.2. The principal characteristics desired in Air Force organizations are:
        1.2.1. Mission Orientation. Organizations should have a reason to exist and should be
        designed to achieve the outcome defined in the applicable mission directive.
        1.2.2. Unambiguous Command. Organizational structure should provide a clear chain-
        of-command running from the President to the most junior Airman.
        1.2.3. Decentralization. Organizations should be designed so lower echelons can achieve
        objectives without needing continuous control from above.
        1.2.4. Agility. Organizations should be structured so personnel can recognize problems,
        find solutions, make decisions, and implement them quickly.
        1.2.5. Flexibility. Organizations should be capable of adapting rapidly to changing
        external circumstances.
        1.2.6. Simplicity. Organizational structure should be as plain and straightforward as
        possible because complexity often inhibits rather than facilitates organizational
        effectiveness.
        1.2.7. Standardization. Organizations with like responsibilities should have similar
        organizational structures.
2. Unit Designations.
     2.1. Mission Orientation. Assign a unit a designation that describes its assigned mission.
     2.2. Standardization. Use standard organization titles when possible. Organizations with
     like responsibilities should have like nomenclature.
     2.3. Simplicity. Keep unit designations short and simple. Use more specific nomenclature
     at lower organizational levels, but keep the number of different titles to a minimum.
     2.4. Heritage. Heritage is an important element in unit prestige, pride, and morale. It,
     therefore, impacts readiness and operational effectiveness. The Air Force regularly activates
     and inactivates units as a result of force structure and organizational changes. Throughout
     this process, we must take care to preserve those units with the richest heritage by keeping
     them in active status. This may require transferring a unit designation from one location to
     another.
     2.5. Priorities. Use the following priorities to assign unit numerical designations for wings,
     independent groups, and operational squadrons. Give:
        2.5.1. First priority to preserving units that trace their heritage to the original (pre-1939)
        Air Force formations.
        2.5.2. Second priority to units with records of unique historical achievements.
        2.5.3. Third priority to units which have gained the most years of service, unit
        decorations, and specific accomplishments.
     2.6. Dependent groups and support squadrons use the same number as their parent
     organizations, when possible.
AFPD 38-1 24 AUGUST 2011                                                                        3


3. Responsibilities. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
   3.1. The Secretary of the Air Force is responsible for organizing the Air Force. The Deputy
   Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1), under the direction of the Chief
   of Staff, discharges this responsibility which includes:
       3.1.1. Designating Air Force organizations.
       3.1.2. Exercising control over the configuration of all organizational structures from
       MAJCOM headquarters down to flights at base level.
       3.1.3. Reviewing all proposals to designate Air Force units, certifying compliance with
       guidelines and obtaining approval for any exceptions.
       3.1.4. Issuing related guidance and procedures for functions falling within the AF/A1
       purview.
   3.2. Headquarters United States Air Force and the MAJCOM, field operating agency and
   direct reporting unit Chiefs of Manpower, Organization and Resources (and equivalent
   positions) follow the policies in this Directive and the associated guidance in AFI 38-101, Air
   Force Organization.
   3.3. The Air Force Historical Research Agency maintains, updates, and distributes annual
   master heritage rankings of Air Force wings and operational squadrons based on the
   priorities in paragraph 2.5.




                                             MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                         AFPD 38-1 24 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 16 Mar 11
Title 10 United States Code Section 8013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
MAJCOM—Major Command
