BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   23 JULY 2013

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                           GENERAL CIVILIAN PERSONNEL
                                                             PROVISIONS AND AUTHORITI

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1PC                                                Certified by: AF/A1P (Mr. John Park)
                                                                                        Pages: 4
Supersedes:    AFPD 36-1, 7 MARCH 1995


This publication implements the requirements of Title 5, United States Code, sections 301 and
302, and Title 10, United States Code, chapter 803, as it pertains to the civilian personnel of the
Department of the Air Force. It implements and complies with Department of Defense Directive
(DoDD) 1400.5, DoD Policy for Civilian Personnel and DoDD 1400.25, DoD Civilian
Personnel Management System. This directive establishes the basic policies for implementing,
controlling, and assessing civilian personnel programs. It applies to Air Force Title 5 employees,
Air Force Reserve employees, and Air National Guard employees. It does not apply to Title 32
Air National Guard technicians. In collaboration with the Chief of the Air Force Reserve
(AF/RE), the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), and the Assistant Secretary of the
Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR), the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air
Force, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) develops personnel policy for civilian
personnel programs.

This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974, authorized by sections 1104, 3321, 4305, and 5405 of Title 5, United States
Code, and Executive Order 12107. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                    AFPD 36-1 23 JULY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Recent changes to this publication include changes to delete metrics and update organizational
changes, reference information, acronyms, and addresses appointing authority for combatant
commands.
1. Overview
     1.1. Superior civilian personnel management enables Air Force commanders, managers, and
     employees to work together effectively in fulfilling national defense objectives. The Air
     Force will administer a civilian personnel program, based on the authority granted by Title
     10, United States Code, chapter 803, Department of the Air Force.
     1.2. The Secretary of the Air Force is granted authority under Title 5, United States Code,
     chapter 3, Powers, sections 301 and 302, to prescribe regulations for the government of the
     Department and the conduct of its employees. The Secretary of the Air Force is vested with
     authority to take final action on matters pertaining to the employment, direction, and general
     administration of civilian personnel under the agency. The authority to appoint, promote,
     reassign, discipline, demote, detail, compensate, and separate employees paid from
     appropriated funds is known as the appointing authority. This authority rests with the
     Secretary of the Air Force who delegates it to the installation commander or equivalent as the
     appointing official.
     1.3. In accordance with DoDD 5100.03, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and
     Subordinate Unified Commands, the Secretary of the Air Force has delegating appointing
     authority for: Headquarters (HQ) U.S. Central Command; HQ U.S. Special Operations
     Command; HQ U.S. Element, North American Aerospace Defense Command; HQ U.S.
     Northern Command; HQ U.S. Strategic Command; HQ U.S. Cyber Command; and HQ U.S.
     Transportation Command.
2. Policy. The Air Force shall provide civilian personnel management programs and systems
consistent with merit system principles and sound business methods to ensure that prohibited
personnel practices are avoided. These policies apply to all employees of the Department of the
Air Force covered by Title 5, United States Code.
     2.1. The civilian work environment will promote personnel development, motivation, and
     retention through effective recruitment and placement, fair treatment, and encouragement of
     the use of alternative dispute resolution.
     2.2. The Air Force will implement civilian personnel management laws and Office of
     Personnel Management, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and Department of
     Defense regulations, directives, and instructions.
     2.3. The Air Force will use evaluation programs to ensure compliance with civilian
     personnel management and administration laws and public policy.
     2.4. Air Force employees will be serviced by the Air Force civilian personnel section (CPS)
     nearest to the owning organization. There will be only one CPS per Air Force base.
     Personnel services provided to other agencies must be documented by an interagency
     personnel servicing agreement.
AFPD 36-1 23 JULY 2013                                                                            3


   2.5. The Air Force will support and promote federal executive boards, consistent with DoD
   Instruction (DoDI) 5030.54, Federal Executive Boards.
3. Responsibilities. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities.
   3.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
   serves as an agent of the Secretary of the Air Force and provides guidance, direction, and
   oversight for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of plans,
   policies, programs, and budgets addressing civilian personnel management and
   administration as described in HQ Air Force Mission Directive (HAF MD) 1-24.
   3.2. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1), in collaboration
   with the Chief of the Air Force Reserve (USAF/RE) and the Director of the Air National
   Guard (NGB/CF), develops, coordinates, and executes civilian personnel policy and
   approves essential procedural guidance for management of civilian personnel programs as
   described in HAF MD 1-32.
   3.3. Installation commanders, or civilian leader equivalent, who serve as the delegated
   appointing official with appointing authority are responsible through the appropriate major
   command, the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), and/or CPS for ensuring:
       3.3.1. Managers and supervisors know and adhere to the directives for civilian personnel
       programs;
       3.3.2. Effective civilian personnel programs maintain proper balance of all civilian
       personnel functions;
       3.3.3. All personnel actions are authorized and comply with legal, policy, and procedural
       requirements;
       3.3.4. The local personnel program is managed according to command allocated
       resources.
   3.4. The Department of the Air Force, as the combatant command support agent, will
   provide administrative support to the combatant commands listed in Paragraph 1.3.




                                              MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                                  AFPD 36-1 23 JULY 2013


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 5, United States Code, chapter 3, Powers
Title 10, United States Code, chapter 803, Department of the Air Force
DoD Directive 1400.5, DoD Policy for Civilian Personnel, January 12, 2005
DoD Directive 5100.03, Support of the Headquarters of Combatant and Subordinate Unified
Commands, February 9, 2011
HAF MD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), March
2007
HAF MD 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower and Personnel, March 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPS—civilian personnel section
DoD—Department of Defense
OPM—Office of Personnel Management

Terms
Appointing authority— The legal or regulatory basis on which a specific appointment may be
made to a federal civilian position.
Appointing official ‒—A person having the authority, by law or by duly delegated authority, to
appoint, employ, or promote individuals to positions in an agency.
Civilian leader ‒—Civilian leading an organization designated as a unit.
