BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 40-6
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   11 JUNE 2014

                                                                                          Medical

                                                   EDUCATIONAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL
                                                            INTERVENTION SERVICES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFMOA/SGHW                                                              Certified by: AF/SG
                                                                      (Lt Gen Thomas W. Travis)
Supersedes:    AFPD40-6, 30 June 2006                                                    Pages: 6


This publication implements policies that Air Force Educational and Developmental Intervention
Services (EDIS) will use to ensure the highest standards of practice and care are applied to all
aspects of intervention for eligible children with disabilities and their families. It implements
DoD Instruction 1342.12, Provision of Early Intervention and Special Education Services to
Eligible DoD Dependents, April 11, 2005. Public Law, DoD issuances, and Air Force
publications provide overarching policy and guidance for the management and safeguarding of
health care information. The authority to collect and maintain these records is prescribed in Title
10, United States Code, Section 8013, System of Records Notice F044 AF SG U, Special Needs
and Educational and Developmental Intervention Services (EDIS) and is available at
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule as implemented by DoD 6025.18-R, DoD Health Information
Privacy Regulation, Jan 2003 publications provide overarching policy and guidance for the
management, safeguarding, use, and disclosure of information collected or created. DoD
Directive 5400.7, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program, January 2, 2008, applies to the
disclosure of health care information to the public. It applies to Active Duty members and their
families. It also applies to Air National Guard and Reserve Component members eligible to
receive care in a Military Treatment Facility (MTF).

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                      AFPD40-6 11 JUNE 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Recent changes to this publication include removal of information better suited to the EDIS
Practice Standards.
1. Overview. DoD Instruction 1342.12 dictates that the military services ensure children with
disabilities receive services. EDIS ensures the provision of services that are needed by eligible
beneficiaries to benefit from a Free Appropriate Public Education, where education is provided
directly by the Department of Defense. The Department of Defense Dependent Schools
(DoDDS), the Department of Defense Domestic Dependents Elementary and Secondary Schools
(DDESS), and the military services work cooperatively to provide special education and Related
Services (RS) to school-age children with disabilities. Early Intervention Services (EIS) are
provided to eligible infants and toddlers with disabilities and their families through EDIS.
Eligibility is determined for related services and early intervention services for the children of
military and federal employees in accordance with (IAW) DoD Instruction 1342.26, Eligibility
Requirements for Minor Dependents to Attend Department of Defense Domestic Dependent
Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS), March 4, 1997, and Department of Defense
Education Activity (DoDEA) Regulation 1342.13, Eligibility Requirements for Education of
Elementary and Secondary School-age Dependents in Overseas Areas, Change 2, February 29,
2008. Geographical Areas of Responsibility for each Service’s provision of EDIS is determined
by Health Affairs.
2. Policy. It is Air Force policy that:
     2.1. Air Force EDIS clinics will provide evaluations and on-going services as set forth in
     DoD Instruction 1342.12, this AFPD, and implementing AF instructions/manuals.
     2.2. Military Treatment Facilities (MTFs) with designated EDIS clinics will provide EDIS
     services to eligible beneficiaries using the same priority of care as other health services that
     are granted to Active Duty members. Air Force EDIS clinics include the following services
     to eligible beneficiaries:
        2.2.1. EIS are provided to infants and toddlers (from birth to 3 years of age) with
        disabilities and their families. Disabilities also include those conditions having a high
        probability of developmental delays. EIS are provided by EDIS clinics allied with
        DoDDS and DDESS as specified on an Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP).
        2.2.2. RS: Children, ages 3 through 21, enrolled in DoDDS, will receive RS from EDIS
        as specified on an Individualized Education Program (IEP).
3. Responsibilities. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
     3.1. The Assistant Secretary (Manpower & Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MR) provides oversight
     of EDIS policy and guidance.
     3.2. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) ensures the development of policies, detailed
     guidance, and may further direct/delegate authority to fully implement DoDI 1342.12 and the
     Air Force EDIS policy above.
AFPD40-6 11 JUNE 2014                                                                              3


4. This policy applies to all military and civilian beneficiaries who are entitled to receive care in
an MTF, as well as eligible DoD family members entitled to EIS, RS, and special education
services IAW DoDI 1342.12.




                                              DEBORAH L. JAMES
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                                AFPD40-6 11 JUNE 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5400.7, DoD Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program, January 2, 2008
DoDEA Regulation 1342.13, Eligibility Requirements for Education of Elementary and
Secondary School age Dependents in Overseas Areas, change 2, February 29, 2008
DoDI 1342.12, Provision of Early Intervention and Special Education Services to Eligible DoD
Dependents, April 11, 2005
DoDI 1342.26, Eligibility Requirements for Minor Dependents to Attend Department of Defense
Domestic Dependent Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS), March 4, 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 01, 2008
Health Affairs Policy Memorandum, “Geographic Areas of Responsibility for the Provision of
Early Intervention and Medically Related Services”, May 2004
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Management System
DDESS—Department of Defense Domestic Dependents Elementary and Secondary Schools
DOD—Department of Defense
DODDS—Department of Defense Dependent Schools
EDIS—Educational and Developmental Intervention Services
EIS—Early Intervention Services
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
HIPAA—Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
IAW—In Accordance With
IEP—Individualized Educational Program
IFSP—Individualized Family Service Plan
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
AFPD40-6 11 JUNE 2014                                                                            5


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RS—Related Services

Terms
Defense Domestic Elementary and Secondary Schools (DDESS)—For the purposes of this
instruction, schools (grades K-12) operated by Department of Defense within the continental
United States (CONUS).
Department of Defense Dependent Schools (DoDDS)—For the purposes of this instruction,
schools (grades K – 12) operated by the Department of Defense outside the continental United
States (OCONUS), to include Alaska, Hawaii, and U.S. territories.
Developmental Delay—Significant discrepancies in the actual functioning of a child, ages birth
through five, when compared to the functioning of a nondisabled, same chronically-aged child.
Disability—A short-term or permanent problem, a condition, or a condition having a high
probability for developmental delay that impacts a child’s learning or accomplishing in the same
ways as most other students.
Early Intervention Services (EIS)—Services provided by the EIS component of EDIS may
include: early childhood special education, occupational therapy, physical therapy, speech-
language/communication therapy, audiology, nursing, social work, and transportation to services
where natural environments are not conducive to service provision. Family training, counseling,
early identification, screening, assessment and service coordination activities across all
specialties are emphasized. Assistive technology devices and services are included. Other
medical services that may be provided to support evaluation and consultation functions include
developmental pediatrics, child psychology, and child psychiatry. To the greatest extent possible,
EIS are provided to the child and the family in natural environments.
Education and Developmental Intervention Services (EDIS)—The name for separate
programs operated by the military services that provide EIS to infants and toddlers (birth through
two years of age) and RS to children (three to 21 years of age).
High Probability for Developmental Delay—A child, ages birth to three, with a diagnosed
mental or physical condition, that places the child at substantial risk of having a developmental
delay without the aid of EIS.
Individualized Education Program (IEP)—The IEP is a document developed by the Case
Study Committee and contains input from parents, teachers, and RS providers. The IEP defines
specially designed instruction for a student with a disability. Intensity, frequency, location, and
methodology of service delivery are specified.
Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP)—The IFSP is a multidisciplinary-written document
that ensures each eligible child and family has a plan for EIS to meet their unique needs through
a collaborative partnership between the family and providers. Areas to be addressed include:
cognitive, physical, social and emotional, communication, and adaptive development with
particular focus on each family’s goals and social context.
 6                                                                    AFPD40-6 11 JUNE 2014


Related Services (RS)—Supportive services needed to assist a child, age 3 through 21 years,
inclusive, to benefit from special education. These services may include occupational therapy,
physical therapy, audiology and speech-language/communication therapy, orientation and
mobility services, recreation including therapeutic recreation, school health services, school
psychology, school social work services, parent counseling and parent training. If the need for
additional services is determined, EDIS providers will refer to military treatment facility (MTF)
specialties. Early identification of disabilities, service coordination across providers involving
families, and support of educational achievement are emphasized. To the maximum extent
possible, RS are provided in the least restrictive environment.
