BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                             AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 34-1
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           2 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                        Services

                                                                      AIR FORCE SERVICES



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A1SR                                                               Certified by: AF/A1
                                                           (Lieutenant General Darrell D. Jones)
Supersedes:   AFPD 34-1, 1 November 1997;                                               Pages: 8
              AFPD 34-4, 27 December 1993;
              AFPD 34-6, 22 July 1993;
              AFPD 34-7, 4 October 1993;
              AFPD 34-8, 20 September 1993


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) provides policy for Air Force Services programs. It
implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 5030.56, DoD Consumer Affairs
Program, DoDI 1015.10, Military Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) Programs, DoDI
1015.11, Lodging Policy, DoDI 6060.2, Child Development Programs (CDPS), DoDI 6060.3,
School Age Care (SAC) Program (DFSP), DoDI 6060.4, Youth Programs (YPS), DoDI 1338.10,
Department of Defense Food Service Program and DoDI 1402.5, Criminal History Background
Checks on Individuals in Child Care Services. This directive applies to all Air Force, Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve units and personnel. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route Air Force Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
Air          Force        Records          Disposition       Schedule         located          at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This policy directive has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This
policy directive has been changed from focusing solely on the wartime or contingency operations
 2                                                               AFPD34-1 2 NOVEMBER 2012


of the Air Force Services community to policy to support all Services programs regarding
contingency and wartime operations, Consumer Affairs, MWR, Lodging, Child and Youth,
Family Member, Fitness and Food programs. Since the management of the force support
readiness capability is centralized, this policy directive provides the foundational guidance for
Services programs to support the garrison and deployable mission support to the Warfighter.
Services programs are part of the Force Support Squadron.
1. Overview. Services programs are designed to deliver capabilities both garrison and deployed
to support global Combatant Commanders. Programs are structured under the Agile Combat
Support structure which ensures core functions are organized, trained, equipped and resourced to
meet the mission needs for wartime, expeditionary, home station quality of life and mission
sustaining requirements.
     1.1. Services will establish and operate customer-driven MWR programs as determined by
     periodic market research for the benefit of authorized patrons.
     1.2. Services will ensure the needs and interests of consumers shall be considered and
     addressed in the formulation of policies.
     1.3. Services will have policies established to provide quality lodging facilities and services
     primarily for Air Force personnel and other authorized patrons to ensure mission readiness.
     1.4. Services will establish Child Development and Youth programs to support mission
     readiness, family readiness, retention and morale of the total force during peacetime,
     overseas, contingency operations, periods of force structure change, relocation of military
     units, base realignments and closure, crisis, and other emergency situations.
     1.5. Services will manage a high quality, cost efficient, demand driven food service program
     that emphasizes health, safety and most importantly readiness. Responsiveness to mission
     requirements and customer demands, within reasonable needs, will determine the extent of
     the program.
     1.6. Services will develop and manage programs to ensure Airman and Family Readiness.
     This program responds to the needs of Airmen and their families to ensure overall force
     preparedness. This capability also ensures critical support during Noncombatant Evacuation
     Operations as well as contingency and installation incident response. Airman and family
     readiness provides support for deployed members at forward locations.
     1.7. Services will establish Fitness programs to ensure overall force readiness and
     preparedness. Programs are driven by both market research and unit level fitness programs
     to prepare units for global contingency and wartime missions.
2. Air Force Policy.
     2.1. MWR Programs. The Air Force will provide MWR programs that are critical to the
     quality of life for Airmen and their families. It is DoD policy that the DoD Components
     establish MWR programs to maintain individual, family, and mission readiness during
     peacetime and in time of declared war or other contingencies.
        2.1.1. Services will provide MWR programs to all authorized customers without regard
        to their sex, age, national origin, disability or genetic information and not for the purpose
        of competing with commercial providers of similar services.
AFPD34-1 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                      3


     2.1.2. Services will provide the DoD installation community with access to programs
     similar to those available in a comparable civilian community.
     2.1.3. Services will provide a sense of community and foster positive individual values
     to aid in recruitment and retention of personnel through MWR programs.
     2.1.4. Services will ensure MWR programs receive funding at the same level as other
     community support programs. MWR programs shall be resourced from either
     appropriated funds, nonappropriated funds, or a combination of both consistent with DoD
     funding standards.
     2.1.5. Services shall consider the needs and interests of consumers and encourage active
     participation.
  2.2. Private Organizations. Services will establish guidelines for authorizing and operating
  Private Organizations on an Air Force installation in accordance with Air Force Instruction
  (AFI) 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program.
  2.3. Lodging. Services will establish and operate customer-driven lodging programs as
  determined by market analysis.
     2.3.1. The lodging program will include temporary duty (TDY) and permanent change of
     station (PCS), and recreational lodging facilities.
     2.3.2. Services will upgrade, renovate, and improve facilities, furnishings and equipment
     using a whole-room approach developed and maintained in accordance with funding
     authorities, funding capabilities and recapitalization schedules as approved in the current
     Air Force Lodging room rates package.
     2.3.3. Services will establish programs to provide coordinated and timely meal and
     lodging services to transient aircrews. Such services will provide adequate conditions for
     crew rest and will maintain aircrew integrity by lodging individual aircrews collectively,
     either in on-base or-off base quarters.
     2.3.4. Services, when possible, will provide separate sleeping and bathroom
     accommodations for unaccompanied males and females. However, when separate
     accommodations are not available (during contingencies, exercises, and deployments),
     mission exigencies may necessitate temporary partitions, joint use of bathrooms, or other
     privacy safeguards between males and females.
     2.3.5. Services will ensure maximum use of on-base quarters is required before using
     commercial contract quarters for official TDY military members on per diem.
     Commercial contract quarters will be used, where available, before issuing certificates of
     non-availability.
     2.3.6. Services will ensure temporary lodging facilities are operated primarily to provide
     temporary housing to Military members and DoD Civilians on official business (TDY or
     PCS).
  2.4. Child Development Centers, School-Age Care and Youth Programs. Services will
  assist DoD military and civilian personnel in balancing the competing demands for the
  accomplishment of the DoD mission and family life by managing and delivering a system of
4                                                              AFPD34-1 2 NOVEMBER 2012


    quality, available, and affordable programs and services for eligible children and youth birth
    through 18 years of age.
       2.4.1. Services will establish child development, school age care and youth programs
       that promote the social, emotional, physical, and cognitive development through
       programs and services that recognize differences in children/youth and encourage self-
       confidence, curiosity, creativity, self-discipline, and resilience.
       2.4.2. Services will ensure that funding is available to meet Military Child Care Act
       requirements pursuant to sections 1791 to 1800 of Title 10, United States Code, and
       protect the health, safety, and well-being of children in care.
       2.4.3. Services will conduct an internal certification process to ensure that all Child and
       Youth Programs are operating in accordance with all applicable Federal mandates.
       2.4.4. Services will certify only qualified Family Child Care providers who can support
       the mission requirements of the installation.
       2.4.5. Services will promote the early identification and reporting of alleged child abuse
       and neglect in Air Force Child and Youth Programs in accordance with AFPD 40-3,
       Family Advocacy Program.
       2.4.6. Services will establish a standardized and comprehensive process for screening
       applicants for positions involving child care services on DoD installations and in DoD
       activities.
    2.5. Food Service. Services will provide the highest quality and cost-effective food service
    to authorized military and civilian personnel.
       2.5.1. APF food service operations will exercise fiscal responsibility in day-to-day
       management. The Air Force standard requires operations to keep food costs within plus
       or minus three percent of their monthly earned income.
       2.5.2. Services will provide healthy food choices in APF dining facilities in accordance
       with AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion.
    2.6. Fitness. Services will provide programs that support overall force readiness and
    preparedness in accordance with AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program.
       2.6.1. Services will ensure fitness programs are designed to support the Air Force
       Fitness Program to maintain an overall fit force. Programs are designed to support
       individual fitness as well as unit fitness programs.
    2.7. Services Contingency Operations. Services will provide capabilities to support the
    core functions for the Warfighters and Combatant Commanders.
       2.7.1. Services teams will provide fitness and recreation programs to help maintain
       physical conditioning and overall physical and mental wellness at a level necessary to
       meet the rigors of the contingency environment, and to promote esprit-de-corps.
           2.7.1.1. Services teams will design, monitor, maintain programming, procure
           equipment and ensure cleanliness through sanitation for fitness and sports programs.
           These programs support the mission ensuring Airmen are fit to fight.
AFPD34-1 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                     5


     2.7.2. Services teams are responsible for establishing lodging and laundry operations at
     deployed locations. Teams will create flexible space and facility plans to meet emerging
     mission needs that can rapidly change when portions of the population depart from the
     deployed location.
        2.7.2.1. Services will provide lodging services to satisfy requirements contained in
        the operational plans of the Combatant Commander. Expeditionary combat support
        programs at the Air Force, Major Command (MAJCOM), and base levels will
        organize and train Services military personnel for contingency combat support roles.
     2.7.3. Food service operations will provide meals while operating from a variety of
     facilities using commercial grade or field feeding equipment or a combination of both.
     Flight feeding operations will be provided at locations with aircraft missions. Hospital
     feeding is required for patients and regular and therapeutic flight meals are required for
     medical air evacuees.
        2.7.3.1. Services will provide trained food service teams capable of responding to
        contingency and wartime operations while satisfying requirements contained in the
        operational plans of the warfighting Combatant Commander. Mobility programs at
        the Air Force, MAJCOM, and installation levels will organize and train Services
        personnel.
        2.7.3.2. Services teams will provide feeding operations in a variety of environments
        including tactical situations. Feeding operations procure, receive, inspect, store,
        sanitize, prepare, serve and dispose of food items. Flexible ration, equipment and
        preparation processes allow food service teams to deliver high quality meals
        anywhere globally from small special operations units to large joint-force bases with
        multiple operational missions.
     2.7.4. Services will provide mortuary support in accordance with AFPD 34-5, Mortuary
     Affairs. The Air Force Mortuary Affairs Program provides support across the full range
     of military operations including collection, recovery, storage, preparation, transport and
     internment.
     2.7.5. Services will assist with hosting official functions in accordance with AFPD 34-
     12, Air Force Protocol. Hosting official functions is the ability to plan, schedule,
     coordinate and conduct functions such as ceremonies, conferences, social events, and
     visits based on codes of traditional military, diplomatic, and official precedence,
     courtesy, custom, and etiquette.
     2.7.6. Services will provide recreation, entertainment, and resale operations to allow for
     Airmen regeneration.
        2.7.6.1. Services will provide avenues for members to purchase essential items
        through the use of the Army and Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES) and
        nonappropriated fund activities. To execute these programs deployed Services teams
        procure, plan and track budgeting and funding requirements and maintain internal and
        external resource controls.
        2.7.6.2. Deployed Services teams will design, balance (schedule based on mission),
        market, plan for funding and procure items necessary for the recreation programs.
 6                                                              AFPD34-1 2 NOVEMBER 2012


        2.7.7. Services will provide military and family support through Airman and Family
        Readiness Centers in accordance with AFI 36-3009, Airman and Family Readiness
        Centers. Services will also provide programs that support Airman Resiliency.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
     provides policy oversight and program advocacy.
     3.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1):
        3.2.1. Prepares, reviews and revises Services policy and advocates for resources to
        sustain Services operations.
        3.2.2. Establishes written guidance and procedures to implement the policy in this
        directive.
        3.2.3. Extends or suspends use privileges, and enforces priority eligibility criteria, based
        on availability of programs, fiscal constraints, discipline, and mission needs.
        3.2.4. Identifies an office to serve as the liaison on issues between AAFES and the
        Defense Commissary Agency.
        3.2.5. Is the delegated authority on Air Force lodging policy and resource matters as
        described in Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAFMD) 1-32, Deputy Chief of
        Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services. The AF/A1 directs MAJCOM
        compliance when field programs operate outside acceptable parameters.




                                              Michael B. Donley
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD34-1 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 34-5, Mortuary Affairs, 22 July 1993
AFPD 34-12, Air Force Protocol, 28 October 2012
AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion, 17 December 2009
AFPD 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 6 December 2011
AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, 8 March 2007
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, 1 July 2010
AFI 36-3009, Airman and Family Readiness Centers, 18 January 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDI 1015.10, Military Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) Programs, 6 July 2009
DoDI 1015.11, Lodging Policy, 6 October 2006
DoDI 1338.10, Department of Defense Food Service Program (DFSP), 12 September 2012
DoDI 1402.5, Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals in Child Care Services, 19
January 1993
DoDI 5030.56, DoD Consumer Affairs Program, 17 July 2012
DoDI 6060.2, Child Development Programs (CDPS), 19 January 1993
DoDI 6060.3, School Age Care (SAC) Program, 19 December 1996
DoDI 6060.4, Youth Programs (YPS), 23 August 2004
HAFMD 1-32, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force, Manpower, Personnel and Services, 1 July
2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Services
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
APF—Appropriated Funds
DoD—Department of Defense
 8                                                             AFPD34-1 2 NOVEMBER 2012


DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
HAFMD—Headquarters Mission Directive
MAJCOM—Major Command
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RIBS—Readiness in Base Services
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
PCS Lodging— Quality lodging facilities and services to meet the needs of active duty members
and their families who are in a PCS status and normally include kitchen facilities.
Private Organization (PO)— POs are self-sustaining special interest groups, set up by people
acting exclusively outside the scope of any official capacity as officers, employees, or agents of
the Federal Government. They operate on AF installations with the written consent of the
installation commander.
TDY Lodging— The primary source of quality lodging facilities and services for TDY
personnel and is used if the lodging meets minimum DoD lodging standards and is available for
occupancy.
