BY ORDER OF THE                                               AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 32-60
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                       16 SEPTEMBER 2005
                                                                    Certified Current 10 November 2009
                                                                                       Civil Engineering

                                                                                               HOUSING




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILEH (Ms. Connie Lotfi)                                       Certified by: HQ USAF/ILEH
                                                                                   (Col Bobbie L. Griffin)
Supersedes AFPD 32-60, 29 July 1994                                                              Pages: 4
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This policy implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 4165.63, DoD Housing, 8 January 2005.
It provides policy for establishing and operating a government-controlled housing program. It does not
apply to the Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard. Policy for transit housing is in Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 34-6, Air Force Lodging.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This AFPD is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
This revision updates and incorporates key policies for housing management, reliance first on the commu-
nity for housing, Air Force-wide methodology to determine housing requirements, design and construc-
tion criteria, Housing Community Profile (HCP), Family Housing Master Plan (FHMP), Dormitory
Master Plan (DMP) and the Privatized Housing Program, and strengthens requirements to carry out Air
Force housing programs within established congressional limits.

1. This directive establishes responsibilities for managing Air Force family and unaccompanied housing
programs and establishes policies to ensure personnel and their families and eligible civilians have access
to excellent housing facilities and services generally reflecting contemporary living standards.

2. The Air Force will:
   2.1. Use the Air Force Housing Requirements and Market Analysis (HRMA) methodology to deter-
   mine housing requirements and rely on the local community first to house personnel and their fami-
   lies; where the local community cannot meet housing requirements, provide adequate housing, with
   priority to military necessity; and dispose of housing in excess of requirements or when uneconomi-
   cal to repair.
   2.2. Design and construct housing that conforms to established criteria and standards defined in law,
   DoD policy and Air Force directives, incorporate whole-house standards, improve livability, correct
   deficiencies, and protect and conserve energy.
2                                                                    AFPD32-60 16 SEPTEMBER 2005


    2.3. Develop and maintain an HCP at each installation where housing is not privatized. The Air Force
    created the FHMP and DMP as roadmaps for planning and programming investment, operations and
    maintenance (O&M) and privatization. Annual execution of housing programs require expeditious
    award of investment projects.
    2.4. Within established limits, operate and maintain cost-effective housing in good condition to
    reduce expenses and prevent facilities from deteriorating. The level of maintenance on each housing
    unit will be sufficient to protect the Air Force capital investment and to conserve operating costs.
    2.5. Institute rigorous controls to carry out housing O&M and capital investment programs within
    established congressional limits. HCPs and requirements validation will conform to the Air Force
    Installation and Facilities Strategic Plan [AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, and Air Force
    Instruction (AFI) 32-1001, Operations Management].
    2.6. Comply with the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996, which established the
    Military Housing Privatization Initiative (MHPI). The MHPI authorizes the military services to lever-
    age resources to obtain private sector capital and expertise to operate, manage, maintain, improve,
    renovate and construct housing (for families and unaccompanied personnel) on or near military instal-
    lations in the United States (10 U.S.C. 2871).
    2.7. Maintain established standards of occupancy through equitable distribution, efficient manage-
    ment and operation of Air Force-controlled housing.

3. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
    3.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE) estab-
    lishes housing policy, provides broad policy and performance oversight and is the principle represen-
    tative and advocate with the Office of the Secretary of Defense, federal agencies and Congress.
    3.2. The Office of the Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/ILE) develops and executes family and unaccompa-
    nied housing programs.
    3.3. Major command and installation commanders identify requirements, establish and execute hous-
    ing programs to comply with this directive.

4. Secretary of the Air Force approval is required to change, reissue or rescind this directive.



                                                Pete Geren
                                                Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD32-60 16 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                         3


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law
Title 10, United States Code, Section 1147, Use of Military Housing
Title 10, United States Code, Section 2775, Liability of Members Assigned to Military Housing
Title 10, United States Code, Section 2871-2885, Alternative Authority for Acquisition and Improvement
of Military Housing
DoD Publications
DoD Directive 4165.63, DoD Housing, 8 January 2005
DoD 4165.63-M, DoD Housing Management, 3 September 1991
Air Force Publications
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities
AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management
AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management
AFI 32-6002, Family Housing Planning, Programming, Design and Construction
AFI 32-6003, General Officer Quarters
AFI 32-6004, Furnishings Management
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management
AFI 32-6007, Privatized Family Housing
Miscellaneous
Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Volume 1, Uniformed Service Members

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DMP—Dormitory Master Plan
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
FH—Family Housing
FHMP—Family Housing Master Plan
4                                                                    AFPD32-60 16 SEPTEMBER 2005


HCP—Housing Community Profile
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
HQ USAF/ILE—Office of The Civil Engineer
HQ USAF/ILEH—Office of The Civil Engineer, Housing Division
MHPI—Military Housing Privatization Initiative
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
SAF/IE—Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment and Logistics)
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Adequate Housing—Government quarters for which Basic Allowance for Housing is forfeited when
assigned.
Family Housing (FH)—Government owned, leased and acquired dwellings used as a residence for
eligible military and civilian members and their families.
Inadequate Housing (as defined by OSD)—Any housing unit requiring whole-house improvement or
replacement as identified by the services condition assessments, typically exceeding a per-unit cost of
$50,000 adjusted by the area cost factor. Services condition assessments utilize private sector housing
industry construction codes and sizing standards as a basis for assessing inventory adequacy.
Installation Commander—The senior installation commander responsible for housing, referred to as the
“commander.”
Privatized Housing (PH)—Housing typically owned and operated by a private or public entity other
than the Service concerned and which is intended primarily to meet housing requirements for the service
members concerned. The projects used to acquire, construct or operate this type of housing use any of the
authorities under the National Defense Authorization Act of 1996, Subtitle A, Title XXVIII (Public Law
104-106), of government direct loans (debt transactions), loan guarantees, investments in nongovernment
entities (equity transactions), rental guarantees, differential lease payments, conveyance or lease of
existing property and facilities, interim leases, use of market standards for unit size and type, inclusion of
ancillary supporting facilities and assignment of members to PH units.
