BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-11
AIR FORCE                                                                                  2 AUGUST 1993

                                                                                                   Personnel

                                                             CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL
                                                                          MANAGEMENT SYSTEM



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR:    HQ USAF/DPCR                                    Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC (Mr P.L. Schittulli)
       (Ms Charlene M. Bradley)                                                             Pages: 5
                                                                                     Distribution: F




1. The Air Force depends on a superior work force to gather and process intelligence information for ful-
filling its mission in support of national defense, national security, and national objectives. This directive
establishes Air Force policy for recruiting, developing, and retaining a quality civilian intelligence work
force.

2. The Air Force will recruit, develop, and retain qualified intelligence personnel through flexible, sim-
plified personnel management procedures.

3. The Air Force will involve intelligence functional management in the Civilian Intelligence Personnel
Management System (CIPMS) at all levels.

4. The Air Force will use CIPMS compensation provisions of classification, recruitment incentives, and
performance recognition to establish varied and competitive compensation options for its employees.

5. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
   5.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, Installations and Envi-
   ronment (SAF/MI) is responsible for civilian personnel policy matters as described in Air Force Pol-
   icy Directive 90-1, Strategic Planning and Policy Formulation, paragraph 1.5.2. SAF/MI approval is
   required before this document is changed, reissued, or rescinded.
   5.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel (HQ USAF/DP) develops, coordinates, and executes per-
   sonnel policy and approves essential procedural guidance for management of the CIPMS.
   5.3. The Air Force Director of Civilian Personnel (HQ USAF/DPC) provides policy guidance, direc-
   tion, and leadership for CIPMS personnel matters.
   5.4. The Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence (ACS/I) provides policy guidance, direction, and lead-
   ership for functional issues related to CIPMS.
2                                                                        AFPD36-11 2 AUGUST 1993

    5.5. Both HQ USAF/DPC and ACS/I coordinate on all policy issuances, instructions, and standards
    for CIPMS.

6. This policy applies to all civilian employees within commands and activities that have a primary intel-
ligence mission and to those who perform intelligence or intelligence related work in nonintelligence
commands and activities. Employees who provide direct support to intelligence functions and who are in
nonintelligence commands or activities may be covered on a case-by-case basis.

NOTE:
 Law enforcement officials are not included. Senior Intelligence Executive Service employees and Senior
Intelligence Professional employees are included and managed consistent with Air Force policy for
Senior Executive Service (SES) and Scientific and Professional (ST) employees as stated in AFPD 36-9,
Senior Executive Resource Management.

7. This directive implements Title 10, United States Code, Section 1590; DoD Directive 1400.34, DoD
Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System (CIPMS), December 15, 1988, with Change 1; DoD
Manual 1400.34-M, DoD Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management System (CIPMS) Policies,
August 1989 with Change 1.

8. This policy interfaces with the following: AFI 36-1101, Civilian Intelligence Personnel Management
Systems (CIPMS) (formerly AFR 40-9); other Air Force Civilian Personnel 36-series directives not
included within the authorities of Public Law 99-569; and applicable portions of the Federal Personnel
Manual. Unless otherwise specified or changed in this directive and AFI 36-1101, personnel policies
and procedures established by Air Force, DoD, and the Office of Personnel Management apply to CIPMS.

9. See Attachment 1 for measures used to comply with this policy.



                                         BILLY J. BOLES, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Personnel
AFPD36-11 2 AUGUST 1993                                                                            3

                                           Attachment 1

               MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Compliance with CIPMS policy will be assessed by measuring the crossflow of civilian intelli-
gence personnel between Air Force and segments of the labor market. Public Law 99-569 was estab-
lished to increase the comparability of civilian personnel management systems throughout the Federal
intelligence community. Measurements will help determine the amount of healthy crossflow of personnel
between agencies. Measurement will be done by HQ USAF/DPC and reported to HQ USAF/DP and HQ
USAF/IN. The measurement charts will display the cumulative total of gains and losses.
   A1.1.1. Net CIPMS crossflow with Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), National Security Agency
   (NSA), and other DoD components will be measured by comparing net gains and losses of CIPMS
   employees between these agencies to previous years’ net gains and losses (Figure A1.1.) The metric
   is cumulative.
   A1.1.2. Net CIPMS crossflow with other Federal agencies will be measured by comparing the net
   gains and losses of CIPMS employees with other Federal agencies to previous years’ net gains and
   losses (Attachment 1). The metric is cumulative.
   A1.1.3. Net CIPMS crossflow with non-Federal employers will be measured by comparing the net
   gains and losses of CIPMS employees with non-Federal employers to previous years’ net gains and
   losses (Figure A1.3. ). The metric is cumulative.

Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Net CIPMS Crossflow With CIA, NSA, & Other DoD.
4                                                              AFPD36-11 2 AUGUST 1993

Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Net CIPMS Crossflow With Other Agencies.




Figure A1.3. Sample Metric of Net CIPMS Crossflow With Non-Federal Employers.
AFPD36-11 2 AUGUST 1993   5
