BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DOCUMENT 38-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            5 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                   Manpower and Organization

                                                                                  MANPOWER




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1M                                           Certified by: AF/A1 (Mr. Robert E. Corsi)
                                                                                       Pages: 6
Supersedes:   AFPD 38-2, 2 March 1995


This Directive implements Air Force Manpower policies in accordance with statutory Title 10
and Title 32, United States Code requirements, as well as Department of Defense Directive
(DoDD) 1100.4, Guidance for Manpower Management, DoDI 1100.22, Policy and Procedures
for Determining Workforce Mix, DoDD 4100.15, Commercial Activities Program, and DoDI
5100.73, Major DoD Headquarters Activities. This publication applies to the Air Force Reserve,
the Air National Guard and Active Duty Air Force Components. In collaboration with the Office
of the Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF), the
Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) develops Manpower
policy.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Air
Force Form 847s originating from the field must be routed through the respective Major
Command (MAJCOM) Manpower, Personnel and Services Directorate. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                  AFPD 38-2 5 February 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision contains policy from Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 1100.4, Guidance
for Manpower Management, DoDI 1100.22, Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce
Mix and DoDI 5100.73, Major DoD Headquarters Activities and updates to 38-series
publications. Previous Sample Metrics Comparisons have been deleted from this Directive.


1. Overview.
     1.1. Manpower is a critical resource that enables combat capability.            Manpower
     requirements are identified and resources are subsequently allocated to man Air Force
     peacetime and wartime missions in the form of funded authorizations on the Unit Manpower
     Documents (UMDs).
     1.2. Programmed Manpower is a large part of the annual Air Force budget approved by the
     Congress. The Congress controls manpower levels by authorizing and funding military end
     strengths, funding the civilian work force, establishing military grade distributions and
     directing human capital resources and programs through legislation each year.
     1.3. To support national security objectives, Air Force units must successfully accomplish
     assigned missions using optimal levels of manpower resources directly tied to approved
     program content. To effectively and efficiently execute Air Force missions, manpower must
     be allocated in the most effective work force mix of active duty, reserve forces, civil service
     and contract manpower equivalents based upon analytically derived manpower requirements
     consistent with approved program content. To that end, the Air Force provides unit
     commanders, through the Major Commands, with manpower in quantity, grade and specialty
     required to accomplish assigned missions.
     1.4. The Air Force relies on a formal, analytically based process to determine expeditionary
     manpower requirements and execute mobilization planning. Planning requirements are
     documented in the Joint Operation Planning and Execution System.


2. Policy.
     2.1. The Air Force will allocate available manpower consistent with mission requirements,
     available resources and acceptable levels of risk.
     2.2. The Air Force will manage UMDs in accordance with Congressionally authorized end
     strength, to include the centrally managed accounts and will simultaneously comply with
     guidance contained in the Defense Officer Personnel Management Act (DOPMA) and the
     Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act (ROPMA), Title 10 and 32 United States Code
     and Congressionally mandated ceilings or floors.
     2.3. The Air Force will establish policies and procedures to consistently define analytically
     based manpower requirements, develop defensible budgets and allocate manpower resources
     across the three components: Active Duty, Air Force Reserves and Air National Guard (AD,
     AFR and ANG) in a manner that facilitates efficient resource use and maximum combat
     capability. These actions help the Air Force successfully compete for manpower resources
AFPD 38-2 5 February 2013                                                                   3


   needed to achieve the greatest possible mission capability and necessary levels of support
   within available manpower ceilings.


3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
   provides oversight of AF Manpower policies and execution on behalf of the Secretary and
   issues guidance and direction on all matters pertaining to the formulation, review and
   execution of plans, policies, requirements, programs and budgets concerning Manpower.
   3.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) is
   responsible for executing the AF Manpower program and developing, coordinating and
   executing manpower policies, programs and procedures through the Major Commands and
   Field Operating Agencies.




                                          MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                          Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                           AFPD 38-2 5 February 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 1100.4, Guidance for Manpower Management, 12 February 2005
DoDI 1100.13, Surveys of Department of Defense Personnel, 21 November 1996
DoDI 1100.22, Policy and Procedures for Determining Workforce Mix, 6 April 2007
DoDD 4100.15, Commercial Activities Program, 10 March 1989
DoDI 5100.73, Major DoD Headquarters Activities, 1 December 2007
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Title 10 United States Code, Armed Forces
Title 32 United States Code, National Guard
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AF/RE—Office of Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
CFTE—Contractor Full-time Equivalent
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOPMA—Defense Officer Personnel Management Act
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
JOPES—Joint Operation Planning and Execution System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MPES—Manpower Programming and Execution System
NGB/CF—Director of Air National Guard
ROPMA—Reserve Officer Personnel Management Act
AFPD 38-2 5 February 2013                                                                         5


UAF—Unit Authorization File
UMD—Unit Manpower Document

Terms
End Strength—The count of Air Force military and civilian positions the Air Force needs to
have funded in each year of the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP) to accomplish all
approved missions. End strength provides the basis for funded man-years within the personnel
system, and provides the target for personnel plans, programs, and budgets. End strength is a
resource provided to support approved force structure, programs, or missions. End strength
changes do not drive force structure or mission changes; they are tied to programmatic increases
and decreases in force structure or mission. FYDP end strength is allocated to commands by
program element code, category and country-state.
Manpower—A critical resource comprised of active duty, reserve forces, civil service, and
contractor full-time equivalents (CFTEs) necessary to support an approved program. It is not a
program by itself and not to be manipulated independent of the program it supports.
Manpower Authorization—A funded manpower requirement with detail that defines the
position in terms of its function, organization, location, skill, grade, and other appropriate
characteristics or attributes that commands use to extend manpower end strength to units.
Manpower Requirement—A statement of the manpower required to accomplish a specified
job, workload, mission, or program. There are two types of manpower requirements: funded and
unfunded. Funded manpower requirements are validated and allocated manpower needs.
Unfunded requirements are validated manpower needs but are deferred because of budgetary
constraints.
Department of the Air Force Headquarters Activity Manpower—All military and civilian
personnel authorized or assigned to organizations designated as major Department of the Air
Force Headquarters (Management or Combatant) or who provide support to one or more major
Department of the Air Force Headquarters Activities.
Management Headquarters—A headquarters whose primary responsibility is to oversee, direct
and control subordinate organizations or units through developing and issuing policies and
providing policy guidance; reviewing and evaluating program performance; allocating and
distributing resources; or conducting mid- and long-range planning, programming and budgeting.
Combatant Headquarters—A headquarters designated as an Air Force Component
Headquarters to a US Combatant Command (COCOM) whose primary responsibility is to
oversee, direct and control the planning for, and the employment of, global or theater-level U.S.
military forces.
Direct Support—Professional, technical, administrative or logistical support that is performed
in, or provided directly to, a Department of Air Force Headquarters Activity and is essential to its
operation.
Manpower Ceilings or Floors—Maximum or minimum levels levied on the Services by
Congress to limit end strength within US DoD activities to include overseas areas, regions, and
countries or at the Major Departmental level.
 6                                                               AFPD 38-2 5 February 2013


Manpower Programming and Execution System (MPES)—On-line management information
system designed to collect and disseminate Total Force execution of programmed end strength.
MPES executes the Program Objective Memorandum (POM) and the President’s Budget (PB)
allocated end strength by Command (usually projected over seven years and reflects the
manpower officer/enlisted/civilian requirements constrained by the manpower budget). MPES
provides the commands the capability to organize Air Force end strength into units required to
execute Air Force programs and accomplish unit missions. MPES accurately accounts for every
position to ensure the right person can be delivered to a combatant commander at the right place
and time and that manpower services and systems are available to meet these needs and delivers
a detailed account of Air Force position data to Personnel Systems and other Air Force/DoD
Manpower and Readiness data systems. MPES distributes and publishes the FYDP to the Major
Commands, Direct Reporting Units (DRUs), and Field Operating Agencies (FOAs), who create,
consolidate and submit FYDP Manpower Change Requests (MCRs) to Headquarters Air Force
(HAF), requesting the reprogramming of or additional authorizations to accomplish their
missions.
