BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-14
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           17 DECEMBER 2010

                                                                            Special Management

                                                 COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AAX                                                                Certified by: SAF/AA
Supersedes: AFPD90-14,                                                 (Mr. William A. Davidson)
            11 September 2007                                                             Pages: 5


This Air Force Policy Directive implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI)
5105.04, Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management Program and DoDI
5105.18, DoD Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee Management Program.
This Directive establishes Air Force (AF) policy for the establishment, renewal, management,
and support of AF-sponsored Federal Advisory Committees (FACs) and establishes the Air
Force Federal Advisory Committee Management Program, as well as the Air Force
Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee Management Program. This Policy
Directive applies to all organizational entities within the Department of the Air Force. Send all
recommended changes or comments about this publication to SAF/AAX, 1720 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington, DC             20330-1720, safaax.workflow@pentagon.af.mil, through
appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.fcm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Policy Directive has been revised to change the name and to incorporate the Air Force
Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee Management Program.
1. Background. Title 5 United States Code (U.S.C.), Appendix, Federal Advisory Committee
Act of 1972 (FACA), as amended, requires that each agency establish uniform guidelines for
administering and managing their advisory committees. Guidelines are to be consistent with
directives of the General Services Administration (GSA), Committee Management Secretariat
 2                                                           AFPD90-14 17 DECEMBER 2010


(CMS) and Title 41, Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 102-3 Federal Advisory
Committee Management. FAC meetings must generally be open to the public unless the subject
of the meeting, or a portion thereof, sufficiently justifies closure in accordance with subsection
(c) of section 522b, Title 5, U.S.C. (Government in the Sunshine Act (GISA)). The
aforementioned statutes and regulations are implemented through DoDI 5105.04.
2. Objectives. Provide policy and assign responsibilities for the administration and
management of AF-supported FACs and Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committees.
3. Policy.
     3.1. AF-supported FACs and committees shall be kept to an absolute minimum. Air Force-
     supported FACs will only be established, renewed, or terminated with endorsement by the
     Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), and approval of the Director, Administration and
     Management (DA&M) in the Office of the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF).
     3.2. Members of and consultants to AF-supported FACs must be endorsed by the SECAF,
     and approved for appointment or reappointment by the SECDEF on an annual basis, unless
     otherwise required by law.
     3.3. A Designated Federal Officer (DFO) will be appointed to each AF-supported FAC.
     Alternate DFOs will be appointed as required to assist the primary DFO in overseeing
     compliance with all applicable federal laws, rules and policies.
     3.4. The SECAF or designee will review the advice and recommendations provided by AF-
     supported Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committees and determine which advice
     and recommendations shall be implemented by the AF.
4. Responsibilities.
     4.1. The Administrative Assistant to the SECAF (SAF/AA) will:
        4.1.1. Implement and manage the AF Committee Management Programs.
             4.1.1.1. Designate an AF Group Federal Officer (AF GFO) to assist in overseeing
             and managing AF-supported FACs.
             4.1.1.2. Issue guidance for the administration and management of AF-sponsored
             FACs.
             4.1.1.3. Review and recommend to the DA&M all requests to establish, renew or
             terminate AF-supported FACs to ensure that the objectives and scope of activities of
             the advisory committee are and/or remain essential to the AF mission and that the
             objectives cannot be obtained within existing AF resources.
             4.1.1.4. Review and recommend to the SECDEF, as appropriate, all membership and
             consultant nomination requests for AF-supported FACs on an annual basis.
        4.1.1.5. Serve as the decision authority to approve complete or partial closure of
        meetings to the public of AF-supported FACs. In exercising this authority SAF/AA will
        review and ensure the stated justification for closure clearly meets the GISA criteria.
             4.1.1.6. Determine the level of support to be provided to AF-supported d FACs.
             4.1.1.7. Appoint DFOs and Alternate DFOs.
AFPD90-14 17 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  3


         4.1.1.8. Have oversight of AF-sponsored FACs to ensure compliance with all FAC-
         related statutory and regulatory obligations and DoD issuances.
     4.1.2. Manage and administer the Air Force Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental
     Committee Management Programs consistent with DODI 5105.18.
         4.1.2.1. Review and recommend to the SECAF, as appropriate, the establishment of
         AF- supported Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committees.
         4.1.2.2. Recommend terminaiton, unless otherwise prescribed by statute or
         regulation, of AF- supported Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committees
         when their work has been accomplished, the committee’s work or subject matter has
         become obsolete by the passing of time their functions have been assumed by another
         Federal Government entity or the cost of operation of the committee exceeds the
         resulting benefit to the Air Force.
         4.1.2.3. Issue operating procedures and provide supplemental guidance as may be
         required to ensure the efficient operation of AF-supported Intergovernmental and
         Intragovernmental Committees.
         4.1.2.4. Serve as the Air Force Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee
         Officer (CMO)       to provide policy oversight and management of the AF
         Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee Management Program.
         4.1.2.5. Provide, upon request, information to the DA&M or the DoD CMO on AF-
         supported Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committees.
         4.1.2.6. Maintain a listing of all AF-supported             Intergovernmental    and
         Intragovernmental Committees currently in operation.
         4.1.2.7. Submit an annual report to the DoD CMO on the AF-supported
         Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committees whose operation during the
         previous year exceeded 12 months total operation. At a minimum, this report shall
         include the committee’s name, purpose, membership, recommendations made, and
         recommendations implemented.
  4.2. The General Counsel of the Air Force will:
     4.2.1. Provide counsel and legal guidance to SAF/AA, the designated AF GFO, and the
     DFOs, as appropriate, on issues relating to the FACA, the GISA, and 41 CFR Part 102-3
     and other regulations, directives, and statutes that impact AF-supported FACs.
     4.2.2. Provide guidance, in coordination with the DFO, where appropriate, on issues
     pertaining to financial conflict-of-interest provisions of DoD 5500.7-R, The Joint Ethics
     Regulation, and related Office of Government Ethics regulations, including the
     appropriate handling of Confidential Financial Disclosure Reports (OGE 450) for
     members and consultants approved for appointment in accordance with DoDI 5105.04.
     4.2.3. Review requests by DFOs of AF-supported FACs to close meetings completely or
     partially to the public to ensure the stated justification for closure clearly meets GISA
     criteria and FACA requirements.
 4                                                    AFPD90-14 17 DECEMBER 2010


5. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication


                                       MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                       Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD90-14 17 DECEMBER 2010                                                             5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 U.S.C., Appendix, Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended
41 CFR Part 102-3, Federal Advisory Committee Management; Final Rule
5 U.S.C. § 552b, Government in the Sunshine Act
5 U.S.C. § 3109, Employment of Experts and Consultants; Temporary or Intermittent
DoD Instruction 5105.04, Department of Defense Federal Advisory Committee Management
Program, August 6, 2007
DoD Instruction 5105.18, DoD Intergovernmental and Intragovernmental Committee
Management Program, July 10, 2009
DoD 5500.7-R, The Joint Ethics Regulation, November 29, 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF GFO—Air Force Group Federal Officer
AA—Administrative Assistant to the SECAF
AF—Air Force
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CMO—Committee Management Officer
CMS—Committee Management Secretariat
DA&M—Director, Administration and Management
DFO—Designated Federal Officer
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FAC—Federal Advisory Committee
FACA—Federal Advisory Committee Act
GFO—Group Federal Officer
GISA—Government in the Sunshine Act
GSA—General Services Administration
OGE—U.S. Office of Government Ethics
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
U.S.C.—United States Code
