BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 40-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          17 DECEMBER 2009
                                                             &HUWLILHG&XUUHQW-DQXDU\
                                                                            Medical Command

                                                                      HEALTH PROMOTION



                       COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFMSA/SG3O                                                     Certified by: HQ AF/SG
Supersedes: AFPD 40-1, 21 March 1994                                 (Lt Gen Charles B. Green)
                                                                                       Pages: 6


This publication establishes the framework for how the Air Force (AF) assesses, plans, delivers,
and evaluates its Health Promotion Program to achieve its strategic priorities and mission goals
and objectives. This directive implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive (DoDD)
1010.10, Health Promotion and Disease/Injury Prevention, and the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services Healthy People Guidelines. It applies to all military and civilian AF
personnel, military retirees and beneficiaries, members of Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
Units, and retirees of the Air Reserve Component (ARC). This publication is applicable to the
Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is a complete revision of the AFPD and must be reviewed in its entirety.
1. Overview
   1.1. Definition. Health promotion (HP) is the science and art of helping people change their
   lifestyle to move toward a state of optimal health. Optimal health is defined as a balance of
   physical, emotional, social, spiritual, and intellectual health. Lifestyle change can be
   facilitated through a combination of efforts to enhance awareness, change behavior and
2                                                              AFPD40-1 17 DECEMBER 2009


    create environments that support good health practices. Providing supportive environments
    has the greatest impact to produce lasting change.
    1.2. Purpose
       1.2.1. DoDD 1010.10, Health Promotion and Disease/Injury Prevention, requires the AF
       to provide effective, integrated, and comprehensive health promotion, disease and injury
       prevention, and population health plans and programs for their civilian and military
       employees and other beneficiaries.
       1.2.2. The AF Health Promotion vision is an AF environment that supports, promotes
       and sustains individual and organizational healthy lifestyle choices and behavior. The
       mission is to provide and integrate evidence-based and cost-effective community
       programs to optimize health and readiness. Healthy community goals are to increase the
       health of Airmen and the AF community, increase community resiliency, and increase
       workforce productivity.
       1.2.3. Commanders require a fit and healthy force to deploy, meet mission requirements
       and sustain high operations tempo. Promoting health and wellness not only enhances
       quality of life, but also strengthens the “human weapons system” by keeping AF
       members mission ready. Fit and healthy personnel are more productive, more resistant to
       illness and injury, more resistant to the adverse effects of stress, and more resilient should
       illness or injury occur.
    1.3. Strategy
       1.3.1. Obtain senior-level support of line and medical leadership.
       1.3.2. Develop a program plan as the roadmap to guide AF efforts and investments in
       HP.
       1.3.3. Support all levels of the Social-Ecological Model (see Figure 1). This model
       illustrates all levels of influence that need addressed to support long-term healthy lifestyle
       choices.
       1.3.4. Use evidence-based programming to support AF goals and objectives.
       1.3.5. Create supportive environments conducive to healthy lifestyles through
       community collaboration.
       1.3.6. Foster cohesive teams that use common goals to develop appropriate interventions
       focusing on population approaches.
       1.3.7. Demonstrate health and system improvements through data collection, analysis,
       and reporting.
AFPD40-1 17 DECEMBER 2009                                                                     3


Figure 1. Social-Ecological Model




2. Policy. In accordance with DoDD 1010.10, AF policy is:
   2.1. To support the achievement of the Department of Health and Human Services Healthy
   People goals and objectives.
   2.2. To enhance mission readiness, unit performance, and the health and fitness of military
   personnel, beneficiaries, and civilian employees through the creation of a culture within the
   AF that values health and fitness and empowers individuals and organizations to actualize
   those values and achieve optimal health.
   2.3. To provide effective, integrated, and comprehensive health promotion programs, disease
   and injury programs, and population health programs throughout the AF.
   2.4. To provide healthy environments for AF personnel, family members, and visitors.
3. Responsibilities
   3.1. US Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG)
       3.1.1. Provides recommendations to SecAF, CSAF and other Headquarters Air Force
       agencies on policy which impacts health behaviors.
       3.1.2. Develops Air Force policies and guidance for AF HP.
       3.1.3. Ensures adequate Defense Health Program (DHP) programming, budgeting and
       resourcing of Health Promotion Programs (HPPs) to meet mission requirements for a
       comprehensive and integrated Air Force program.
       3.1.4. Advocates for Appropriated Funds (APF) programming, budgeting and resourcing
       to support comprehensive and integrated AF HP strategies.
   3.2. US Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1)
       3.2.1. Advocates for adequate APF programming, budgeting and resourcing to support
       comprehensive and integrated AF HP strategies.
       3.2.2. Coordinates personnel, policies, and programs that promote wellness and
       resiliency with AF/SG.
4                                                            AFPD40-1 17 DECEMBER 2009


       3.2.3. Ensures policy and curriculum of all AF formal training and education programs
       include healthy behaviors as the AF norm.
    3.3. Installation Leadership
       3.3.1. Supports AF goals to provide effective, integrated, and comprehensive health
       promotion strategies.
       3.3.2. Develops policies that create an environment supportive of healthy lifestyles.




                                            MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD40-1 17 DECEMBER 2009                                                                      5


                                      ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 1010.10, Health Promotion and Disease/Injury Prevention, 22 August 2003
DoDD 1308.1, DoD Physical Fitness and Body Fat Program, 30 June 2004
DODI 1308.3, DoD Physical Fitness and Body Fat Programs Procedures, 5 November 2002
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Healthy People Guidelines
Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Tools and
Resources
American Journal of Health Promotion, Definition of Health Promotion

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF/A1—US Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
AFMSA—Air Force Medical Support Agency
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC— Air Reserve Component
DHHS—Department of Health and Human Services
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
HP—Health Promotion
HPP—Health Promotion Program

Terms
The following terms are specific to Air Force Health Promotion. Where no citation appears, the
term has been derived from several sources or from common usage.
Community—a group of people with diverse characteristics who are linked by social ties, share
common perspectives, and engage in joint action in geographical locations or settings; definition
is       from       the       American           Journal        of        Public         Health:
http://www.ajph.org/cgi/content/short/91/12/1929.
Evidenced-Based Programs—programs that are developed, implemented and evaluated
through the application of principles of scientific reasoning, systematic uses of data, and
6                                                               AFPD40-1 17 DECEMBER 2009


appropriate use of behavioral science theory and program planning models; definition adapted
from http://phpartners.org/tutorial/04-ebph/2-keyConcepts/4.2.2.html)
Health Promotion—the science and art of helping people change their lifestyle to move toward
a state of optimal health. Optimal health is defined as a balance of physical, emotional, social,
spiritual, and intellectual health. To reach this balance, lifestyle change can be facilitated
through a combination of efforts to enhance awareness, change behavior and create
environments and communities that support good health practices. Providing supportive
environments has the greatest potential for producing lasting change; definition adapted from the
American Journal of Health Promotion definition)
Health Promotion Program Plan—an action plan that directs HP operations and includes all
target areas that align with the AF HP strategic plan.
Resiliency—the positive capacity of people to cope with stress and catastrophe.
Social-Ecological Model—a framework to examine the multiple effects and interrelatedness of
social elements in an environment.
Supportive Environments—the physical and social aspects of our surroundings that foster and
encourage healthy lifestyles. It encompasses where people live, their local community, their
home, and where they work and play. It also embraces the framework which determines access
to resources for living, and opportunities for empowerment.
System Improvement—deliberate changes in the process and environment that influences the
health of individuals and communities.
Wellness—an active process of becoming aware of and making choices towards a successful
existence and consists of six dimensions: social, occupational, spiritual, physical, intellectual and
emotional (from National Wellness Institute).
