                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 65-4
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          7 SEPTEMBER 1993

                                                                                  Financial Management

                                                             FOLLOWUP ON INTERNAL AIR FORCE
                                                              AUDIT REPORTS AND LIAISON WITH
                                                               EXTERNAL AUDIT ORGANIZATIONS


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/FMPF                                                                      Certified by: SAF/FM
     (Mr David Sapp)                                                              (Mr Vaughn E. Schlunz)
                                                                                                  Pages: 5
                                                                                           Distribution: F

1. Reducing costs and improving the effectiveness of Department of Defense (DoD) operations are major
goals of each audit organization. Through audit recommendations, audit organizations identify ways to
improve programs and operations. It is action on recommendations that helps DoD work better at less
cost. Air Force policies are established to ensure the intended results are achieved by implementing audit
recommendations and that external audit organization activities and products are coordinated effectively
with Air Force officials.

2. The Air Force will implement audit recommendations and correct agreed-upon deficiencies in a timely
manner. Air Force managers will establish estimated completion dates for all agreed-upon actions.

3. The Air Force will ensure nonconcurrences with audit findings, recommendations, and estimated
potential monetary benefits (PMB) are decided within 6 months from the final audit report date.

4. The Air Force will maintain cooperative, businesslike relations with all external audit organizations
(for example, the General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General [IG], and Certified Public Account-
ing Firms) which may review and evaluate Air Force functions and operations.

5. This directive establishes the following authorities and responsibilities:
   5.1. Nonconcurrences between management and the Air Force Audit Agency will be sent to the
   Under Secretary of the Air Force for final decision.
   5.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM)
   is the Air Force followup official and audit liaison for contacts with external audit organizations. SAF/
   FM establishes policy for and executes the Air Force audit followup and liaison programs.
   5.3. The Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Plans, Systems and Analysis (SAF/FMP)
   reports to the DoD IG on financial assistance provided to state and local governments, institutions of
   higher education, and other nonprofit institutions.
   5.4. Secretariat and Headquarters US Air Force (HQ USAF) organizations establish audit followup
   and liaison focal points, coordinate and monitor external audit activity, provide written comments on
   draft and final audit reports, and ensure actions taken to implement audit report recommendations
   meet estimated completion dates and correct identified deficiencies.
   5.5. Major commands (MAJCOM), field operating agencies (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU)
   designate followup and liaison focal points within financial management organizations and ensure
   that:
       5.5.1. Agreed-upon corrective actions meet estimated completion dates and correct identified
       deficiencies.
       5.5.2. Nonconcurrences with audit report findings, recommendations, and PMBs are processed
       quickly.
       5.5.3. External audit activities are coordinated and monitored.

6. Terms Explained:
   6.1. Decided. An agreement is reached between management and auditors on previously undecided
   (nonconcurred) findings, recommendations, or monetary benefits, or a senior Air Force official has
   settled the disagreement. This definition applies to Air Force and installation-level audit reports.
   6.2. Undecided. Management has either not commented or concurred on final audit findings, recom-
   mendations, or estimated PMB, or audit officials do not agree with the management position. All
   undecided issues must be decided within 6 months of the audit report date.

7. This policy applies to all audited Air Force organizations and personnel.

8. This directive implements Public Law 95-452, Inspector General Act of 1978, October 12, 1978, as
amended; Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-50, Audit Followup, September 29,
1982; DoD Directive 7600.2, Audit Policies, February 2, 1991; DoD Directive 7600.10, Audits of State
and Local Governments, Institutions of Higher Education, and Other Nonprofit Institutions, May 20,
1991; DoD Directive 7650.2, General Accounting Office Audits and Reports, July 19, 1985; DoD Direc-
tive 7650.3, Followup on General Accounting Office, DoD Inspector General, and Internal Audit
Reports, September 5, 1989, with Changes 1 through 3; and DoD Instruction 7050.3, Access to Records
and Information by the Inspector General, Department of Defense (IG), November 9, 1984.

9. This policy directive interfaces with AFI 65-401, Air Force Relations With the General Accounting
Office (formerly AFR 11-8); AFI 65-402, Air Force Relations With the Department of Defense, Inspector
General (formerly AFR 11-38); and AFI 65-403, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports (formerly
AFR 175-2).




                                                2
10. See Attachment 1 for measures used to comply with this policy.




                                       JOHN W. BEACH
                                       The Acting Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
                                        Financial Management and Comptroller




                                             3
                                            Attachment 1
                          MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Air Force followup policy on internal audit reports will be assessed by measuring the Air Force’s
timely implementation of agreed-upon audit recommendations. SAF/FMP, MAJCOMs, FOAs, and
DRUs will measure annually and report on timely recommendation implementation.
   A1.1.1. Timely Recommendation Implementation. The policy to ensure management is timely in
   implementing audit recommendations and correcting agreed-upon deficiencies will be assessed by
   ensuring adherence to estimated completion dates. Annually, SAF/FM will measure both imple-
   mented recommendations (those closed on or before management’s agreed-upon estimated comple-
   tion date) and deficiencies not corrected after 1 year (Figure A1.1.).

A1.2. SAF/FMP will measure quarterly and report annually the timely preparation and submission of
management’s written comments on DoD IG audit report and followup requests.
   A1.2.1. Timely Comment Preparation. SAF/FMP will determine the timeliness of management’s
   written comments by comparing the DoD IG suspense date for each report and followup request to the
   date actually provided to the DoD IG. Air Force organizations will provide audit report and followup
   request comments by the required suspense date (Figure A1.2.).




                                               4
Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Timely Recommendation Implementation.




Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Timely Comments on External Audits.




                                         5
