BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              6 OCTOBER 2010

                                                                            Special Management

                                                                     POLICY FORMULATION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: SAF/AAX                                                               Certified by: SAF/AA
Supersedes: AFPD90-1, 8 August 2003                                       (William A. Davidson)
                                                                                         Pages: 4


This Directive establishes the framework for creating Air Force policy. It implements
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 5025.01, DoD Directives Program. This publication
applies to all organizational entities within the Department of the Air Force. Send all
recommended changes or comments about this publication to SAF/AAX, 1720 Air Force
Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1720, safaax.workflow@pentagon.af.mil, through
appropriate channels, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updates organizational office symbols and publications references; eliminates option of placing
metrics in Policy Directives and recommends metrics instead be placed in policy implementing
publications (Air Force Instructions (AFIs), Air Force Manuals (AFMANs), etc.).
1. Determining policy is an important function for Air Force leadership. Policy provides both a
focus for Air Force action and a guide for the behavior of the organization and its members.
2. Title 10 United States Code, Section 8013, states the Secretary of the Air Force is responsible
for "…the formulation of policies and programs by the Department of the Air Force that are fully
consistent with national security objectives and policies established by the President or the
Secretary of Defense…" as well as "…the effective and timely implementation of policy,
program, and budget decisions and instructions of the President or the Secretary of Defense…".
 2                                                                 AFPD90-1 6 OCTOBER 2010


     2.1. The Secretary of the Air Force, as the head of a Department of Defense (DoD)
     component, or his/her designated official(s) reviews and coordinates on proposed DoD
     Issuances that are relevant to the Air Force mission. The Secretary of the Air Force ensures
     OSD policy is carried out by issuing AF implementing publications, as required, and in
     accordance with AFI 90-101, Implementing DoD Issuances, and AFI 33-360, Publications
     and Forms Management.
     2.2. Assistant Secretaries of the Air Force and the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary
     of the Air Force are the designated officials to provide AF coordination on draft DoD
     Issuances.
     2.3. Implementation/execution of this program is delegated to the Administrative Assistant
     to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA). The Administrative Assistant will:
        2.3.1. Act as the liaison between the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Air Force
        in managing the DoD Directive Program in the Air Force.
        2.3.2. Establish the internal management processes necessary to implement OSD’s
        policies and guidance provided in DoD Issuances.
        2.3.3. Track and report Air Force implementation of DoD Issuances.
3. The Air Force will state its key, broad, overarching policies in Air Force Policy Directives
(AFPDs), or AF Supplements to DoD Directives (and DoD Instructions containing policy). Air
Force Policy Memoranda (AFPM) may be used; however, must be converted to one of the above
mentioned within 180 days. See AFI 33-360 for guidance on AF publications and forms
management processes. AF policy will:
     3.1. Be certified by the appropriate HAF (Secretariat and Air Staff) office.
     3.2. Be approved and authenticated by the Secretary of the Air Force.
     3.3. Focus on implementing OSD policy, accomplishing our mission, and be consistent with
     our strategic goals.
     3.4. Be implemented in Air Force Instructions (AFI) or other official AF publications in
     accordance with AFI 33-360 when specific guidance/procedures are essential to comply with
     legal or higher level guidance.
     3.5. Not be supplemented.
4. This policy establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
     4.1. HAF offices:
        4.1.1. Author and certify AFPDs, AF Supplements to DoD Directives (and DoD
        Instructions containing policy), or AFPMs for SECAF approval.
        4.1.2. Are responsible for ensuring implementing guidance and procedures (i.e., AFIs,
        AFMANs, etc.) are published.
        4.1.3. Are an integrated staff comprised of the offices of the Secretary of the Air Force
        (referred to as the Secretariat) and the offices under the Chief of Staff (referred to as the
        Air Staff). Each HAF organization is responsible for specific functions; however, Air
        Staff organizations which have a functional relationship with and/or oversight by a
AFPD90-1 6 OCTOBER 2010                                                                   3


     Secretariat organization will ensure that Secretariat organization coordinates on their
     AFPDs.
  4.2. SAF/XC is responsible for publications, forms, and publishing policy, as described in
  AFPD 33-3, Information Management.
  4.3. SAF/AA is responsible for:
     4.3.1. Ensuring AF compliance with OSD policy and guidance by tracking
     implementation of DoD Issuances (AFI 90-101).
     4.3.2. Issuing guidance on publications and forms management and for the publishing
     process (AFI 33-360).




                                         MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                         Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                              AFPD90-1 6 OCTOBER 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10 United States Code Section 8013
DoD Instruction 5025.01, DoD Directives Program, October 28, 2007
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 90-101, Implementing DoD Issuances, 6 January 2006

Terms
DoD Issuance—-DoD Directives, DoD Instructions, DoD Publications (issuances which
implements/supplement DoD Directives and Instructions, for example, Catalogs, Guides,
Handbooks, Manuals, Pamphlets, etc.) and their changes.
Headquarters Air Force (HAF)—-Headquarters Air Force is defined as an entity consisting of
the offices of the Secretary of the Air Force (Secretariat) and the Chief of Staff (Air Staff).
Policy—-Statements of important, higher-level direction that guides decisions and actions
throughout the Air Force. Policies are typically driven by higher headquarters (OSD) in the form
of DoD Issuances (DoD Directives, DoD Instructions, etc.) although occasionally directly from
the United States Code, Public Laws, or Executive Orders.
