                               Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-14
AIR FORCE                                                                               1 FEBRUARY 1996

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                                       POSITION MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                                  CLASSIFICATION



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/DPCC (Ms Judith L. Mayrose)                                      Certified by: HQ USAF/DPC
                                                                                     (Mr Richard E. Endres)
                                                                                                   Pages: 6
                                                                                            Distribution: F



1. The Air Force will assign duties and responsibilities to individual civilian positions to accomplish the
air and space defense mission in an orderly, efficient, and economical manner.
   1.1. The highest level of work of an organization will be concentrated in the minimum number of
   positions needed to accomplish the work with full consideration given to the availability of skills in
   the labor force, opportunities for advancement, and enhancement of motivation and morale.
   1.2. Responsibilities of each position will be delineated clearly and will not conflict with or duplicate
   the duties and responsibilities of any other position.
   1.3. The largest number of employees will work for the smallest number of supervisors needed to
   carry out the mission effectively.

2. Duties and responsibilities of each position will be adequately documented, certified as accurate by the
supervisor, certified as properly classified by the classifier on AF Form 1378 or AF Form 1003, and main-
tained in the office exercising classification authority. A position description (PD) or core personnel doc-
ument (CD) is adequate for classification purposes when it describes the major duties, responsibilities,
and supervisory relationships of the position clearly, definitively, and sufficiently so that the proper clas-
sification can be readily determined by one knowledgeable of the occupational fields involved and skilled
in the application of pertinent classification standards, principles, and policies.

3. The Air Force supports the principle of equal pay for substantially equal work through timely and
accurate classification of positions consistent with the position classification and job grading standards
issued by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).

4. The Air Force will make every effort to resolve employee dissatisfaction over the classification of
positions in an amicable and informal manner. An employee and his or her authorized representative will
be free to file a formal classification appeal without restraint, interference, coercion, discrimination, or
reprisal. Formal employee classification appeals will be timely processed by the servicing Civilian Per-
sonnel Flight (CPF) in compliance with the requirements of appellate authorities at DOD and OPM.
CPFs will advertise the procedures for filing a classification appeal at least annually.

5. The Air Force classification program will facilitate the proper placement of employees through devel-
opment and assignment of occupational skill codes to individual positions.

6. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
   6.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, Installations and Envi-
   ronment (SAF/MI) is responsible for civilian personnel policy matters as described in Air Force Pol-
   icy Directive 90-1, Strategic Planning and Policy Formulation, paragraph 1.5.2. SAF/MI approval is
   required before this document is changed, reissued or rescinded.
   6.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel (HQ USAF/DP) develops, coordinates, and executes per-
   sonnel policy and approves essential procedural guidance for the management of the Position Man-
   agement and Classification Program.
   6.3. Managers and supervisors are solely responsible for the assignment of duties and responsibilities
   to civilian positions consistent with the policies established by this directive and as delegated by the
   organization commander, ensuring PDs and CDs are accurate, and providing copies of PDs/CDs to
   their subordinates.
   6.4. The CPF providing classification service is solely responsible for the proper classification of
   positions other than those specified in 6.5. and 6.6. below and exercises this responsibility on behalf
   of Commanders with appointing authority.
   6.5. Positions responsible for exercising appointing authority on behalf of Commanders, including
   Civilian Personnel Officers and Major Command Directors of Civilian Personnel, are centrally classi-
   fied by HQ USAF/DPC.
   6.6. Air Reserve Technician (ART) positions are centrally classified by HQ AFRES/DPC.
   6.7. Managers and supervisors and the servicing CPF providing classification service are jointly
   responsible for the adequacy of PDs/CDs.
   6.8. Commanders or organization directors will resolve disagreements between management and the
   CPF pertaining to the accuracy of PDs/CDs.
   6.9. Major Command (MAJCOM) Directors of Civilian Personnel will resolve disagreements
   between managers and the servicing CPF pertaining to the proper classification of positions on behalf
   of Commanders with appointing authority. Classification disputes from tenant organizations will be
   resolved by the CPF’s parent MAJCOM after consideration of comments by the tenant’s MAJCOM.
   Classification decisions made by MAJCOMs under these circumstances are binding on the subordi-
   nate installation.

7. See Attachment 1 for measures of compliance.

8. See Attachment 2 for related publications.



                                                 2
9. Forms Prescribed: AF Form 1378, Civilian Personnel Position Description, Mar 79 and AF Form
1003, Air Force Core Personnel Document (Automated), Apr 90.




                                    EUGENE E. HABIGER, Lt General, USAF
                                    DCS/Personnel




                                           3
                                            Attachment 1

                          MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Compliance with position management and classification policy will be measured by the ratio of
supervisory employees to non-supervisory employees and the percentage of high grade positions in the
workforce. Measurement of position management policy will be done by HQ USAF through information
in the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System (DCPDS).
   A1.1.1. Supervisory ratio is the ratio of civilian employees assigned to positions coded with a super-
   visory level code of 1, 2, or 3 in DCPDS to all other civilian employees Figure A1.2. High grade
   managment will be measured by the percentage of full-time, permanent employees occupying posi-
   tions in grade GS-14 and higher, including pay equivalents, to the authorized civilian workforce Fig-
   ure A1.1.

Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Supervisory Ratio




                                               4
Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of High Grade Management




                                        5
                                            Attachment 2

                                  GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES

References
Title 5, United States Code:
Chapter 51, Classification (Section 5101 through 5115), Current Edition
Chapter 53, Pay Rates and Systems (Section 5346), Current Edition
5 CFR Part 511
Job Grading System for Trades and Labor Occupations
Position Classification Standards for Positions under the General Schedule
AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirement




                                               6
