BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-31
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   2 APRIL 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                          PERSONAL AFFAIRS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A1S                                                                 Certified by: AF/A1
                                                            (Lieutenant General Darrell D. Jones)
                                                                                         Pages: 4
Supersedes:    AFPD 36-31, 27 September
               1993


This directive establishes policies to assist Air Force personnel manage their personal affairs. It
implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 5500.14, Naturalization of Aliens
Serving in the Armed Forces of the United States and of Alien Spouses and/or Alien Adopted
Children of Military and Civilian Personnel Ordered Overseas, DoD Directive (DoDD)
1000.26E, Support for Non-Federal Entities Authorized to Operate on DoD Installations, and
DoDD 1000.4, Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP). To accomplish its mission, the Air
Force must ensure its people have their personal lives in order and are ready to perform the
duties for which they have been trained. This directive applies to all Air Force personnel
including the Air Force Reserve Command units and the Air National Guard. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                                     AFPD36-31 2 APRIL 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This policy directive has been changed and must be completely reviewed. Changes include
updated voting information; roles and responsibilities; references to measures used to assess
compliance with this policy have been removed.
1. Overview
     1.1. The Air Force will ensure all military members are periodically advised throughout their
     careers of the rights and benefits they and their dependents enjoy. Military members are
     entitled to individual counseling when required and will be advised what base agencies can
     provide specific advice and assistance. All members will be advised of the importance of
     keeping and safeguarding military and personal documents. The Air Force will provide the
     means to allow members to make appropriate personal affairs arrangements to provide for
     their family needs in the event of deployment.
2. Policy
     2.1. Each member of the Air Force has a right and a responsibility to vote. The Air Force
     will provide, under the Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act, voting information
     and the means to vote absentee to members of the Air Force and their dependents, civilian
     Federal employees, and such other qualified voters as may have access to such installation
     offices. The Military and Overseas Voter Empowerment Act requires the establishment of an
     Installation Voter Assistance (IVA) Office on each military installation. The IVA Office
     shall be established within the installation headquarters organization reporting directly to the
     installation commander and designated with the “VO” office symbol. The IVA Office shall
     also be designated in writing as a voter registration agency.
     2.2. The Air Force will counsel members stationed overseas on the restrictions of the United
     States immigration laws when marrying citizens of other countries. Also, the Air Force will
     advise its members of the US immigration requirements for alien spouses, fiancés, children,
     stepchildren, or adopted children.
     2.3. All Air Force members and organizations must comply with proper guidelines when
     organizing and participating in fund raising activities. Wing/Installation Commanders, under
     legal advisement, are the approval authority for all fundraising on Air Force installations.
     2.4. Air Force personnel will be given the opportunity and are encouraged to support Air
     Force recognized charities and humanitarian organizations.
     2.5. The Air Force Aid Society is the official charity of the Air Force. It is chartered to help
     Air Force members and their families meet immediate needs in an emergency situation.
     2.6. The Air Force will ensure Air Force retirees have the opportunity to maintain contact
     with and assist their fellow retirees, retirees’ families, and members of the active Air Force;
     and to keep members of the retiree community informed on their entitlements and key issues
     affecting them.
     2.7. For the purpose of naming Air Force facilities, installations, streets, and buildings, the
     Air Force will have a memorial program to provide lasting honor to living or deceased Air
     Force military personnel, Department of the Air Force civilians, and individuals from the
     private sector with records of outstanding and honorable service. Joint base commanders
AFPD36-31 2 APRIL 2012                                                                      3


   may follow Sister Service policies for naming facilities and buildings used exclusively by
   other Services.
   2.8. Air Force members will be issued identification tags.
3. Roles and Responsibilities
   3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
   provides policy oversight and program advocacy.
   3.2. In accordance with authority in HAF Mission Directive 1-32, the Deputy Chief of Staff,
   Manpower Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will ensure implementation of the policy in
   paragraph 2.




                                            MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                                AFPD36-31 2 APRIL 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 5500.14, Naturalization of Aliens Serving in the Armed Forces of the United States and of
Alien Spouses and/or Alien Adopted Children of Military and Civilian Personnel Ordered
Overseas, 4 January 2006
DoDD 1000.4, Federal Voting Assistance Program (FVAP), 14 April 2004
DoDD 1000.26E, Support for Non-Federal Entities Authorized to Operate on DoD Installations,
2 February 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and acronyms
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
IVAO—Installation Voter Assistance Office
IVA—Installation Voter Assistance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
