BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-60
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              28 MARCH 2008
                                                                        Certified Current 14 APRIL 2011
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                              SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND
                                                                    RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-publishing web site at: www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/MRM                                          Certified by: SAF/MR (Maj Gen Keith W. Meurlin)
                                                                                             Pages: 5

This directive provides policy and assigns responsibility for the prevention of and response to sexual
assault and establishes command relationships, authorities and responsibilities in support of the policy.
The policy applies to all levels of command and all Air Force organizations including the Active Duty, Air
Force government civilian employees, Air Force Academy, Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
components while in Federal service. It addresses the requirements of the Ronald W. Reagan National
Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2005, P.L. 108-375, as amended and supplemented, October 28,
2004, Section 577(e), and implements Department of Defense Directive 6495.01, Sexual Assault Preven-
tion and Response (SAPR) Program.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the
field through AF/A1 publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this AFPD are maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN
33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. Policy. The United States Air Force will not tolerate sexual assault. Sexual assault is criminal conduct.
It falls well short of the standards America expects of its men and women in uniform. It violates Air Force
Core Values. Inherent in the Air Force Core
Values of Integrity First, Service before Self and Excellence in All We Do, is respect: self-respect, mutual
respect, and respect for the Air Force as an institution. It is Air Force policy to:
   1.1. Eliminate sexual assault within the Department of the Air Force by fostering a culture of preven-
   tion, providing education and training, response capability, victim support, reporting procedures, and
   accountability that enhances the safety and well-being of all its members.
2                                                                         AFPD36-60 28 MARCH 2008


    1.2. Provide an immediate, trained response capability for each report of sexual assault and ensure
    victims are protected, treated with dignity and respect, and receive timely access to appropriate treat-
    ment and services.
    1.3. Ensure strong commander-focused prevention and response programs, as well as law enforce-
    ment, investigative, and criminal justice policies and procedures that address victim safety and hold
    offenders accountable for their actions to the fullest extent of the law.
    1.4. Encourage prompt, complete, unrestricted reporting of sexual assault allegations to activate vic-
    tim services and accountability responses. Victims should be appropriately encouraged to make unre-
    stricted reports.
    1.5. Provide a restricted reporting option that allows a Service member who is sexually assaulted to
    confidentially disclose information about the assault to specified individuals and receive medical
    treatment, counseling, and advocacy without automatically triggering an official investigative pro-
    cess.
    1.6. Prohibit the enlistment or commissioning of personnel in the active duty Air Force, Air National
    Guard or Air Force Reserve components when the person has a qualifying conviction for a crime of
    sexual assault.

2. Definitions. Terms used in this Policy Directive are defined in Attachment 1 and comply with those
required in DODD 6495.01.

3. Responsibilities and Authorities.
    3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) serves as
    an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction, and oversight for all matters pertaining to
    the formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs, and budgets addressing sexual
    assault. Develops performance-based metrics, leading indicators, and feedback protocols to assess
    ongoing program performance.
    3.2. The Inspector General (SAF/IG) is responsible for oversight of criminal investigations per-
    formed by the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) and for other investigations and
    matters under his or her authority as Inspector General. The SAF/IG is responsible for ensuring proper
    training of AFOSI personnel and other appropriate investigators in sexual assault policy and related
    matters.
    3.3. The Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC) establishes legal policy and provides legal oversight
    and guidance for all aspects of sexual assault policy, and other matters related to sexual assault as
    needed, except those matters directly related to the administration of military justice.
    3.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (HQ USAF/A1) is the primary HAF
    Focal Point (FP) for activities related to this directive, to include resourcing of the program and
    reporting on program accomplishment. HQ USAF/A1 will develop Air Force Instructions (AFI)
    implementing this directive, making maximum use of goals, objectives, and performance-based mea-
    sures that address sexual assault issues during peacetime, contingencies, hostilities, and war. HQ
    USAF/A1 is responsible for development and approval of required training for Air Force Sexual
    Assault Response Coordinators (SARC) and Air Force Victim Advocates (VA), and establishes
    annual training requirements to comply with DOD mandated training standards.
AFPD36-60 28 MARCH 2008                                                                                   3


  3.5. The Judge Advocate General (HQ USAF/JA) is the HAF Focal Point for military justice activi-
  ties related to this directive and assists in developing, coordinating, and executing legal policy and
  essential procedural guidance for the management of sexual assault issues. TJAG is responsible for
  ensuring required training of judge advocates and trial counsel in sexual assault policy and related
  matters. TJAG is the responsible official for administration of the Victim and Witness Assistance Pro-
  gram (VWAP).
  3.6. The Surgeon General (HQ USAF/SG) is the HAF Focal Point for health care policies, clinical
  practice guidelines, related procedures, and standards governing Air Force healthcare programs for
  victims of sexual assault. The Surgeon General is responsible for ensuring required training of health
  care personnel in sexual assault policy and related matters.
  3.7. The Chief of Chaplains (HQ USAF/HC) is the HAF Focal Point for Chaplain Service policies
  and procedural guidance for matters related to sexual assault. The Chief of Chaplains is responsible
  for ensuring required training of members of the Chaplain Service in sexual assault policy and related
  matters.
  3.8. The Director, Air Force Security Forces (HQ USAF/A7S) is the HAF Focal Point for security
  and law enforcement guidelines and related procedures addressing sexual assault. The Director is
  responsible for ensuring required training of law enforcement personnel in sexual assault policy and
  related matters.
  3.9. The Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) implements sexual assault prevention and response pro-
  grams for Air Force Reserve personnel that comply with this policy directive and ensures the training
  of Reserve personnel in sexual assault policy and related matters.
  3.10. The Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF) implements sexual assault prevention and
  response programs for Air National Guard (ANG) personnel that comply with this policy directive
  and appropriate National Guard Bureau policy and ensures the training of ANG personnel in sexual
  assault policy and related matters.
  3.11. MAJCOM commanders implement sexual assault prevention and response programs consistent
  with these policies and procedures. The MAJCOM vice commander or equivalent is designated as the
  responsible official to act for the MAJCOM commander.
  3.12. HQ Air Education and Training Command (AETC) develops, in coordination with HQ USAF/
  A1, and distributes appropriate sexual assault educational materials for all levels of accession, techni-
  cal training and professional military education sources.
  3.13. Installation commanders implement local sexual assault prevention and response programs. The
  installation vice commander or equivalent is designated as the responsible official to act for the instal-
  lation commander.
     3.13.1. The Installation Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) reports to the installation
     vice commander or higher, and implements and manages the installation level sexual assault pre-
     vention and response programs.



                                               Michael W. Wynne
                                               Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                       AFPD36-60 28 MARCH 2008


                                             Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
DoD Directive 6495.01, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, October 6, 2005
DoD Instruction 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Procedures, June 23, 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FP—Headquarters Air Force focal point
SARC—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SAPR—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
VA—Victim Advocate
VWAP—Victim and Witness Assistance Program

Terms
Commander—An officer who occupies a position of command authorized by appointment or by
assumption of command.
Headquarters Air Force—The HAF, which is comprised of both Secretariat and Air Staff Offices.
Healthcare Personnel (HCP)—For the purpose of this Directive, this term includes those individuals
who are employed or assigned as healthcare professionals, or are credentialed to provide healthcare
services, at a medical or dental treatment facility or who are providing such care elsewhere at a deployed
location or otherwise in an official capacity. The term also includes individuals assigned to the military
Treatment Facility (MTF) who are directed by or assigned to assist or otherwise support healthcare
professionals in providing healthcare services.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—The originating office for the publication; the author of the
publication is an individual within the OPR. OPRs are solely responsible for the accuracy, currency, and
integrity of their publications and forms
Official Investigative Process—The formal process a commander or law enforcement organization uses
to gather evidence and examine the facts and circumstances surrounding a report of sexual assault.
Policy—Corporate-level direction that guides decision-making and actions throughout the Air Force.
Policy translates the ideas, goals or principles into actionable and concrete plans, goals, or objectives.
Qualifying Conviction—A State or Federal conviction for a felony crime of sexual assault and any
general or special court-martial conviction for a Uniform Code of Military Justice offense which
otherwise meets the elements of a crime of sexual assault, even though not classified as a felony or
misdemeanor.
Restricted Reporting—A process used by a Service member to report or disclose that he or she is the
victim of a sexual assault to specified officials on a requested confidential basis. Under these
AFPD36-60 28 MARCH 2008                                                                                     5


circumstances, the victim’s report and any details provided to a healthcare provider, the SARC, or a VA
will not be reported to law enforcement to initiate an official investigation unless the victim consents or an
established exception is exercised under DODD 6495.01.
 Sexual Assault—For the purpose of this Directive and SAPR awareness training and education, the term
“sexual assault” is defined as intentional sexual contact, characterized by use of force, physical threat or
abuse of authority or when the victim does not or cannot consent. It includes rape, nonconsensual sodomy
(oral or anal sex), indecent assault (unwanted, inappropriate sexual contact or fondling), or attempts to
commit these acts. Sexual assault can occur without regard to gender or spousal relationship or age of
victim. “Consent” shall not be deemed or construed to mean the failure by the victim to offer physical
resistance. Consent is not given when a person uses force, threat of force, coercion, or when the victim is
asleep, incapacitated, or unconscious.
Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)—An Air Force civilian employee or Air Force officer
reporting to the installation Vice Commander, who serves as the commander’s central point of contact at
installation level or within a geographic area to ensure appropriate care is coordinated and provided to
victims of sexual assault and tracks the services provided to a victim from the initial report through final
disposition and resolution. Ensures the implementation of prevention programs, to include sexual assault
awareness, prevention and response training.
Unrestricted Reporting—A process a Service member uses to disclose, without requesting
confidentiality or restricted reporting, that he or she is the victim of a sexual assault. Under these
circumstances, the victim’s report and any details provided to healthcare providers, the SARC, a VA,
command authorities, or other persons are reportable to law enforcement and may be used to initiate the
official investigative process.
Victim—For the purpose of this Directive, a victim is a person who alleges direct physical, emotional, or
pecuniary harm as a result of the commission of a sexual assault and who has a connection with the
installation. If the victim is incompetent or incapacitated, the term “victim” includes one of the following
(in order of preference): spouse, legal guardian, parent, child, sibling, another family member, or another
person designated by a court. Victims will be eligible for and provided services by the Air Force
consistent with their legal status. The services contemplated range from referral to the appropriate civilian
or foreign agency to the provision of all services available to an active duty member. Nothing in this
policy shall be constructed to authorize or require the provision of specific services (such as medical care
or therapeutic counseling) unless the victim has an independent entitlement to such services under
relevant statutes or Department of Defense directives. The restricted reporting option is only available to
those sexual assault victims who are service members.
Victim Advocate—Military and DoD civilian employee volunteers, selected and trained by the SARC,
who provide essential support, liaison services and care to victims.
Victim and Witness Assistance Program (VWAP)—T h e p r o g r a m t o m i t i g a t e t h e p h y s i c a l ,
psychological, and financial hardships suffered by victims and witnesses of offenses investigated by U.S.
Air Force authorities; foster cooperation between victims, witnesses, and the military justice system; and
ensure best efforts are extended to protect the rights of victims and witnesses.
