BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                             AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-21
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  30 APRIL 2014

                                                                                       Operations

                                                            AIR MOBILITY LEAD COMMAND
                                                            ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AMC/A8X                                                     Certified by: HQ USAF/A3/5
                                                                             (Mr. Harry Disbrow)
                                                                                         Pages: 6
Supersedes:    AFPD 10-21, 1 May 1998


This policy directive implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5100.01, Functions
of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components, and supports the National Security
Strategy and the National Military Strategy. This policy directive applies to all military and
civilian Air Force personnel, members of the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and
individuals or activities, authorized by an appropriate government official to conduct air mobility
operations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in the Air Force Records Information Management System. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Other Mobility Air Forces
(MAF) commands may publish command supplements as needed to address mission-unique
requirements, but supplements may not be less restrictive. All direct supplements must be routed
to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Waivers to
this directive may be granted only by the United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for
Operations, Plans, and Requirements.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised to comply with current publication format
directives and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include updates to terminology,
 2                                                                    AFPD10-21 30 APRIL 2014


organizational names, and expansion of lead command responsibilities to include destination
airport analysis. Deleted Attachment 1 from the previous Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
version, as Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, no longer
requires measuring compliance with policy directives. Added a Glossary of References and
Supporting Information at Attachment 1.
1. Overview. This AFPD is a capstone directive that strengthens and clarifies lead and other
MAF command responsibilities within the air mobility mission area. It specifies the roles and
responsibilities of the lead command for air mobility and those other MAF commands who have
assigned air mobility forces and/or that routinely exercise command authority over their
operations. By designating those shared processes, Air Mobility Command (AMC) will ensure
that the other MAF commands’ requirements are considered. Likewise, other MAF commands
are obligated to participate in those shared processes to ensure the resulting air mobility
standards are applicable across all commands with air mobility forces. The overall goal of these
actions is to ensure the seamless integration and interoperability of all air mobility forces.
2. Policy. It is Air Force policy that:
     2.1. Rapid global mobility is a core mission of the United States Air Force (USAF). It
     provides speed and flexibility in deploying, employing, and sustaining the nation’s combat
     forces.
     2.2. Critical processes and systems associated with any particular mission area must be
     congruent and compatible. The lead command for a mission area will coordinate, manage,
     and direct the development and maintenance of concepts, processes, and force structure
     associated with that mission area.
     2.3. The Air Force designated AMC as the lead command for the air mobility mission area,
     including airlift, air refueling, aeromedical evacuation, and air mobility support. As such,
     AMC will manage and coordinate those processes designated below with the other
     commands involved in air mobility operations to enable the interoperability of air mobility
     forces regardless of command assignment.
     2.4. AMC, in concert with other MAF commands, will maintain clear, detailed, and
     measurable standards in this mission area to ensure efficient employment and interoperability
     of forces.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. This directive establishes the following authorities and responsibilities which are
     applicable to the air mobility mission area, to include: combat delivery, air refueling, cargo
     airlift, passenger airlift, nuclear mission support, operational support airlift (OSA)/executive
     airlift (EA), special operations, defense support to civil authorities, aeromedical evacuation,
     air base opening, and the associated air mobility support missions/functions. The AMC
     Commander will:
        3.1.1. Coordinate the technical review for all Service and joint air mobility doctrine.
        3.1.2. In coordination with other MAF commands, develop tactics, techniques, and
        procedures and mission essential task lists necessary to effect air mobility force
        integration, to include complimentary and interoperable command relationships and
        command and control procedures.
AFPD10-21 30 APRIL 2014                                                                        3


     3.1.3. Establish a MAF commanders’ conference to periodically discuss air mobility
     issues, and to resolve issues of mutual concern.
     3.1.4. Create standardized organizational templates for air mobility force structure.
     3.1.5. Enable all commands to fully participate in leadership development programs and
     commander selections.
     3.1.6. Establish and maintain programs and curricula at the USAF Expeditionary Center
     (USAF EC) to meet all commands’ advanced mobility and combat support training and
     educational needs.
     3.1.7. Manage the process to identify future air mobility requirements and modernization
     needs, and incorporate them into the AF and joint modernization planning processes to
     include the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS). The lead
     command modernization process also includes modifications for fleet-wide
     interoperability and commonality on airlift type airframes currently employed in mission
     areas other than air mobility.
     3.1.8. Act as the air mobility advocate and respond to issues addressing its status and
     use. Advocacy includes planning, programming, and budgeting for designated system-
     wide unique equipment and modifications, as well as personnel issues.
     3.1.9. Establish and maintain logistics program standards to support the Air Force’s
     fleet-wide configuration control efforts, and to maintain programs to ensure worldwide
     supportability, to include operational logistics for planned and future military
     engagements. If necessary, the other MAF commands may supplement due to
     operational requirements.
     3.1.10. Establish, in coordination with the other MAF commands, the command and
     control process for airlift, air refueling, aeromedical evacuation, and air mobility support
     forces to include the interfaces with U.S. Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM),
     Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), and the theater level Air Operations
     Center (AOC).
     3.1.11. Advocate for air mobility integrated data standards and systems to effectively
     manage cargo, passengers, and in-transit visibility requirements across the Services,
     defense agencies, and combatant commands.
     3.1.12. Formulate and manage the air mobility baseline inspection and evaluation
     standards, regardless of command.
     3.1.13. Formulate and manage the air mobility baseline training events and employment
     tactics, regardless of command.
     3.1.14. Manage the MAF process to formulate destination airport analysis supporting Air
     Force-wide global MAF operations to include foreign terminal instrument procedure
     review, airfield suitability, and landing zone assessment products. Other MAF
     commands may supplement analysis products due to operational requirements.
     3.1.15. AMC will develop, with the other MAF commands’ full participation and
     coordination, related publications supporting this directive.
4                                                                AFPD10-21 30 APRIL 2014


    3.2. All other MAF commands will fully participate in the above processes to ensure needs
    are identified and policies are thoroughly formulated. The MAF Commanders will:
       3.2.1. Retain responsibility for accomplishing the above duties for command or mission-
       unique equipment, modifications, and missions.
       3.2.2. Set up peacetime and wartime theater air mobility command and control in
       coordination with AMC.




                                           DEBORAH LEE JAMES
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD10-21 30 APRIL 2014                                                                   5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components, 21 Dec
2010
AFMAN 33-363,Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 Sep 2013
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 2007
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 Jan 2012
AMCI 11-211, Destination Airfield Suitability Analysis, 21 Dec 2012
AFI 13-217, Drop Zone and Landing Zone Operations, 10 May 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
AOC—Air Operations Center
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
EA—Executive Airlift
EC—Expeditionary Center
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSA—Operational Support Airlift
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
 6                                                                     AFPD10-21 30 APRIL 2014


Terms
Airlift—Operations to transport and deliver forces and materiel through the air in support of
strategic, operational, or tactical objectives.
Air Refueling— The refueling of an aircraft in flight by another aircraft. Also called AR.
Aeromedical Evacuation—The movement of patients under medical supervision to and
between medical treatment facilities by air transportation.
Executive Airlift—The airlift of DoD and Federal senior officials and DoD-approved senior
officials. It typically utilizes specially configured aircraft to support travel when other aircraft do
not provide the timeliness, security, communications and capability required.
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System— The JCIDS process supports
identifying, assessing, validating, and prioritizing joint military capability requirements while
considering the full range of materiel and non-materiel solutions (i.e., Doctrine, Organization,
Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, Facilities and Policy (DOTmLPF-P)).
Mobility Air Forces—The Mobility Air Forces are comprised of those air components and
Service components that are assigned air mobility forces and/or that routinely exercise command
authority over their operations.
Operational Support Airlift—Operational support airlift missions are movements of high-
priority passengers and cargo with time, place, or mission-sensitive requirements. Operational
support airlift aircraft are those fixed-wing aircraft acquired and/or retained exclusively for
operational support airlift missions, as well as any other Department of Defense-owned or
controlled aircraft, fixed or rotary-wing, used for operational support airlift purposes.
Operational support airlift missions are a special classification of airlift mission support to
provide for the timely movement of limited numbers of priority personnel or cargo.
