BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                            AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 34-2
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               21 JUNE 2012

                                                                                     Services

                                               MANAGING NONAPPROPRIATED FUNDS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or
               ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A1SR                                                              Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                        (Lt Gen Darrell Jones)
                                                                                      Pages: 5
Supersedes:   AFPD 34-2, 7 January 1994


This policy directive implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction (DoDI) 1015.15,
Establishment, Management, and Control of Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities and
Financial Management of Supporting Resources. This policy directive applies to all Air Force
(AF) personnel including the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), by using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. This publication may not be supplemented. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records           Disposition             Schedule           (RDS)           located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This policy directive updates implementing publications and the guidance for managing
nonappropriated funds.
 2                                                                     AFPD34-2 21 JUNE 2012


1. Overview. High morale in the Air Force community is important in accomplishing Air Force
missions. As part of the effort to keep morale high, the Air Force conducts numerous Morale
Welfare and Recreation (MWR) programs and supports them with Air Force resources, including
nonappropriated funds (NAF).
2. Policy. It is Air Force policy that:
     2.1. Funding for MWR activities will come from appropriated funds (APF) and NAFs.
     There are three categories of MWR activities as a means of determining fund source:
     mission sustaining, community support, and business activities.
     2.2. APFs, when available, will provide the funding for MWR activities to the extent
     authorized in the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and
     Comptroller (SAF/FM) directives.
     2.3. NAFs will provide the funding source for MWR programs, where APFs are not
     authorized in SAF/FM directives, as long as those programs contribute to the MWR mission.
     The Air Force will not use NAFs to support areas not principally concerned with MWR and
     MWR-related activities.
     2.4. NAFs are government funds entitled to the same protection as APFs.
     2.5. NAFs will be used primarily to support business activities and assist those mission
     sustaining and community support programs that serve active duty military personnel, their
     dependents, and other authorized patrons. The scope of MWR programs must be sufficiently
     broad and varied in nature and number to attract the maximum number of people for whom a
     commander has support responsibility.
        2.5.1. The ANG and AFRC units will receive NAF support through use of local base
        programs when units are located on or near military installations, or as isolated units
        when not located on an installation.
     2.6. The Air Force will establish NAF instrumentalities (NAFI) to meet the objectives of
     MWR and MWR-related activities.
     2.7. The Air Force will operate NAFIs and MWR business activities in such a manner as to
     ensure sound management of resources and to generate enough income to cover NAF
     operating expenses. To this end, the Air Force will conduct periodic reviews and audits of
     NAFIs and activities to monitor the continued need for the function and the quality of its
     management practices.
     2.8. Neither an individual or a group has any right to ownership of NAFI assets because all
     benefits accrue through participation in programs supported by the NAFI. Individuals will
     not use NAFs or NAFI affiliation for personal or private gain.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) approves Air Force-level use of NAFs and
     all Headquarters United States Air Force military NAFIs.
     3.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
     provides policy oversight and program advocacy.
     3.3. SAF/FM will conduct financial oversight at all organizational levels.
AFPD34-2 21 JUNE 2012                                                                       3


  3.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1)
     3.4.1. Develops and oversees MWR NAF policy and guidance, and advocates resource
     requirements for MWR programs.
     3.4.2. Interfaces with the Office of the Secretary of Defense staff to develop DoD policy
     and legislative initiatives.
     3.4.3. Establishes an Air Force Services Council to recommend policy and management
     actions to the CSAF for Air Force-level use of NAFs and all Headquarters United States
     Air Force military NAFs.




                                          MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                          Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                                   AFPD34-2 21 JUNE 2012


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DoDI, 1015.15, Establishment, Management, and Control of Nonappropriated Fund
Instrumentalities and Financial Management of Supporting Resources, 20 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
APF—Appropriated Fund
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
MAJCOM—Major Command
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility

Terms
MWR-related activities— Those which enhance the quality of life and are not the responsibility
of other Air Force agencies. MWR activities include (but are not limited to) the following
programs: fitness, sports, library, child development, youth, arts and crafts, auto hobby shops,
recreation equipment checkout, outdoor recreation, clubs and slot machines, bowling, golf, aero
club, and other membership programs. For the purpose of this policy directive, mortuary affairs,
lodging, laundry and linen exchange, and dining facilities are excluded because they are covered
by other specific directives.
NAFs— Cash and other assets that NAFIs both generate and receive from sources other than
Congressional appropriations. They are government funds separate from funds of the United
States Treasury, but entitled to the same privileges, immunities, and fiduciary responsibilities.
NAFs include dividends from Army and Air Force Exchange Service operations; fees, charges,
AFPD34-2 21 JUNE 2012                                                                        5


dues, and retail proceeds from NAFI-supported activities; income from NAF concessionaire
contracts and commercial sponsors; contributions and donations; and grants from other NAFIs.
NAFIs— Instrumentalities of the US Government, as well as fiscal and organizational entities of
the DoD, which provide MWR and MWR-related programs and services. Air Force NAFIs
operate on successor relationships in which higher headquarters NAFIs are financially
responsible for lower echelon NAFIs.
