BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 11-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          24 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                               Flying Operations

                                                     AIRCREW FLIGHT EQUIPMENT (AFE)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3O-AI                                          Certified by: AF/A3/5 (Lt Gen Burton M.
                                                                                          Field)
Supersedes:    AFPD11-3; 9 April 1993                                                  Pages: 3


This publication provides basic policy applicable to the maintenance, acquisition, sustainment
and training for aircrew flight equipment for active duty, guard and reserve component units.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.Submit recommended changes to this
publication using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms
847 through the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command to AF/A3O-AI at
afa3oai.workflow@pentagon.af.mil. This publication may not be supplemented.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a major revision and must be reviewed entirely. The revision changes the title of the
directive and includes updates for organizational changes.
1. Overview.
   1.1. Protecting and sustaining human life during flight operations is of great importance to
   the Air Force. The Air Force must have effective flight equipment to preserve the lives of
   aircrews and passengers. Also, people must be trained to escape from an aircraft, descend
   safely to the ground, and use life sustaining flight equipment until recovery or return to duty,
   as-well-as to sustain mission success and survive in Chemical, Biological, Radiological,
   Nuclear (CBRN) warfare environments. Furthermore, personnel must be expertly trained in
   the proper inspection and maintenance of this critical life-sustaining equipment. Finally,
   systems must be in place to ensure global equipment accountability, maintenance tracking,
 2                                                            AFPD11-3 24 SEPTEMBER 2013


     and management as-well-as provide total force visibility and support for life cycle
     management of AFE equipment. This directive therefore establishes policies for the
     maintenance, tracking, acquisition and sustainment of aircrew flight equipment, as-well-as
     aircrew safety/survival equipment and emergency egress training.
2. Policy.
     2.1. The Air Force will establish, develop, field, track, maintain, sustain, and improve flight
     equipment as identified by user-validated operational requirements, operational deficiencies,
     suggestions, and aircraft mishap recommendations to enhance performance, minimize loss of
     life, and reduce support cost.
     2.2. The Air Force will maintain flight equipment in optimum condition and train aircrews
     and passengers in procedures to ensure the most effective use of their equipment.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) shall provide
     oversight of the acquisition and sustainment of critical life-sustaining equipment.
     3.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) shall:
        3.2.1. Provide oversight of AFE operations, to include, but not limited to, manpower,
        training, equipment, quality assurance, and general operations guidance and procedures.
        3.2.2. Approve departmental publications within this series that establish guidance and
        procedures, and assign responsibilities for implementing the policy in this Directive.
        3.2.3. Establish procedures and systems for the proper total force life cycle management
        (from requirements to disposal) and tracking of life-sustaining equipment.
     3.3. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, Environment and Logistics
     (SAF/IE) is responsible for policy, resource advocacy, and oversight of the Occupational
     Safety and Health Program as it pertains to the AFE Program.
     3.4. Major commands (MAJCOM), Field Operating Agencies (FOA), Direct Reporting
     Units (DRU), and Air Reserve Components shall:
        3.4.1. Identify AFE resource requirements, evaluate AFE program effectiveness and
        implement policies designed to ensure the qualification and training of assigned
        personnel.
        3.4.2. Lead commands for weapons systems are contained in AFPD 10-9, Lead
        Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems. Lead command
        assignments for specific AFE items/types will be listed in AFI 11-301 series publications.
        3.4.3. Shall comply with applicable publications guidance, IAW AFI 33-360,
        Publications and Forms Management.




                                              Eric K. Fanning
                                              Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD11-3 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                3


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 2007
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 Feb 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear
IAW—In Accordance With
MAJCOM—Major Command
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
