BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                           AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-2
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         6 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                  Operations

                                                                                READINESS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available for downloading from the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A3O-IR                                                          Certified by: AF/A3O
                                                                       (Maj Gen James Jones)
Supersedes:   AFPD 10-2, 30 October 2006                                              Pages: 7


Air Force (AF) mission success hinges on our readiness to perform assigned tasks satisfying
combatant commander’s requested capabilities. This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
establishes AF readiness requirements and responsibilities, and directs major commands
(MAJCOMs) to report accurate readiness data in support of the decision-making processes.
Readiness references to MAJCOMs include field operating agencies (FOA), direct reporting
units (DRU), Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), and the Air National Guard (ANG). This
publication applies to AF, ANG, and AFRC units. This AFPD implements the Department of
Defense (DoD) Joint Presence Policy, the Global Force Management (GFM) directives, DoD
Directive 3020.26, Defense Continuity Programs, DoD Directive 7730.65, Department of
Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS), Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
(CJCSI) 3500.01E, Joint Training Policy for the Armed Forces of the United States, Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual (CJCSM) 3150.02A, Global Status of Resources and Training
System (GSORTS), and CJCSI 3401.01E, Joint Combat Capability Assessment. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in     accordance      with    Air    Records      Disposition     Schedule      located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to AF/A3O-IR
(AFA3OIR.READINESS@PENTAGON.AF.MIL) using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Information Management Tool 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                             AFPD10-2 6 NOVEMBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates changes to clarify responsibilities within Headquarters Air Force
(HAF) for providing readiness policy oversight and advocacy of AF readiness efforts, in
paragraph 6, and updates referenced publication titles, dates, and websites throughout this
document, especially in Attachment 1, GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
INFORMATION.
1. Air Force Readiness. AF readiness, the ability of United States Air Force (USAF) forces to
deliver their designed capabilities without unacceptable delay, is essential for successful
accomplishment of the AF mission. This directive establishes policy for AF, AFRC, and ANG
units preparing personnel and equipment to achieve, maintain, and sustain required readiness
levels to meet taskings across the full range of military operations.
2. Air Force Command and Control (C2) Architecture. The AF will establish C2
architecture to support the Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), and combatant commanders
(CCDRs) and to provide continuity of C2 in the event of hostile action or natural disaster.
     2.1. Command and Control architecture supports AF combat and combat support forces
     directly responsive to emergency action messages from the CJCS, HAF, or CCDRs. It will
     allow commanders and staffs to accumulate, monitor, and analyze operational, support, and
     any other data necessary to facilitate decision-making during military operations.
     2.2. The AF will provide facilities, equipment, procedures, and staffing to support, sustain,
     and protect military operations.
3. Base and Launch Operability. The AF will establish and maintain base and launch
operability to support military forces and will ensure their ability to continue operations in the
event of hostile action or natural disaster.
4. Managing Resources. The AF will effectively manage its resources by providing for the
training, morale, health and fitness of its personnel and will provide the equipment, supplies, and
infrastructure required to execute all tasks related to the AF mission. The AF is responsible for:
     4.1. Identifying, coding, training, and assigning personnel to meet individual and unit
     readiness requirements.
     4.2. Participating in exercises to hone and refine execution of mission essential and
     supporting tasks. Exercises will enhance readiness, improve crisis response, and validate
     training.
     4.3. Ensuring policy is comprehensive and coordinated across all facets of AF readiness to
     include, but are not limited to, training, exercising, evaluating, inspecting, and reporting
     readiness by mission essential tasks.
     4.4. Managing personnel accountability, casualty reporting, and replacement actions in times
     of mobilization or hostilities.
5. Readiness Assessments. The Air Force will continually assess readiness based on criteria
established by the Secretary of Defense (SecDef), CJCS, the Secretary of the Air Force, and the
Chief of Staff of the Air Force. Training, exercise evaluation, and inspection assessments are
critical and will be used for readiness assessments.
AFPD10-2 6 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                           3


   5.1. Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS). A capabilities-based reporting system
   designed to be the central hub for all authoritative sources of readiness data. It provides a
   single reporting system that fulfills all statutory requirements to keep the SecDef and
   Congress informed of force capabilities and deficiencies. It is an Office of the Secretary of
   Defense (OSD) net-centric, web-enabled initiative to manage and report the readiness of
   DoD forces to execute the National Military Strategy (NMS).
   5.2. Global Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS). A resource-based reporting
   system that provides assessments of units’ abilities to execute the mission(s) for which they
   were organized or designed. This information supports responsibilities to organize, train, and
   equip forces.
   5.3. Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) Unit Type Code Reporting Tool (ART). The
   ART facilitates unit-level reporting of Unit Type Code (UTC) readiness data. It allows
   immediate updates and ready access to an aggregate UTC status for all levels of command.
   The ART is an AF-specific system, as the AF, unlike any other Service, typically deploys
   UTCs, rather than entire units.
6. Responsibilities. Headquarters Air Force is responsible for policy oversight and advocacy of
Air Force readiness and continuity efforts, and for interface with OSD and Joint Staff concerning
development of DoD policy and legislative initiatives. It is also responsible for identifying those
portions of DoD readiness and continuity policy that require Air Force, MAJCOM, or unit
implementation.
   6.1. Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5), Logistics, Installations and Mission
   Support (AF/A4/7), and Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM).
       6.1.1. Provide regular AF readiness updates to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force
       (CSAF). There are six CSAF readiness presentations coordinated between HAF
       directorates and MAJCOMs, each covering one of the following functional areas:
       Combat Air Forces (CAF)-Kinetic, special mission, nuclear enterprise, Mobility Air
       Forces (MAF), special operations forces (SOF), and combat support. Each area is
       presented annually and contains readiness data such as core mission essential task list
       assessments, named operation assessments, top level contingency plans assessments,
       SORTS-measured area levels, aircraft availability, operational cost per flying hour, and
       weapon system sustainment funding. These areas focus on the following capabilities:
              The CAF-Kinetic readiness presentation includes data on fighter and conventional
              bomber units.
              The special mission readiness presentation includes rescue, command and control,
              intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, space, and cyber units.
              The nuclear enterprise readiness presentation covers nuclear bombers, missiles,
              munitions, and nuclear security forces units.
              The MAF readiness presentation covers airlift, cargo, and tanker units.
              The SOF readiness presentation includes special operations units.
              The combat support readiness presentation focuses on functional communities
              such as operations support and weather (AF/A3/5), security forces, civil engineer,
              logistics (AF/A4/7), and comptroller units (SAF/FM). For more examples of
4                                                              AFPD10-2 6 NOVEMBER 2012


              communities within the combat support brief, refer to paragraph 6.2.
       6.1.2. Provide AF readiness inputs to the quarterly Joint Forces Readiness Review
       (JFRR) and the Quarterly Readiness Report to Congress (QRRC). Reference the CJCSI
       3401.01E, Joint Combat Capability Assessment (JCCA), for JFRR guidance.
       6.1.3. Provide support in the development of testimony for congressional readiness
       inquiries.
    6.2. Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1); Intelligence, Surveillance and
    Reconnaissance (AF/A2); Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10); Surgeon
    General (AF/SG); Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6);
    Acquisition (SAF/AQ); and Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI). Provide
    updates to CSAF on the readiness of applicable functional communities. Maintain awareness
    of AF readiness by attending the CSAF readiness presentations, listed in paragraph 6.1, to aid
    in policy oversight and advocacy of AF readiness efforts. The following are additional
    examples of communities within the combat support readiness presentation: force support
    (AF/A1), intelligence (AF/A2), medical (AF/SG), communications (SAF/CIO A6),
    contracting (SAF/AQ), and special investigations (AFOSI) units. AF/A10 provides inputs to
    the nuclear enterprise readiness presentation.
    6.3. Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US); Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CV); Assistant
    Vice Chief of Staff (AF/CVA); Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8); Studies and
    Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (AF/A9); Chief of Safety (AF/SE); and
    Secretary of the Air Force Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG). Maintain awareness of
    AF readiness by attending the CSAF readiness presentations listed in paragraph 6.1 to aid in
    policy oversight and advocacy of AF readiness efforts.




                                             Michael B. Donley
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD10-2 6 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                   5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 1100.4, Guidance for Manpower Management, 12 February 2005
DoD Directive 1100.19-H, Wartime Manpower Mobilization Planning Guidance, March 1990
DoD Directive 3020.26, Department of Defense Continuity Programs, 9 January 2009
DoD Directive 7730.65, DoD Readiness Reporting System (DRRS), 3 June 2002 (current as of 23
April 2007)
Joint Publication 3-27, Homeland Defense, 12 July 2007
Joint Publication 6-0, Joint Communications Systems, 10 June 2010
CJCSI 3401.01E, Joint Combat Capability Assessment, 13 April 2010
CJCSI 3500.01C, 3500.01E, Joint Training Policy and Guidance for the Armed Forces of the
United States, 31 May 2008
CJCSM 3500.04E, Universal Joint Task Manual, 25 August 2008
CJCSM 3150.02A, Global Status of Resources and Training System (GSORTS), 29 April 2004
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), 13 April 2006
AFI 10-204, Participation in Joint and National Exercises, 21 April 2010
AFI 10-205, Availability of Key HQ AF Personnel and Major Command Commanders,
27 September 2010
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 September 2010
AFI 10-207, Command Posts, 4 April 2008
AFI 10-208, Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program, 1 December 2005
AFI 10-209, RED HORSE Program, 13 May 2008
AFI 10-210, Prime Base Engineer Emergency Force (BEEF) Program, 15 November 2010
AFI 10-211, Civil Engineer Contingency Response Planning, 6 April 2006
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations,
24 January 2007
AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations Under Emergency Conditions, 22 July 1994
AFI 10-214, Air Force Prime Readiness in Base Services Program, 27 February 2006
AFI 10-216, Evacuating and Repatriating Air Force Family Members and Other US
Noncombatants, 1 April 2000
AFI 10-244, Reporting Status of Aerospace Expeditionary Forces, 12 September 2005
AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations, 23 February 2009
 6                                                      AFPD10-2 6 NOVEMBER 2012


AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty, 1 August 2002
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ART—Air and Space Expeditionary Force Unit Type Code Reporting Tool
BEEF—Base Engineer Emergency Force
C2—Command and Control
CAF—Combat Air Forces
CCDR—Combatant Commander
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CJCSM—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual
COOP—Continuity of Operations
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DRRS—Defense Readiness Reporting System
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GFM—Global Force Management
GSORTS—Global Status of Resources and Training System
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IMT—Information Management Tool
JCCA—Joint Combat Capability Assessment
JFRR—Joint Forces Readiness Review
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
MAJCOM—Major Command
MET—Mission Essential Task
NMS—National Military Strategy
AFPD10-2 6 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                    7


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
QRRC—Quarterly Readiness Report to Congress
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
ROMO—Range of Military Operations
SecDef— -Secretary of Defense
SOF—Special Operations Forces
SORTS—Status of Resources and Training System
USAF—United States Air Force
UTC—Unit Type Code
UJTL—Universal Joint Task List

Terms
Command and Control—The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. C2
functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications,
facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and
controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.
Continuity of Operations—The degree or state of being continuous in the conduct of functions,
tasks, or duties necessary to accomplish a military action or mission in carrying out the NMS.
Mission Essential Tasks—Tasks deemed essential to mission accomplishment and defined
using the common language of the Universal Joint Task List (UJTL) in terms of tasks,
conditions, and standards. Service and interagency task lists augment the UJTL to provide a
comprehensive integrated menu of tasks, conditions, and standards which include measures of
effectiveness and their associated criteria of performance that support all levels of DoD in
executing the NMS across the full ROMO.
Military Training—The instruction of personnel to enhance their capacity to perform specific
military functions and tasks. The exercise of one or more military units conducted to enhance
their combat readiness.
