BY ORDER OF THE                                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-13
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             28 MARCH 2008
                                                                        Certified Current 4 August 2014
                                                                                   Special Management

                                                                   MILITARY FLIGHT OPERATIONS
                                                                            QUALITY ASSURANCE



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/SE                                      Certified by: HQ USAF/A3/A5 (Maj Gen Newton)
                                                                                          Pages: 5

This directive supports DoD Instruction 5000.2, The Defense Acquisition System, May 12, 2003, DoD
Instruction 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 Aug, 1998, and implements
the OSD Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance (MFOQA) Process Implementation Policy Memo
dated 11 Oct 2005. MFOQA policy applies to all U.S. Air Force aircraft (manned and unmanned), includ-
ing those of the Air National Guard (ANG) and U.S. Air Force Reserve (AFR). For this regulation con-
sider Air National Guard as a MAJCOM. This publication does not apply to the Civil Air Patrol. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. Purpose.
   1.1. MFOQA is the analysis and trending of aircraft flight performance and system data to proactively
   enhance combat readiness through improvements in operations, maintenance, training, and safety
   functions. MFOQA provides tools for commanders to: establish a baseline for normal operations;
   identify, mitigate, and monitor operational risks while detecting precursors to aviation mishaps; and
   identify operational inefficiencies. MFOQA gives capabilities to multiple levels and functional areas
   to improve and enhance mission-effectiveness through awareness of abnormal trends, continuous
   knowledge of aircraft systems performance, and insight into the effectiveness of procedures, policy,
   and aircrew training on actual mission accomplishment.
   1.2. The MFOQA process is implemented through the use of enhanced aircraft flight data recorders,
   which also provide mission playback capability to aircrews for flight operations training and to main-
   tenance crews for enhanced maintenance operations. However, the greatest benefit in lives and
2                                                                         AFPD90-13 28 MARCH 2008


    resources saved will be seen through the identification of trends and anomalies through regular flight
    data analysis.

2. MFOQA Analysis Process Goals:
    2.1. Mishap Reduction – Reduces the statistical rate of aviation mishaps by identifying risks, imple-
    menting effective control measures, and enabling continuous monitoring of risk mitigation.
    2.2. Operational Efficiency – Improves aircrew training effectiveness, reduces aircraft downtime, and
    modifies operations to reduce consumption and increase system component life cycles.
    2.3. Operational Readiness – Enhances war-fighting capabilities by preserving resources available for
    operational requirements and improving mission performance.
    2.4. Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) – OSS&E goals are
    supported by ensuring data requirements of all information users, including MFOQA, Aircraft Struc-
    tural Integrity Program (ASIP), Engine Structural Integrity Program (ENSIP), Mechanical Equipment
    and Subsystems Integrity Program (MECSIP), and Avionics / Electronics Integrity Program (AVIP)
    are met, as defined in AFPD 63-14, Aircraft Information Programs, and its derivatives. The MFOQA
    data analysis process supports OSS&E through its analysis of flight maneuvers, identification of haz-
    ardous trends, and the implementation of mitigation measures.

3. Policy
    3.1. Lead Commands and System Program Managers / Development System Managers will ensure
    MFOQA process requirements are incorporated into all legacy and new aircraft procurements unless
    waived by the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
       3.1.1. Ensure aircraft developmental programs integrate data collection capabilities which enable
       MFOQA analysis prior to the Preliminary Design Review in the acquisition lifecycle.
       3.1.2. Lead Commands, as assigned in AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibil-
       ities for Weapon Systems, review current data collection capabilities for fielded aircraft using the
       fundamentals of AFPD 63-14, Aircraft Information Programs (AIP), and its derivatives, to deter-
       mine the suitability of the data for MFOQA analysis. When the implementation of MFOQA anal-
       ysis is not technically or fiscally feasible, Lead Commands shall request a waiver to this directive,
       signed by no lower than the vice commander and vetted through the Air Force corporate process
       to the Deputy Secretary of Defense for approval, no later than 12 months following release of this
       publication.
    3.2. The intent of Air Force MFOQA programs is to use de-identified, aggregate data to identify
    trends, mishap precursors, and the effectiveness of corrective actions. The analysis results and correc-
    tive actions will be used by the safety, operations, training and maintenance communities to improve
    flight operations and mission readiness.
       3.2.1. As stated in OSD Policy Memo Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance (MFOQA)
       Process Implementation, dated 11 Oct 2005, “Data generated from the MFOQA process shall not
       be used for monitoring aircrew performance to initiate punitive or adverse action. In cases of sus-
       pected willful disregard of regulations and procedures, MFOQA data may be used for action.
       MFOQA data is factual information not covered by the privileged safety information procedures
       of DoDI6055.7, Accident Investigation, Reporting and Record Keeping.”
AFPD90-13 28 MARCH 2008                                                                                 3


       3.2.2. No written policy can usurp the UCMJ or public law; the AF legal community will advise
       commanders, on a case by case basis, what recorded data may be used for legal action.

4. Responsibilities. This policy establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
   4.1. The Secretary of the Air Force makes MFOQA policy, oversees MFOQA process development
   throughout the Air Force with the assistance of HQ AF/SE, and provides annual MFOQA updates to
   the Secretary of Defense.
   4.2. The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Air, Space and Information Operations, Plans and Require-
   ments (USAF A3/5), will:
       4.2.1. Certify the AF MFOQA policy and implementation guidance.
       4.2.2. Ensure MAJCOMs establish requirements for materiel sustainment of data collection capa-
       bilities, and plan for MFOQA analysis process development and implementation.
       4.2.3. Ensure MAJCOMs incorporate MFOQA products in Operational Risk Management
       (ORM) processes, and in aircrew training and operational procedures such as those found in MDS
       Vol III.
   4.3. The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (USAF A4/7)
   will ensure MFOQA products and capabilities are incorporated into maintenance trending, support,
   and aircraft life cycle management activities.
   4.4. Aeronautical Systems Center (ASC) will act as a focal point and liaison for aircraft data acquisi-
   tion compliance with AFPD 63-14, AFI 63-1401 Aircraft Information Working Group and Aircraft
   Information Management Plan processes, and AFH 63-1402 parameter requirements.
   4.5. System Program Managers (SPMs) / Development System Managers (DSMs) responsible for
   aircraft development will support the Lead MAJCOMs in the effort to provide MFOQA capability on
   the aircraft for which they have engineering control. SPMs / DSMs will:
       4.5.1. Ensure data collection capabilities meet AIP requirements during all new aircraft acquisi-
       tions and during modifications to fielded aircraft.
       4.5.2. Ensure collaboration with DoD components on MFOQA development for Joint programs.
       4.5.3. Integrate MFOQA data collection requirements and analysis results with the other system
       health monitoring equipment and analyses, such as ASIP, as part of the overall SPM / DSM effort
       to assure the OSS&E of the aircraft.
   4.6. Headquarters Air Force Safety Center (HQ AFSC) will provide management and oversight of
   MFOQA program objectives and analysis capabilities. HQ AFSC will:
       4.6.1. Beginning in FY12, fund the ground analysis sustainment, including technical support for
       hardware and software, and manpower requirements.
       4.6.2. Provide MAJCOMs with required policy and educational resources to support the MFOQA
       concept of operations described in AFI 90-1301.
       4.6.3. Conduct centralized, AF-wide MFOQA analyses across multiple platforms, while facilitat-
       ing MFOQA compatibility and cross-communication between MAJCOMs, as well as Joint Ser-
       vice, foreign military, and civil aviation communities.
4                                                                      AFPD90-13 28 MARCH 2008


       4.6.4. Provide annual MFOQA updates to the Secretary of the Air Force for submission to the
       Secretary of Defense. The updates should include the status of MFOQA implementation, major
       trends, initiatives, and recommendations for aviation safety improvements.
    4.7. MAJCOMs will develop strategies to employ MFOQA in their unique operational and training
    environments. MAJCOMs will:
       4.7.1. Ensure AFPD 63-14 data collection requirements are integrated into platforms under their
       responsibility as assigned by AFPD 10-9, advocate for resources to improve data collection capa-
       bilities, and submit waivers as required.
       4.7.2. Implement MAJCOM-specific supplements to AFI 90-1301 that outline the command’s
       organizational structure and processes supporting the MFOQA concept of operations.
       4.7.3. Incorporate MFOQA products in ORM processes, and in aircrew training and operational
       procedures such as those found in MDS Vol III.

5. Waivers. The Lead Command, as identified in AFPD 10-9, shall submit requests for waivers to this
policy. Waiver requests must be coordinated through the Air Force corporate process to the Deputy Secre-
tary of Defense for approval.



                                              MICHAEL W. WYNNE
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD90-13 28 MARCH 2008                                                                   5


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 5000.2, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 Aug 1998
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 Mar 2007
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 23 Jul 2007
AFPD 63-14, Aircraft Information Programs, 6 Feb 2001
AFI 63-1401, Aircraft Information Programs, 6 Feb 2001
AFH 63-1402, Aircraft Information Programs,19 Mar 2001
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, 1 Apr 2000
AFI 90-1301, Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance, (Date TBD)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFSC—Air Force Safety Center
AIMP—Aircraft Information Management Plan
AIP—Aircraft Information Program
AIWG—Aircraft Information Working Group
ANG—Air National Guard
ASC—Aeronautical Systems Center
ASIP—Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
AVIP—Avionics / Electronics Integrity Program
DSM—Development System Manager
ENSIP—Engine Structural Integrity Program
MAJCOM—Major Command
MECSIP—Mechanical Equipment and Subsystems Integrity Program
MFOQA—Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
SPM—System Program Manager
