BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                           AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 34-12
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           28 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                       Services

                                                                     AIR FORCE PROTOCOL



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1SO                                                               Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                      (Lt Gen Darrell D. Jones)
Supersedes: AFPD 34-12, 14 March 2005                                                  Pages: 4


This policy directive implements DoD Issuance 1005.06, Display of the National Flag at Half-
Staff, and provides policy for protocol, decorum, and customs and courtesies when conducting
Air Force ceremonies, conferences, meetings, and social events; hosting distinguished visitors;
and providing honors at military funerals. This directive applies to all Air Force, Air National
Guard, and Air Force Reserve units and members. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The revision updates
the office of primary responsibility (OPR) from AF/CVAP to AF/A1SO. In addition, it replaces
AF/ILV designation with AF/A1S.
1. Policy. Protocol within the Air Force culture establishes and maintains proper etiquette and
military decorum during ceremonies, meetings, and social events.
   1.1. Commanders/Directors will be supported in the planning and execution of official
   functions and in elements related to hosting distinguished visitors, either by assigned
   protocol personnel or assigned project officers with guidance from the appropriate protocol
   office, in accordance with this directive and governing Air Force Instructions (AFI).
 2                                                             AFPD34-12 28 OCTOBER 2011


     1.2. Official functions and the hosting of distinguished visitors will be planned and executed
     to reflect the professionalism of Air Force members and honor the customs, courtesies, and
     traditions of the United States Air Force. Appropriate honors and courtesies will be extended
     at all times and on all occasions with due deference to position, title, and rank precedence.
     1.3. Military funerals and memorials will be planned and executed in a dignified manner that
     reflects the personal wishes and sensitivities to the family, while remaining in concert with
     the professionalism of the Air Force and honoring the historical customs and traditions of the
     United States and the United States Air Force.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) advocates
     for resources, provides oversight, and, in conjunction with Air Force Protocol (AF/CVAP),
     develops operational protocol guidance.
     2.2. Commanders/Directors implement quality protocol programs, identify requirements,
     and execute their programs in compliance with this policy and governing AFIs.




                                              MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD34-12 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                                          3


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 4 United States Code Chapter 1, Flag and Seal, Seat of Government, and the States
Title 36 United States Code Subtitle 1, Part A, Chapter 1, Patriotic and National Observances
Title 36 United States Code Subtitle 1, Part A, Chapter 3, National Anthem, Motto, Floral
Emblem, March, and Tree
Department of Defense (DoD) Order of Precedence memorandum
DoD Issuance 1005.06, Display of the National Flag at Half Staff, 27 Mar 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Terms
Distinguished Visitor (DV)— (1) Any general or flag officer, (2) any government official with
rank equivalent to a brigadier general or higher, or (3) any foreign military officer or civilian
designated a DV by the Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force for International Affairs
(SAF/IA). At times, persons of lower rank but appointed to or filling certain positions, may
be accorded DV status. The purpose of the visit will determine if DV status should be accorded.
For example, a civic leader may be accorded DV status. The commander determines the DV
distinction on an individual basis. The Air Force General Officer Management Office publishes
a relative rank list for active duty general officers and the Air Force Senior Executive
Management Office publishes a civilian senior executive roster with DV codes for senior
civilians. Consult the most current Department of Defense (DoD) Order of Precedence and Air
Force Precedence List to determine current and correct precedence of distinguished visitors.
These lists are available from HQ USAF/CVAP at 703—697-8341, DSN 227-8341, or by e-mail
at afprotocols@pentagon.af.mil.
Official Function— Any ceremony or event where senior members are operating in an official
capacity with members under their command or as a host to outside members. This includes, but
is not limited to, official meetings and conferences, official promotions, reenlistment and
retirement ceremonies, changes of command and reorganization events, and funerals.
Official Social Function— An event where senior Air Force members or senior civilian
personnel are operating in an official capacity commensurate with their position to build or
reinforce relationships with counterparts, government and civic officials, international visitors, or
unit members.
 4                                                              AFPD34-12 28 OCTOBER 2011


Protocol Officer— Officers, civilians, and enlisted members filling protocol positions. Protocol
officers work special projects requiring an understanding of international, diplomatic, or political
sensitivity for individuals and groups representing a variety of politics, cultures, nationalities,
and religions.
