BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-10
AIR FORCE                                                                                 25 OCTOBER 2007

                                                                                                    Operations

                                                             JOINT USE OF MILITARY AND CIVILIAN
                                                                              FLYING FACILITIES




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
                 website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-AC                                         Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O (Brig Gen Marke
                                                                                              Gibson)
Supersedes AFPD10-10, 1 September 1995                                                       Pages: 6

This policy directive implements Title 49, United States Code Sections, 44502, 47103 and 47107. It
applies to all United States Air Force (USAF), Air National Guard (ANG) and United States Air Force
Reserve (USAFR) installations. It also applies when civil aircraft use Air Force ramps at civil airports
hosting USAF, ANG and USAFR units. This policy directive addresses all standard situations. Those not
addressed will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.” Send all recommendations for
changes or comments to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 847, Recommenda-
tion for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs from the field through the appropriate functional chain.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This version super-
sedes all previous versions of AFPD 10-10. This revision expands the scope of this directive to cover a
wider variety of military and civil joint use at flying facilities. In addition, it expands the principle of fair
use by and compensation to either military or civilian users. The title of this AFPD was changed from
Civil Aircraft Use of United States Air Force Airfields to the current title to emphasize the broader defini-
tion of joint use and to align with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) definitions. The Air Force
establishes and uses its airfields to support the scope and level of operations necessary to carry out Air
Force missions worldwide. The FAA establishes and manages airfields to support national transportation
system needs. The Congress funds airfields in response to Air Force and FAA requirements and specifies
that civil aviation will have access to military airfields when it does not jeopardize an installation’s mili-
tary utility. Congress also specifies that Government aircraft will have access to civilian airfields devel-
oped with financial assistance from the United States Government without charge. The Air Force
routinely engages in dialogue with the civil aviation community and FAA to ensure mutual understanding
of long-term national air transportation system and programmed military force structure requirements.
The Air Force must have policies that balance access requests with military needs.
2                                                                       AFPD10-10 25 OCTOBER 2007


1. General. The Air Force will manage programs used to grant civil aircraft access to military airfields.
These include: civil aircraft landing permits, Commercial Activity on Military Installation (CAMI) con-
tracts, and airfield joint use agreements. Other arrangements for access will be negotiated as required for
specific purposes.
    1.1. Landing Permits. Normally, landing permits will only be issue to civil aircraft operating in sup-
    port of official Government business and for a one-time use or limited duration. Other use may be
    authorized if justified by exceptional circumstances. Access will be granted on an equitable basis.
    Civil aircraft access to Air Force airfields on foreign territory requires host nation approval.
    1.2. Contracts for Commercial Activity on a Military Installation (CAMI). Per direction in Depart-
    ment of Defense Instruction (DODI) 4500.55, Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) Carrier Commercial
    Access to Military Installations for Non-DOD Operations, the Air Force will consider proposals to use
    Air Force airfields by individual air carriers who meet the criteria for this program and wish to con-
    duct domestic operations at an Air Force installation. These proposals are not considered under joint
    use guidelines.
    1.3. Joint Use Agreements. The Air Force participates in two types of routine joint airfield use: civil
    use of military airfields and military use of civil airfields. In each case, the partners in agreement are
    expected to pay for their fair share use of the jointly used flying facilities.
       1.3.1. Civil Use of Military Airfields. When the proposed civil use does not compromise opera-
       tions, security, readiness, safety, environment or quality of life and the sponsoring Government
       agency has sufficient financial resources to address associated civil costs, civil use of airfield
       infrastructure will be accommodated. Only proposals submitted by authorized representatives of
       local government agencies eligible to sponsor a public airport will be evaluated for possible joint
       use.
       1.3.2. Military Use of Civil Airfields. The Air Force may operate at no cost from airports that
       have received US Government funding under the provisions of Title 49, United States Code, Sec-
       tion 47107, except when its use is substantial. Where the Air Force has a need for substantial use
       of a civilian airport, an agreement will be negotiated to outline responsibilities, rights and applica-
       ble fees. In negotiating such agreements, the parties will consider the length of expected use and
       any associated permanent presence (longer than one year).
    1.4. Airport Operations Agreements. The Air Force may need to conduct limited operations from an
    airport or flying facility that is not supported by the Federal Government. If so, an airport operations
    agreement outlining responsibilities may be negotiated with the facility’s managing director. This
    type of agreement may be negotiated locally if it does not involve any fees or other transfer of
    resources and does not involve a continuous use or reach the level of substantial use (more than 300
    aircraft operations in one calendar month) by all combined federal users. An operation is defined as a
    takeoff or landing.

2. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
    2.1. The Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations (SAF/IEI) is responsible for
    installation and facility policy. SAF/IEI is the Air Force representative with the necessary authority to
    permit access to Air Force infrastructure. SAF/IEI shall:
       2.1.1. Provide oversight of joint use flying facilities.
AFPD10-10 25 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                   3


     2.1.2. Serve as the final approval authority for all joint use agreements and airport operations
     agreements. This approval authority may not be delegated for military installations. For joint use
     agreements and airport operations agreements at civil airports, negotiation authority and execution
     may be delegated on a case by case basis to the MAJCOM level, but no further.
     2.1.3. Periodically review all policy for adherence to FAA guidance and current operational
     requirements and issue updates as necessary.
     2.1.4. Annually review the status of all agreements to ensure compliance with negotiated terms,
     fee structure and payments and assess the operational impacts of each agreement.
     2.1.5. Approve deviations from proportional payments for fair use of jointly approved flying
     facilities fee structures.
     2.1.6. Designate the lead office when multiple Air Force units use a common civil aviation facil-
     ity.
     2.1.7. Work with service counterparts and federal agencies to designate the lead federal agency
     when more than one service or federal agency is involved.
  2.2. HQ USAF/A3/5, through the Director of Operations (A3O), the Director of Air Operations
  (A3O-A) and the Civil Aviation Division (A3O-AC) shall:
     2.2.1. Review operational impacts associated with the mixed military/civil use of airfields.
     2.2.2. Ensure all impacts have been considered and addressed before forwarding a joint use pro-
     posal or agreement to SAF/IEI.
     2.2.3. Determine the level of decision authority for landing permits and delegate authority as nec-
     essary to MAJCOMs and installation commanders.
     2.2.4. Process all requests for exceptions or waivers to this policy directive and related Air Force
     instructions, unless otherwise delegated.
     2.2.5. Facilitate an annual review of all agreements to ensure adherence to the terms and fees.
     2.2.6. Consolidate annual operational costs (air traffic control, weather services, etc.) for military
     use of civilian airfields to assist in validating fair use fee assessments for military operations on
     civil airfields.
  2.3. HQ USAF/A7C, the Civil Engineer, shall:
     2.3.1. Review all proposed active duty agreements and renewals.
     2.3.2. Coordinate on all proposed airfield joint use agreements for compliance with the environ-
     mental impact analysis process and other civil engineering related environmental considerations
     for civilian operations on military airfields.
     2.3.3. Provide annual facilities sustainment and operation costs for military owned, jointly used
     flying facilities to assist in validating fair use fee assessments for civilian operations on military
     airfields.
     2.3.4. Consolidate civil engineering related annual facilities sustainment costs for military use of
     civilian airfields to assist in validating fair use fee assessments for military operations on civil air-
     fields.
4                                                                       AFPD10-10 25 OCTOBER 2007


    2.4. Proposed and renewal agreements involving the Air Force Reserve or the Air National Guard
    will be reviewed by AF/REL or NGB/A7C respectively. These organizations will complete all coor-
    dination aspects listed above in 2.3.1 through 2.3.4.
    2.5. The Air Force Real Property Agency shall:
       2.5.1. Manage lease processing for Air Force-owned land or facilities included in a military air-
       field joint use agreement.
       2.5.2. Manage lease and license processing for property acquired for military use at civilian air-
       ports, unless otherwise delegated.
       2.5.3. Ensure that the value of any associated lease payments is taken into consideration and is in
       compliance with the “right to use” provision associated with civil aviation facilities use.
       2.5.4. Ensure no lease is processed that implies military presence at a civil airport beyond five
       years without a SAF/IEI approved joint use or airport operations agreement.
    2.6. MAJCOMs, including the Air Force Reserve Command and the Air National Guard, and instal-
    lation commanders shall:
       2.6.1. Develop and maintain positive working relationships with their civilian tenants and hosts.
       This includes, but is not limited to, maintaining local operations agreements that outline responsi-
       bilities and authorities of each party. Participate in joint development of the airfield to support the
       jointly used flying facilities.
       2.6.2. Actively manage the program to ensure no agreement lapses and that all required fee
       reviews are conducted in a timely manner.
       2.6.3. Participate in all negotiations for new agreements or renewals and establish appropriate fis-
       cal policy to collect and issue fees.
       2.6.4. Periodically review flying programs and policies to assure compliance with 49 USC §
       47107 for substantial use provisions.

3. There shall only be one Air Force agreement supporting military operations for each civil airport used.
When more than one Air Force unit regularly (more than 10% of total airport operations) uses a civil avi-
ation facility, SAF/IEI will designate a lead unit who will account for the use by all Air Force activities
and be the lead in discussions with civil airport officials.

4. Exceptions. The following exceptions and rules apply:
    4.1. Any aircraft operator with an in-flight emergency may land at any Air Force airfield without
    prior authorization. An in-flight emergency is defined as a situation that makes continued flight haz-
    ardous.
    4.2. Forced landings, as directed by Department of Homeland Security, shall be directed to the nearest
    civilian airport where civil authorities will deal with on-board personnel and hazards.
    4.3. On Air Force airfields, Air Force operational requirements take precedence over civil aircraft
    operations. At Air Force airfields with joint use agreements the conditions under which that prece-
    dence is enforced, will be specified in the agreement.
AFPD10-10 25 OCTOBER 2007                                                                                5


  4.4. Civil aircraft using Air Force airfields in the United States are subject to Federal laws and regu-
  lations. Civil aircraft using Air Force airfields in foreign countries are subject to US Federal laws and
  regulations that have extraterritorial effect and to applicable international agreements with the country
  in which the Air Force installation is located.



                                              MICHAEL W. WYNNE,
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
6                                                                       AFPD10-10 25 OCTOBER 2007


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapons Systems Management, 8 Mar 2007.
AFI 10-1001, Civil Aircraft Landing Permits, 1 Sep 1995.
AFI 10-1002, Agreements for Civil Aircraft Use of Air Force Airfields, 1 Sep 1995.
AFI 10-1003, Use of Air Force Installations for Non-Government Business by Civil Air Carriers Partici-
pating in Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) Program, 1 Aug 1996.
Functional managers will, in addition to those issuances listed above, consider all relevant guidance doc-
uments as they become situationally applicable.
GOVERNING STATUES, POLICIES, AND DIRECTIVES:
Title 31, United States Code, Sections 1301(a) and 1535
Title 49, United States Code, Sections 44502, 47103, 47107
DoD Directive 1225.07, Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit Stationing, 6 Jun 2001. Imple-
mented by AFPD 32-10 and AFI 32-1012.
DoD Directive 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces, 7 April 2005. Implemented by AFPD 10-3, Air
Reserve Component Forces, AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning, AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air
Reserve Component (ARC) Forces and AFI 10-402, Mobilization Planning.
Authorities
The Secretary of the Air Force. Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013 et seq. enumerates the var-
ious authorities of the Secretary of the Air Force, among other things, to conduct all affairs of the Depart-
ment of the Air Force, formulate policies and programs and prescribe regulations.
Adjutants General. Title 32 United States Code, Section 314(d) stipulates that “The adjutant general of
each State…shall make such returns and reports as…Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe…”
National Guard Bureau. Title 10 United States Code, Section10501(b) states that, “The National Guard
Bureau is the channel of communication on all matters pertaining to the National Guard,…the Air
National Guard of the United States… Department of the Air Force, and the several States.” The Chief of
the National Guard Bureau is the principal adviser to the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force on
matters relating to the National Guard, and for Air Force matters is subject to their authority. AFPD 10-9,
Lead Operating Command Weapons System Management, identifies lead MAJCOM responsibilities for
MDS Weapon Systems, both aircraft and non-aircraft entities. The lead command (including ANG when
designated as lead MAJCOM) is responsible for development of the support and management agree-
ments, such as CONOPS and MOUs, for the system or systems.
