BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 62-6
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   11 JUNE 2010

                                                                     Developmental Engineering

                                                                      USAF AIRWORTHINESS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQR                                                                Certified by: SAF/AQ
Supersedes: AFPD 62-4, 1 December 1998                                 (Mr. David M. Van Buren)
            AFPD 62-5, 8 August 2001                                                      Pages: 6
            AFPD 62-6, 1 October 2000


The Air Force (AF) is responsible for assuring the airworthiness of the aircraft which it operates.
This Directive establishes policies for formal airworthiness assessments to ensure that AF
organizationally operated aircraft are airworthy over their entire life cycle and maintain high
levels of safety. This policy Directive applies to all aircraft operated by organizational
components of the AF, manned or unmanned, including aircraft organizationally operated by the
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG). It does not apply to non-
AF aircraft operated by AF aircrew in accordance with AFI 11-401, Aviation Management.

This policy Directive is implemented by AFI 62-601, USAF Airworthiness. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to SAF/AQRE using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through
MAJCOM publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It consolidates
and supersedes AFPD 62-4, Standards of Airworthiness for Passenger Carrying Commercial
Derivative Transport Aircraft, and AFPD 62-5, Standards of Airworthiness for Commercial
Derivative Hybrid Aircraft, thus incorporating all AF airworthiness standards into a single
airworthiness policy Directive.
 2                                                                       AFPD62-6 11 JUNE 2010


This revision establishes the requirement for ensuring the airworthiness of all AF
organizationally operated aircraft. It creates a Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA) and an
AF Airworthiness Board (AB) chaired by the TAA to provide independence in airworthiness
determinations. It establishes the requirement for design-based airworthiness certification. It
provides an alternative means for flight release of aircraft which do not fully comply with an
approved certification basis, and establishes a non-design-based special flight release. It enables
AF acceptance of Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certifications, evaluations, and
inspections and disestablishes the Airworthiness Certification Criteria Control Board (AC3B).
1. Policy.
     1.1. Legacy Aircraft Systems. Legacy aircraft systems (as defined in Atch 1) are not
     required to recertify airworthiness or update existing related documents until making a
     reportable modification. Legacy systems operating under flight releases may operate under
     the terms of such releases for no more than two (2) years after the date of this policy revision.
     Programs receiving Materiel Development Decision (MDD) approval IAW AFI 63-101,
     Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, after the date of issuance of this policy
     revision, and legacy aircraft systems receiving modification approval two (2) years or more
     after the date of issuance of this policy revision shall fully comply with the requirements
     contained herein. Programs that have entered the acquisition framework (including all
     applicable systems with an Acquisition Category (ACAT) or pre-ACAT designation) or
     systems undergoing modification as of the date of issuance of this policy revision and legacy
     systems that approve a modification less than 2 years after the date of issuance of this policy
     revision shall obtain an agreement from the TAA as to the extent to which they must comply
     with the requirements herein; the TAA is the airworthiness certification authority for these
     systems. The TAA can delegate certain authorities to specific Delegated Technical
     Authorities (DTAs), which will be outlined in lower level instructions.
     1.2. Independent Airworthiness Determination. An airworthiness determination declares
     that an air system design is safe for flight and is approved for flight operations. An
     airworthiness determination is independent when it is made by a technical authority outside
     of the execution chain of the Program Manager responsible for the air system design. The
     TAA shall be the independent airworthiness authority to make such determinations for the
     AF.
     1.3. AF AB. The AF AB shall be established to provide advice and recommendations to the
     TAA regarding disposition of airworthiness actions.
     1.4. Design Based Determinations. Program managers shall establish a certification basis
     for new aircraft and aircraft undergoing modifications. The AF TAA (or delegated DTA)
     shall approve all certification basis documents and issue Military Type Certificates (MTC).
     Generally, the TAA may find compliance and issue an MTC for a type design only after the
     air system program manager (PM) has shown compliance of the type design to the approved
     certification basis. The TAA may approve an exemption for issuance of an MTC for a type
     design which does not fully conform to the approved certification basis. The TAA may issue
     an experimental or restricted flight release for aircraft for which the issuance of a MTC is not
     appropriate, after risk acceptance by an appropriate authority. After authorization by the
     TAA, the PM shall issue and maintain Military Certificates of Airworthiness (MCA) for each
AFPD62-6 11 JUNE 2010                                                                            3


   specific tail number aircraft in the type design when the aircraft is in compliance with the
   MTC and is in a condition considered safe for operation.
   1.5. Non-Design Based Determinations. When there is a compelling military need to
   employ aircraft for which it is infeasible or impractical to demonstrate compliance to a
   design-based certification basis, the TAA may issue a special flight release. Special flight
   releases enable operation of specific aircraft within specified limits and levels of operational
   risk accepted by the MAJCOM. PMs shall obtain TAA approval before employing this
   process.
   1.6. Commercial Derivative Aircraft. When a military mission is compatible with a
   certified civil usage, the AF will utilize FAA type certified commercial derivative aircraft
   (CDA) to the maximum extent practical. Commercial derivative aircraft whose primary
   mission is the transport of passengers shall be FAA type certified; FAA certification of these
   commercial derivative passenger carrying aircraft shall be maintained for the life of the air
   system. Any items on passenger-carrying CDA which do not comply with applicable Federal
   Aviation Regulations (FARs) require approval by the TAA. Elements of the certification
   basis for any CDA which are not met via FAA certification shall be satisfied by compliance
   with approved military airworthiness requirements derived from MIL-HDBK-516,
   Airworthiness Certification Criteria, and shall be listed in the MTC. The Air Force may
   accept and use FAA evaluations and inspections for CDA.
   1.7. Commander’s Prerogative on Mission Capability. This AFPD does not infringe on
   the MAJCOM commander’s prerogative to operate airworthy but less than fully mission
   capable aircraft systems.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ):
       2.1.2. Resolves disputes regarding airworthiness process and procedural issues.
       2.1.3. Ensures that airworthiness requirements are included in AF integrated life cycle
       management directives and policies, including those addressing joint programs.
   2.2. Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) ensures that
   airworthiness requirements are included in AF and joint service program requirements
   documents.
   2.3. Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7)
   ensures that logistics implementing direction supports life cycle aircraft airworthiness
   regardless of location (field or public/private depots) or maintenance source (organic or
   contracted).
   2.4. Chief of Safety (AF/SE):
       2.4.1. Appoints a representative to the AF AB.
       2.4.2. Collects flight safety information related to aircraft airworthiness and makes it
       available to organizations engaged in airworthiness activities consistent with privilege
       guidelines in AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and as approved by the Air
       Force Safety Center (AFSC/JA).
 4                                                                    AFPD62-6 11 JUNE 2010


     2.5. Commander, AF Materiel Command (AFMC/CC):
        2.5.1. Designates the Technical Airworthiness Authority, TAA.
        2.5.2. Provides command-level support to enable airworthiness process compliance and
        resource allocation in support of airworthiness policy implementation.
     2.6. Major Commands (MAJCOMs), ANG and AFRC:
        2.6.1. Issue statements of operating intent defining the planned usage of the aircraft
        system for each aircraft type. For fielded aircraft notify the air system PM of any
        significant proposed operational or mission changes which may impact the airworthiness
        of the system.
        2.6.2. Ensure that assigned aircraft are operated and maintained in accordance with
        approved technical data.
        2.6.3. Operate only those aircraft which have a valid MCA or flight release.
        2.6.4. Prohibit unauthorized modifications to aircraft or unapproved mission usage.
        2.6.5. Appoint a representative to the AF AB as requested by the TAA.
     2.7. Program Managers (PMs) plan and execute airworthiness programs and obtain TAA-
     issued certifications or flight releases for managed aircraft.

3. Adopted Form.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD62-6 11 JUNE 2010                                                                         5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 18 May 2009
AFI 62-601, USAF Airworthiness, 11 June 2010
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
MIL-HDBK-516, Airworthiness Certification Criteria, 29 February 2008

Terms
Airworthiness— The verified and documented capability of an air system configuration to
safely attain, sustain, and terminate flight in accordance with approved usage and limits.
Airworthiness Certification— A repeatable process which documents compliance with the
approved certification basis.
Certification Basis— The set of approved airworthiness certification criteria, standards,
methods of compliance, and exemptions that apply to a specific air system. It is typically
derived from MIL-HDBK-516, Airworthiness Certification Criteria.
Commercial Derivative Aircraft— Any fixed or rotary-wing aircraft procured as a commercial
FAA type certificated off-the-shelf non-development item, and whose serial number is listed on
an FAA Type Certificate Data Sheet.
Commercial Derivative Passenger Carrying Aircraft— Any CDA used primarily for the
transport of passengers.
Exemption— Documentation of a permanent non-compliance with an applicable airworthiness
certification criterion.
FAA Evaluations— The engineering, test planning, ground and flight testing, test reports, flight
manual supplements, and procedures for continued airworthiness required and approved by the
FAA for granting or amending a Type Certificate or granting a Supplemental Type Certificate.
Finding of compliance (find compliance)— TAA concurrence that the “show compliance” data
supports the determination of airworthiness.
Flight Release— Documentation which authorizes flight of a specific aircraft at specific
locations under approved conditions and limitations.
Legacy Aircraft Systems— For the purposes of this policy, are defined as those systems having
airworthiness certifications or flight releases issued prior to this policy revision.
Military Certificate of Airworthiness (MCA)— The document issued by a PM to each
individual aircraft that provides evidence of compliance with its approved MTC and its condition
relative to safe operation.
 6                                                                      AFPD62-6 11 JUNE 2010


Military Type Certificate (MTC)— The TAA-issued document which provides evidence that
the aircraft system type design is in full compliance with its approved certification basis.
Passenger— Any person on board an air vehicle who is not trained regarding the passenger
safety/emergency capabilities of that particular air vehicle and mission. For a specific flight, this
includes any person who does not have active crewmember duties and is not essential for
accomplishing mission tasks. NOTE: Mission training constitutes specialized air vehicle training
beyond preflight safety briefings.
Program Manager (PM)— The DODI 5000.02 designated individual with responsibility for,
and authority to accomplish, program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to
meet user’s operational needs. PMs for sub-systems support overall system objectives as
required by the System Program Manager (SPM). PMs for acquisition programs are accountable
for credible cost, schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the MDA. ACAT I, ACAT
IA, and ACAT II PMs are chartered by the SAE and the PEO. Delegated ACAT II and III PMs
are chartered by the PEO or DAO. PMs for sustainment programs are accountable for credible
cost, schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to AFMC/CC or designee.
Showing of compliance (show compliance)— Substantiating data provided by the PM that
supports a finding of compliance by the TAA.
Technical Airworthiness Authority (TAA)— The AF official authorized to define
airworthiness standards, approve the certification basis, issue findings of compliance, and issue
Military Type Certificates and other flight releases.
Type Design— Description of the physical configuration of similar air systems which are
functionally equivalent from an airworthiness perspective.
