                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 63-7
AIR FORCE                                                                                   17 MAY 1993
                                                                          Certified Current 15 June 2010
                                                                                              Acquisition

                                                                             INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES




NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/AQXM (Mr Martin Rogers)                                                  Certified by: SAF/AQX
                                                                             (Maj Gen Stephen P. Condon)
                                                                                                  Pages: 5
                                                                                           Distribution: F

1. Unique portions of the Nation’s industrial facilities that support weapons systems acquisitions are gov-
ernment owned. This directive provides policy governing the effective life-cycle management of such
facilities.

2. To ensure government-owned segments of the industrial base do not exceed the minimal assets neces-
sary, the Air Force will discourage contractor reliance on government-owned industrial production facili-
ties.

3. The Air Force will consider environmental impact during the acquisition, management, disposal, or
major change in the use of government-owned industrial facilities.

4. Through efficient facilities planning, programming, and budgeting, the Air Force will ensure proper
protection of all government-owned property.

5. Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command (HQ AFMC) is primarily responsible for the acquisition,
management, and disposal of industrial production facilities. In addition, HQ AFMC will ensure that the
environmental protection program is implemented to obtain compliance with all applicable federal, state,
and local laws and regulations.
   5.1. Other Air Force contracting activities that are responsible for issuing contracts that authorize,
   use, or provide accountability for industrial facilities are required to comply with this directive.

6. Key terms used in this policy include the following:
   6.1. Industrial facilities are property (other than material, special tooling, military property, and spe-
   cial test equipment) required for production, maintenance, research, development, or test, including
   real property and rights therein, buildings, structures, improvements, and plant equipment.
   6.2. Real property is land, buildings, structures, utility systems, improvements, and appurtenances
   thereto. It includes equipment attached to and made part of buildings and structures (such as heating
   systems) but not to movable equipment (such as plant equipment).
7. This directive implements:
   7.1. DoD Directive 4275.5, Acquisition and Management of Industrial Resources, October 6, 1980.
   7.2. DoD Instruction 4155.4, Inspection and Reporting of Departmental Industrial Reserve Plants/
   Maintenance Facilities, January 31, 1980.
   7.3. DoD Directive 4165.6, Real Property Acquisition, Management, and Disposal (P), September 1,
   1987.

8. See Attachment 1 for measures of compliance.




                                      JOHN E. JAQUISH, Lt General, USAF
                                      Principal Deputy, Assistant Secretary of the
                                        Air Force (Acquistion)




                                             2
                                              Attachment 1

                           MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Compliance with policy for the management of industrial facilities will be assessed by taking mea-
surements in three areas: (1) Air Force Plant Divestiture, (2) Leases Negotiated, and (3) Installation Res-
toration Program (government-owned-contractor-operated plants [GOCO]). HQ AFMC will take
measurements and will display trends and progress toward goals. SAF/AQXM and HQ AFMC will
jointly develop specific goals.
   A1.1.1. Air Force Plant Divestiture. The policy to minimize contractor reliance on govern-
   ment-owned industrial production facilities will be measured by using a line graph which depicts a
   trend in the reduction of Air Force plants over a period of time. Portray data on an annual basis (Fig-
   ure A1.1.).
   A1.1.2. Leases Negotiated. The policy to minimize contractor reliance on government-owned
   industrial production facilities, using leasing as a divestiture strategy, will be further measured by
   depicting the number of leases over a given period of time. Portray data on a semiannual basis (Fig-
   ure A1.2.).
   A1.1.3. Installation Restoration Program of GOCO Plants. The policy to consider environmental
   impact on the acquisition, management, and disposal of government-owned facilities will be mea-
   sured by comparing the number of sites requiring restoration to the actual number of completions as a
   percentage (Figure A1.3.).




                                                3
Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Air Force Plant Divestiture.




Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Leases Negotiated.




                                            4
Figure A1.3. Sample Metric of Installation Restoration Program.




                                           5
