BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-4
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                         30 APRIL 2009
                                                                                            Operations

                                                           OPERATIONS PLANNING: AIR & SPACE
                                                                 EXPEDITIONARY FORCE (AEF)


               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing
                          website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A5XW                                             Certified by: AF/CC (Gen Norton A. Schwartz)
Supersedes: AFPD10-4, 16 June 2004                                                          Pages: 13


To meet Combatant Commander (CCDR) requirements across the entire range of military operations the
Department of Defense (DoD) implemented the Global Force Management (GFM) system. This AFPD
directs implementation of Title 10 USC guidance on Service responsibilities; and the following DoD
Directives (DoDD): 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces; 1235.10, Activation, Mobilization, And
Demobilization of the Ready Reserve and 7045.14, Planning, Programming, And Budgeting System
(PPBS); DoD Instruction (DoDI) 8260.03, Organizational and Force Structure Construct (OFSC) for
GFM; Management Initiative Decision (MID) 913, Implementation of a 2-Year Planning, Programming,
Budgeting, and Execution (PBBE) Process, and the following Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
(CJCS) Manuals (CJCSM): 3122.01A, Joint Operation Planning and Execution System (JOPES)
Volume I (Planning Policies and Procedures); 3122.02C, Joint Operation Planning and Execution
System (JOPES) Volume III (Crisis Action Time-Phased Force and Deployment Data Development and
Deployment Execution); 3122.03C, Joint Operation Planning and Execution System Volume II,
Planning Formats and Guidance; 3150.16C, Joint Operation Planning and Execution System Reporting
Structure (JOPESREP); and CJCS Instructions (CJCSI): 3100.01A, Joint Strategic Planning System and
3137.01C, The Functional Capabilities Board Process. This document provides AEF policy to all Air
Force, including air reserve component forces (ARC). Refer recommended changes and conflicts
between this and other publications to AF/A5XW, 1480 Air Force Pentagon, Washington D.C. 20330-
1480, on the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the
field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Policy Directive (AFPD)
33-3, Information Management and AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force (USAF) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This policy directive incorporates aspects of global operations planning and directs AEF force
management, force allocation, and battle rhythm management synchronized with the GFM process to
2                                                                             AFPD10-4 30 April 2009


support CCDR requirements. This AFPD aligns actual tempo requirements with a matching force
generation model under a Tempo Band construct, applies rule sets for forces operating at a tempo of less
than 1:4 deploy-to-dwell, aligns AF planning periods with GFM, provides an enterprise view of Service
risk synchronized with GFM risk definitions, and directs the annual reassessment of planning
assumptions based on emerging/rotational requirements. Tempo Bands will align AEF battle rhythms,
provide increased predictability of vulnerability period, and synchronize with the Secretary of Defense’s
(SecDef) 12-month GFM planning cycle. The Air and Space Expeditionary Force Center (AEFC) was
realigned under the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) and identified as the AFPC Directorate of AEF
Operations (AFPC/DPW). The roles and responsibilities of Commander Air Combat Command
(COMACC) in relation to AFPC Operations Support Center and execution of the AEF schedule have
been redefined.
1. AEF Roles and Responsibilities.
    1.1. Secretary of Defense (SecDef). Prioritizes competing requirements for limited resources
    through the GFM and Individual Augmentee (IA) process. The SecDef approved allocation is
    directive to all Services and CCDRs. The capabilities may be required to enter surge to meet SecDef
    intent as directed in the approved GFM and IA guidance.
    1.2. Combatant Commanders (CCDR). Submit requirements for rotational, emergent (often called
    Request for Forces/Request for Capabilities (RFF/RFC)), exercise, contingency, and IA forces
    through the GFM process. The SecDef is the adjudication authority for prioritizing competing
    CCDR requirements, approving force allocation actions, transferring operational control to
    supported commanders by attaching forces, and making the determination to surge or limit forces.
    1.3. Commander US Joint Forces Command (CDRUSJFCOM). The SecDef and Unified Command
    Plan (UCP) designate CDRUSJFCOM as the Primary Joint Force Provider (JFP) for recommending
    global sourcing solutions from assigned and unassigned conventional forces and capabilities (except
    for those forces sourced by United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM), United States
    Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM), and United States Transportation Command
    (USTRANSCOM)) to support SecDef’s GFM allocation decisions.
    1.4. Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF). SECAF has statutory responsibility to provide trained,
    equipped and ready forces to meet CCDR requirements (10 U.S.C. §162). In accordance with Title
    10 United States Code and following SecDef approval, SECAF assigns AF forces, except those
    necessary to meet statutory functions of 10 U.S.C. §8013, to the CCDRs. SECAF has authority over
    all forces not specifically assigned to CCDRs.
    1.5. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower, Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR). Provides
    mobilization recommendations to the SECAF and Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Reserve
    Affairs in coordination with AF/A3/5.
    1.6. Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force (CSAF). SECAF delegates to CSAF the authority to
    support CCDRs through the AEF. To fulfill this responsibility, the CSAF coordinates with
    supported CCDRs and tasks AF forces to provide ready capabilities as directed by GFM.
       1.6.1. Tasks all regular AF, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
       (ANG) units via the AEF schedule to be ready to deploy at any time during their AEF
       vulnerability period or as required to support contingencies.
       1.6.2. Notifies SECAF, CJCS and supported CCDRs of the need to alter deploy-to-dwell ratios
       to meet requirements and the percentage of affected AEF assets.
AFPD10-4 30 April 2009                                                                                 3


   1.7. Vice Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force (VCSAF). The VCSAF or designated Office of
   Primary Responsibility (OPR), acting on behalf of the SECAF and in accordance with AFI 38-101,
   Air Force Organization, and AFI 51-604, Appointment to and Assumption of Command, establishes
   new Air and Space Expeditionary Task Forces (AETF) that consist of expeditionary numbered AFs,
   wings, groups, and/or squadrons, appoints AETF commanders, and specifies administrative control
   (ADCON).
   1.8. Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5). Pursuant to SecDef
   approved GFM force allocation guidance, has full authority, working with the JCS, to organize and
   allocate AF forces to meet CCDR requirements via the AEF. Serves as the primary advisor to CSAF
   on AEF matters and is the single USAF point of contact to the Joint Community on all matters
   involving force management policy, guidance, and procedures.
   1.9. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1). Provides visibility and
   accountability of deployed Airmen through the AFPC. Advises the CSAF on matters of personnel
   rotation management, end strength accounting, rotation pivot dates, personnel rotation planning and
   deploy-to-dwell ratios, line remarks, tasking notification, AEF debriefs, and the executive review
   process.
      1.9.1. Respective MAJCOM/A1 prepares, in accordance with AFI 51-604, Appointment to and
      Assumption of Command, orders for newly organized AETFs, and specifies ADCON passed to
      the theater COMAFFOR in accordance with AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization. Assists the
      COMAFFOR in preparing G-series orders for AETF subordinate units.
   1.10. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC). Executes AEF sourcing, scheduling policy and provides
   visibility and accountability over deployed AF forces to assess readiness and projected reconstitution
   requirements. Integrates and executes personnel operations, Airmen development and meets
   commanders' personnel requirements. Responsible for sourcing IA, Joint Manning Document
   authorizations, and managing replacements for 365-day or greater requirements.
   1.11. Air Combat Command (ACC). COMACC, through ACC as the Air Force component to
   JFCOM, coordinates with other AF Major Commands/Direct Reporting Units/Field Operating
   Agencies (MAJCOMs/DRUs/FOAs) and HQ USAF to identify AF recommended sourcing solutions
   for all AF conventional forces (whether assigned or unassigned) in support of USJFCOM’s role as
   Primary JFP in accordance with GFM guidance. ACC coordinates and prepares rotational force
   schedules, rotational force allocation plans, recommended sourcing solutions, and military risk
   assessments for the Joint Staff (JS) to be submitted to SecDef for final approval. (Reference
   Management Transformation and Consolidation PAD 07-13, Annex C, Appendix 2, Tab M)
   1.12. Scheduling Integrated Process Teams (SIPTs).
      1.12.1. Combat Air Force (CAF) SIPT. ACC/A3 is responsible for conducting CAF SIPTs to
      develop the Consolidated Planning Schedule (CPS), facilitate development of the AEF schedule
      and implement the GFM Appendixes. CAF SIPT procedures are conducted IAW AFI 10-420,
      Combat Air Forces Aviation Scheduling.
      1.12.2. Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) SIPT. AFPC/CC is responsible for conducting
      ECS SIPTs to facilitate the ECS portion of the AEF schedule, develop target base alignment
      template, and implement the GFM Appendixes.
   1.13. Mobility Air Force (MAF) Scheduling. AMC/A3 is responsible for developing and
   coordinating the MAF portion of the AEF sourcing schedule and implementing the applicable GFM
4                                                                          AFPD10-4 30 April 2009


    Appendixes.   AMC/A3O will be the primary agency to collect and/or provide MAF sourcing
    schedules.
    1.14. VCSAF AEF Forum. VCSAF leads biannual (Spring and Fall) forum to present, discuss, and
    resolve AEF issues. The forum consists of MAJCOM/CVs, HAF 2-letter Directors, and invited
    guests.
    1.15. AEF Steering Group (AEFSG). The AFPC/CC and AF/A5X chair a group of MAJCOM and
    HAF representatives which focus on operational implications of the AEF, recommended
    improvements, and provide assistance to the CAF SIPT, ECS SIPT, and MAF scheduling process, to
    include resolving management of constrained resources, scheduling conflicts, and policy
    discrepancies.
    1.16. Unified Combatant Command / Specified Combatant Command / Combat Support Agency
    (UCC/SCC/CSA) Assigned/Gained Forces. UCC/SCC/CSA assigned/gained assets deployed to
    meet global requirements independent of the AEF schedule will be immediately reported as “tasked”
    in the AEF Unit Type Code Reporting Tool (ART). A suitable substitution capability will be
    identified by the AF component to the Joint Force Provider (JFP) to meet GFM guidance for force
    allocation supported by the AEF schedule. Under GFM, supporting UCC/SCC/CSAs coordinate
    with supported CCDRs to develop a sourcing schedule for rotational operations, forward schedules
    to the JS and implement the applicable GFM Appendixes.
    1.17. Major Commands, Direct Reporting Units, Field Operating Agencies and AF Elements.
    Commanders must ensure their personnel are assigned an AEF Indicator (AEFI) in MILPDS
    corresponding to an AEF vulnerability period in order to provide support for global requirements.
    Commanders are responsible for planning, readiness, and support of the AEF schedule in support of
    GFM force allocation.
    1.18. Air Mobility Command (AMC) Forces. USTRANSCOM as JFP for mobility forces will make
    sourcing recommendations for all MAF and task assigned MAF and conventional forces dedicated to
    the mobility mission as defined in GFM. AMC is responsible for developing the MAF sourcing
    schedule for air mobility rotational operations to support the AEF schedule and implement
    applicable GFM Appendixes. AF supports USTRANSCOM requirements for Expeditionary
    Combat Support through GFM allocation and manages the force via the AEF process. AMC
    conventional forces not allocated to USTRANSCOM receive taskings through the SecDef GFM
    force allocation and AEF process to meet any CCDR requirements.
    1.19. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) Forces. USSOCOM as JFP for special
    operations forces (SOF) will make sourcing recommendations and task AFSOC assigned SOF and
    conventional forces dedicated to the USSOCOM mission as assigned to the Forces For assignment
    table. AFSOC conventional forces not dedicated to the SOF mission receive taskings through the
    AEF process to support SecDef GFM force allocation and meet CCDR requirements.
    1.20. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) Forces. Space forces assigned to USSTRATCOM per
    the Forces For assignment table will report to the JS on readiness, disposition and development of
    sourcing recommendations for forces being tasked to support CCDR requirements. Conventional
    forces not dedicated to the USSTRATCOM mission receive taskings through the AEF process to
    support SecDef GFM force allocation and meet CCDR requirements. Under GFM, USSTRATCOM
    coordinates recommended sourcing solutions with USJFCOM and provides AFSPC forces as
    directed.
AFPD10-4 30 April 2009                                                                                   5


2. Global Force Management. Authority for AEF execution is based on the GFM Allocation Plan
Annexes, SecDef approved orders or an IA directive. Global sourcing of capabilities is executed under
the auspices of the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) to provide capabilities from the forces
assigned to various CCDRs and Secretary of the Air Force retained forces. Responsibility to prepare
force allocation recommendations for conventional forces is assigned to the CDRUSJFCOM, as the
primary conventional JFP (except for those forces sourced by USSOCOM, USSTRATCOM, and
USTRANSCOM) to the CJCS.              AF taskings are sourced in response to GFM allocation
recommendations approved by the SecDef. Each allocation fulfills a specific RFF/RFC in support of
CCDR requirements. The Primary JFP, using Joint Staff, Combatant Command, and Service inputs will
develop recommended sourcing solutions and related Service risk to fill the requests. Once SecDef
approves the recommended sourcing solution for the RFF/RFC, an appropriate order will flow to a
designated supporting CCDR or Service for execution. For SECAF assigned forces the appropriate
SECAF EXORD will flow to the designated MAJCOM.
   2.1. Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF). The AEF force generation construct manages the
   battle rhythm of the force in order to meet global CCDR requirements while maintaining the highest
   possible level of overall readiness.
       2.1.1. AEF Battle Rhythm. The AF relies on the AEF force generation construct to establish a
       predictable, standardized battle rhythm ensuring rotational forces are properly organized, trained,
       equipped, and ready to sustain capabilities while rapidly responding to emerging crises.
       Designated forces provide CCDRs with the requested range of capabilities for the duration of
       their deployment. Functional capabilities may rotate at different tempos to meet global CCDR
       requirements. Factors used in determining actual deployed rotation lengths include the overall
       level of requirements, relative availability of capabilities within the overall force, and stability
       for key deployed positions or functionally specific requirements. Each functional capability area
       will determine its deploy-to-dwell ratio relative to overall force availability. For involuntarily
       recalled Air Reserve Component (ARC) forces, mobilization-to-dwell will be determined.
3. AEF Operations. The baseline AEF vulnerability period of 4 months facilitates readiness of the
force to respond to rotational and Operations Plan (OPLAN) requirements. All AEF forces are
vulnerable for OPLAN requirements--including immediately following redeployment--and are
considered on-call at any time during their postured vulnerability period. The necessary organizing,
training, and equipping processes are synchronized to generate ready forces.
   3.1. AEF Tour Length. The AEF sets a baseline Tempo Band “A” of 4 month blocks, dividing the
   Air Force into 5 pairs of roughly equivalent postured capability. Tempo Band “A” equates to a
   deploy-to-dwell ratio of one vulnerability/deployment period to four non-deployed periods (1:4).
   Four additional Tempo Bands, “B” through “E”, consist of 6 month blocks which provide
   predictable tempos allowing commanders to easily identify the actual deploy-to-dwell ratio each
   capability area will or is executing and identify Service risk. Capabilities are postured in Bands “B”
   through “E” at 1:4, 1:3, 1:2 and 1:1 deploy-to-dwell respectively. Additional AEF UTC capabilities
   are augmented by capabilities from an Enabler library. Each block consists of 4 or 6 month rotation
   periods within the AEF Tempo Bands that possess the necessary capabilities to meet global CCDR
   requirements. ARC unit type codes (UTCs) will be postured in Band “A.” When ARC UTCs are
   required to be mobilized, they will realign into a mobilization band. Shorter rotations within a
   block, as approved by the CCDR, will be utilized to encourage ARC volunteerism.
   3.2. AEF Tempo Band Determination. The Tempo Band construct synchronizes with the 12-month
   GFM plan and manages forces through GFM assignment, allocation and apportionment. Aligning a
6                                                                              AFPD10-4 30 April 2009


    UTC capability into a Tempo Band is based on requirements relative to assigned rotational
    capability for each vulnerability period. HQ USAF Deputy Chiefs of Staff (DCS)/equivalents, in
    coordination with AF/A5XW, AF/A3O-AO, AF/A1PR and AF/A1, will recommend applicable
    Tempo Band placement and submit to AF/A3/5 for approval.
    3.3. AEF Schedule. The AEF Schedule is a 24-month schedule which provides predictability over
    two 12-month GFM sourcing cycles. The number of rotations a functional area completes is
    dependent on Tempo Band placement. At the end of each GFM cycle the AEF Schedule may be
    adjusted, if necessary, based on the need to move capability areas from one Tempo Band to another.
    Changes to tempo, and subsequent band changes (at most annually) will occur in concert with
    emerging CCDR demands as articulated during the annual GFM planning cycle. Due to the different
    operations tempo management standards for each capability, Enablers may rotate on a force
    management schedule determined most suitable for the provided capability.
    3.4. Posturing. Designated Air Force warfighting capabilities are grouped into force packages
    identified by UTCs. UTCs contribute to the AEF and will be postured in the UTC Availability
    (UTA) system. AEF forces can be postured as forces ready to deploy to support global
    requirements, home station requirements or support to CCDRs. Force providers of designated
    warfighting organizations will posture the maximum number of manpower authorizations in
    standard deployable UTCs. All units on a base (including tenant units) will posture forces in the
    same two AEF vulnerability periods to maximize the two-hit policy (Tempo Bands “A” & “B” only
    -- not applicable for ARC forces) and target base alignment (Tempo Band “A” only). The use of the
    two-hit policy is encouraged for Tempo Band “C” but not applicable to Tempo Bands “D” or “E.”
    Personnel not assigned to warfighting organizations will have an AEF association in the Military
    Personnel Data System (MilPDS).
    3.5. Reclama. Unit reclamas will be submitted when a valid shortfall exists (i.e. insufficient
    capability to meet a specific requirement). All reclamas must be limited to a documented lack of
    resources, change in mission requirements, or where severe risk results from deployment of the
    requested force. MAJCOMs and/or organizations having force management responsibility may
    substitute suitable UTCs from the same AEF rotation with supported CCDR concurrence. For
    Service reclamas the applicable Air Component (e.g. ACC, AMC, AFSOC) will submit shortfalls
    which can not be resolved through resourcing to their respective JFP and notify AF/A3/5.
    3.6. AEF Vulnerability Period. Airmen will deploy or remain on-call for the duration of their
    postured vulnerability period. Vulnerability period is a period of time the force aligned in a specific
    AEF Block is susceptible to initial deployment. Forces will not initially deploy outside of the
    vulnerability period except in cases of reaching forward. Only one AEF Block from each Tempo
    Band will be vulnerable at a time. Normally the two months immediately preceding the
    vulnerability period is the preparation period where training is focused specifically on the AEF
    tasked theater. Forces identified as "Enablers" are not restricted for use by AEF tempo association
    or deployment tour length.
    3.7. AEF Lead Wings. When lead wings are designated in the approved AEF sourcing to provide
    forces and Air and Space Expeditionary Wing/Group (AEW/AEG) leadership, the designated lead
    wing will fill AEW/AEG senior leadership positions from their wing’s current commanders,
    deputies, and command non-commissioned officers (NCOs). Senior leadership (commanders and
    deputies within the same chain of command) should not be postured in the same AEF block.
    3.8. Expeditionary Commanders. Expeditionary commanders should be a sitting commander,
    graduated commander, or selected from a current command list. When a sitting commander is
AFPD10-4 30 April 2009                                                                                 7


   deployed to command an expeditionary unit, a replacement commander should be appointed, in
   accordance with AFI 51-604, Appointment to and Assumption of Command, to command forces
   remaining at home station.
   3.9. Split Operations. AF squadrons should not normally be tasked for split operations; therefore,
   the residual of a deployed squadron must deploy to join the rest of the squadron or a sister squadron.
   A sister squadron is defined as an aviation unit having the same aircraft mission design series (MDS)
   and block, and having been specifically trained and designated to operate as part of a single Air and
   Space Expeditionary Squadron (AES), AEG or AEW (from the same wing or part of an AMC/ARC
   “rainbow”). Forces postured in an AEF but not deployed during a particular rotation are available to
   their parent MAJCOM as long as the MAJCOM maintains the capability to provide up to their full
   AEF tasked capability.
   3.10. Exercises. Units participate in AEF spin-up events (e.g. large force exercises (LFE): RED
   FLAG, GREEN FLAG, or EAGLE FLAG) prior to deployment. AEF forces may be sourced to
   support Joint/Service exercises, Joint/Service experiments and tests, and the AF component portion
   of combatant commander theater engagement/theater security cooperation (TSC) requirements.
   Participation is on a non-interference basis with ability to deploy.
       3.10.1. Exercise estimated tour lengths (ETLs) of 30 days or more are sourced from forces in
       their AEF vulnerability period.
       3.10.2. Exercise ETLs of less than 30 days duration may be sourced from forces in the AEF
       preparation or training periods in addition to forces in their AEF vulnerability period.
   3.11. AEF Education and Training. Commanders must ensure all Airmen are properly educated on
   AEF operations and policy. This will ensure Airmen understand the methodology the AF uses to
   meet global requirements.
4. AEF Surge Operations. The AEF is capable of supporting requirements below a 1:4 deploy-to-
dwell rate (Tempo Bands “C” and “D”). Reconstitution following surge operations in Tempo Bands
“C” through “E” may result in a decrease in available forces for CCDR force requests and increased
CCDR operational risk during emerging crises.
   4.1. Maximum Sustainable Capability. An active component (AC) employment ratio of one
   deployment period followed by a dwell period of twice the deployment period (1:2) for all postured
   capabilities is considered the maximum sustainable utilization rate while maintaining total Air Force
   unit readiness at C1/C2, and coincides with the service deploy-to-dwell CSAF redline. The
   maximum capability of an AEF block is only available with full ARC participation. The exact
   number of AEWs, AEGs, and AESs that can be generated is dependent on elements such as
   environment (permissive/non-permissive), available infrastructure, and duration of the requirement.
   Critical enabling capabilities and/or Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS) may be exhausted before
   the full capability of a single AEF block has been committed. As each block of the AEF expends its
   postured UTCs, and to maximize forces available to meet emerging CCDR requirements, the AF
   may need to reach forward into the next rotational block, dig deeper (e.g., more than one rotational
   period and/or institutional and organizational forces), or move a UTC to a different Tempo Band.
   This inherent flexibility within the full AEF construct provides forces to support requirements
   allowing Airmen to project training opportunities in preparation for deployment, deploy, and then
   quickly recover and reconstitute after deployment while maintaining the highest possible level of
   readiness.
8                                                                            AFPD10-4 30 April 2009


    4.2. Reaching forward utilizes AC (from the next scheduled AEF vulnerability period) and ARC
    volunteer forces to augment the capabilities of the current AEF vulnerability period. ARC
    volunteers from the current and next scheduled AEF vulnerability period will be used to the greatest
    extent practical.
    4.3. Surge is possible using various mitigation strategies including reach forward, digging deeper,
    and moving to a different Tempo Band.
    4.4. Functional areas experiencing demand exceeding postured capabilities within Tempo Bands
    “D” and “E” in the AEF vulnerability window should consider involuntary recall of ARC forces (see
    paragraph 9).
5. AEF Reconstitution after Surge. AEF surge, if limited to no more than 12 months, allows the AEF
to recover with minimal reconstitution. Surge above 12 months may require significant actions to
reconstitute the force. Reconstitution may take up to one year following the return of Airmen and
equipment and the resumption of local training after surge. Reconstitution actions may drive near-term
adjustments such as extended tour lengths; reaching forward into subsequent AEFs; temporary
continuation of mobilization; use of civilians, contractors, and individual ready reserve (IRR) forces;
and may result in decreased readiness.
6. Presentation of Forces. AF forces support Joint Force Commander (JFC) requirements through a
combination of assigned, attached (rotational), and mobility forces that may be forward deployed,
transient, or operating from home station. The USAF presents required capabilities to the Joint Force
Commander (JFC) as an AETF. The AETF can be task organized as a NEAF, AEW, AEG or AES,
depending on mission requirements.
    6.1. Expeditionary Units. A NEAF is the largest AETF and consists of multiple AEWs with
    subordinate AEGs and AESs. An AEW is structured in accordance with the AF standard wing
    structure and is capable of establishing/operating an expeditionary base as well as exercising
    command and control (C2) of subordinate units at geographically separated locations. Only one
    AEW will normally be based at a single location. Subordinate units regardless of size will be
    organized as an AEG or AES. When an AETF is comprised of AEGs at multiple operating
    locations, each AEG will normally be attached to the nearest AEW in the same AETF for C2
    purposes.
7. Command and Control. All AETFs possess the capabilities necessary to C2 AETF forces and
communicate with higher echelons of command. Reference AF Doctrine Document 2, Operations and
Organization, and JP 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States, for C2 of Air Force forces.
8. Additional Tasked Forces. Additional forces may be required to sustain enduring forward
requirements. These forces may be employed / deployed on non-standard one-year rotations and
provide presence for those areas without permanently assigned forces or to support normal operations
beyond the capability of theater assigned forces. Other forces may be tasked to augment theater
assigned forces to bolster US presence or for OPLAN execution. Emerging global CCDR requirements
are met through the GFM process.
9. Involuntary Recall to Active Duty (Mobilization). When UTC requirements exceed postured on-
call and ARC volunteer capabilities in Tempo Band “C” the HAF functional(s) in coordination with the
Air Force Operations Group (AFOG) and DCS will designate and assist a lead MAJCOM in developing
an ARC utilization plan in coordination with ARC in anticipation of movement of AC UTCs to Tempo
Band “D.”
AFPD10-4 30 April 2009                                                                               9


   9.1. ARC Utilization Sequence. When available AC UTCs postured in Tempo Band “D” coupled
   with ARC volunteers are inadequate to sustain a minimum of 1:2 deploy-to-dwell (Tempo Band
   “D”), the previously developed ARC utilization plan will be executed. Utilization of AC/ARC
   UTC’s is based on the assumption mobilization authorization will be made available at the
   appropriate time (may vary within different functional areas) and accomplished in the following
   order when activation is authorized:
       9.1.1. When UTC requirements exceed postured AC UTC’s and ARC volunteer capabilities in
       Tempo Band “D,” applicable ARC UTC’s will be realigned into mobilization Band “M” in
       accordance with the ARC utilization plan upon approval of AFRC/CV and/or NGB/CF as
       appropriate.
       9.1.2. ARC Functional Area Managers will produce the ARC utilization plan based on
       requirements identified in the lead MAJCOM utilization plan. The ARC utilization plan will
       initially be developed using SecDef planning guidance of a 1:5 mobilization-to-dwell ratio
       (Tempo Band “M”). The SECAF may approve the utilization of ARC UTCs up to a 1:4
       mobilization-to-dwell ratio (Tempo Band “N”), if required. The SecDef is the approval authority
       for tempo’s greater than 1:4 mobilization-to-dwell.
       9.1.3. When UTC requirements exceed postured AC UTCs and ARC volunteer capabilities in
       Tempo Band “E,” applicable ARC UTCs will be realigned into mobilization Band “N” in
       accordance with the ARC utilization plan upon approval of AFRC/CV and/or NGB/CF as
       appropriate.
       9.1.4. Activation of other authorized categories of ARC capabilities or personnel will be sought
       as necessary to meet CCDR requirements in accordance with AFI 10-402, Mobilization Planning
       and Personnel Readiness (e.g. IRR, Retired Regular, Retired Reserve, etc.).
       9.1.5. Involuntary activation will be executed in accordance with Title 10 USC § 12301a, 12302,
       12304, AFI 10-402, and applicable DoD documents and instructions.
   9.2. When AC UTCs can sustain known requirements at or above a 1:2 deploy-to-dwell, the
   requirement for continued mobilization will be assessed and ARC UTCs may be realigned into
   Tempo Band “A.”
   9.3. Unique UTC capabilities with a limited supply or which reside substantially in the ARC may
   necessitate mobilization trigger points different from those in paragraph 9.1 above.
10. Force Management. Individuals will be given an AEF Indicator (AEFI) that corresponds to an
AEF Block. This provides Airmen a degree of predictability in each GFM cycle, but does not guarantee
the Airmen/unit normal AEF battle rhythm from one period to the next (e.g. a capability may be
postured at a 1:4 tempo for GFM 09 then shift to a 1:3 or 1:2 tempo for GFM 10 based on emerging
requirements). Except in cases of reaching forward, individuals will deploy during their associated AEF
Block’s vulnerability period. Airmen may be tasked to deploy for an extended period beyond the
established vulnerability timeframe. Alternate AEF battle rhythms may dictate an accelerated
deployment schedule. Global requirements may require shifting deploy-to-dwell (mobilization-to-
dwell) ratios resulting in modified deployment schedules.
   10.1. Deployable or “On-Call” Status. Airmen will only deploy during their assigned vulnerability
   period (includes AEF block individual is associated with) except for reaching forward. This
   vulnerability period will mirror the vulnerability period (AEF block) to which their unit’s UTCs are
   aligned. Commanders will assign individuals to positions with appropriate dwell between
   vulnerability periods. Inbound (PCS or PCA) Airmen should not be assigned to a position that
10                                                                           AFPD10-4 30 April 2009


     would require them to deploy again with less than the dwell for their capability Tempo Band. If
     WG/CCs or equivalent approve a second deployment with less than the dwell for their capability
     Tempo Band, they will inform their respective MAJCOM/CV (or, in the case of FOAs / DRUs, first
     general officer or civilian equivalent in the organization’s next level chain of command).
     10.2. Temporary Non-deployable Status. Airmen who become temporarily disqualified for
     deployment during their deployment vulnerability period may be utilized upon return to deployable
     status to meet unit deployment requirements. Immediately upon return to deployable status the
     disqualified Airman may be utilized to fill out-of-cycle requirements or short notice IA requests.
     When a unit enters its second vulnerability period after an Airman returns to deployable status,
     WG/CCs or their equivalent may either realign the Airman with the upcoming vulnerability period
     or identify the Airman to the MAJCOM as being immediately deployable on their return to
     deployable status. WG/CCs or equivalent will provide an information copy/update to their
     respective MAJCOM/CV (or, in the case of FOAs / DRUs, first general officer or civilian equivalent
     in the organization’s next level chain of command) on the decision to realign Airmen for AEF
     deployments. Airmen will be notified of the realignment.
     10.3. Assignment Process. The USAF assignment process will be managed to coincide with the
     AEF battle rhythm to the maximum extent possible. The assignment process will formally track
     AEF deployments on individual personnel records and provide visibility of individuals to all
     commanders.
     10.4. Professional Military Education (PME) and Developmental Education (DE). When
     nominating Airmen for PME/DE, commanders must make every reasonable effort to de-conflict
     PME/DE with AEF vulnerability periods when determining the timing of school attendance. A
     scheduled AEF deployment is not justification for operational deferment from PME/DE. Airmen
     should not be relieved from deployed duty if alternate school start dates are available which would
     allow deployment.




                                             MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD10-4 30 April 2009                                                                          11


                                           Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 2, Operations and Organization,3 April 2007
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS), 13 April 2006
AFI 10-230, Conduct of Key Exercises and Experiments,1 June 2000
AFI 10-244, Reporting Status of Aerospace Expeditionary Forces, 12 September 2005
AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces,16 August 2006
AFI 10-401,Air Force Operations Planning and Execution, 7 December 2006
AFI 10-402, Vol 1,Mobilization Planning and Personnel Readiness,9 August 2007
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 January 2008
AFI 10-404, Base Support and Expeditionary Site Planning, 9 March 2004
AFI 10-410, Mobility for USAF Special Operations Command (AFSOC) Forces, 27 July 1994
AFI 10-420, Combat Air Forces Aviation Scheduling, 7 November 2006
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, 21 July 1994
AFI 36-2110, Assignments,20 April 2005
AFI 36-3802, Personnel Readiness Operations,23 February 2009
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization, 4 April 2006
AFI 38-205, Manpower & Quality Readiness and Contingency Management, 18 June 2002
AFI 51-604, Appointment to and Assumption of Command,4 April 2006
AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders,5 August 2005
AFPAM 10-231, Federal Civilian Deployment Guide,1 April 1999
DODD 1400.31, DoD Civilian Work Force Contingency & Emergency Planning and Execution,28 April
1995
DODD 1404.10, DoD Civilian Expeditionary Workforce, 23 January 2009
DODD 3020.37, Continuation Of Essential DoD Contractor Services During Crises,26 January 1996
DODI 1100.22, Guidance for Determining Workforce Mix, 7 September 2006
DODI 1400.32, DoD Civilian Work Force Contingency and Emergency Planning Guidelines and
Procedures, 24 April 1995
DODI 5158.05, Joint Deployment Process Owner, 22 May 2008
JP 1, Doctrine for the Armed Forces of the United States,14 May 2007
SecDef Global Force Management (GFM) Guidance (S), 4 May 2005
12                                                                            AFPD10-4 30 April 2009


Terms
Allocation—The resources provided to the commander of a unified command by the President and
SecDef with advice from the CJCS, in consultation with other members of the JCS, for execution
planning or actual execution. Forces and resources are allocated through the JOPES documentation such
as a DEPORD. (GFM Guidance)
Conventional Forces—Forces capable of conducting operations using nonnuclear weapons and those
forces other than designated special operations forces. (JP 1-02)
Capability—The ability to execute specified course of action through forces that are organized, trained
and equipped (OT&E).
Deploy—to-Dwell- Time in theater to support CCDR requirement versus total time back from
deployment. Dwell includes training deployments to combat training centers.
Force—An aggregation of military personnel, weapons system, vehicles and necessary support, or
combination thereof. (JP 1-02)
Force Generation—The process of identifying, training, equipping, scheduling, and sourcing forces to
meet Service tasked requirements.
Force Management—The process involving activities encompassing prioritization of requirements
against available capabilities. (GFM Guidance)
Institutional Organizations—Organizations, whose mission is to provide the infrastructure necessary
to organize, train, equip, deploy, and ensure the readiness of all Air Force forces.
Mobilization—A federal active duty status applying specifically to Title 10 USC 12302 and Title 10
U.S.C. 12301(a) in which Airmen are involuntarily recalled to active duty for the period specified in the
applicable statute. The dates of this time shall be used to calculate dwell time.
Mobilization—to-Dwell- Period of time involuntarily recalled to active duty to period of time not
involuntarily recalled to active duty. For involuntarily recalled ARC forces, mobilization-to-dwell will
be determined.
Pair—Baseline AEF divides the Air Force into 10 sets (5 AEF pairs) of roughly equivalent capability.
These capabilities are joined with separate capabilities from an Enabler library. Although each AEF has
a full range of required capabilities they are not all identical in capability or size.
Primary Joint Force Provider—Designated as USJFCOM in accordance with GFM and Unified
Command Plan (UCP).
Surge Forces—Forces from worldwide locations, including forward-based and CONUS forces,
allocated forces, and pre-positioned materiel, available for response to emerging contingencies. Surge
directs force availability at a higher than sustainable rate, and exceeding this level represents maximum
surge and will result in decreased readiness and increased risk, and may require extended reconstitution.
Target Base Alignment—Designed to maximize all levels of teaming. Ensures AF forces are postured
across the AEF libraries enabling the availability of the full range of air and space capabilities to meet
CCDR requirements.
Two—Hit Policy- CSAF directed policy that all bases align forces in no more than two AEF
vulnerability periods during which the primary mission of the base is to support the deployed mission.
Because tenant units rely on support from the host wing they must be aligned in the same AEF periods
to ensure a unity of focus on the deployed mission and to minimize the impact on large portions of the
AFPD10-4 30 April 2009                                                                              13


support capability on the base being deployed during the AEF period. During these periods wing
commanders are expected to reduce services and operations at homestation to support deploying the
maximum amount of capability. Remaining forces at the base may find it necessary to move remaining
units to another base capable of supporting homestation training requirements during these two periods.
Unassigned—Forces not assigned to a combatant commander in accordance with Title 10, U.S.C. 162
and instead retained under Service control in order carry out functions of the Secretary of military
department in accordance with Title 10, U.S.C. 3013(b), 5013(b) 8013(b). (GFM Guidance)
