BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 65-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         26 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                        MANAGERS’ INTERNAL CONTROL
                                                                          PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms for downloading or ordering are available on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/FMPA                                                             Certified by: SAF/FM
                                                                          (Dr. Jamie M. Morin)
Supersedes:    AFPD65-2, 28 August 2006                                                 Pages: 5


This Policy Directive implements DoD Instruction 5010.40, Managers’ Internal Control
Program (MICP) Procedures. The Department of Defense (DoD) supports the government
commitment to responsible use of resources. Air Force organizations including Air Force
Reserves and Air National Guard (ANG) units must use cost-effective internal controls to fulfill
that commitment, comply with public law, and ensure resources are used properly and to the best
advantage in accomplishing their assigned operations and missions. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes the office of primary responsibility (OPR) from SAF/FMPS to
SAF/FMPA and defines the responsibility of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial
Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) to ensure the Department provides a separate level of
assurance on each of three distinct processes: (1) Internal Control over Nonfinancial Operations
(ICONO), (2) Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICOFR), and (3) Internal Control over
Financial Systems (ICOFS); and establishes the role and responsibility of the Senior Assessment
Team (SAT).
1. Policy. It is Air Force Policy that:
 2                                                           AFPD65-2 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


     1.1. Internal controls will be used in all Air Force activities. They will be applied to all
     significant operation and mission responsibilities and not limited to financial matters.
     1.2. Commanders and managers at every level of the Air Force are responsible for
     establishing, evaluating, improving, and reporting on internal controls, identifying material
     weaknesses and taking corrective actions.
     1.3. The internal control assessment process should be integrated into the daily management
     practices of Air Force managers. At the commander’s discretion they may rely on various
     existing organizational policies and procedures as well as other contributing sources.
     1.4. Internal control assessments should not cause the duplication of existing procedures
     which pertain to assessing the effectiveness of internal controls or information which may be
     used for that purpose.
     1.5. Whenever existing information does not provide for adequate review of internal
     controls, then appropriate reviews should be planned and implemented to enable
     management to make reasonable judgments regarding the effectiveness of internal controls
     and whether a material weakness exists.
     1.6. Continuous monitoring of internal controls and other periodic evaluations should
     provide the basis for the annual statement to provide reasonable assurance.
2. The following responsibilities and authorities are assigned:
     2.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller
     (SAF/FM), is responsible for ensuring the evaluation, improvement, and reporting on the Air
     Force internal control system meet the requirements of law and DoD instructions.
        2.1.1. SAF/FM will ensure the Department provides separate and explicit levels of
        assurance in the Secretary’s Statement to address these three distinct processes:
            2.1.1.1. Internal Control over Nonfinancial Operations (ICONO) as it pertains to the
            overall program, operational, and administrative controls relevant to all mission-
            essential functions throughout the Air Force.
            2.1.1.2. The Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICOFR) relevant to the
            financial reporting functions of the Air Force’s Primary Financial Reporting
            Elements, the Air Force General Fund and the Air Force Working Capital Fund.
            2.1.1.3. The Internal Control over Financial Systems (ICOFS) relevant to the
            integrated financial management system’s conformance with Federal requirements.
        2.1.2. SAF/FM serves as the Chair of the Air Force SAT which assesses and monitors
        the effectiveness of the ICOFR and ICOFS programs and provides oversight and risk
        management for American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) expenditures.
     2.2. All Major Commands (MAJCOM), the Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation
     Center, United States Air Force Academy, Air Force District of Washington, Air National
     Guard and Army Air Force Exchange Service are designated primary reporting elements of
     the Air Force MICP. Headquarters USAF, Resource Management (HAF/RM) serves as the
     Primary Reporting Element (PRE) for all Secretariat and Air Staff offices.
AFPD65-2 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  3


   2.3. Field Operating Agency (FOA) implementation and reporting on the MICP are included
   in the annual statement of the appropriate Secretariat or Air Staff office having oversight
   responsibility of the FOA.
3. Guidance for compliance, instructions and reporting requirements are specified in AFI 65-
201, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures.




                                           MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                        AFPD65-2 26 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Public Law 97-255, Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act, 31 U.S.C. 3512, September 8,
1982
DoDI 5010.40, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures, July 29, 2010
OMB Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control, December 21, 2004
OMB Circular A-127, Financial Management Systems, January 9, 2009
Government Accountability Office, Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government,
November 1999
AFI 65-201, Managers’ Internal Control Program Procedures, October 12, 2006
Prescribed Forms
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARRA—American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
AU—Assessable Unit
AUM—Assessable Unit Manager
DoD—Department of Defense
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GAO—Government Accountability Office
HAF/RM—Headquarters Air Force/Resource Management
ICOFR—Internal Control over Financial Reporting
ICOFS—Internal Control over Financial Systems
ICONO—Internal Control over Nonfinancial Operations
MAJCOM—Major Command
MICP—Managers’ Internal Control Program
MCP—Management Control Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller
SAT—Senior Assessment Team
AFPD65-2 26 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                       5


Terms
Internal Control—The organization, policies, procedures, and instructions adopted by
management to reasonably ensure mission or operational objectives are met, and programs
achieve intended results, and to help managers safeguard the integrity of their programs. The
concept of internal control applies to all Air Force activities.
Internal Control Assessment—A documented review performed by an assessable unit (AU) to
determine whether internal control techniques are effectively implemented to accomplish
administrative, operational, and mission objectives.
Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICOFR)—Provides an explicit level of assurance
on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting for each financial statement
reporting entity. The assurance shall be based on the results of management’s assessment
conducted according to the requirements of OMB Circular A-123 Appendix A and the ICOFR
guidance.
Internal Control over Financial Systems (ICOFS)—Provide an explicit level of assurance on
the effectiveness of internal controls over financial systems. The assurance shall be based on the
results of management’s assessment conducted in accordance with the requirements of OMB
Circular A-127, Financial Management Systems.
Internal Control over Nonfinancial Operations (ICONO)—Provides an explicit level of
assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls over non-financial reporting for each entity as
it pertains to the overall program, operational, and the administrative controls relevant to all
mission-essential functions. The assurance shall be based on the results of management’s
assessment conducted according to the requirements of OMB Circular A-123 and the GAO
Standards.
Managers’ Internal Control Program (MICP)—The formal effort of an organization to ensure
that internal control systems are working effectively through assignment of responsibilities at the
policy level, issuance and implementation of guidance, conduct of internal control assessment,
and reporting to senior management.
Management Control Plan (MCP)—A written plan that details the AU’s inventory and is
updated annually. The inventory will be maintained in the MCP and used to monitor progress
and ensure that planned actions are taken. It must include at a minimum: 1) number of AUs, 2)
title of each AU, 3) responsible assessable unit manager (AUM), 4) date of last MCP review, 5)
responsible AU administrator, 6)status of AUM training, 7) material weakness and reportable
conditions, if reported, 8) corrective action plan.
Senior Assessment Team (SAT)—A team of senior level executives to provide oversight of
assessing and documenting the effectiveness of internal controls and FMFIA ICOFR and ICOFS,
and oversight and risk management for American Recovery and Reinvestment Act expenditures.
At minimum should provide oversight and is responsible for ensuring; 1) objectives are clearly
communicated, 2) assessment is carried out in an effective and timely manner, 3) adequate
funding and resources are made available, 4) staff/contractors to perform assessment are
identified, 5) scope of the assessment, and 6) the assessment design and methodology are
determined.
