BY ORDER OF THE                                               AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-13
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                              25 AUGUST 2008
                                                                         Certified Current, 1 October 2014
                                                                                               Operations

                                                                               AIR FORCE DOCTRINE




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading on the e-Publishing website
                       at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: LeMay Center/DD                                   Certified by: AF/A3/5 (Lt Gen Daniel J. Darnell)
Supersedes AFPD10-13, 1 October 1998                                                          Pages: 5

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
Air Force doctrine is a statement of officially sanctioned beliefs and warfighting principles, which
describe and guide the proper use of Air Force forces in military action. It is authoritative but requires
judgment in application. This directive provides guidance for the development and coordination of Air
Force, joint, and multinational doctrine.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
The title of the AFPD is changed from Air and Space Doctrine to Air Force Doctrine to reflect the Ser-
vice-specific nature of the information contained herein (title, page 1); the name of the organization is
changed to the LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education (the LeMay Center) (para. 3.1.);
the commander is designated as the Air Force executive agent to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force for
basic and operational Air Force doctrine (para 3.1.); the LeMay Center is organized under Air University
(para 3.5.); references to documents and Air Force organizations are updated for accuracy (throughout).

1. The Air Force will develop, promulgate, and teach this doctrine as a common frame of reference for
the best way to employ airpower. Most importantly, doctrine provides the foundation for Air Force poli-
cies which guide our personnel as they organize, train, equip, plan, employ, and sustain Air Force forces.

2. Air Force doctrine describes missions, tasks, warfighting organization, and operating environments;
guides commanders on employment of Air Force capabilities; guides weapon development programs and
force planning; guides organizational and personnel policies; provides the foundation for training and pro-
2                                                                         AFPD10-13 25 AUGUST 2008


fessional development of Air Force personnel; and provides the foundation for Air Force contributions to
joint and multinational doctrine development. Development will follow the processes described in Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 10-1301, Air Force Doctrine.

3. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
    3.1. The LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education (the LeMay Center) will act as the
    Air Force single point of contact for the development, dissemination, and advocacy of all Air Force,
    joint, and multinational doctrine, at both the basic and operational levels. The Commander, LeMay
    Center, is the Air Force executive agent (EA) for basic and operational Air Force doctrine and in this
    capacity reports directly to the Chief of Staff of the Air Force for all doctrinal matters.
    3.2. The LeMay Center will conduct the Air Force doctrine development program. The LeMay Cen-
    ter designates an office of primary responsibility (OPR) within its organization for Air Force basic and
    operational level doctrine and joint and multinational doctrine programs for which the Air Force has
    been designated lead agent (LA). When required, the LeMay Center may designate a major command
    (MAJCOM); direct reporting unit; field operating agency (FOA); numbered Air Force (NAF), when a
    component of a unified command; or Headquarters Air Force directorate as OPR for Air Force opera-
    tional level, joint, or multinational doctrine projects. The LeMay Center will gather, share, and distrib-
    ute information by direct communication with those Air Force organizations that have pertinent
    capabilities and expertise, as needed, to perform its duties. The LeMay Center will coordinate on joint
    doctrine for which the Air Force is not designated LA. The LeMay Center will coordinate directly
    with joint and sister Service doctrine development offices as necessary on matters related to Service,
    joint, and multinational doctrine development. The Commander, the LeMay Center, will communi-
    cate with these agencies at the general/flag officer level.
    3.3. The LeMay Center works policy and advocacy issues for doctrine matters. The LeMay Center
    Liaison Division (LeMay Center/DL) at the Pentagon will act as the point of contact for Headquarters
    Air Force on doctrine matters and conduct formal joint doctrine coordination in accordance with
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 5711.01B, Policy on Action Processing. The LeMay
    Center also completes Headquarters Air Force doctrine coordination for final approval of the capstone
    and keystone Air Force doctrine documents (AFDDs) by the Chief of Staff of the Air Force. The
    LeMay Center is responsible for format guidelines, final editing, and overseeing design and layout, as
    well as establishing and maintaining distribution lists. SAF/AA is responsible for budgeting and print-
    ing those AFDDs approved for printing.
    3.4. MAJCOMs may be assigned responsibility for Air Force or joint doctrine development projects
    when the appropriate expertise is not resident at the LeMay Center. They will normally provide tech-
    nical review for doctrine development in their areas of responsibility. Either MAJCOMs (for Air
    Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures [AFTTP] 3-1 or 3-3 series) or the issuing organizations are
    responsible for developing, coordinating, and publishing AFTTP and Air Force Pamphlet tactical doc-
    trine manuals. They also ensure that all tactical doctrine manuals and pamphlets are consistent with
    Air Force and joint doctrine as coordinated through the LeMay Center during technical coordination
    in compliance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Additionally, MAJCOMs will
    comment on various Air Force, joint, bilateral, or multinational doctrine development projects as
    requested, in accordance with AFI 10-1301.
AFPD10-13 25 AUGUST 2008                                                                          3


   3.5. The LeMay Center is aligned under Air University, which provides research support to the
   LeMay Center, MAJCOMs, and FOAs for doctrine development projects. Air University is also
   responsible for doctrine education within the Air Force.
   3.6. NAFs serving as Air Force component commands to combatant commands will participate in
   joint doctrine development by providing comments on joint doctrine projects in the same manner as
   MAJCOMs.
   3.7. AF/A5XX will coordinate for staffing multinational doctrine projects such as NATO Standard-
   ization Agreements; Air Standards and Advisory Publications of the Air and Space Interoperability
   Council Standardization Coordinating Committee; and those agreements of the American, British,
   Canadian, and Australian Armies and Navies that can affect air forces.

4. See Attachment 1 for references and supporting information.



                                            MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                       AFPD10-13 25 AUGUST 2008


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 5120.02A, Joint Doctrine Development System, 31 Mar 07
CJCSI 5711.01B, Policy on Action Processing, 25 Oct 03
JP1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms
AFI 10-1301, Air and Space Doctrine, 25 Jul 05
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 06

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDD—Air Force doctrine document
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFPAM—Air Force pamphlet
AFTTP—Air Force tactics, techniques, and procedures
CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff instruction
DRU—direct reporting unit
EA—executive agent
FOA—field operating agency
JP—joint publication
LA—lead agent
LeMay Center—The Curtis E. LeMay Center for Doctrine Development and Education
MAJCOM—major command
NAF—numbered Air Force
OPR—office of primary responsibility

Terms
Basic Doctrine—States the most fundamental and enduring beliefs that describe and guide the proper
use, presentation, and organization of air and space forces in military action. It describes the “elemental
properties” of air and space power and provides the Airman’s perspective. Because of its fundamental and
enduring character, basic doctrine provides broad and continuing guidance on how Air Force forces are
organized, employed, equipped, and sustained. Because it expresses broad, enduring fundamentals, basic
doctrine changes relatively slowly compared to the other levels of doctrine. As the foundation of all air
and space doctrine, basic doctrine also sets the tone and vision for doctrine development for the future.
AFDD 1 is the Airman’s basic doctrine. (AFDD 1)
AFPD10-13 25 AUGUST 2008                                                                                    5


Executive Agent—An executive agent within the Air Force will be delegated from the Secretary of the
Air Force or Chief of Staff, United States Air Force, to a subordinate to act on the Secretary’s or Chief of
Staff’s behalf.
Joint Doctrine—Fundamental principles that guide the employment of US military forces in coordinated
action toward a common objective. Joint doctrine contained in joint publications also includes terms,
tactics, techniques, and procedures. It is authoritative but requires judgment in application. (JP 1-02)
Operational Doctrine—Doctrine that guides the proper organization and employment of air and space
forces in the context of distinct objectives, force capabilities, broad functional areas, and operational
environments. Operational doctrine provides the focus for developing the missions and tasks that must be
executed through tactical doctrine. Doctrine at this level changes a bit more rapidly than basic doctrine,
but usually only after deliberate internal Service debate. (AFDD 1)
Tactical Doctrine—Describes the proper employment of specific Air Force capabilities and their
inherent assets, individually or in concert with other capabilities and assets, to achieve desired effects and
objectives. Tactical doctrine considers particular objectives(e.g. stopping the advance of an enemy
armored column) and conditions (threats, weather, terrain, etc.) and describes how Air Force assets are
employed to accomplish the tactical objective (B-1s dropping anti-armor cluster munitions, etc.). Tactical
doctrine, in the form of techniques and procedures, also gives detailed guidance on how to develop
functional capabilities and accomplish combat support tasks (civil engineers repairing facilities, services
technicians providing beddown support, etc.). Tactical doctrine is codified as tactics, techniques, and
procedures (TTP) in Air Force TTP 3-X series manuals. Because tactical doctrine is closely associated
with employment of technology, change may occur more rapidly than to the other levels of doctrine. Also,
due to their sensitive nature, some of these documents are classified. (AFDD 1)
