BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 16-12
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                      1 JULY 1998

                                                                                         Operations Support

                                                                                             PARARESCUE




NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/XOOS                                      Certified by: HQ USAF/XOO (Maj Gen Charles R.
     (SMSgt Paul D. Miller)                                                              Henderson)
                                                                                             Pages: 5
                                                                                      Distribution: F

The recovery of downed aircrew members and other isolated personnel during peacetime or combat oper-
ations is of great importance to the Air Force. Successful survivor/evader recovery returns valuable per-
sonnel to friendly control, increases aircrew morale, and denies adversaries the opportunity to exploit the
intelligence and propaganda value of captured personnel. The Air Force requires a well trained, fully
manned pararescue force in order to preserve life and maintain an effective, global rescue and recovery
capability in support of national defense strategy.

1. Pararescue is a component of the Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) force or part of Air Force Spe-
cial Operations Command Special Tactics Teams (STS) and provides a capability Joint Force Command-
ers can use to recover combat aircrews and other isolated personnel in Personnel Recovery (PR)
operations. Pararescue is the only DoD specialty specifically trained and equipped to conduct conven-
tional or unconventional PR operations and is the force of choice for assisted survivor recovery. Parares-
cue performs as an essential air/ground interface in Air Force and Special Operations search, rescue, and
recovery operations by functioning on flying status and as surface elements and teams. They provide a
rapid response capability and operate in a wide range of adverse geographic and environmental condi-
tions, day or night, on land or water, in friendly, denied, hostile, or sensitive areas. They also provide sur-
vival and evasion assistance, emergency and field trauma care, and security. Pararescue forces are
capable of moving objectives (personnel and materiel) to safety or friendly control when direct recovery
by aircraft is not possible.

2. Pararescue requirements are based on the following guidelines:
   2.1. Pararescuemen will be qualified in accordance with AFM 36-2108
   2.2. Pararescuemen will be trained as a worldwide deployable resource capable of operations in any
   terrain or under any environmental conditions (both naturally occurring and induced). They can be
   successfully employed, day or night, in low, medium, or high threat environments.

3. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
2                                                                            AFPD16-12 1 JULY 1998

    3.1. HQ USAF has oversight responsibility for pararescue policy and career field management. Spe-
    cifically, HQ USAF/XO will establish and approve policies pertaining to the training and employment
    of pararescuemen, coordinate Mission Essential Tasks (MET) and measures to meet pararescue vali-
    dated requirements, and publish and update the Pararescue Career Field Education and Training Plan
    (CFETP).
    3.2. MAJCOMs will organize, train, and equip pararescue forces to meet worldwide deployment
    taskings; provide resources to support pararescue combat tasks; ensure pararescue programs are
    directed to meet qualifications IAW AFI 16-1203, Pararescue Training and Standarization/Evalua-
    tion; conduct pararescue proficiency assessment; and develop, test, and validate proposed enhance-
    ments to pararescue equipment and tactics based on validated mission needs and operational
    requirements documentation.
    3.3. Gaining (supported) commands/units will direct by contingency plan or tasking message the mis-
    sion requirements for deploying pararescue personnel.

4. See Attachment 1 for measures used to comply with this policy.

5. See Attachment 2 for a listing of interfacing publications for related policies and procedures.



                                         F. WHITTEN PETERS
                                         Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD16-12 1 JULY 1998                                                                                  3

                                            Attachment 1
              MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Compliance with Air Force pararescue policy will be assessed in two areas: An objective evalua-
tion of pararescue qualification training during MAJCOM Operational Readiness Inspections (ORI) or
MAJCOM specific Inspector General Inspections or MAJCOM Unit Compliance Inspections (UCI), and
the overall retention rate of first term and career airmen by major command. Retention rates will be
reported to MAJCOMs annually. These events will measure the effectiveness of training programs. A
review of pararescue operational mission and event after action reports will indicate compliance with
equipment and operational policies.
   A1.1.1. Retention rate of first term and career airmen. The overall retention rate of first term and
   career airmen will be reported by major command annually (Figure A1.1.). Length of the pararescue
   training pipeline (which make rapid adjustments difficult) and historical overall manning problems
   require that HQ Air Force and MAJCOMs monitor closely the health of the career field to ensure
   operational recovery capabilities provided by pararescue are not degraded. Monitoring of retention
   rates will ensure MAJCOMs are proactive in establishing policies that will maintain a motivated, fully
   trained, and employable pararescue force for any level of conflict.
   A1.1.2. Pararescue Qualification Training. MAJCOMs will report (Figure A1.2.) the results of ORI
   evaluations of pararescue qualification training annually in terms of percentage compliance with
   established policies.
   A1.1.3. After Action Reports. These reports are a summary of actions performed on actual missions.
   Deviations from standard use of equipment and procedures will be compiled, expressed as a percent-
   age of policy compliance (same format shown in Figure A1.2.) and reviewed at least annually.
4                                                                   AFPD16-12 1 JULY 1998

Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Retention of First Term Airman (Career Airman retention will use
same format).




Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Compliance with Policy.
AFPD16-12 1 JULY 1998                                                                        5

                                     Attachment 2
                        LIST OF INTERFACING PUBLICATIONS


Publication     Title                                            Formerly
Number
AFPD 10-4       Operations Planning                              No Former Publication
AFPD 31-1       Physical Security                                No Former Publication
AFDD 34         Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR)                  No Former Publication
AFDD 35         Special Operations                               No Former Publication
AFI 10-401      Operation Plan and Concept Plan Development      AFRs 28-2, 28-3, 28-4,
                and Implementation                               28-6, 28-10 and AFP 28-33
AFI 10-403      Deployment Planning                              AFR 28-4
AFI 16-1201     Pararescue Resource Management                   No Former Publication
AFI 16-1203     Pararescue Training and Standarization/          No Former Publiction
                Evaluation
AFI 31-207      Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel   AFR 125-26
AFI 36-2226     Combat Arms Training and Maintenance             AFR 50-36
                (CATM) Program
AFMAN 16-1202   Pararescue Operations, Techniques, and           ARRSR 55-11, Vols 1 & 2
                Procedures
AFMAN 36-2216   Survival, Evasion, and Recovery Training         AFR 64-4, Vol 1
