BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 63-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                           1 DECEMBER 2005
                                                                      Certified Current on, 14 March 2014
                                                                                               Acquisition

                                                                  COMPETITION AND COMMERCIAL
                                                                                    ADVOCACY



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/AQCP (Betsy Ann Matich)                                                  Certified by: SAF/AQC
       mailto:betsy.matich@pentagon.af.mil                    (Mr. Charlie E. Williams, Jr) DSN 425-7026
Supersedes AFPD 63-3, 1Aug 97                                                                      Pages: 3
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This directive provides policy on the Air Force implementation of the Competition and Commercial
Advocacy Program. This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) applies to all major commands (MAJ-
COM), field operating Agencies (FOA), and direct reporting units (DRU). This directive applies to the
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure all
records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
The revision to AFPD 63-3, Competition and Commercial Advocacy, is the result of the Competition
Advocate General revising the commercial and competition reporting requirements. This revision deletes
the trend analysis at Attachment 1, and expands the emphasis on commercial practices within Air Force.

1. The Air Force contracting mission is to acquire and support war fighter capabilities through responsive
business solutions. Competition and commercial practices are at the center of meeting this objective.
This directive establishes policies to encourage these practices. Competition and commercial practices
are key in meeting this objective. This directive establishes policies to encourage these practices.

2. When appropriate, the Air Force will use effective competition strategies and commercial practices to
obtain the best technical solution, quality, schedule and price attainable. Air Force activities will conduct
market research to determine whether commercial items or non-developmental items are available to
meet the agency’s requirements.
When available, activities will acquire commercial items or non-developmental items using applicable
commercial practices. The acquisition strategy should reflect consideration of competition and commer-
cial practices throughout the process.
2                                                                      AFPD63-3 1 DECEMBER 2005


3. The Air Force encourages the use of competition and commercial practices at all organizational levels.
Ensure documentation reflects competition and commercial considerations throughout all aspects of
acquisition planning, to include Acquisition Strategy Panels.

4. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
    4.1. The Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting) (SAF/AQC), as the Air Force Competition Advo-
    cate General:
       4.1.1. Is responsible for overall Competition and Commercial Advocacy Program in the Air
       Force;
       4.1.2. Ensures Air Force policies and procedures encourage effective competition and promote
       the use of commercial practices;
       4.1.3. Advises the Air Force Senior Procurement Executive (SPE) on program acquisition strate-
       gies;
       4.1.4. Receives Competition and Commercial Plans (CCPs) and recommend competition goals to
       the Air Force SPE. Set the goals for the Air Force activities annually.
       4.1.5. Reviews and coordinates on all acquisition plans and Justifications and Approvals (J&As)
       requiring approval by SAF/AQ.
       4.1.6. Acts as the Air Force Competition Ombudsman, addressing issues ad questions from indus-
       try and other sources on the competitive and commercial aspects of Air Force acquisitions.
       4.1.7. Submits the Air Force Competition Program Report, RCS: SAF-AQC(A)9444 to the SPE
       annually.
    4.2. The Commander of each procuring activity will designate a Competition Advocate.
    4.3. Unit-level acquisition and requirements personnel will ensure that all unit requirements are stated
    in the least restrictive manner to allow for effective competition and use of commercial practices is
    satisfying those requirements.

5. AFI 63-301, Competition and Commercial Program implements this directive.



                                                Michael W. Wynne
                                                Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD63-3 1 DECEMBER 2005                                            3


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFI 63-301, Air Force Competition and Commercial Program
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records


Abbreviations and Acronyms
RDS - records disposition schedule


Terms
AQ - Acquisition
AQC - Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting)
AQCP - Deputy Assistant Secretary (Contracting) (Policy Division)
AFPD - Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC - Air Force Reserve Command
CCP - Competition and Commercial Plans
DRU - Direct Reporting Unit
FOA - Field Operating Agency
FPDS - Federal Procurement Data System
J&A - Justification and Approval
MAJCOM - major command
NG - Next Generation
PDO - Publishing Distribution Office
SAF - Secretary of the Air Force
SPE - Senior Procurement Executive
