BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 46-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          1 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                        Nursing

                                                                         NURSING SERVICES




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the Air Force e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/SG1N                                                                Certified by: AF/SG
                                                                         (Lt Gen Charles Green)
Supersedes:   AFPD 46-1, 01 Sep 2000                                                    Pages: 3


This Directive establishes Air Force Nursing Services Policy to ensure the highest standards of
nursing care, nursing practice and professional performance are applied to all aspects of nursing
care provided to eligible beneficiaries. This Directive applies to all Air Force military (active
duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard), civil service Nursing Services
personnel plus contractors, and other personnel attached or performing nursing activities. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain
of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Requests for policy clarification or
waivers to this directive should be sent to AF/ SG1, 1780 AF Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-
1780 or AFSG.workflow@pentagon.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This document represents a substantial revision of the previous Nursing Policy Directive due to
the evolution of Nursing Services and governing bodies. Roles and responsibilities within
Nursing Services have been deleted from this Air Force Policy Directive and moved to the
corresponding instruction.
 2                                                              AFPD46-1 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


1. Policy. The Air Force Medical Service will:
     1.1. Provide nursing services personnel to perform nursing activities in active duty medical
     treatment facilities, Air Force Reserve Medical Units, Air National Guard Medical Groups,
     Aeromedical Evacuation Squadrons, communities and deployed locations.
     1.2. Establish and evaluate programs that address nursing service management, force
     development, education and training, standards of care and practice, utilization, and the
     integration of nursing in medical readiness, operational support, and population health.
     1.3. Comply with professional nursing ethics and nursing standards of practice and care.
     This includes but is not limited to: national professional nursing organizations, state practice
     acts, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, The Joint Commission (formerly
     the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations), the Accreditation
     Association for Ambulatory Health Care, and other appropriate federal, national and state
     agencies.
2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs serves as an
agent of the Secretary and approves all policies concerning the Air Force Medical Service.
3. The Air Force Surgeon General develops all policy concerning the Air Force
Medical Service.
4. This Directive applies to all nursing personnel who deliver and/or monitor health care
services in active duty medical treatment facilities, Air Force Reserve Medical Units, Air
National Guard Medical Groups, Aeromedical Evacuation Squadrons, communities, and
deployed locations.




                                               MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                               Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD46-1 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                      3


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March, 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SG—Surgeon General

Terms
Nursing— Nursing is the protection, promotion, and optimization of health and abilities,
prevention of illness and injury, alleviation of suffering through the diagnosis and treatment of
human response, and advocacy in the care of individuals, families, communities, and populations
(American Nurses Association).
Nursing Care— Professional processes of assessment, diagnosis, planning, implementation, and
evaluation based on the art and science of nursing to promote health, its recovery, or a peaceful
and dignified death. This includes, but is not limited to assisting individuals, families,
communities, and/or populations in understanding health needs and carrying out therapeutic
plans and activities (The Joint Commission).
Nursing Services— One or more defined units, departments, programs, or services within the
organization that is accountable for the delivery of nursing care to individuals, families,
communities, and/or populations (The Joint Commission).
Standards of Nursing Practice— Authoritative statements that describe a competent level of
nursing care as demonstrated by the critical thinking model known as the nursing process. The
nursing process encompasses significant actions taken by registered nurses. It forms the
foundation of the nurse’s decision-making and includes the following components: Assessment,
Diagnosis, Outcomes Identification, Planning, Implementation (includes Coordination of Care,
Health Teaching and Health Promotion, Consultation, and Prescriptive Authority and
Treatment), and Evaluation (American Nurses Association).
