BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                            AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 34-11
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   18 MAY 2012

                                                                                         Services

                                                                   WARRIOR AND SURVIVOR
                                                                          CARE SERVICES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A1SZ                                                                 Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                        (Lt Gen Darrell D. Jones)
                                                                                         Pages: 5
Supersedes:    AFPD 34-11, 1 May 2000


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) establishes policy for the Air Force Warrior and
Survivor Care program. The Air Force will establish standardized procedures for the care of
recovering service members in accordance (IAW) Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction
(DoDI)1300.24, Recovery Coordination Program. This directive applies to the Air National
Guard and Air Force Reserve Command. Refer recommended changes to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the       Air        Force         Records       Disposition        Schedule        located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This directive is changed from “Service to Survivors” to “Warrior and Survivor Care Services”.
Additions include the Air Force Wounded Warrior (AFW2) and the Air Force Recovery Care
program. These programs now incorporate all wounded, ill and injured who require a Medical
Evaluation Board (MEB) or Physical Evaluation Board (PEB) to determine fitness for duty and
will require long-term care.
1. Overview. Air Force Warrior and Survivor Care encompasses all non-clinical support to
seriously wounded, ill and injured Airmen and their families.
 2                                                                   AFPD 34-11 18 MAY 2012


Note: In this directive, a “member” is considered any enlisted member or officer on active duty
or Air Force Reserve Component member, as well as any Air Force civilian employee, who dies
in a duty status. Official “line of duty” determinations will be made for entitlement purposes.
2. Policy.
     2.1. Air Force Warrior and Survivor Care shall include the Air Force Wounded Warrior
     (AFW2) program, the Recovery Coordination Program, the and the Air Force Survivor
     Assistance Program (AFSAP).
        2.1.1. There shall be an Air Force Recovery Coordination Program for wounded, ill and
        injured Airmen to ensure support to affected Air Force members and their families
        through recovery, rehabilitation, reintegration and where necessary to assist Air Force
        members transition for separation from the Air Force.
        2.1.2. There shall be an AFW2 program to provide enhanced services and ensure support
        for all non-medical case management for combat-related wounded, ill and injured Airmen
        and their families.
        2.1.3. There shall be an AFSAP to support families of fallen Airmen and families of
        wounded, ill and injured Airmen to ensure that their short and long-term needs are met
        via the Family Liaison Officer Program and the Air Force Families Forever Program.
     2.2. Except in cases of overriding public interest, releasable information regarding the death
     of an Airman will not be provided to the public or Congree before the member’s next of kin
     or a designated family representative has been officially notified.
     2.3. The Air Force Warrior and Survivor Care programs will address the needs of those who
     suffer personal losses as a result of combat, as well as the following circumstances:
        2.3.1. Air Force aviation mishaps.
        2.3.2. Criminal or terrorist acts (under other than combat conditions).
        2.3.3. Natural disasters and mass casualty losses other than the above.
        2.3.4. All wounded, ill and injured who require a MEB or PEB to determine fitness for
        duty and will require long-term care.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1).
        3.1.1. Serves as focal point for all Air Force Warrior and Survivor Care programs,
        bringing together key staff agencies and field activities to provide immediate information
        and assistance to wounded Air Force members, the families of deceased personnel, field
        commanders, investigating boards and Air Force senior leadership.
AFPD 34-11 18 MAY 2012                                                                 3



     3.1.2. Provides implementing guidance and procedures for the Air Force Warrior and
     Survivor Care programs identified in 2.1.
     3.1.3. Serves as the sole reporting authority for the Recovery Coordination Program.
     Designates Recovery Care Coordinators by region and AFW2 Program Manager.




                                        MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                        Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                                   AFPD 34-11 18 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1300.24, Recovery Coordination Program, 1 December 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSAP—Air Force Survivor Assistance Program
AFW2—Air Force Wounded Warrior
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
IAW—In Accordance With
MEB—Medical Evaluation Board
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEB—Physical Evaluation Board
US—United States

Terms
Air Force Wounded Warrior— Any Airman that has a combat or hostile-related injury or
illness that will require an MEB or PEB to determine fitness for duty. This includes a combat-
related injury or illness resulting from hazardous service or performance of duty under
conditions simulating war or through an instrumentality of war.
Military Personnel—All Air Force members on active duty; Air National Guard and AF
Reserve personnel on active duty or in drill status; United States (US) Air Force Academy and
Reserve Officer Training Corp cadets when engaged in directed training activities; members of
other US Military Services serving on extended active duty with the Air Force; and foreign
national military personnel assigned to the US Air Force. Air Force members serving on
extended active duty with another DoD component are excluded from this definition.
Mishap—An unplanned event, or series of events, which results in damage to Air Force
property; injury to Air Force personnel; injury to on-duty civilian personnel; occupational illness
to Air Force military or civilian personnel; or damage to property, injury, or illness to non-DoD
personnel caused by Air Force operations.
AFPD 34-11 18 MAY 2012                                                                       5


Recovery Care Coordinator— The individual assigned by the Air Force to recovering Airmen
whose duties include overseeing and assisting the recovering Airman as they process through the
entire spectrum of care, management, transition and rehabilitation.
Recovery Coordination Program— Program designed to address reforms to existing care
managements processes within the DoD and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
