BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 15-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            19 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                              Certified Current 28 February 2014

                                                                                           Weather
                                                        AIR FORCE WEATHER OPERATIONS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAF/A3O-WP                                               Certified by: HQ USAF/A3O-W
Supersedes: AFPD15-1, 8 Jan 2001                                        (Fred P. Lewis, PhD, SES)
                                                                                          Pages: 8


This directive establishes the framework for Air Force weather operations. Air Force weather
organizations conduct weather operations by executing five core processes -- collection, analysis,
prediction, tailoring and integration and in essence, provide two distinct yet related basic
functions: 1) describing past, current, and future environmental conditions, and 2) translating that
into impacts on operations, enabling the exploitation of environmental information at key
decision points. This publication applies to Air Reserve Components when in Title 10 status.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Legacy terminology
has been deleted, while Chief of Staff, United States Air Force responsibilities, clarification
associated with Headquarters (HQ) United States Air Force (USAF) Program Action
Directives (PAD) 06-09 and 07-13, and updated terminology have been added.
1. Information on the state of the air and space environment is an essential element of any
military operation . Environmental situational awareness is critical to predictive battlespace
awareness and enables commanders at all levels to anticipate and exploit the battlespace
environment. Commanders must integrate the impacts of the air and space environment on
friendly and enemy capabilities into every facet of military operations, from strategy
development through execution and sustainment. This directive governs Air Force (AF)
2                                                              AFPD15-1 19 FEBRUARY 2010


operational and management activities to characterize the environment and exploit
environmental information in support of national security objectives.
2. The Air Force conducts weather operations to provide accurate, timely, relevant and
consistent air and space environmental information to the US Air Force and US Army including
their respective Reserve components, and as directed, joint forces, coalition forces, and other
agencies. Air Force weather operations enable commanders and decision makers at all levels to
exploit air and space environmental information at key decision points.
3. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities :
    3.1. The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force and the Air Staff are responsible for policy
    and resource advocacy and allocation for weather operations provided by the Air Force.
    3.2. The Chief of Staff, United States Air Force is responsible for:
       3.2.1. Meteorological operations in support of all elements of the Air Force and
       provision of meteorological services for the Army in accordance with agreements
       reached to implement the National Security Act of 1947, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
       Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3810.01B, Meteorological and Oceanographic Operations, and
       Army-Air Force inter-Service directives and agreements.
       3.2.2. Space environment operations in support of all elements of the Department of
       Defense.
    3.3. The Director of Weather, Headquarters United States Air Force (HQ USAF/A3O-W) is
    responsible for:
       3.3.1. Ensuring the health of the Air Force Weather Weapon System (AFWWS);
       managing weather operations' strategic planning, architecture, and capabilities based
       planning process to include planning, programming and budgeting for the AFWWS and
       Air Force weather operations; providing weather career field functional management
       (organization, training, equipping, and readiness posturing and monitoring); developing
       and publishing weather operations policies and standardized tactics, techniques and
       procedures; developing operational concepts; assessing and inserting new technologies;
       assessing technical performance and effectiveness of weather operations.
       3.3.2. Providing oversight and direction to the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA), a
       field operating agency (FOA).
       3.3.3. Managing, coordinating, and implementing all aspects of modeling and simulation
       relating to the Air and Space Natural Environment domain to include, but not limited to,
       planning, programming, monitoring, and reporting across all DoD components. These
       responsibilities are accomplished for the Air Force per Air Force Policy Directive
       (AFPD) 16-10, Modeling and Simulation, and in accordance with DoD Directive
       5000.59, DoD Modeling and Simulation Management, DoD Directive 5101.1, DoD
       Executive Agent, and Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
       Logistics Memorandum to the Secretary of the Air Force, Designation of the Department
       of the Air Force as the Modeling and Simulation Executive Agent for Air and Space
       Natural Environment Representations.
    3.4. Headquarters AFWA is a FOA comprised of an A-staff, 1st Weather Group (1 WXG),
    and 2d Weather Group (2 WXG).
AFPD15-1 19 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                      3


     3.4.1. The AFWA A-staff executes AFWWS lead command functions as directed by the
     HQ USAF/A3O-W and is responsible for advocacy for the AFWWS. The A-staff is also
     responsible for acquiring (including operational test and evaluation), fielding, sustaining,
     and managing Air Force command-supported standard weather systems and programs;
     analyzing technical performance and effectiveness indicators; providing reachback
     technical products and services to field organizations for weather operations; and
     MAJCOM-level development and execution for planning, programming, budgeting,
     requirements management, interoperability, non-formal training, architecture, and tactics,
     techniques, and procedures for the AFWWS.
     3.4.2. 1st Weather Group provides accurate, timely, relevant, and consistent regional
     weather analyses and forecasts, as well as site-specific services (e.g., airfield forecasts,
     watches, warnings, and advisories; flight weather briefings) to Air Force, Army, Guard,
     Reserve, and Combatant Command forces operating in the continental United States. 1st
     Weather Group also provides initial qualification and up-grade training for assigned
     weather forecaster apprentices and new weather officers.
     3.4.3. 2d Weather Group operates production facilities with a global scope of
     responsibility providing the full spectrum of centralized weather information (including
     output from numerical weather prediction models, meteorological satellite imagery, air
     and space environmental data and products, and climatology) to characterize the past,
     current, and future air and space environment.
  3.5. Air Force Major Commands (MAJCOMs) can be Lead or Component or both,
  depending on the mission.
     3.5.1. Air Force Lead MAJCOMs (L-MAJCOMs) will:
        3.5.1.1. Employ appropriately sized weather staffs to carry out activities for weather
        organizations within their command and organizations/functions for which they have
        been designated as lead.
        3.5.1.2. Plan, program, and budget.
        3.5.1.3. Establish policy and procedures.
        3.5.1.4. Organize, train, equip, and sustain weather forces to execute weather
        operations and survive in the battlespace of their supported units.
        3.5.1.5. Assess and monitor readiness.
        3.5.1.6. Evaluate and report technical performance and effectiveness and policy
        compliance.
        3.5.1.7. Provide or arrange for technical assistance.
     3.5.2. Component MAJCOMs (C-MAJCOMs) will:
        3.5.2.1. Employ appropriately sized weather staffs to provide theater-specific
        strategic-level advice, subject matter expertise, staff support, and coordination to the
        C-MAJCOM commander.
        3.5.2.2. Facilitate, monitor, and assess the execution of AF weather operations by
        weather forces assigned to the C-MAJCOM.
4                                                              AFPD15-1 19 FEBRUARY 2010


           3.5.2.3. Coordinate with L-MAJCOMs to establish policy and procedures within
           their theater of operation.
           3.5.2.4. Identify and advocate, in coordination with Component Numbered Air
           Forces (C-NAFs)/L-MAJCOMs, requirements for theater-specific weather equipment
           and training programs.
           3.5.2.5. Coordinate with the Combatant Commander’s (CCDR) staff, including the
           Senior Meteorological and Oceanographic (METOC) Officer (SMO), the Joint Force
           Commander's (JFC) staff, including the Joint METOC Officer (JMO), and other
           Service component staff weather officers (SWO) on theater-specific joint, inter-
           Service, host-nation, allied, or coalition matters involving AF weather operations.
       3.5.3. Component Numbered Air Forces will:
           3.5.3.1. Employ appropriately sized weather staffs to provide theater-specific
           operational-level advice, subject matter expertise, staff support, and coordination to
           the C-NAF commander.
           3.5.3.2. In coordination with the CCDR's staff, including the SMO, the JFC's staff,
           including the JMO, other Service component SWOs, and the C-MAJCOM staff:
               3.5.3.2.1. Conduct war, exercise, and contingency planning.
               3.5.3.2.2. Identify, document, prioritize, and validate AF weather capabilities
               required to conduct joint/combined weather operations.
               3.5.3.2.3. Monitor and assess the execution of AF weather operations supporting
               the CCDR and/or JFC.
               3.5.3.2.4. Develop theater employment and sustainment concepts for AF weather
               capabilities.
           3.5.3.3. Coordinate with the L-MAJCOM, in conjunction with the C-MAJCOM, on
           AEF deployment sourcing.
       3.5.4. Air Education & Training Command will assess training needs, provide initial
       skills and follow-on training programs for enlisted and officer weather personnel and
       assist HQ USAF/A3O-W to effectively develop and sustain the weather career field. Air
       Education & Training Command delegates follow-on training for Air National Guard
       personnel to the National Guard Bureau.
    3.6. Commanders of organizations conducting global and regional centralized weather
    operations (AFWA’s weather groups and their subordinate weather squadrons, the 17th
    (PACAF), the 21st (USAFE), and the 28th (AFCENT) operational weather squadrons, and
    the AFSOUTH weather flight) will train and organize assigned weather personnel to
    accurately and consistently characterize and exploit relevant air and space environmental
    information to satisfy the weather requirements of supported units operating within their
    geographic or functional area of responsibility in a timely manner. At these levels, exploiting
    air and space environmental information means using distributed network capabilities to
    integrate that information into supported organizations' decision processes in order to employ
    air and space environmental information at the appropriate level of warfare.
AFPD15-1 19 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                   5


   3.7. Commanders of organizations conducting local decentralized weather operations
   (typically operations support squadron weather flights, weather squadrons and their
   subordinate flights, detachments, operating locations, and air and space operations center
   weather specialty teams) will train and organize assigned weather personnel to perform two
   primary functions. The first is to provide an “eyes-forward” presence to help centralized
   weather operations organizations accurately characterize the local environment. The second
   is to exploit relevant air and space environmental information in a timely manner. At the
   local level, exploiting air and space environmental information means tailoring and
   integrating that information into supported organizations' decision processes. Thus,
   commanders will include assigned weather personnel into supported organizations’ mission
   planning and execution functions and processes.
   3.8. Staff meteorologists will support the research, development, acquisition, testing, and
   sustainment of Air Force weapons systems and capabilities and assist the Air Force weather
   community in developing and maintaining capabilities to support emerging weapon systems.
4. This directive implements national policies documented in inter-Service support
agreements based on the National Security Act of 1947; Office of Management and Budget
Memorandum, Coordination of Federal Meteorological Services; Joint Committee for Space
Environmental Forecasting memorandums; AF Program Action Directive (PAD) 06-09,
Implementation of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force Direction to Establish an Air Force
Component Organization; and AF PAD 07-13, Implementation of the Chief of Staff of the Air
Force Direction to Transform and Consolidate Headquarters Management Functions.”




                                           MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
6                                                            AFPD15-1 19 FEBRUARY 2010


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine
AFDD 2-9.1, Weather Operations
AFMD 52, Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA)
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems
AFPD 10-35, Battlefield Airman
AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International
Organizations
AFPD 16-10, Modeling and Simulation
AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technological Information
AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution
AFI 10-901, Lead Operating Command Communications and Information Systems Management
AFI 11-202 Vol.3, General Flight Rules
AFI 13-203, Air Traffic Control
AFI 13-213, Airfield Management
AFMAN 15-111, Surface Weather Observations
AFI 15-114, Functional Resource and Weather Technical Performance Evaluation
AFMAN 15-124, Meteorological Codes
AFI 15-128, Air and Space Weather Operations - Roles and Responsibilities
AFMAN 15-129, Air and Space Weather Operations - Processes and Procedures
AFJI 15-157 / AR 115-10, Weather Support for the U.S. Army
AFI 15-180, Standardization and Evaluation Program for Weather Operations (SEPWO)
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures
AFI 33-101, Communications and Information Management Guidance and Responsibilities
AFI 33-104, Base Level Planning and Implementation
AFI 33-202, Vol.1, Network and Computer Security
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition -- Procedures and Responsibilities
AFI 63-101, Operations of Capabilities Based Acquisition System
AFPD15-1 19 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                        7


AR 95-1, Flight Regulations
AR 95-27, Unmanned Aircraft System Flight Regulations
JP 2-01.3, Joint Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
JP 3-59, Joint Doctrine, Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures for Meteorological
and Oceanographic Operations
CJCSI 3810.01B, Meteorological and Oceanographic Operations
USPACOMINST 539.1, U.S. Pacific Command Tropical Cyclone Operations
USPACOMINST 539.2, Meteorological and Oceanographic Support to Joint Operations in U.S.
Pacific Command
DoDD 5000.59, DoD Modeling and Simulation Management
DoDD 5100.73, Major Department of Defense Headquarters
DoDD 5101.1, DoD Executive Agent
FM 34-81, Weather Support for U.S. Army Tactical Operations
FMH 11, Doppler Radar Meteorological Observations
HQ USAF PAD 97-10, Reengineering Actions for Air Force Weather
HQ USAF PAD 06-05, Implementation of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force Direction for
Tactical Air Control Party (TACP), Air Support Operations Center (ASOC), and Battlefield
Weather (BW) Integration with the Modular Army
HQ USAF PAD 06-09, Implementation of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force Direction to
Establish an Air Force Component Organization
HQ USAF PAD 07-13, Implementation of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force Direction to
Transform and Consolidate Headquarters Management Functions
Office of Management and Budget Memorandum, Coordination of Federal Meteorological
Services
Joint Committee for Space Environmental Forecasting memorandums
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Memorandum to the
Secretary of the Air Force, Designation of the Department of the Air Force as the Modeling and
Simulation Executive Agent for Air and Space Natural Environment Representations

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF— Air Force
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive
8                                                   AFPD15-1 19 FEBRUARY 2010


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AFWWS—Air Force Weather Weapon System
ASOC—Air Support Operations Center
AR—Army Regulation
BW—Battlefield Weather
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CCDR—Combatant Commander
MAJCOM—Component Major Command
NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
FM—Field Manual
FMH—Federal Meteorological Handbook
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HQ—Headquarters
JP—Joint Publication
MAJCOM—Lead MAJCOM
MAJCOM—Major Command
METOC—Meteorological and Oceanographic
PAD—Program Action Directive
TACP—Tactical Air Control Party
USAF—United States Air Force
USPACOMINST—United States Pacific Command Instruction
