BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 52-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           19 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                        Chaplain

                                                                            CHAPLAIN CORPS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/HCX                                                                Certified by: AF/HC
                                                              (Ch, Maj Gen Howard D. Stendahl)
Supersedes:    AFPD52-1, 2 October 2006                                                Pages: 4


The Air Force places a high value on the rights of its members to observe the tenets of their
respective religions. In addition, spiritual health is fundamental to the well-being of Air Force
personnel and their families and is essential for operational success. DoDD 1304.19,
Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments, Section 4.1, requires commanders to
provide for the free exercise of religion; chaplains are the commander’s resource to accomplish
this task and serve “as the principal advisors regarding the impact of religion on military
operations.” As stated in DoDI 1300.17, Accommodation of Religious Practices Within the
Military Services, the U.S. Constitution proscribes Congress from enacting any law prohibiting
the free exercise of religion. Further, JP 1-05, Religious Affairs in Joint Operations, states,
chaplains advise the commander and staff on “moral and ethical decision making, and morale
and personnel issues, may advise on religious dynamics within the operational area and
sometimes may be tasked with certain liaison functions.”

This directive implements DoD Instruction (DoDI) 1300.17, Accommodation of Religious
Practices Within the Military Services and is consistent with the policy in DoD Directive
(DoDD) 1304.19, Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments. This publication is
applicable for active duty, Air Reserve Component (ARC) and civilian personnel in fulfilling the
mission of the Chaplain Corps. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to AF/HCX, 1380 Air Force Pentagon,
Room 4D286, Washington, DC 20330-1380, on Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for
 2                                                               AFPD52-1 19 DECEMBER 2013


Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include clarification of the Religious Support Team (RST) terminology, clarification of
who is eligible to receive Chaplain Corps services and the relationship of the Chief of Chaplains
to the Armed Forces Chaplains Board.
1. Overview.
     1.1. The Air Force places a high value on the rights of its members to observe the tenets of
     their respective religions. In addition, spiritual health is fundamental to the well-being of Air
     Force personnel and their families and is essential for operational success.
     1.2. DoDD 1304.19, Section 4.1, requires commanders to provide for the free exercise of
     religion; chaplains are the commanders’ resource to accomplish this task and serve “as the
     principal advisors to commanders regarding the impact of religion on military operations.”
     As stated in DoDI 1300.17, the U.S. Constitution proscribes Congress from enacting any law
     prohibiting the free exercise of religion. Further, JP 1-05, Religious Affairs in Joint
     Operations, states, chaplains advise the commander and staff on moral and ethical decision
     making, morale and personnel issues and religious dynamics within the operational area.
     Chaplains may also be tasked with certain liaison functions.
2. Policy.
     2.1. The Air Force Chaplain Corps provides spiritual care and ensures all Airmen and their
     families have opportunities to exercise their constitutional right to the free exercise of
     religion.
     2.2. Core Capabilities. The core capabilities of the Chaplain Corps are:
        2.2.1. Spiritual Care. Meeting the diverse spiritual needs of Airmen and their families.
        2.2.2. Advise Leadership. Inform Air Force leaders on matters related to religious,
        spiritual, ethical, moral and morale concerns and advocate for the religious and spiritual
        needs of Airmen and their families.
3. Responsibilities and Authorities. This directive recognizes or establishes the following
responsibilities and authorities:
     3.1. Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF). Retains ultimate responsibility for all policies
     related to the Department of the Air Force.
     3.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR).
     Serves as the agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction and oversight for all
     matters pertaining to the formulation, review and execution of plans, policies and programs
     addressing religious, ethical and quality of life programs.
     3.3. Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (VCSAF). Serves as the immediate
     supervisor of the Chief of Chaplains.
AFPD52-1 19 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      3


   3.4. Chief of Chaplains. Principal advisor for religious matters to the SecAF and Chief of
   Staff of the Air Force (CSAF) and is responsible for recruiting, organizing, training and
   equipping Chaplain Corps personnel.
       3.4.1. Develops tactical doctrine and guidance providing oversight of Air Force Chaplain
       Corps echelons to meet the religious and spiritual needs of Air Force members, their
       dependents and other authorized personnel.
       3.4.2. Serves on the Armed Forces Chaplains Board (AFCB) in accordance with DoDI
       5120.08, Armed Forces Chaplains Board.
   3.5. Deputy Chief of Chaplains. Assists the Chief of Chaplains in establishing guidance on
   all matters pertaining to the religious and spiritual welfare of Air Force personnel and their
   dependents and directing and maintaining a trained, equipped and professional Chaplain
   Corps.
   3.6. Chaplains.
       3.6.1. Chaplains are qualified clergy, who are commissioned as Air Force officers in
       accordance with Title 10, United States Code, Section 8067(h).
       3.6.2. Chaplains must adhere to the requirements of their endorsing religious
       organizations.
       3.6.3. Chaplains lead Religious Support Teams (RSTs)
   3.7. Chaplain Assistants.
       3.7.1. As non-clergy members of the Air Force Chaplain Corps, chaplain assistants are
       specifically trained to function in a pluralistic environment in a manner that serves all
       Airmen.
       3.7.2. Chaplain assistants provide the following core capabilities: religious program
       management, advice to leadership, crisis intervention counseling and unit engagement.
4. Religious Support Team (RST). The RST is comprised of one Air Force Chaplain and one
Chaplain Assistant at home station and deployed locations. RSTs are assigned and actively
engaged in each squadron, advising leadership and providing warrior care that is sensitive to the
needs of all Airmen.
5. Senior Religious Support Team. The highest ranking Chaplain and Chaplain Assistant
determine ministry requirements and lead their RSTs to provide opportunities for worship,
spiritual care and unit ministry across their area of responsibility.




                                            ERIC K. FANNING
                                            Acting Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                          AFPD52-1 19 DECEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces, Sections 8067(h)
DoDD 1304.19, Appointment of Chaplains for the Military Departments, 11 June 2004
DoDI 1300.17, Accommodation of Religious Practices Within the Military Services, 10 February
2009
DoDI 5120.08, Armed Forces Chaplains Board, 20 August 2007
JP 1-05, Religious Affairs in Joint Operations, 13 November 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFCB—Armed Forces Chaplains Board
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
ARC—Air Reserve Component
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FOA—Field Operating Agency
MAJCOM—Major Command
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RST—Religious Support Team
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
VCSAF—Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force

Terms
Religious Accommodation— Chaplain Corps personnel advise and assist commanders and
supervisors in facilitating religious accommodation requests. In accordance with DoDI 1300.17,
Accommodation of Religious Practices Within the Military Services, section 4, “it is DoD policy
that requests for accommodation of religious practices should be approved by commanders when
accommodation will not have an adverse impact on mission accomplishment, military readiness,
unit cohesion, standards or discipline.”
