                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 65-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                  1 JULY 1996

                                                                                 Financial Management

                                                        MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL SERVICES




NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/FMPC                                                                  Certified by: SAF/FMPC
     (Maj Gaston U. Gutierrez)                                                 (Col Richard W. Schuetz)
                                                                                                 Pages: 7
                                                                                          Distribution: F

1. The Defense Finance and Accounting Services (DFAS) provides guidance and procedures on account-
ing matters for the DoD. However, other policy areas remain within the responsibility of the components
including: appropriated and nonappropriated funds administration, use of government travel charge card
program and contract financing. Additionally, guidance is required to implement DoD policy for appro-
priated fund support to Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) programs and other nonappropriated
fund instrumentalities (NAFIs).

2. The Air Force will promote and implement financial discipline, fiscal integrity, and responsible finan-
cial services.
   2.1. The Air Force will exercise appropriated and nonappropriated funds administration and control
   to ensure compliance with the Antideficiency Act as well as all statutory and regulatory limitations.
   2.2. The Air Force will ensure that responsive financial services are provided to Air Force personnel.

3. The Air Force will use appropriated and nonappropriated funds as authorized by law and DoD Direc-
tives and within the limits imposed by the availability of resources to support MWR programs and other
NAFIs.
   3.1. The Air Force will fully fund Category A MWR activities with appropriated funds (APF) where
   authorized, provide substantial APFs for Category B MWR activities, and provide indirect and limited
   direct APF support for Category C MWR activities where authorized.

4. Air Force personnel will utilize, to the maximum extent possible, the Government Travel Charge Card
for payment of travel expenses and for obtaining Automated Teller Machine (ATM) cash advances for
travel on official Government business.

5. Air Force personnel who are directed to perform duty away from their permanent station will be pro-
vided with valid written orders or verbal orders confirmed in writing at the earliest possible date.

6. The Air Force will provide contract financing services to Air Force organizations.
7. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities.
   7.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Financial Management and Comptroller) will:
       7.1.1. Develop and monitor the Air Force’s objectives and strategies for the management of its
       financial resources and services.
       7.1.2. Prescribe policy and perform oversight of appropriated fund support MWR programs as
       well as with other NAFIs.
       7.1.3. Establish and maintain fund control systems to preclude violations of statutory and regula-
       tory limitations on the use of Air Force appropriated funds.
       7.1.4. Exercise collateral oversight of accounting, disbursing, collecting and reporting activities
       with DFAS.

8. Terms Explained.
   8.1. Appropriated Funds. Funds provided by statute, under the jurisdiction of House and Senate
   Appropriation Committees,
   that provides authorization for Federal Agencies to incur obligations and to make payments out of the
   Treasury for specific purposes. Appropriated funds are available following enactment of authorizing
   legislation.
   8.2. MWR Programs. MWR programs are grouped into three categories: Category A, "Mission Sus-
   taining Activities (i.e., Libraries, Fitness Centers;" Category B, "Basic Community Support Activities
   (i.e., Skills Development Centers, Child Development Programs);" and Category C, "Revenue-Gener-
   ating Activities (Officers’/Enlisted Clubs, Golf Courses, Bowling Centers)."
   8.3. Government Travel Charge Card. A card issued by a commercial company under a contract with
   General Services Administration that may be used to charge travel expenses and obtain cash advances
   while on official Government business.
   8.4. Nonappropriated Fund. Cash and other assets received from sources other than monies appropri-
   ated by the Congress of the United States. These funds are for the collective benefit of military per-
   sonnel, authorized civilians, and their family members. Nonappropriated funds are separate and apart
   from appropriated funds recorded in the books of the Treasurer of the United States.

9. This directive implements DoD 7000.14R, DoD Financial Management Regulation, and Title 48,
Code of Federal Regulation, Federal Acquisition Regulation.

10. The policy in this directive interfaces with various Financial Management and Services’ publications.
These include: AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming Nonappropriated Fund Facility Construction
Projects (formerly AFR 86-1, Volume 2); AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders (formerly AFR 10-7);
AFI 65-104, Government Travel Charge Card Program; AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of
Morale, Welfare, and Recreation and Nonappropriated Fund (formerly AFR 170-11); and AFI 65-107,
Nonappropriated Funds Financial Management Oversight Responsibilities (formerly AFR 176-10).




                                                 2
11. See Attachment 1 for measures of effectiveness with this policy.




                                        ROBERT F. HALE
                                        The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
                                        Financial Management and Comptroller




                                              3
                                            Attachment 1
                          MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Compliance with the policy for financial services will be assessed by taking measurement in three
areas.
   A1.1.1. The standard for the level of appropriated fund support to MWR is 85% for category A and
   65% for category B. These are Air Force goals, and failure to achieve the goal will not result in an
   Antideficiency Act violation (Figure A1.1.).
   A1.1.2. A delinquency goal of no more than 12% of all active Government charge cards will be
   reached (Figure A1.2.).
   A1.1.3. Cash usage will be no more than 25% of all charges to the card. Data will be provided from
   the Government charge card program contractor monthly reports (Figure A1.3.).




                                               4
Figure A1.1. MWR Appropriated Fund Supported to MWR for Category A and B for FY XX.




                                       5
Figure A1.2. Percentage of Delinquency Billings 60+ Days Past Due.




                                           6
Figure A1.3. Cash Usage Percentage of Cash to Total Charges.




                                          7
