BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 23-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          15 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                                 MATERIEL MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A4LM                                                              Certified by: AF/A4/7
Supersedes: AFPD 23-1, 10 March 2006;                                   (Lt Gen Loren M. Reno)
            AFPD 23-5, 26 Mar 01                                                        Pages: 6


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) directly implements Department of Defense Directive
(DoDD) 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces and the following Department of Defense
Instructions (DoDI): 4140.58, National Guard and Reserve Equipment Report (NGRER);
3110.05, Readiness-Based Materiel Condition Reporting for Mission-Essential Systems and
Equipment; 4140.61, Customer Wait Time and Time Definite Delivery; 4140.63, Management
of DoD Clothing and Textiles (Class II); 4161.2, Management, Control and Disposal of
Government Property in the Possession of Contractors; 5000.64, Accountability and
Management of DoD-Owned Equipment and Other Accountable Property; 5128.33, Defense
Materiel Management Board (DMMB) to provide a framework for materiel management and
responsibilities. The policy contained within is consistent with DoDD 4140.1, Supply Chain
Materiel Management Policy and AFPD 20-1/63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
Management. It applies to all Air Force (AF) military and civilian personnel; members of the Air
Force Reserves; members of the Air National Guard; and other individuals or organizations as
required by binding agreement or obligation with the Department of the Air Force. If there is any
conflicting guidance between this AFPD and DoD issuances and public law, the latter shall take
precedence.

Records Disposition: ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.
 2                                                             AFPD23-1 15 FEBRUARY 2011



This AFPD cannot be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Adopted Form: AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Text
concerning the management and accountability of transportation vehicles, watercraft and railroad
assets are removed and now in AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation
Vehicles. The policy for disposition of excess personal property has been removed from AFPD
23-5, Reusing and Disposing of Materiel and incorporated in this publication.
1. Policy. This AFPD establishes direction for determining and stocking materiel requirements,
ordering, receiving, storing, issuing, demilitarization and disposal of materiel. The AF shall:
     1.1. Determine requirements and stock sufficient supplies and equipment to meet operational
     needs around the world for active AF forces, Air Reserve Components (ARC), national and
     international Cooperative Logistics Supply Arrangement (CLSSA) items.
     1.2. Manage materiel resources from the time they are ordered until they are released for use
     to satisfy validated training, operational, and mobilization readiness requirements.
     1.3. Establish wholesale and retail stockage objectives for peacetime and war reserve
     materiel (WRM) readiness requirements to support capability planning while validating
     needs that minimize investment and maximize system readiness supportability.
     1.4. Establish provisioning and replenishment objectives to include consideration of costs,
     control of surpluses, and environmental impact minimization while optimizing availability of
     materiel where and when needed.
        1.4.1. Minimize budget investments to reduce total costs in acquiring and maintaining
        inventory, while optimizing operational effectiveness and availability.
     1.5. Establish processes/procedures to ensure:
        1.5.1. All controlled materiel (to include nuclear weapons related materiel (NWRM),
        classified, communications security (COMSEC), weapons and other sensitive assets) are
        accurately received, stored, issued, demilitarized and disposed, accounted for and
        reported to AF and DoD agencies as required.
        1.5.2. Materiel in storage is maintained in a ready status, prevent deterioration or loss,
        and prevent accumulation of property that exceeds authorized stock or retention limits.
        1.5.3. Reutilization, exchange/sale/lease potential, technology transfer, and support of
        educational partnership agreements while reducing the volume of materiel disposed as
        scrap or waste through cost-effective recycling and reuse of materiel.
     1.6. Ensure materiel management activities maintain visibility of serviceable items
     transferred to Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services (DLADS) and, when practical,
     recall them for reutilization in lieu of initiating a new procurement.
AFPD23-1 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                         3


   1.7. Maintain positive inventory control (PIC) and in-transit visibility (ITV) of assets
   throughout all materiel management nodes of the supply chain to include the receipt, issue,
   storage, handling, demilitarization, disposal and shipment of materiel.
   1.8. Establish controls to:
       1.8.1. Guard against loss; ensure economical recovery from surplus, scrap or residual
       materiel.
       1.8.2. Maximize reuse of critical, strategic, and precious metals.
       1.8.3. Ensure appropriate demilitarization of assets prior to disposal.
   1.9. Comply with Occupational Safety and Health standards, environmental regulations, and
   associated technical orders and/or material safety data sheets when ordering, storing, and
   issuing materiel.
   1.10. Establish core workforce competencies to ensure the AF maintains control of AF
   materiel management standards.
2. Roles and Responsibilities. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
   2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS)/Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
   (AF/A4/7):
       2.1.1. Develops policy for Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) approval; provides policy
       implementation direction and guidance for materiel management.
       2.1.2. Exercises enterprise oversight for compliance with materiel management,
       requirements, and stockage direction.
       2.1.3. Advocates for logistics resource requirements to the AF Corporate Structure.
       2.1.4. Ensures development of AF workforce competencies for materiel management.
       2.1.5. Assigns staff as necessary to assist the Defense Materiel Management Board.
   2.2. Major Commands (MAJCOMs):
       2.2.1. Provide manpower, resources and training consistent with the assigned mission.
       Provide detailed guidance, funding and analysis to optimize readiness.
       2.2.2. Strictly enforce compliance with AF directive publications and technical orders.
       2.2.3. Ensure PIC and ITV of assets throughout all materiel management nodes of the
       supply chain to include the receipt, issue, storage, handling, demilitarization, disposal and
       shipment of materiel.
       2.2.4. Monitor serviceable items transferred to DLADS to maximize the recovery of
       usable assets in lieu of new procurement.
           2.2.4.1. Ensure recovery from surplus, scrap or residual materiel when practical.
           2.2.4.2. Maximize reuse of critical, strategic, and precious metals.
       2.2.5. Provide for the secured storage of materiel.
 4                                                             AFPD23-1 15 FEBRUARY 2011


     2.3. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC), in addition to those responsibilities in paragraph
     2.2:
        2.3.1. Implements methods and maintain models for computing enterprise requirements
        to support operational needs, including mobilization and surge requirements; including
        additive requirements for consumable items to source of supply (SOS) other than AF.
        2.3.2. Provides for enterprise materiel management operations and directs the
        redistribution of assets.
        2.3.3. Develops procedures and processes to:
            2.3.3.1. Ensures accountability of controlled materiel (to include NWRM, classified,
            COMSEC, small arms/light weapons and other sensitive assets).
            2.3.3.2. Monitors the ready status of materiel, prevent deterioration or loss, and
            prevent accumulation of property that exceeds authorized stock or retention limits.
            2.3.3.3. Reviews assets for reutilization, exchange/sale/lease potential, technology
            transfer, and support of educational partnership agreements while ensuring cost-
            effective recycling and reuse of materiel to reduce the volume of materiel disposed as
            scrap or waste.

3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

3.1. Prescribed Forms.

No forms are prescribed by this publication

3.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                              MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD23-1 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces, April 07, 2005
DoD Directive 4140.1, Supply Chain Materiel Management Policy, April 22, 2004
DoD Directive 4140.58, National Guard and Reserve Equipment Report (NGRER), January 8,
2010
DoD Instruction 3110.05, Readiness-Based Materiel Condition Reporting for Mission-Essential
Systems and Equipment, September 25, 2006.
DoD Instruction 4140.61, Customer Wait Time and Time Definite Delivery, December 14, 2000
DoD Instruction 4140.63, Management of DoD Clothing and Textiles (Class II), August 5, 2008
DoD Instruction 4161.2, Management, Control and Disposal of Government Property in the
Possession of Contractors, September 26, 1997
DoD Instruction 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DoD-Owned Equipment and Other
Accountable Property, November 2, 2006
DoD Instruction 5128.33, Defense Materiel Management Board (DMMB), August 16, 1991
AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation Vehicles, 7 Jul 10
AFPD 23-5, Reusing and Disposing of Materiel, 26 Mar 01
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 01 Oct 08
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CLSSA—Cooperative Logistics Supply Arrangement
COCOM—Combatant Commander
COMSEC—Communications Security
DCS—Deputy Chief of Staff
DLADS—Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
ITV—In-transit visibility
 6                                                           AFPD23-1 15 FEBRUARY 2011


MAJCOM—Major Command
NWRM—Nuclear Weapons Related Materiel
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIC—Positive Inventory Control
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SOS—Source of Supply
WMP—War Mobilization Planning
WRM—War Reserve Materiel

Terms
Air Force Excess Personal Property—property not needed by the Air Force as determined by
the Secretary of the Air Force.
Demilitarization—the act of destroying the military offensive or defensive advantages inherent
in certain types of equipment or materiel to prevent its unauthorized use.
Personal Property—property of any kind or interest except real property and records of the US
Government.
Provisioning—management process of determining and acquiring the range and quantity of
support items necessary to operate and maintain an end item of materiel for an initial period of
service.
Reclamation—the process of removing required, serviceable and economically repairable
components and materiel from excess or surplus property.
Recycling—the diversion of materiels from the solid or hazardous waste stream and the
beneficial use of them to manufacture goods or to substitute for goods made of virgin materiels.
Requisition—order for materiel, from the source of supply, by an authorized organization.
Reutilization—the process by which assets, excess to the need for which they were procured,
are economically reused to support another authorized purpose.
Source of Supply—any government organization exercising control over materiel.
Surplus Property—property which is not needed by any Federal agency.
War Reserve Materiel—stock required to sustain operations for the scenarios authorized for
sustainability planning in the combatant commander (COCOM) war plans and war mobilization
planning (WMP) documents.
