BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 13-6
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            13 AUGUST 2013

                                              Nuclear, Space, Missile, Command and Control

                                                                              SPACE POLICY




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: SAF/SPX                                             Certified by: SAF/SP (Mr. Richard W.
Supersedes: AFPD 10-12, 1 February                                                 McKinney)
            1996                                                                    Pages: 13


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) establishes Air Force space policy and implements
Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 3100.10, Space Policy, DoD Directive 5101.02E, DoD
Executive Agent (EA) for Space, DOD Instruction 3100.12, Space Support, and incorporates
Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) Memorandum “Headquarters Air Force Space Management
and Organization” (dated 25 August 2010) in support of national space policies and the National
Security Space Strategy. This policy directive applies to Air Force Major Commands
(MAJCOMs) and Numbered Air Forces (NAFs), including Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air
National Guard (ANG) units. This publication may not be supplemented. All current 10-12xx
series Air Force and MAJCOM Instructions implementing the rescinded AFPD 10-12 will
become 13-series implementing instructions as described in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route Air Force Forms 847 from the field through
the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document rescinds AFPD 10-12 Space and aligns space policy under 13-Series publications
per AFI 33-360. AFPD 13-6 entirely replaces AFPD 10-12 and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                                                  AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013


1. Principles. The Air Force provides vital space capabilities for the President, Secretary of
Defense, Combatant Commanders, and joint warfighters at all levels of warfare. Air Force space
capabilities are also vital to many US Government agencies, non-governmental and commercial
entities, civilians, and international users contributing to national prosperity and global stability.
Space capabilities may be degraded by a growing number of threats and hazards originating from
a variety of sources. Confronted with these challenges, Air Force goals are to provide global
space capabilities, protect space capabilities as needed, and be prepared to operate with degraded
space capabilities whenever necessary. In order to achieve these goals:
     1.1. The Air Force will provide space capabilities to meet validated requirements. The Air
     Force will also leverage civil, commercial, allied, and other partner space capabilities in a
     balanced manner to ensure the availability of space capabilities to users, strengthen
     deterrence, reinforce partnerships, and improve the ability to withstand and recover from
     interference and attacks.
     1.2. The Air Force will protect its ability to operate in space by taking steps to preserve the
     continued usability of the space domain, as a growing number of space activities and a
     growing number of global actors increasingly complicate the operating environment. To
     decrease the risk of unintentional interference, debris-producing events, and destabilizing
     behaviors, the Air Force will implement space safety programs, uphold the highest standards
     for orbital safety, and promote activities that contribute to a sustainable, peaceful, and secure
     space domain.
     1.3. The Air Force will protect space capabilities by taking steps to deter purposeful
     interference and attacks on space systems, and will maintain the ability of the US to respond
     to attacks, should deterrence fail.
     1.4. The Air Force will prepare to operate with degraded space capabilities. Despite efforts
     to protect vital space capabilities, they may be degraded or unavailable for a variety of
     reasons. Therefore, the Air Force must plan, train, and exercise air, cyberspace, and space
     forces for such scenarios.
2. Policy.
     2.1. The space domain, as with the air and cyberspace domains, is a core operating domain
     of the Air Force. Space capabilities are fundamental in all phases of military operations,
     therefore, it is Air Force policy that:
        2.1.1. The Air Force will provide space capabilities and forces, integrating them into Air
        Force plans, operations, and training while contributing to and enabling joint and
        combined forces.
             2.1.1.1. The Air Force will recruit, sustain, and retain a workforce of highly skilled
             military and civilian space professionals proficient in operations, technical expertise,
             policy, strategy, acquisitions, contracting, managerial oversight and leadership.
             2.1.1.2. The Air Force will use a Total Force approach, as appropriate, to structuring
             space forces to leverage the unique strengths of each Total Force component.
        2.1.2. The Air Force will take measures to protect space capabilities commensurate with
        the threat, system use, and impact of loss. In a domain used by an increasing number of
        actors, the growing risk of unintentional interference and on-orbit mishaps can impact
AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013                                                                        3


     effective operations and jeopardize Air Force capabilities, while threatening the long-
     term usability of the space domain. Additionally, adversary attacks or interference with
     Air Force space capabilities have implications beyond the space domain. Faced with such
     complex issues:
         2.1.2.1. The Air Force will contribute to the continued sustainable use of space by
         maintaining knowledge of on-orbit space objects, minimizing risk in the design and
         acquisition of space systems, operating safely and efficiently from launch to end-of-
         life activities, managing electromagnetic spectrum use, and complying with US
         Government Orbital Debris Mitigation Standard Practices.
         2.1.2.2. The Air Force will collaborate with interagency, international, and
         commercial entities to promote safe and responsible space activities. This includes
         sharing space situational awareness and space safety information, and contributing to
         the development of transparency and confidence-building measures and behavioral
         norms.
         2.1.2.3. The Air Force will develop plans and implement measures to protect and
         defend US space capabilities and contribute to the defense of allied space systems.
         2.1.2.4. The Air Force will maintain capabilities to deter efforts to interfere with or
         attack US or allied space capabilities and, if deterrence fails, to accurately attribute
         and, if necessary, defeat such efforts using a broad range of response options.
     2.1.3. The Air Force will prepare its forces to sustain air, cyberspace, and space
     operations when space capabilities are degraded. The Air Force will also prepare its
     forces to sustain operations against an adversary enabled by space capabilities.
         2.1.3.1. While planning for operations, the Air Force will consider risks and threats
         to space capabilities, consequences of their loss, and the availability of alternate
         means for mission accomplishment.
         2.1.3.2. The Air Force will develop plans, doctrine, tactics, techniques and
         procedures to operate with degraded space capabilities and, if necessary, defeat
         attacks targeted at space systems and supporting infrastructure.
         2.1.3.3. The Air Force will incorporate space capabilities, limitations, roles,
         missions, and vulnerabilities into Air Force doctrine, accession training, professional
         military education, professional continuing education, and other training as
         appropriate.
         2.1.3.4. The Air Force will incorporate concepts for operating against an adversary
         enhanced by space capabilities, and concepts for compensating for degraded space
         capabilities into its wargames, simulations, scenario development, experiments, and
         exercises at all organizational levels. For such events at NAF level or higher,
         exceptions will require MAJCOM A3 or Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations,
         Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) approval as appropriate.
  2.2. Air Force Space Enterprise. This section provides guidance across the breadth of Air
  Force space enterprise functions and activities in order to enhance unity of effort. The Air
  Force will leverage elements of the space enterprise to pursue the following activities:
4                                                            AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013


    2.2.1. Science and Technology. Pursue Science and Technology innovation that
    prioritizes and balances investments in basic research, applied research, and advanced
    technology development.
       2.2.1.1. Provide both evolutionary and revolutionary technologies in efforts that may
       be initiated in advance of validated user requirements or programmed funding for
       formal acquisition.
       2.2.1.2. Provide and maintain research facilities to lead discovery, development, and
       integration of space technologies and concepts, and maintain the ability to engage in
       expedited and operationally focused concept-through-fielding activities to support
       immediate and near-term needs.
    2.2.2. Architectures. Integrate space systems into existing and approved future
    architectures and capabilities.
       2.2.2.1. While planning and evaluating architectures consider innovative approaches,
       required performance and affordability, and in accordance with DoDD 3100.10,
       consider the reliability, protection and resilience of required space capabilities.
       2.2.2.2. Proactively seek opportunities to cooperate with allies and other selected
       international partners in developing and employing space architectures and
       capabilities consistent with DoD and Air Force guidance.
       2.2.2.3. Participate in the Defense space architecture planning and programming
       activities of the DoD EA for Space and provide the EA information on Air Force
       priorities, plans, programs, and funding to support unity of effort across DoD,
       Intelligence Community, and/or US Government activities.
    2.2.3. Acquisition. Acquire, field, and sustain space capabilities for joint and combined
    operations.
       2.2.3.1. Acquire space capabilities which have been validated and prioritized through
       the DoD joint requirements processes, using a tailored and deliberate approach to
       design, development, and affordability.
           2.2.3.1.1. Synchronize and integrate space segment development and fielding
           with the corresponding user and control segments, to the maximum extent
           possible.
           2.2.3.1.2. Design orbital systems to minimize orbital debris throughout the
           system lifetime, through all phases of the mission from initial deployment to end-
           of-life and post-end-of-life activities.
           2.2.3.1.3. Ensure mission assurance requirements and the ability of capabilities to
           withstand and recover from interference and attacks are considered while
           planning and developing space systems and throughout the acquisition process.
           2.2.3.1.4. Develop and integrate launch concepts, techniques, and technologies
           for augmentation or rapid restoration of national security space (NSS)
           capabilities.
           2.2.3.1.5. Design and acquire military space systems with allies and other
           selected international partners, where appropriate, and when such cooperation is
AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013                                                                         5


            cost effective and improves operational capabilities.
        2.2.3.2. Employ space capabilities from other US Government departments and
        agencies, allies, international partners and commercial entities as follows:
            2.2.3.2.1. Leverage civil space capabilities to meet user requirements when such
            collaboration improves operational capabilities and is cost effective.
            2.2.3.2.2. Proactively seek to expand space-related cooperation with allies and
            other selected international partners through combined military space operations,
            and by building, exchanging, and integrating space capabilities and information
            with partners to the extent practicable.
            2.2.3.2.3. Consistent with national security requirements and other legal
            requirements, use proven commercially provided space services, information,
            systems and technologies to the maximum extent practicable, and share
            information with commercial entities, as appropriate.
            2.2.3.2.4. Commercial capabilities will be modified to meet military requirements
            when doing so is more cost-effective and timely than developing unique military
            capabilities.
     2.2.4. Operations. Conduct space operations across the range of military operations and
     during all phases of conflict.
        2.2.4.1. Operate Space Situational Awareness (SSA) capabilities to provide the
        requisite knowledge that enables all other space operations. Integrate space
        surveillance, intelligence, and other information from commercial, civil, international
        partners, and national security sources to develop timely and accurate SSA enabling:
            2.2.4.1.1. Orbital safety, effective and efficient operations, and a sustainable,
            peaceful and secure space domain.
            2.2.4.1.2. Protection of vital space capabilities from interference and attack.
            2.2.4.1.3. Awareness of adversary space capabilities that may affect joint
            operations in all warfighting domains.
        2.2.4.2. In conjunction with joint and coalition space operations, provide force-
        multiplying space capabilities to improve the effectiveness of joint military forces, as
        well as to support national, civil, international, and commercial users, as appropriate.
        These include capabilities to provide:
            2.2.4.2.1. Global Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR).
            2.2.4.2.2. Launch detection and missile tracking.
            2.2.4.2.3. Environmental monitoring.
            2.2.4.2.4. Positioning, navigation and timing for DoD, civil, allied, commercial,
            and civilian users.
            2.2.4.2.5. Space-based communications.
        2.2.4.3. Provide the essential capabilities, functions, activities, and tasks necessary to
        operate and sustain space forces in accordance with DoDI 3100.12, including:
 6                                                               AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013


              2.2.4.3.1. Maintaining and operating necessary assets to ensure US access to the
              space domain.
                  2.2.4.3.1.1. Supporting the Secretary of Defense’s role as launch agent for
                  both the defense and intelligence space sectors by ensuring access to space
                  through reliable, flexible, resilient, responsive, and safe launch services.
                  2.2.4.3.1.2. Supporting and encouraging commercial space activities, to
                  include enabling non-federal investment in Air Force space transportation
                  infrastructure, as appropriate.
              2.2.4.3.2. Conducting satellite support operations from initial deployment
              through end-of-life activities.
              2.2.4.3.3. Supporting operational command and control of US space forces.
           2.2.4.4. Protect and defend against efforts to interfere with or attack US or allied
           space systems, and when directed, execute operations to defeat such efforts.
           2.2.4.5. Ensure space operations are conducted by personnel trained and certified in
           accordance with applicable directives and authorities.
           2.2.4.6. Extend the operational utility and, when appropriate, the operational lifespan
           of existing space capabilities through innovative ideas originating from all levels.
       2.2.5. Protection. Contribute to protection of US space capabilities with a multi-layered
       approach to deterring purposeful interference and attacks on US and allied space systems.
           2.2.5.1. Conduct space activities in a manner consistent with international law,
           treaties, and non-legally-binding agreements such as norms, codes of conduct or other
           such instruments in which the US participates.
           2.2.5.2. Build military-to-military relationships to enhance collective security and
           advance compatibility and interoperability between US and coalition space systems.
           2.2.5.3. Deny adversaries the benefits of aggression by enhancing the ability of Air
           Force space capabilities to avoid, withstand, and recover from interference and
           attacks.
           2.2.5.4. Ensure Air Force air, cyberspace, and space forces can operate effectively
           when US space-derived capabilities have been degraded, ranging from slight to
           complete degradation and from short to extended periods of time.
           2.2.5.5. Maintain capabilities to rapidly detect, warn, and confidently attribute
           natural and man-made disturbances to US space systems.
           2.2.5.6. Maintain a full scope of Air Force capabilities, not limited to space, to
           respond to an attack on US or allied space systems.
3. Safety. Air Force space safety policy and activities will improve operational effectiveness
and support mission assurance throughout the life cycle of space systems by minimizing hazards
and reducing mishap risk involving space systems that result in personnel injury, property
damage, system damage, destruction or mission capability loss or delay. The Air Force will
operate responsibly with due regard to space safety and with consideration for the well-being of
the general public, Air Force and support personnel, equipment and resources.
AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013                                                                         7


4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. Under Secretary of the Air Force (USecAF). The USecAF is the focal point for space
   matters within the Air Force Headquarters and is responsible for coordination of functions
   and activities across the Air Force space enterprise. The USecAF is the senior Air Force
   official for space matters including planning, policy, strategy, international relations,
   interagency relations and the primary interface to the Office of the Secretary of Defense
   (OSD) for space matters. USecAF co-chairs the Air Force Space Board (see Attachment 2)
   with the Vice Chief of Staff (VCSAF).
   4.2. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (Space) (SAF/SP). SAF/SP provides the
   principal support to USecAF’s role as Air Force Headquarters focal point for space matters,
   and coordinates activities across the Air Force space enterprise. In this capacity, SAF/SP
   also:
       4.2.1. Directs the Air Force Headquarters staff responsible for space policy, strategy, and
       issue integration, ensuring Air Force space activities are integrated and coordinated with
       OSD, National Reconnaissance Office, other US departments and agencies, and other
       national, commercial, and international space activities, as appropriate.
       4.2.2. Ensures Air Force compliance with DoD guidance on space policy.
       4.2.3. Serves as Director of the jointly staffed DoD EA for Space Staff (EA4SS). The
       EA4SS provides Executive Secretariat support to the SecAF for DoD-wide
       responsibilities as DoD EA for Space and as Chair of the Defense Space Council (DSC).
       4.2.4. Directs Air Force participation and contribution to the EA4SS in its role in
       architecture planning, programming, and assessment activities.
   4.3. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA). SAF/IA
   is the office of primary responsibility for Air Force international space matters, including
   development, oversight, and advocacy of Air Force international space cooperative
   programs, policies, and strategies. SAF/IA executes these responsibilities with guidance
   provided by the Under Secretary of Defense - Policy (USD-P), and with Air Force policy
   guidance provided by the SecAF, Chief of Staff (CSAF), and USecAF in collaboration with
   SAF/SP.
   4.4. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). SAF/AQ serves as
   the single Service Acquisition Executive for the Air Force with responsibilities covering all
   acquisitions, space and non-space. Air Force Program Executive Officers for space-related
   acquisition programs report to SAF/AQ in accordance with statutory and DoD direction.
   4.5. Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
   (AF/A2). AF/A2 develops and provides intelligence policy, guidance, and plans for the
   planning and direction, collection, processing and exploitation, analysis and production, and
   dissemination of data derived from intelligence space systems; provides focused intelligence
   support to space situational awareness to enable the Air Force to deter, defend against, and
   attribute attacks on space systems; and advocates intelligence requirements for space
   capabilities, responsive to operational needs of the Air Force.
   4.6. Deputy Chief of Staff Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5). AF/A3/5
   develops, plans, and implements policy to support space operations, training, and testing
8                                                                AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013


    activities. AF/A3/5 assists CSAF in providing and allocating operationally ready space forces
    and capabilities in response to the needs of the combatant commanders, and advises SECAF
    and CSAF on space issues.
       4.6.1. As the Functional Authority for 13S and 1C6 career fields, AF/A3/5 appoints and
       oversees Career Field Managers for the officer and enlisted space operations career fields
       and oversees personnel development and training in support of space operations.
       4.6.2. Assists Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) in its role as Core Function Lead
       Integrator (CFLI) in developing the Air Force Core Function Master Plan (CFMP) for
       Space Superiority.
       4.6.3. Establishes procedures within the Air Force and with other Agencies regarding the
       use of DoD launch property and launch services by the private sector, as delegated to the
       SecAF pursuant to DoDD 3230.3, DoD Support for Commercial Space Launch Activities.
       4.6.4. Ensures Air Force implementation and compliance with space-related international
       laws, treaties, and non-legally-binding codes of conduct and agreements.
    4.7. Deputy Chief of Staff Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8). AF/A8 ensures space
    equities are represented in both the programming and planning functions of the Air Force
    corporate process.
       4.7.1. Leads Air Force resource allocations and ensures space initiatives are
       programmed, as appropriate, through the annual Program Objective Memorandum and
       five-year Future Years Defense Plan.
       4.7.2. Assists AFSPC in developing the CFMP for Space Superiority and ensures CFLI
       guidance and space equity are represented throughout the Air Force strategic planning
       system.
       4.7.3. Coordinates between Headquarters Air Force (HAF), MAJCOMs, ANG, and
       AFRC to develop space initiatives that utilize the Total Force concept, where appropriate.
    4.8. Director, Air Force Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned
    (AF/A9). AF/A9 is responsible for guidance and advice on the integration of space analyses
    of programs, plans, and operations; synchronizing Air Force capabilities and requirements
    and analyses with DoD guidance and efforts; and optimizing personnel and infrastructure.
    AF/A9, in coordination with AF/A3/5, is the lead Air Force focal point to collect, track and
    disseminate lessons learned on space issues resolution.
    4.9. Air Force Public Affairs (SAF/PA). SAF/PA engages in public affairs and public
    diplomacy activities to provide clear and consistent information to the public about space and
    Air Force space-related activities. Public outreach and international engagement are essential
    to achieving the Air Force’s goals.
    4.10. Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE). AF/SE formulates policy, provides guidance,
    education, training and oversight of Air Force Space Safety education and training programs
    to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of Space Safety risk management and mishap
    prevention. Air Force Safety Center, as the manager for the Space Safety and Mishap
    Prevention Program, aims to maximize operational effectiveness and mission assurance by
    eliminating mishaps through proactive hazard identification and risk management consistent
    with operational requirements.
AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013                                                                        9


  4.11. Air Force Major Commands (MAJCOMs). MAJCOMs identify their operational
  space requirements to HQ AFSPC, AF/A2 and AF/A3/5. MAJCOMs must organize, train,
  and equip forces to operate in an environment with degraded space capabilities ranging from
  slight to complete degradation and from short to extended periods of time. Additional
  MAJCOM responsibilities are as follows:
     4.11.1. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC). AFSPC is the Air Force Lead Command
     for space-related capabilities and systems, to include launch and range capabilities, and is
     the CFLI for Space Superiority.
         4.11.1.1. AFSPC organizes, trains, and equips space forces for presentation to
         combatant commanders.
         4.11.1.2. The AFSPC Commander works closely with the CSAF, the VCSAF,
         SAF/SP, AF/A2, AF/A3/5, and other HAF offices, and as a member of the Air Force
         Space Board to advise the USecAF regarding development of short and long term
         strategies for Air Force space capabilities.
         4.11.1.3. AFSPC develops the CFMP for Space Superiority and concepts (i.e.,
         functional, enabling, and operating) for space capabilities.
         4.11.1.4. The AFSPC Commander serves as the Space Professional Functional
         Authority responsible for providing strategic level guidance to the functional
         communities that contribute to Air Force space capabilities.
         4.11.1.5. AFSPC designs, develops, acquires and sustains space and related systems
         and programs. AFSPC manages acquisition and sustainment of space capabilities,
         including life cycle management planning, sustainment planning and sustainment
         management of all assigned Air Force space systems.
     4.11.2. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC). AFMC, via the Air Force Life Cycle
     Management Center and Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center, develops, acquires,
     modernizes, integrates, and supports space systems in concert with the Space and Missile
     Systems Center. AFMC also, through the Air Force Research Laboratory, conducts
     discovery, development, and integration of warfighting technologies for space forces.
     4.11.3. Air Education and Training Command (AETC). AETC recruits, trains, and
     educates professional airmen to sustain the space capabilities of the Air Force. AETC
     provides international and inter-service space training and education, and provides
     professional military education and professional development programs for officers,
     enlisted and civilian personnel, emphasizing space capabilities and vulnerabilities at all
     levels of developmental education and the integration of those capabilities with
     capabilities of all other domains.
     4.11.4. Air Combat Command (ACC). ACC will continue an enduring partnership
     with AFSPC to integrate space capabilities in Combat Air Forces operations, training,
     and exercises in support of Combatant Command requirements. As part of ACC, the US
     Air Force Warfare Center is responsible for Distributed Mission Operations, Tactical
     Exploitation of National Capabilities (TENCAP), space operational testing and
     evaluation in coordination with Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center, and
     operation of the Air Force’s Space Test and Training Range (STTR).
 10                                                              AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013


          4.11.4.1. ACC develops, integrates and utilizes a realistic modeling and simulation
          environment to execute advanced training, exercises and mission rehearsal activities
          to support space and cyber capabilities.
          4.11.4.2. ACC manages the AF TENCAP program to promote awareness and
          integration of space and other national space capabilities into military and intelligence
          operations.
          4.11.4.3. ACC executes space operational testing and evaluation to deliver validated
          warfighting capabilities by providing an independent assessment of space systems
          performance.
          4.11.4.4. ACC operates and manages the STTR to provide DoD customers with a
          safe and secure environment in support of counterspace tactics and technique
          development and space test, training and exercise activities, including space aggressor
          functions.
      4.11.5. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). AFRC organizes, trains, and equips
      space forces that can operate seamlessly when provided to the lead MAJCOM.
      4.11.6. Air National Guard (ANG). The National Guard Bureau (NGB) organizes,
      trains, and equips ANG space forces that can operate seamlessly when provided to the
      lead MAJCOM.
5. Implementing Publications.
   5.1. HAF develops and maintains specified AFIs to implement this Policy Directive.
   5.2. Unless expressly prohibited, MAJCOMs, Field Operating Agencies, and Direct
   Reporting Units may supplement the AFIs. These supplements will not be less restrictive
   than the AFIs.




                                            ERIC K. FANNING
                                            Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013                                                               11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
PPD-4, National Space Policy, June 2010
National Security Space Strategy, January 2011
DoDD 3100.10, Space Policy, October 2012
DoDI 3100.12, Space Support, September 2000
DoDD 3230.3, DoD Support for Commercial Space Launch Activities, October 1986
DoDD 5101.02E, DoD Executive Agent for Space, January 2013
FY15 USAF Space Superiority Core Functional Master Plan (classified), August 2012
SecAF Memo, “Headquarters Air Force Space Management and Organization”, August 2010
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 7 February 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CFMP—Core Function Master Plan
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DSC—Defense Space Council
 12                                                           AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013


EA—Executive Agent
EA4SS—Executive Agent for Space Staff
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NSS—National Security Space
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SSA—Space Situational Awareness
STTR—Space Test and Training Range
TENCAP—Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities
USecAF—Under Secretary of the Air Force
VCSAF—Vice Chief of Staff, United States Air Force

Terms
Air Force Space Enterprise.— The Air Force space enterprise consists of people, organizations
and activities engaged in planning, design, acquisition, deployment, operations, maintenance,
and sustainment of Air Force space systems and infrastructure for the purpose of organizing,
training, equipping, and providing space forces.
AFPD13-6 13 AUGUST 2013                                                                       13


                                         Attachment 2
                             THE AIR FORCE SPACE BOARD

A2.1. Purpose. The Air Force Space Board is established as the governance mechanism to
create unity of effort across the Air Force space enterprise and coordinates Air Force positions
regarding NSS issues.
A2.2. Function. The Air Force Space Board serves as the overarching forum to coordinate
acquisition, international affairs, plans, requirements, budgets, operations and training efforts
related to the Air Force space enterprise. All programmatic and budgetary decisions will
continue to be addressed through the existing Air Force corporate structure.
A2.3. Leadership. The Air Force Space Board is co-chaired by the USecAF and the VCSAF.
A2.4. Membership. Membership includes:
   A2.4.1. Commander, Air Force Space Command (AFSPC/CC)
   A2.4.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ)
   A2.4.3. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, Space (SAF/SP)
   A2.4.4. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA)
   A2.4.5. Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA)
   A2.4.6. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management & Comptroller
   (SAF/FM)
   A2.4.7. Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC)
   A2.4.8. Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2)
   A2.4.9. Deputy Chief of Staff Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5)
   A2.4.10. Deputy Chief of Staff Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8)
   A2.4.11. Director, Air Force Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned
   (AF/A9)
   A2.4.12. Other offices as required.
A2.5. Secretariat. SAF/SP serves as the Air Force Space Board Secretariat supporting the
USecAF and VCSAF.
