April 1, 2011

"By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, Air Force Policy Directive 16-14, Information
Protection, dated 28 September 2010, is void and hereby rescinded as of the date of its
issuance and will be published at a later date. AFPD 16-14 superseded valid Air Force
Policy Directives. If you downloaded or printed any copies of the AFPD, please destroy
those copies. Also, if you've posted implementing instructions based on this void and
rescinded AFPD 16-14, rescind those publications as of the date of issuance. All Air
Force Policy Directives superseded by the now invalid AFPD 16-14 (Air Force Policy
Directives 33-2, 16-2, 14-3, 31-4, 31-5, 31-6 and 63-17) are hereby reinstated."
                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 31-5
AIR FORCE                                                                                 1 AUGUST 1995
                                                                        Certified current on 22 April 2014
                                                                                                  Security

                                                        PERSONNEL SECURITY PROGRAM POLICY




NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/SPI (Ms Jean Smith)                                              Certified by: HQ USAF/SP
                                                                           (Brig Gen Stephen C. Mannell)
Supersedes AFPD 31-5, 5 April 1993.                                                               Pages: 3
                                                                                           Distribution: F

The objective of this policy directive is to provide security clearances for Air Force personnel.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision clarifies the objective of this policy directive and responsibilities of commanders and the
497 IG/INS. It clarifies the reporting requirements for metric data and deletes the metric on "Cleared Per-
sons Occupying Positions Requiring Access." A | indicate changes from previous edition.

1. Appropriate personnel security investigations must be promptly requested, completed, and adjudicated
before individuals are given access to classified information or are assigned to sensitive duties.

2. The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force and Headquarters US Air Force, Chief of Security Police
(HQ USAF/SP) are responsible for policy, resource advocacy, and oversight of the Air Force Personnel
Security Program.

3. HQ 497 IG/INS, Directorate of Security and Communications Management (Air Force Central Adju-
dication Facility) will evaluate personnel security investigations, adjudicate them using established policy
guidelines, make security clearance eligibility determinations, and maintain a central database of clear-
ances and investigations. HQ 497 IG/INS evaluates information that may affect a person’s security
clearance eligibility status, decides upon appropriate actions to take, and initiates due process procedures
when the determination is to deny or revoke the person’s eligibility.

4. Commanders are responsible for identifying positions requiring access to classified information, con-
tinuously evaluating those persons with access, and promptly reporting adverse information on cleared
personnel.

5. Security police offices at the major command (MAJCOM) and installation levels will manage program
implementation and provide oversight within the commands.
6. This policy directive implements DoD Directive 5200.2, Department of Defense Personnel Security
Program, May 6, 1992, and DoD 5200.2-R, DoD Personnel Security Program, January 1987.

7. Compliance with these policies is mandatory for all Air Force military and civilian personnel.

8. This policy interfaces with various security publications. Related policy and procedures include
AFPD 31-4, Information Security, and AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management .

9. See Attachment 1 for the ways to measure compliance with this policy.




                                         STEPHEN C. MANNELL, Brig General, USAF
                                         Chief of Security Police




                                                2
                                              Attachment 1

               MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. A true measure of the effectiveness of this program is the timeliness of the investigation and clear-
ance process. Timeliness is critically important to commanders who need to get their personnel to work
as quickly as possible. The policy requirement to promptly request, complete, and adjudicate persons
requiring access to classified information will be measured and assessed by measuring the average com-
pletion times for investigation and clearance. Base-level reports the number of days it takes to process a
personnel security investigation from the time the individual is tasked to complete the personal history
statement until the investigation request has been submitted to the Defense Investigation Service. HQ
USAF/SPI will collect the investigation and adjudication times. Management actions will focus on reduc-
ing the total clearance processing times (Figure A1.1.).

A1.2. Data will be provided semi-annually and transmitted by electrical message. Reporting will be con-
tinued during emergency conditions using emergency status code C-1 priority. Continue reporting during
MINIMIZE. Measurement data will be provided by the MAJCOMs to HQ USAF/SPI via RCS:
HAF-SPI(SA)9225, Personnel Security Measurement Report.

Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Clearance Processing Time.




                                                3
