BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 24-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            9 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                   Transportation

                                               MANAGEMENT, OPERATION AND USE OF
                                                      TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing website at for
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A4LE                                                             Certified by: AF/A4/7
                                                                            (Judith A. Fedder)
                                                                                       Pages: 5
Supersedes:   AFPD 24-3, 7 July 2010


This directive implements DoDI Directive 4500.36, Management, Acquisition and Use of Non-
Tactical Vehicles, AI 109, Use of Motor Transportation and Scheduled DoD Shuttle Service in
the Pentagon Area. This publication applies to all Air Force personnel (military and civilian)
and any government contractor specifically authorized to use Air Force government motor
vehicles (owned, rented or leased) as a condition, clause or amendment of their contract,
regardless of how the vehicles are acquired or financed. Refer recommended changes to this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field to appropriate major command
(MAJCOM) Vehicle Management Functional Manager. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This publication is applicable to the Air National Guard (ANG) as well as the Air Force Reserve
(AFR).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. The Air Force uses motor vehicles (which includes vehicular equipment), watercraft and
railroad assets to move people and equipment. The Air Force must account for, manage,
operate and maintain these assets so they are safe, energy efficient and environmentally sound.
 2                                                                AFPD24-3 9 OCTOBER 2013


This directive establishes policies to ensure the Air Force has Airmen and civilians who are
trained, management systems that are effective and procedures that enable the Air Force to
incorporate technological advances in compliance with the requirements of statutory and
applicable regulatory requirements.
2. The Air Force will:
     2.1. Authorize and acquire the minimum number of motor vehicles, watercraft and railroad
     assets needed to meet its objectives for peacetime and war reserve material requirements to
     support combatant commander war plans and war mobilization planning documents in a
     manner that minimizes investment and maximizes mission readiness.
        2.1.1. Appropriate measures must be established to track the effectiveness of managing
        and maintaining vehicle assets.
        2.1.2. Optimal fleet size and composition (i.e., fuel or energy type and vehicle class) will
        be determined in accordance with Department of Defense (DoD) and General Services
        Agency (GSA) guidance and bulletins.
        2.1.3. The acquisition of vehicles will be from the most cost-effective source in
        compliance with DoD directed cost comparison calculations.
        2.1.4. The AF vehicle program will ensure responsiveness, effectiveness and economy in
        support of the AF mission. The vehicle selected for an individual task will be the one
        best suited by virtue of size classification, configuration and economy of operation,
        consistent with DoD guidance.
     2.2. Pool resources to the maximum extent possible consistent with DoD guidance to ensure
     effective utilization and most economical use of manpower and equipment.
        2.2.1. Vehicles may not be assigned exclusively to one official or employee, except
        when the Secretary of the Air Force determines it essential to mission accomplishment.
        2.2.2. There will be no individually assigned vehicles with drivers, except for those
        assigned to the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) and Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
     2.3. To the maximum extent practicable, achieve maximum fuel efficiency and ensure
     acquisition of alternative fueled vehicles and the use of alternative fuels, consistent with
     applicable law, executive, DoD and AF guidance.
     2.4. Consider leasing vehicles as an alternative to the Air Force Vehicle Buy Program, by
     using interagency motor pools or commercial agencies when such leases are fiscally prudent
     and do not impair mission accomplishment.
     2.5. Rent individual motor vehicles on a short- or long-term basis to meet temporary mission
     requirements when doing so is cost-effective to the Air Force.
     2.6. Acquire and retain railway assets and watercraft only to satisfy requirements that
     commercial services cannot meet.
     2.7. Ensure all government-owned, rented or leased vehicles, including watercraft and
     railroad assets, are marked according to statutory and appropriate regulations.
     2.8. Train and license the minimum number of AF (military and civilian) employees to
     operate, inspect and care for Air Force vehicles and track their qualifications. Training,
AFPD24-3 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                           3


  certification and licensing will be standardized across the Air Force to ensure personnel
  operate Air Force vehicles in a safe and energy efficient manner at all times.
  2.9. Ensure vehicles are only operated by military, civilian employees, or DoD contractors
  who meet all selection, training and licensing requirements per public law and DoD
  guidance.
  2.10. Ensure vehicles are only used for official purposes.
     2.10.1. Transportation will not be provided when the justification is based solely on
     reasons of rank, position, prestige or personal convenience.
     2.10.2. Use of government vehicles for domicile-to-duty transportation is limited as
     prescribed in public law and DoD guidance.
     2.10.3. Government-provided bus transportation may be used to support the affairs of the
     Air Force within the limitations of DoD vehicle use guidance.
  2.11. Account for registered vehicles, including locomotives and watercraft, using
  automated data collection systems in accordance with DoDI 5000.64.
  2.12. Ensure compliance with Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standards,
  environmental policies and associated technical requirements when maintaining and
  operating vehicles.
  2.13. Have a Vehicle Safety Program that includes accident prevention and reporting on all
  vehicle accidents or incidents.
  2.14. Ensure safe and serviceable vehicles:
     2.14.1. Warranties are used to the maximum extent possible.
     2.14.2. Meet deadlines on Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO), Service
     Bulletins, Special Inspections and Recalls.
     2.14.3. Applicable tools and equipment items are calibrated and/or certified in
     accordance with regulations.
  2.15. Have a Product Evaluation Program to evaluate commercial management processes,
  innovations, vehicles, tools and equipment for Air Force vehicle management use.
  2.16. Ensure contractors furnish vehicles needed in performing Government contracts.
     2.16.1. Contractor furnished vehicles procured or leased from GSA will be Alternate
     Fuel Vehicles and utilize alternative fuels (i.e., E-85, Biodiesel, electric and hybrid) to the
     maximum extent practical in accordance with DoD and GSA guidance and bulletins.
     2.16.2. Contractor furnished vehicles procured or leased from GSA will be of the
     optimal size classification and configuration needed to support the AF mission; consistent
     with Federal Government, DoD and Air Force guidance.
     2.16.3. Contractors are responsible for registering, license plates and insuring contractor
     owned/procured vehicles used to perform Government contracts.
     2.16.4. The AF will not register or provide license plates for contractor furnished
     vehicles.
 4                                                               AFPD24-3 9 OCTOBER 2013


        2.16.5. The AF will not license or certify contract employees. Contracts and agreements
        will require that contractors and employees comply with the vehicle licensing
        requirements of state and local motor vehicle laws.
        2.16.6. Vehicles may be provided to DoD contractors in accordance with contract
        stipulations only under a cost reimbursement contract within the conditions of DoD
        guidance.
     2.17. Maintain locomotive equipment and railroad assets by trained personnel to provide
     support for DoD emergency and wartime logistics requirements.
3. The following are responsibilities and authorities:
     3.1. The SECAF holds sole approval authority for requests to establish domicile-to-duty
     requirements. Approval authority is non-delegable.
     3.2. AF/A4/7 will:
        3.2.1. Develop policy for SECAF approval, issue guidance to implement policy and
        provide oversight of Air Force management, operation and use.
        3.2.2. Manage Air Force vehicle requirements and provide guidance on, and measure
        compliance with, management, operations and maintenance policies covered in this
        directive.
        3.2.3. Program and budget funds to acquire vehicles, including watercraft and railroad
        assets.
        3.2.4. Plan and budget funds for DoD shuttle services provided by the Air Force.
        3.2.5. Report alternative fuel vehicle data as directed in DoD guidance.
     3.3. MAJCOMs, Field Operating Agencies and Direct Reporting Units will carry out the
     policies covered in this directive and help bases to comply.
     3.4. The AF vehicle buy program, requirements determination will be formulated through
     direct coordination between Air Force Element, Vehicle Equipment Management Support
     Office and Air Force Materiel Command, through Warner Robins Air Force Life Cycle
     Management Center. The Air Force Life Cycle Management Center is responsible for
     procurement of all AF registered vehicles, to include issuance of TCTOs, Safety of Use
     instructions, and cradle-to-grave technical assistance.




                                             Eric K. Fanning
                                             Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD24-3 9 OCTOBER 2013                                                                     5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 4500.36, Acquisition, Management, and Use of Non-Tactical Vehicles (NTVs), 11 Dec
2012
DoDI 5000.64, Accountability and Management of DoD Equipment and Other Accountable
Property, May 19, 2011
DoD Administrative Instruction 109, Use of Motor Transportation and Scheduled DoD Shuttle
Service in the Pentagon Area, 31 Mar 2011
DoD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 March 2007
DoD 7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulations Vol 4, Oct 2012
AFPD 90-17, Energy Management, 29 Nov 2011
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 Nov 2008
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 Jun 2012
AFMAN 24-306 (I), Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Operator, 1 Jul 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
Adopted Form
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
COCOM—Combatant Commander
DoD—Department of Defense FOA — Field Operating Agency
GSA—General Services Administration
MAJCOM—major command
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
WMP—War Mobilization Planning
WRM—War Reserve Material
