BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 51-13
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        21 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                          Law

                                                        JUDGE ADVOCATE SPECIAL AND
                                                            INCENTIVE PAY PROGRAMS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AF/JAX                                                               Certified by: AF/JA
                                                                  (Lt Gen Richard C. Harding)
                                                                                      Pages: 5
Supersedes:   AFPD 51-13, 1 October 2000


This directive implements Secretary of Defense Directive-Type Memorandum, Education Loan
Repayment Program Guidance for Members in Specified Military Specialties or in an Officer
Program, Title 37 United States Code Section 321, Special pay: judge advocate continuation
pay and Title 10 United States Code Section 2171, General loan repayment program. This
directive establishes Air Force policy for awarding and approving judge advocate special and
incentive pay programs for the Air Force Judge Advocate General’s Corps (AFJAGC), to include
Judge Advocate Continuation Pay (JACP) and the Judge Advocate Student Loan Repayment
Program (JA-SLRP). This publication applies only to active duty judge advocates.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety. Changes
include the addition of student loan repayment and updated roles and responsibilities.
1. Overview and Policy:
 2                                                           AFPD51-13 21 NOVEMBER 2013


     1.1. The Air Force must remain competitive in its efforts to continue to recruit the highest-
     caliber applicants and retain the highest-quality judge advocates to provide essential legal
     support for military operations, advocate and litigate to preserve command prerogatives,
     administer military justice and civil law programs and educate and counsel leaders and
     personnel in the law. Judge advocates deliver professional, candid, independent counsel and
     full-spectrum legal capabilities to command and the warfighter.
     1.2. The Air Force operates in an increasingly legalistic environment, which demands
     nothing less than the very best legal capability it can field. AFJAGC supplies that demand
     with its talented and highly trained group of legal professionals. Attracting and retaining
     these attorneys is essential and requires judge advocate special and incentive pays that
     appropriately recognize both the unique status of the military attorney and the extraordinary
     demands imposed upon, and sacrifices demanded of, all military members.
     1.3. Special and incentive pays for Air Force judge advocates, which include JACP and JA-
     SLRP, should be equitable, fiscally responsible and recognize the unique conditions of
     service. At the same time, they should support force sustainment objectives in both
     peacetime and periods of national emergency. They should maintain some degree of pay
     comparability with the private sector, and they must be predictable, stable and transparent.
     1.4. This directive establishes policies for constructing, administering and adjusting judge
     advocate special and incentive pays and implements Secretary of Defense Directive-Type
     Memorandum, Education Loan Repayment Program Guidance for Members in Specified
     Military Specialties or in an Officer Program, 37 USC § 321 and 10 USC § 2171. AFJAGC
     is a military specialty for purposes of these programs.
2. Roles and Responsibilities:
     2.1. The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA).
        2.1.1. Develops, coordinates and executes judge advocate special pay and student loan
        repayment and essential procedural guidance for managing the same, subject to special
        and incentive pay funding and oversight.
        2.1.2. Implements appropriate instructions and guidance administering judge advocate
        special pay and student loan repayment, to include establishing eligibility requirements
        and approving and disapproving contracts, applications, payments and exceptions.
     2.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
     serves as an agent of the Secretary and provides guidance, direction and oversight for the
     formulation, review and execution of plans, policies, programs and budgets addressing Air
     Force military entitlement programs, to include special and incentive pays.
     2.3. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
     (SAF/FM) provides guidance, direction and oversight for the budget and financial
     management of Air Force military entitlement programs, to include special and incentive
     pays.


     2.4. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) develops,
     coordinates and executes personnel policy and essential procedural guidance for the
AFPD51-13 21 NOVEMBER 2013                                                             3


  management of Air Force military entitlement programs, to include special and incentive
  pays, and applicable prioritized budgeting.




                                        Eric K. Fanning
                                        Acting Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                        AFPD51-13 21 NOVEMBER 2013


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10 United States Code Section 2171
Title 10 United States Code Section 801
Title 37 United States Code Section 303a
Title 37 United States Code Section 321
Secretary of Defense Directive-Type Memorandum, Education Loan Repayment Program
Guidance for Members in Specified Military Specialties or in an Officer Program, 25 September
2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AF/JA—The Judge Advocate General
AFJAGC—The Air Force Judge Advocate General’s Corps
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
JACP—Judge Advocate Continuation Pay
JA—SLRP— Judge Advocate Student Loan Repayment Program
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF/FM—The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/MR—The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
US—United States
AFPD51-13 21 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    5


Terms
Judge Advocate Continuation Pay—An eligible judge advocate who executes a written
agreement to remain on active duty for a period of obligated service specified in the agreement
may, upon the acceptance of that agreement, be paid continuation pay in accordance with 37
USC § 321. To be eligible, a judge advocate must be qualified and serving as a judge advocate,
as defined in 10 USC § 801, and must have completed the active duty service obligation incurred
through that officer’s original commissioning program. The total amount paid to an officer under
one or more agreements under this section may not exceed $60,000.00. An officer who has
entered into a written agreement and has received all or part of the amount payable under the
agreement but who does not complete the total period of active duty specified in the agreement,
shall be subject to the repayment provisions of 37 USC § 303a(e).
Judge Advocate Student Loan Repayment Program—The Air Force is authorized to repay
judge advocate student loans in accordance with 10 USC § 2171. Loan repayment shall be made
on the basis of each complete year of active duty service performed by the judge advocate. The
portion or amount of a loan that may be repaid is 33 1/3 percent or $1,500.00, whichever is
greater, for each year of active duty service. The total amount of the repayment to each judge
advocate may not exceed $65,000.00. If a portion of a loan is repaid under section 2171 for any
year, interest on the remainder of such loan shall accrue and be paid in the same manner as is
otherwise required. Nothing in section 2171 shall be construed to authorize refunding any
repayment of a loan.
Special and Incentive Pay—Title 37, Chapter 5, Special and Incentive Pays, outlines special
and incentive pays. These include Hazardous Duty, Hostile Fire Pay, Flight Pay, Aviation Career
Incentive Pay, Parachute Duty Pay, Diving Duty Pay, Special Pay for Health Professionals,
enlistment and reenlistment bonuses, Aviator Continuation Pay, Judge Advocate Continuation
Pay and other officer retention bonuses, Special Duty Assignment Pay, Foreign Language
Proficiency Pay.
