BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 16-10
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               10 MARCH 2006

                                                                                       Operations Support

                                                                       MODELING AND SIMULATION




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/XCOM                                                                    Certified by: SAF/XCO
       (Lt Col Eugene A. Brown, Jr.)                                         (Maj Gen Gregory H. Power)
Supersedes AFPD 16-10 dated 30 January 1995.                                                   Pages: 17
                                                                                          Distribution: F

Air Force Modeling and Simulation (M&S) is instrumental in preparing, equipping, and transforming the
Air Force in support of the Joint Warfighter. This directive implements Department of Defense (DOD)
Directive (DODD) 5000.59, DOD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Management, January 1994, and
establishes Air Force M&S policy to achieve that support. It assigns key roles and responsibilities;
describes Air Force participation in select M&S forums (Attachment 2); and directs the development of
M&S architectures, requirements, and investment strategies. It applies to all Air Force activities using
M&S to support operations, training, acquisition, test and evaluation (T&E), wargaming, experimenta-
tion, and analysis. This policy applies to the Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve. It establishes
processes, procedures, and funding advocacy for programs that will significantly enhance Air Force oper-
ational capabilities, readiness and training. To recommend changes, conflicts, suggestions, or recommen-
dations to departmental publications, use the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, and route it through publishing channels to the OPR for this directive. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting infor-
mation.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes the Air Force M&S authority from the Headquarters United States Air Force,
Assistant Vice Chief of Staff (HQ USAF/CVA) to the Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief Infor-
mation Officer (SAF/XC). The revised title, changed from Modeling and Simulation Management, eflects
the broadened scope of this policy. This revision incorporates changes in organizational roles and respon-
sibilities (paragraph 2.), new text that documents key organizational constructs (Attachment 3) and
updates processes (paragraph A3.1.).
2                                                                        AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006


1. General Policy. Air Force organizations that develop or use M&S will, to the maximum extent practi-
cable, leverage common investments, streamline model development, and eliminate duplication, both
within the Air Force and by other Services and DOD agencies, to produce useful yet affordable models
and simulations. They will foster re-use by promoting rapidly composable simulations and exportable
models that adhere to established standards and protocols. This will be accomplished with the aim of pro-
ducing Air Force models and simulations that are accurate, consistent, interoperable, flexible, scalable,
persistent, multi-level secure, distributable, and responsive to warfighter needs.
    1.1. The overarching Air Force approach for orchestrating M&S planning, development, and rapid
    delivery of capabilities, as described in the seven United States Air Force (USAF) concepts of opera-
    tions (CONOPS) (Figure A2.1.) to the warfighter is through four interdependent areas of emphasis, or
    Thrusts: Warfighter Readiness (WR), Accelerated Acquisition (AA), New and Emerging Warfighter
    Capabilities (NEWC), and M&S Foundations ([M&SF], see Attachment 3), each supported by one or
    more Integrated Process Teams (IPT).
    1.2. Developmental agents (DA), including contractors, provide security accreditation documentation
    to assist the M&S user in obtaining a Certificate to Operate by the respective Chief Information
    Officer. They provide verification, validation, and assist in accreditation for Air Force-owned, man-
    aged and used M&S in accordance with Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 5000.61, DOD
    Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification, Validation, and Accreditation (VV&A), May 13, 2003.
    1.3. Developmental agents ensure certification for Air Force-owned and sponsored models and simu-
    lations that will be federated or electronically connected to other models or simulations as High Level
    Architecture (HLA) or current standard compliant.

2. Roles and Responsibilities.
    2.1. The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief Informa-
    tion Officer (SAF/XC). SAF/XC provides policy, guidance, and oversight for Air Force M&S. SAF/
    XC represents the Air Force in DOD policy forums and monitors Joint M&S initiatives. SAF/XC
    serves as the Air Force representative to the DOD Executive Council for Modeling and Simulation
    (EXCIMS) (paragraph A2.1.) and chairs the Air Force M&S Caucus (paragraph A2.2.). SAF/XC
    champions the M&S Foundations Thrust (paragraph A3.1.4.) and co-champions the Warfighter
    Readiness Thrust (paragraph A3.1.1.). SAF/XC is the approval authority for the Air Force M&S
    Vision.
       2.1.1. Director, Operations and Support Integration (SAF/XCO). SAF/XCO directs the develop-
       ment and implementation of Air Force M&S policy. SAF/XCO chairs the Air Force M&S General
       Officer Steering Group (GOSG, paragraph A2.3.) and through the Senior Leader (SAF/XCO-SL),
       the Modeling and Simulation Architecture Council ([MSAC], paragraph A2.4.).
           2.1.1.1. Modeling and Simulation Policy Division (SAF/XCOM). SAF/XCOM develops pol-
           icy and guidance that advocates joint, interoperable, and reusable modeling and simulation
           tools and technologies. SAF/XCOM is the Headquarters Air Force representative for advocat-
           ing modeling and simulation programs and initiatives through the Air Force Corporate Struc-
           ture. SAF/XCOM facilitates the creation of a persistent synthetic infrastructure from which the
           USAF can rapidly and effectively compose an environment to meet live, virtual, and construc-
           tive activities supporting training, analytical, and operational objectives. SAF/XCOM repre-
           sents the Air Force on the DOD Modeling and Simulation Working Group (paragraph
AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006                                                                              3


         A2.1.1.); is the Secretariat for the M&S Architecture Council (paragraph A2.4.), GOSG (para-
         graph A2.3.) and Caucus (paragraph A2.2.); chairs the Resource Prioritization Group (para-
         graph A2.4.2.); and co-chairs the Distributed Mission Operations (DMO) IPT (Figure A3.1.,
         associated with the Warfighter Readiness Thrust, paragraph A3.1.1.) and the M&S Capabili-
         ties Requirements Review Board (paragraph A2.4.1.). SAF/XCOM authors the AF M&S
         Vision. SAF/XCOM is the M&S Program Element Monitor (PEM).
         2.1.1.2. Air Force Agency for Modeling and Simulation (AFAMS). AFAMS, a field operating
         agency (FOA) of SAF/XCO and the designated Air Force M&S Center of Excellence, is
         responsible for Air Force M&S policy integration, implementation and compliance to include:
         M&S requirements, architectures, standards, outreach programs, and metrics. See Attach-
         ment 4 for instructions on measuring compliance with this policy. As such, AFAMS will seek
         to: (1) create a M&S community and architectures that integrate, coordinate, advocate and rap-
         idly deliver enhanced operational capabilities; (2) create new and innovative hybrid decision
         environments that are persistent and flexible; and (3) develop new and innovative M&S pro-
         cesses and applications. Accordingly, AFAMS co-chairs the Air Force M&S Capabilities
         Requirements Review Board (paragraph A2.4.1.), and chairs the M&S Foundations Thrust
         IPT (paragraph A3.1.4. and Figure A3.1.), the M&S Foundations Architecture Working
         Group, and the Air Force M&S Standards Steering Group. AFAMS establishes an Air Force
         M&S Professional Training Program and provides oversight and management for the Air and
         Space Constructive Environment (ACE), the Air Force M&S Information Service (AFMSIS),
         and Air Force M&S education.
     2.1.2. Chief, Resource Planning (SAF/XCXR). SAF/XCXR provides resource planning and pro-
     gramming guidance and expertise to the Resource Prioritization Group (paragraph A2.4.2.).
  2.2. Air Force Studies and Analyses Agency (AFSAA). AFSAA provides technical advice, guidance,
  and recommended materiel solutions to address M&S analysis issues.
     2.2.1. Director, AFSAA (AFSAA/SA). AFSAA/SA is a member of the M&S GOSG (paragraph
     A2.3.) and Caucus (paragraph A2.2.), and co-champions the New and Emerging Warfighter Capa-
     bilities (NEWC) Thrust (paragraph A3.1.3.).
     2.2.2. Analyses Foundations Directorate (AFSAA/SAA). AFSAA/SAA co-chairs the NEWC IPT
     (Figure A3.1.), associated with the NEWC Thrust.
  2.3. Deputy Chief of Staff, Air and Space Operations (HQ USAF/XO). HQ USAF/XO provides pol-
  icy guidance in coordination with SAF/XC on the use of M&S applications, standards, and databases
  for training, wargaming, concept development, and capabilities requirements analyses. HQ USAF/XO
  is a member of the M&S Caucus (paragraph A2.2.) and co-champion of the Warfighter Readiness
  Thrust (paragraph A3.1.1.).
     2.3.1. Operational Plans and Joint Matters (HQ USAF/XOX). HQ USAF/XOX is a NEWC
     Thrust co-champion.
     2.3.2. Concepts, Strategy, and Wargaming Division (HQ USAF/XOXS). HQ USAF/XOXS
     co-chairs the NEWC IPT.
     2.3.3. Operations and Training Division (HQ USAF/XOOT). HQ USAF/XOOT co-chairs the
     DMO IPT, associated with the Warfighter Readiness Thrust (paragraph A3.1.1.).
4                                                                      AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006


       2.3.4. Director of Weather (HQ USAF/XOO-W). The Secretary of the Air Force has delegated the
       function of Air and Space Natural Environment Modeling and Simulation Executive Agent
       (ASNE MSEA) for DOD to USAF/XOO-W.
    2.4. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). SAF/AQ advises SAF/XC on
    issues relating to M&S acquisition policy for non-space systems. SAF/AQ champions the Accelerated
    Acquisition Thrust (paragraph A3.1.2.).
    2.5. Under Secretary of the Air Force for Space (SAF/US). SAF/US advises SAF/XC on issues relat-
    ing to M&S acquisition policy for space systems.
    2.6. Major Commands (MAJCOM), FOAs and direct reporting units (DRU). MAJCOMs (including
    Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command), FOAs and DRUs work functional area M&S
    issues as part of their mission and command priorities. They are responsible for developing invest-
    ment strategies, funding implementation, and developing metrics as directed at the organiza-
    tional-level. They will synchronize their unique M&S activities with Joint and headquarters-level
    M&S activities through their participation in the M&S Thrusts (Attachment 3) and through other
    forums.
       2.6.1. Air Force Materiel Command Modeling, Simulation and Analysis Division (HQ AFMC/
       A9A). HQ AFMC/A9A is responsible for building the Air Force Integrated Collaborative Envi-
       ronment (AF-ICE) and chairs AF-ICE IPT (Figure A3.1.), which serves as the IPT for the Accel-
       erated Acquisition Thrust (paragraph A3.1.2.).



                                              Michael W. Wynne
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006                                                                 5


                                         Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 5000.59, DOD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Management, January 4, 1994
DODI 5000.61, DOD Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Verification, Validation and Accreditation
(VV&A), May 13, 2003
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records
AFRIMS RDS at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AA—Accelerated Acquisition
ACE—Air & Space Constructive Environment
AFAMS—Air Force Agency for Modeling and Simulation
AF-ICE—Air Force Integrated Collaborative Environment
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMSIS—Air Force M&S Information Service
AFMSRR—Air Force Modeling and Simulation Resource Repository
AFSAA—Air Force Studies and Analyses Agency
ASNE MSEA—Air and Space Natural Environment Modeling and Simulation Executive Agent
CONOPS—concept of operations
CRRA—capabilities review and risk assessment
CRRB—Capabilities Requirements Review Board
DA—Developmental Agent
DMO—Distributed Mission Operations
DOD—Department of Defense
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EXCIMS—Executive Council for Modeling and Simulation
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GOSG—General Officer Steering Group
HLA—High Level Architecture
6                                                                      AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006


I-CRRA—Integrated Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment
I-Plan—Implementation Plan
IPT—Integrated Process Team
M&S—Modeling and Simulation
M&SF—M&S Foundations
MAJCOM—Major Command
MSAC—Modeling and Simulation Architecture Council
MSCR—Modeling and Simulation Capability Requirement
MSWG—Modeling and Simulation Working Group
NEWC—New and Emerging Warfighter Capabilities
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
RPG—Resource Prioritization Group
T&E—Test and Evaluation
USAF—United States Air Force
VV&A—Verification, Validation and Accreditation
WR—Warfighter Readiness

Terms
Accuracy—The degree to which the “real world” is portrayed
Accreditation—The official certification that a model or simulation is acceptable for use for a specific
purpose.
Affordable—A characteristic of an M&S component that enables us to procure it when needed, use it to
meet performance requirements at the necessary level of accuracy and have it available whenever needed
over the expected lifespan of the component for a cost that falls within the available budget
Air and Space Constructive Environment (ACE)—ACE provides constructive air and space
simulations for Joint and Service activities. It is comprised of the Air Force’s constructive air power
models, an information operations suite of models, an Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
virtual imagery model, and integration components.
Air and Space Natural Environment M&S Executive Agent (ASNE MSEA)—T h e A S N E M S E A
works to enable Joint and Service M&S customers to represent the air and space natural environment
rapidly, thoroughly, and consistently in a manner that promotes cost-effectiveness, ready access,
interoperability, re-use, and confidence. The ASNE MSEA is a member of the M&S Foundations IPT.
Air Force Integrated Collaborative Environment (AF-ICE)—An environment incorporating live,
virtual and constructive simulations to test machine-to-machine integration, perform capability analyses
and trades along with other acquisition activities.
AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                   7


Air Force M&S Information Services (AFMSIS)—AFMSIS is a system that gathers and disseminates
electronic information to accelerate the AF M&S contribution to the DOD mission. AFMSIS is a
transactional environment where M&S suppliers, with products, negotiate with M&S customers, who
have demands; it functions as a single, comprehensive, web-enabled information service capability for the
Air Force M&S community to locate and share quality information, make decisions, conduct staffing
actions, plan for future activities and consult with experts to build collective M&S expertise. AFMSIS
comprises the Air Force Modeling and Simulation Resource Repository, M&S databases and decision
support vetting tools, AFAMS private and public webpages, document library, Reflectors, Event Planning
System, Air Force M&S calendar, and numerous M&S collaboration tools. As a virtual collaborative
environment, AFMSIS is also "nested" within a larger DOD net-centric environment.
Air Force M&S Resource Repository (AFMSRR)—An MSRR is a physical location or site that
contains unclassified, classified, or both unclassified and classified M&S data and/or metadata; the
AFMSRR is maintained by AFAMS.
Air Force M&S Vision—A published document that establishes Air Force goals for the application of
M&S for joint and common use within the Air Force.
Architecture—The structure of components in a program or system, their interrelationships, and the
principles and guidelines governing their design and evolution over time.
Capability—The ability to execute a specified course of action. It is user-defined and expressed in broad
terms.
Common—In the M&S context, applications, services or materials provided by one organization and
used by to two or more organizations.
Composable—The degree and ease with which M&S components can be arranged to conduct a specific
event.
Consistent—In data maintenance: free from variation or contradiction.
Constructive—Models and simulations that involve simulated people operating simulated systems. Real
people stimulate (make inputs) to such simulations, but are not involved in determining the outcomes.
Databases—A collection of interrelated data, often with controlled redundancy, organized to serve one or
more applications. A common approach is used to add new data and to modify and retrieve existing data.
Developmental Agent (DA)—DAs develop and provide life-cycle management for software
components in their respective domains.
Distributable—The ability of M&S components that are primarily geographically separated to operate in
concert.
Domain—The physical or abstract space in which the entities and processes operate. The domain can be
land, sea, air, space, undersea, a combination of any of the above, or an abstract domain, such as an
n-dimensional mathematics space, or economic or psychological domains.
Environment—(1) The texture or detail of the domain, that is terrain relief, weather, day, night, terrain
cultural features (such as cities or farmland), sea states, etc.); (2) the external objects, conditions, and
processes that influence the behavior of a system (such as terrain relief, weather, day/night, terrain
cultural features, etc.).
Executive Agent—In the M&S context, a DOD Component to which the Under Secretary of Defense
8                                                                         AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006


(Acquisition, Technology & Logistics) has assigned responsibility and delegated authority for the
development and maintenance of a specific area of M&S application, including relevant standards and
databases, used by or common to many models and simulations.
Exercise—A military maneuver or simulated wartime operation involving planning, preparation, and
execution. It is carried out for the purpose of training and evaluation.
Experiment—A technology transition mechanism used to develop and assess concept-based hypotheses
to identify and recommend the best value-added solutions for changes to doctrine, organizational
structure, training, materiel, leadership and education, people, and facilities required to achieve
significant advances in future joint operational capabilities.
Exportable—Ease with which objects, data or components can be moved from one domain or event and
used in another.
Fidelity—(1) The similarity, both physical and functional, between the simulation and that which it
simulates. (2) A measure of the realism of a simulation. (3) The degree to which the representation within
a simulation is similar to a real-world object, feature, or condition in a measurable or perceivable manner.
Flexible—Adaptable or variable; able to change M&S components created for a specific event to be
useful in another event.
Functional Area—A range of subject matter grouped under a single heading because of its similarity in
use or genesis.
High Level Architecture (HLA)—Major functional elements, interfaces, and design rules, pertaining as
feasible to all DOD simulation applications, and providing a common framework within which specific
system architectures can be defined.
Hybrid—Incorporating elements of two or more types of simulation: live, virtual or constructive.
Integrated Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (I-CRRA)—T h e A i r F o r c e p r o c e s s f o r
identifying and assessing the levels of capability needed to execute service-level concepts of operations
(CONOPS), determining the status of these capabilities to achieve desired effects, and recommending
courses of action to rectify overages, shortfalls, and gaps in the capability portfolio.
Integration—In a technological context, integration is the union of two or more technologies and allows
interoperability. Regarding prioritization, consider interfaces required for different technologies to work
together (e.g., the Aggregate Level Simulation Protocol allowed interaction between different simulations
that were never meant to be linked).
Interoperability—The ability of a model or simulation to provide services to, and accept services from
other models and simulations, and to use the services so exchanged to enable them to operate effectively
together.
Integrated Product Team (IPT)—Integrated Product Teams are a means to achieve concurrent
engineering. They are multidisciplinary teams consisting of representatives from all disciplines involved
in the system acquisition process, from requirements development through disposal. Having the
participation of all the appropriate disciplines, IPTs are often empowered to make decisions to achieve
successful development of their particular product.
Live—A simulation involving real people operating real systems.
M&S Master Plan—A plan published under the authority of the appropriate DOD Component or
AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                 9


functional area lead that establishes time-phased objectives and responsibilities aligned with the DOD
master plan and targeted at the needs of the DOD Component or functional area.
M&S Investment Plan—An investment plan published under the authority of a DOD Component that
establishes time-phased funding for activities to achieve the objectives specified in a corresponding DOD
Component M&S master plan.
Metrics—A process or algorithm that may involve statistical sampling, mathematical computations, and
rule-based inference. Metrics provide the capability to detect and report defects within a sample.
Mission—Models with one or more interacting elements of air and space power across all or part of the
theater. Usually represents the operational or tactical levels of war.
Model—A physical, mathematical, or otherwise logical representation of a system, entity, phenomenon,
or process. Analytical models consist of a set of solvable equations; for example, solvable equations that
represent the laws of supply and demand in the world market. Structural models are representations of the
physical or logical structure of a system such as a representation of a computer network as a set of boxes
connected by communication lines. A symbolic model’s properties are expressed in symbols. Examples
include graphical models, mathematical models, narrative models, software models, and tabular models.
Multi-level Security—A capability that allows information about different sensitivities (classifications)
to be stored in an information system; allows users having different clearances, authorizations, and need
to know the ability to process information in the same system; prevents users from accessing information
for which they are not cleared, do not have authorization, or do not have a need to know.
Persistent—Enduring availability for re-use of M&S components after the completion of a specific
event.
Representation—Models of the entity or phenomenon to be modeled and its effects. Representations
using algorithms and data that have been developed or approved by a source having accurate technical
knowledge are considered authoritative.
Requirement—An established need justifying the timely allocation of resources to achieve a capability
to accomplish approved military objectives, missions, or tasks.
Responsive to Warfighter Needs—The degree of satisfaction of warfighter requirements in terms of
capability and timeliness.
Re-usability—The degree to which a software module or other work product can be used in more than
one computing program or software system.
Scalability—The ease with which M&S components can be modified to fit the problem area.
Simulation—A method of implementing a model over time. A technique for testing, analysis, or training
in which real-world systems are used, or where a model reproduces real-world and conceptual systems.
Standard—A rule, principle, or measurement established by authority, custom, or general consent as a
representation or example.
Synthetic Environment—A computer-based representation of the real world (including the natural
environment, e.g. atmosphere, space, ocean, and terrain), usually a current or future battlespace, within
which any combination of players may interact. The players may be computer models, simulations,
people or real instrumented equipment.
Test and Evaluation (T&E)—The act of generating empirical data during the research, development or
10                                                                       AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006


sustainment of systems, and the creation of information through analysis that is useful to technical
personnel and decision makers for reducing design and acquisition risks. The process by which systems
are measured against requirements and specifications, and the results analyzed so as to gauge progress
and provide feedback.
Thrust—Area of focus for M&S efforts.
User—The organization that accredits and uses the results or products from a specific application of a
model or simulation.
Validation—The process of determining the degree to which a model is an accurate representation of the
real world from the perspective of the intended uses of the model.
Verification—The process of determining that a model implementation accurately represents the
developer’s conceptual description and specifications.
Virtual—A simulation involving real people operating simulated systems. Virtual simulations inject
human-in-the-loop in a central role by exercising motor control skills (e.g., flying an airplane), decision
skills (e.g., committing fire control resources to action), or communication skills (e.g., as members of a
C4I team).
Wargaming—Simulating, by whatever means, a military operation involving two or more opposing
forces, using rules, data and procedures designed to depict an actual or assumed live situation. Wargaming
is generally not carried out for the purpose of providing training but often explores emerging operational
concepts or alternative force structures in a future scenario.
AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                                     11


                                                      Attachment 2

                              KEY MODELING AND SIMULATION FORUMS

A2.1. Department of Defense (DOD) Executive Council for Modeling and Simulation (EXCIMS).
The EXCIMS advises and assists the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logis-
tics in strengthening the uses of M&S throughout the DOD. The EXCIMS oversees development of DOD
M&S policies, plans, programs, publications, and procedures; identifies high-value M&S investments;
promotes Joint M&S research and development; recommends DOD M&S goals, objectives, and invest-
ment strategies; and fosters programs to develop DOD M&S interoperability standards and protocols. The
Director, Defense Research and Engineering chairs the EXCIMS. SAF/XC represents the Air Force.
    A2.1.1. Department of Defense (DOD) Modeling and Simulation Working Group (MSWG). The
    MSWG supports the activities of the EXCIMS and promotes coordination and cooperation of DOD
    M&S at the working-level. The Director, Defense Modeling and Simulation Office chairs the MSWG.
    SAF/XCOM represents the Air Force.

A2.2. Air Force Modeling and Simulation Caucus. The Air Force M&S Caucus facilitates solutions
for M&S needs within the Air Force; advocates Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
(PPBE) positions to the Air Force Corporate Structure; and strengthens uses of M&S in DOD while advo-
cating full and accurate representation of air and space capabilities in all M&S activities. The M&S Cau-
cus is the approval authority for all M&S requirements, the Thrust Implementation Plans (Figure A3.3.)
and the Air Force Integrated M&S Investment Plan (paragraph A3.4.1.). Additionally, M&S Caucus
advocates the Air Force Integrated M&S Investment Plan to the Air Force Corporate Structure. SAF/XC
chairs the M&S Caucus; full membership is listed in the Charter of the Air Force M&S Caucus.

A2.3. Air Force Modeling and Simulation General Officer Steering Group (M&S GOSG). T h e
M&S GOSG advises and supports the M&S Caucus regarding Air Force M&S needs, technologies, poli-
cies, directives, procedures, and operations. The M&S GOSG reviews the Air Force Integrated M&S
Investment Plan (paragraph A3.4.1.). SAF/XCO chairs the M&S GOSG; full membership is listed in the
Charter of the Air Force M&S GOSG.

A2.4. Modeling and Simulation Architecture Council (MSAC). The MSAC, chaired by SAF/XCO-SL, provides
cross-functional collaboration to establish and maintain robust, re-usable, and integrated M&S architectures for the Air Force.
The MSAC approves the M&S Cross-Mission Architecture (Figure A3.3.).
    A2.4.1. Capabilities Requirements Review Board (CRRB). The CRRB, co-chaired by AFAMS and SAF/XCOM, inte-
    grates, rationalizes, and recommends to the Resource Prioritization Group (RPG) priorities for Air Force M&S require-
    ments across the four Thrusts. The prioritization of M&S requirements facilitate the development of investment strategies,
    efficiently allocate scarce resources, foster re-use of M&S components, and provide meaningful input to the Program
    Objective Memorandum.
    A2.4.2. Resource Prioritization Group (RPG). The RPG is the focal point for consolidating M&S PPBE data and provid-
    ing expert advice on funding-related M&S issues to the Air Force Corporate Structure. The RPG produces the Air Force
    Integrated M&S Investment Plan. SAF/XCOM, as PEM for USAF Modeling and Simulation, chairs the RPG.

A2.5. Thrust Integrated Process Teams. See Attachment 3.
Figure A2.1. Key Modeling and Simulation Forums.




                                                   12
                                                   AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006
AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                  13


                                              Attachment 3

                           MODELING AND SIMULATION THRUSTS

A3.1. Thrusts. The Air Force organizes its M&S activities into four thrusts (Figure A3.1.). M&S
Thrusts marshal similar elements into cohesive, synergistic groupings. They provide a manageable mech-
anism for identifying modeling and simulation requirements while minimizing overlap, duplication, gaps
and seams. The thrusts ensure that a continuous loop of Requirements Determination, Concept Develop-
ment/Transformation, Predictive Planning and Training/Mission Rehearsal (Figure A3.2.), as defined by
the CONOPS and Integrated Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (I-CRRA) process, is performed
with the goal of providing capabilities to the warfighter.

Figure A3.1. Air Force Modeling and Simulation Thrusts.




   A3.1.1. Warfighter Readiness (WR). The WR Thrust pursues those M&S technologies that support
   improved wartime decision-making, skills, and processes. These include exercises, operational train-
   ing, mission rehearsal, operational decision support, and concept development.
   A3.1.2. Accelerated Acquisition (AA). The AA Thrust focuses on reducing time and resources
   required to provide materiel solutions to the warfighter. The AA thrust includes M&S support for
   design and development, testing, certification, and logistics and maintainability across the lifecycle of
   a system, system of systems, and family of systems.
   A3.1.3. New and Emerging Warfighter Capabilities (NEWC). The NEWC Thrust is the focal point
   for Air Force M&S in support of transformation. As such, it provides key support to Air Force capa-
   bilities-based planning, the Capabilities Review and Risk Assessment (CRRA) process, and other
   transformation enablers. The NEWC Thrust supports Air Force transformation through wargaming,
   concept exploration, and experimentation, supported by rigorous analysis.
   A3.1.4. Modeling and Simulation (M&S) Foundations (M&SF). The M&SF Thrust pursues M&S
   tools and technologies needed to improve the usefulness, productivity, scalability, or efficiency of
   models and simulations from across all of the Thrusts. The M&SF Thrust derives requirements that
   will improve the development, effectiveness, or efficiency of multiple M&S activities. Foundational
14                                                                       AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006


     requirements include information technology, architectures, databases, standards, interoperability,
     interconnectivity, and consistent synthetic environments (including the natural environment, e.g.,
     atmosphere, space, ocean, and terrain).

A3.2. Thrust Champions. An individual at the Director-level or above, who typically also sits as a
member of the M&S Caucus, champions each Thrust. Thrust Champions provide policy, guidance, and
oversight for their respective Thrust and advocate relevant modeling and simulation requirements through
the M&S Caucus to the Air Force Corporate Structure.

A3.3. Thrust Integrated Process Teams (IPT). Each Thrust has an associated Thrust IPT (Figure
A3.1.), a multidisciplinary body that develops and implements crosscutting standards, resource strategies,
and modernization programs requiring an overarching integration process. Each Thrust IPT works closely
with its MAJCOM members and the Joint community to integrate and deconflict its M&S activities, and
collaborates with M&S experts within industry and academia to utilize the latest M&S concepts, pro-
cesses, and technologies. Thrust IPTs leverage leadership and guidance from their respective Thrust
Champions to develop M&S architectures, requirement proposals, and investment strategies, and support
M&S Capabilities Requirements (MSCR) that become part of the approved M&S integrated investment
plan with authorized central funding. Charters define the purpose, structure, membership, roles and
responsibilities, and processes to be used in executing each IPT’s mission. Thrust Champions approve the
charter.
     A3.3.1. Thrust Implementation Plans (I-Plan). The Thrust IPTs draft an I-Plan, that parses each of the
     relevant goals articulated in the M&S Vision into objectives, and each objective into executable tasks
     (Figure A3.2.). The Thrust I-Plans, in concert with the M&S Vision, satisfies the requirements for a
     component M&S Master Plan (see DODD 5000.59-P).
AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006                                                                               15


Figure A3.2. Air Force M&S Thrust IPT Activities.




   A3.3.2. Thrust Architectures. As directed by the MSAC, each Thrust IPT documents its relevant
   M&S infrastructure through “as-is” and “to-be” Thrust architectures (Figure A3.2.). Thrust IPTs use
   architectures to provide a framework for conducting M&S shortfall analysis, compare alternatives,
   and identify associated resource implications.
   A3.3.3. Modeling and Simulation Capability Requirements (MSCR). MSCRs are crosscutting M&S
   requirements that require overarching, Air Force-level proponency (Figure A3.2.). Thrust IPTs derive
   MSCRs from I-CRRA-identified M&S shortfalls, their respective I-Plan tasks, architectural analyses,
   and senior leader direction.

A3.4. Integration. The M&S Thrusts integrate their activities (Figure A3.3.) through several mecha-
nisms. Within the thrust structure itself, the M&SF Thrust IPT integrates the Thrust Architectures into a
single M&S Cross-Mission Architecture. The M&S Cross-Mission Architecture serves as the foundation
for integrating M&S investment strategies. Additionally, the M&SF Thrust IPT derives foundational
MSCRs from the requirements generated by the other three thrusts.
16                                                                   AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006


Figure A3.3. Air Force Modeling and Simulation Responsibilities.




     A3.4.1. Advocacy. The Thrust Champions and SAF/XC (chair of the M&S Caucus) advocates
     approved MSCRs to the Air Force Council via the Air Force Integrated M&S Investment Plan. SAF/
     XCOM, as chair of the RPG, advocates the approved MSCRs to the Air Force Information Superiority
     and Innovation Panels.
AFPD16-10 10 MARCH 2006                                                                                 17


                                              Attachment 4

                           MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A4.1. AFAMS measures and tracks compliance with this policy by annually collecting data relevant to
the timeliness and utility of the various responsibilities described in paragraphs A3.3. and A3.4. from the
Thrust IPTs and other tasked organizations (Figure A4.1.).

Figure A4.1. Air Force Modeling and Simulation Measures.




   A4.1.1. The data collected correlate directly to those efforts that, when merged, contribute directly to
   the rapid creation of persistent, interoperable, multi-level secure, distributed simulations with suffi-
   cient fidelity to be responsive to warfighter needs.
   A4.1.2. Documents are considered mature when they contribute seamlessly to the overall process and
   require only maintenance updates to maintain their currency.
   A4.1.3. Documents are considered in progress when they have some degree of utility to the overall
   process, but are not yet mature.
   A4.1.4. Documents are considered incomplete when they have little or no utility to the overall pro-
   cess.

A4.2. The data resides in the Air Force M&S Resource Repository (AFMSRR).
