BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-10
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                           16 JUNE 2006

                                                                            Certified Current 31 July 2014

                                                                                         Command Policy

                                                              TOTAL FORCE INTEGRATION POLICY


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/
RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A8                                                                     Certified by: HQ USAF/A8
                                                                                (Lt Gen Stephen G. Wood)
                                                                                                 Pages: 9

This directive establishes Air Force policy for implementing initiatives integrating the Regular Air Force
(RegAF) and Air Reserve Components (ARC) of the Air Force as part of Total Force integration. It pro-
vides the policy foundation for integration of all Air Force components to provide air, space and cyber
power for the joint warfighter. The desired end state is a more effective and efficient organization that
leverages the unique strengths of each component. This policy directs commanders at all levels to contin-
ually seek ways to integrate in order to benefit from synergizing Air Force component capabilities to
enable the joint warfighter. This publication applies to the RegAF and the Air Reserve Components
(ARC). All references to the ARC throughout this directive include the Air National Guard (ANG) and
the Air Force Reserve (AFR).
Roles and Responsibilities


1. Chief of Staff (CSAF). CSAF, acting on behalf of the Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF), provides
oversight for Total Force integration, and is final approval authority for all integration initiatives.

2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)). S A F / M R i s
responsible for providing guidance, oversight and direction of all matters pertaining to manpower; mili-
tary and civilian personnel; reserve components and readiness support for the Department of the Air
Force. SAF/MR will review any manpower and legislative guidance on integration initiatives, and imple-
mentation plans initiated by AF/A8.

3. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1). AF/A1, as the focal point for Air Force
human capital management policy development, is responsible for developing, coordinating, and execut-
ing manpower and personnel legislation and policies necessary for Total Force integration implementa-
tion plans.
2                                                                             AFPD90-10 16 JUNE 2006


4. Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8). AF/A8 will lead Total Force inte-
gration on behalf of the SECAF and facilitate coordination of initiatives across major commands (MAJ-
COMs), the National Guard Bureau (NGB), the Air Force Reserve (AFR), and other Air Staff deputies.
AF/A8 will develop and coordinate Air Force Total Force integration policy and serve as the single point
of contact for all matters pertaining to the Total Force Integration program, relying on appropriate Secre-
tariat and Air Staff organizations for functional policy solutions and oversight. AF/A8, when appropriate,
will present Total Force integration resource and policy matters to the Air Force Corporate Structure and
ensure ARC representation on all steering groups and other teams deemed necessary to implement this
policy. AF/A8, acting on behalf of the SECAF, will coordinate integration initiatives between the MAJ-
COMs, the NGB, the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), and other Headquarters Air Force (HAF)
organizations, elements of the Secretariat, direct reporting units, and forward operating elements, as
appropriate. AF/A8 will ensure that all integration initiatives comply with DoD and Air Force policy, and
law.

5. Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE). AF/RE will coordinate with the appropriate HAF offices and
MAJCOM(s) to foster new integration initiatives and coordinate integration implementation plans
through MAJCOMs to AF/A8. AF/RE will provide representatives for all Headquarters Air Force
(HAF)-level steering groups and other teams deemed necessary to implement this Total Force integration
policy.

6. MAJCOMs. MAJCOMs will administer Total Force integration policy within their respective chains
of command, to include the development of operational level concepts of operation (CONOPS) and mem-
oranda of agreement (MOAs) or memoranda of understanding (MOUs). For operational level agree-
ments, MAJCOMs may delegate signatory authority, as appropriate. ANG WG/CCs will coordinate
through NGB prior to signing agreements with MAJCOMs. MAJCOMs collaborate with each other,
ANG and AFRC, with AF/RE coordination, as appropriate, to foster new integration initiatives. With the
exception of applicable Air Education and Training Command (AETC) total force integrated units, MAJ-
COMs will coordinate all integration initiatives with the Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) Cen-
ter to ensure the units’ status is correctly portrayed in AEF UTC Reporting Tool (ART) and the Air
Force’s continued ability to support the joint warfighter using the AEF construct. Those “applicable”
AETC ARC Unit Type Codes mentioned above are those with a “home station” mission such as Flying
Training Squadrons, and Air Force Officer Accession Training Schools (AFOATS) Individual Mobiliza-
tion Augmentees (IMAs). AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapons System Management, identi-
fies lead MAJCOM responsibilities for MDS Weapon Systems, both aircraft and non-aircraft entities.
The lead command is responsible for development of the support and management agreements, such as
CONOPS and MOUs, for the system, or systems.

7. National Guard Bureau (NGB). 10 U.S.C. §10501 states that NGB is the channel of communica-
tions on all matters pertaining to the National Guard between the Department of the Air Force and the sev-
eral states. Accordingly, communications between the Air Force and the ANG of the States on all matters
relating to Total Force integration will be coordinated through NGB, to include state agreements with
MAJCOMs. The appropriate HAF offices and MAJCOM(s) will work together to foster new integration
initiatives and coordinate lead MAJCOM integration implementation plans through AF/A8.

8. The Adjutants General (TAGs). TAGs exercise command and control over appropriate ANG units
in their state or territory operating in state active duty status or under Title 32. TAGs report, as required
AFPD90-10 16 JUNE 2006                                                                                  3


by the SECAF, on matters pertaining to Total Force integration in their respective states and territories.
TAGs will coordinate integration initiatives through the NGB to AF/A8.

9. Air Force Units. Air Force units (RegAF, ANG and AFR) will execute the responsibilities levied
upon them by their MAJCOMs and implement integration activities at the operational level, to include
developing CONOPS, MOAs and MOUs.

10. Air Force Personnel. Innovative initiatives may come from all levels of the Air Force. Command-
ers and their subordinates:
   10.1. Continually seek out new ways to constructively integrate Air Force operations, as well as
   refine and augment existing measures.
   10.2. Cooperate with others to explore new opportunities to further the goals of Total Force integra-
   tion and work out the details for integration implementation.
   10.3. Keep their respective chains of command fully informed of Total Force integration initiatives
   throughout their conception and development.

11. Frameworks for Integration. Integration initiatives comply with one of five basic models:
   11.1. Classic Associate. An integration model where a Regular Air Force component unit retains
   principal responsibility for weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more reserve com-
   ponent units. Regular and reserve component units retain separate organizational structures and
   chains of command. Varying degrees of functional integration based on MOUs.
   11.2. Active Associate. An integration model where a reserve component unit has principal responsi-
   bility for weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more regular units. Reserve and reg-
   ular component units retain separate organizational structures and chains of command. Varying
   degrees of functional integration based on MOUs.
       11.2.1. Community Basing. A variation on the Active Associate model where regular compo-
       nent forces are garrisoned at a reserve component unit location. Support functions traditionally
       provided on a regular component installation (housing, medical, commissary, BX, etc) are instead
       available in the local community.
   11.3. Air Reserve Components (ARC) Associate. An integration model where two or more ARC
   units integrate with one retaining principal responsibility for weapon system or systems, which are
   shared by all. Each unit retains separate organizational structures and chains of commands. Varying
   degrees of functional integration are based on MOUs.
   11.4. Integrated Associate. An integration model similar to the classic associate model; however,
   members of all components contribute to one unit mission with administrative control and support
   provided by the respective component via detachments.
   11.5. Fully Integrated. An integration model where members from different components comprise a
   single organization, falling under the same chain of command. Approval of pending legislation will
   make this option available at a later date. AF/A8 will provide an Interim Change to this document
   when approval occurs.
4                                                                             AFPD90-10 16 JUNE 2006


12. Integration Initiative Approval. MAJCOM Plans and Programs offices (or equivalent) act as the
integration initiative clearinghouse for all units under their command. These offices are responsible for
the implementation of integration initiatives through the use of detailed implementation plans that set
forth policies and procedures. Specific policy and procedures are detailed in Air Force Instructions
(AFIs) and supplements thereto. Implementation plans address the following objectives:
    12.1. Describe the overall purpose and benefits to be achieved by the proposed integration.
       12.1.1. Describe the organizational construct to be implemented, to include command relation-
       ships, operational command and control and administrative command and control.
       12.1.2. Obtain MAJCOM legal review during initial concept development of an integration initia-
       tive. This preliminary legal review will address at a minimum the proposed mission, organiza-
       tional structure, utilization of National Guard and Reserve personnel by category, and fiscal
       requirements. The MAJCOM JA shall coordinate with AF/JA regarding any initiative that raises
       significant legal or policy implications. AF/JA is responsible for further coordination with SAF/
       GC as required. Note: this legal sufficiency review and approval is required prior to proceeding
       with the actual CONOPS document development or implementation.
       12.1.3. Develop required implementation documentation such as CONOPS, MOAs or MOUs and
       Programming Plans.
       12.1.4. Explain impacts to personnel such as relocation, realignment, changes in manpower
       requirements, and force mix. As a part of the personnel requirements description, the originator
       will detail the types of manpower categories, by component (i.e. active, AGR, technician, etc.),
       that are envisioned in the manning of this new organization. Operational indicators, at a mini-
       mum, include crew ratio; dwell times; absorption rates; and utilization rates.
       12.1.5. Explain training implications to include any production surges required to integrate, as
       well as changes to production requirements and continuation training requirements post-integra-
       tion.
       12.1.6. Determine near-term budget and manpower requirements, long-term programming
       actions necessary for implementation, and proposed offsets, if investment capital or manpower is
       required.
       12.1.7. Analyze AEF implications to include the units’ proposed capability to continue to support
       their AEF commitment, and any changes required in AEF Unit Type Code (UTC) libraries.
       12.1.8. Describe the Agile Combat Support (including the Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS))
       concepts for the affected weapon systems and capabilities.
       12.1.9. Develop metrics for evaluating whether integration initiatives are creating the desired
       effects. The metrics should address the overall objectives of the proposed integration as stated in
       the implementation plan and also should address the objectives of other implementation documen-
       tation such as MOAs, MOUs and Support Agreements (SAs).

13. When integration initiatives involve ANG units, after obtaining legal review, the CSAF, or an appro-
priately designated representative, and the Governor, or an official with clear authority to act for the Gov-
ernor in committing the state, will sign implementing MOUs in conjunction with the NGB.
AFPD90-10 16 JUNE 2006                                                                               5


14. See Attachment 1 for terms, related statutes, policies and directives implemented by this directive
and the instructions implementing this policy.

15. See Attachment 2 for a diagram of the Headquarters Air Force integration initiative coordination
process.



                                             Michael W. Wynne
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
6                                                                           AFPD90-10 16 JUNE 2006


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
A1-1. This policy directive augments and complements AFPD 10-3, Air Reserve Component Forces, and
its implementing instruction, AFI 10-301, Responsibilities for Air Reserve Component Forces.
A1-2. Functional managers will, in addition to those issuances listed in paragraphs A1-3 and A1-4, con-
sider all relevant guidance documents as they become situationally applicable.
A1-3. Governing statutes policies and directives:
A1-3.1. 10 U.S.C. §101, §167(b), §8013(b) et seq., §8031(a), §10102, §10110, §10111, §10112, §10113,
§10174, §10202, §10216, §10305, §10501, §12301, 12310(b), §12406
A1-3.2. 31 U.S.C. §1301(a), §1535.
A1-3.3. 32 U.S.C. §102, §109(b), §314(d), §317, §325(a)(2), §502, §709.
A1-3.4. DoD Directives:
A2-3.4.1. DoD Directive 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve Components, 25 May 2000.
Implemented by AF/RE in AFPD 36-21 and AFI 36-2132.
A2-3.4.2. DoD Directive 1225.7, Reserve Component Facilities Programs and Unit Stationing, 6 Jun
2001. Implemented by SAF/IE in AFPD 32-10 and AFI 32-1012.
A2-3.4.3. DoD Directive 1225.6, Equipping the Reserve Forces, 7 April 2005. Implemented by AF/IL in
AFPD 10-3 and AFPD 10-4 as well as AFI 10-301 and AFI 10-402.
A1-4. Additional guidance:
A1-4.1. AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapons Systems Management, 13 June 2000.
A1-5. Authorities
A1-5.1. The Secretary of the Air Force. 10 U.S.C. §8013 et seq. enumerates the various authorities of
the Secretary of the Air Force, among other things, to conduct all affairs of the Department of the Air
Force, formulate policies and programs, and prescribe regulations.
A1-5.2. Adjutants General. 32 U.S.C. §314(d) stipulates that “The adjutant general of each
State…shall make such returns and reports as the…Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe….”
A1-5.3. National Guard Bureau. 10 U.S.C. §10501(b) states that, “The National Guard Bureau is the
channel of communications on all matters pertaining to the National Guard…between the…Department
of the Air Force, and the several States.” The Chief of the National Guard Bureau is the principal adviser
to the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force on matters relating to the National Guard, and for Air
Force matters is subject to their authority. AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapons System Man-
agement, identifies lead MAJCOM responsibilities for MDS Weapon Systems, both aircraft and non-air-
craft entities. The lead command (including ANG when designated as lead MAJCOM) is responsible for
development of the support and management agreements, such as CONOPS and MOUs, for the system,
or systems.
AFPD90-10 16 JUNE 2006                                                                                    7


Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFOATS—Air Force Officer Accession Training Schools
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGR—Active Guard Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Components
ART—Air and Space Expeditionary Force Unit Type Code Reporting Tool
CONOPS—concepts of operation
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
ECS—Expeditionary Combat Support
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
MAJCOM—major command
MOA—memoranda of agreement
MOU—memoranda of understanding
NGB—National Guard Bureau
RegAF—Regular Air Force
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
TAG—The Adjutant General
UTC—Unit Type Code

Terms
Agile Combat Support (ACS)—The ability to create, protect and sustain air and space forces across the
full range of military operations. It is the foundational and crosscutting USAF system of support that
enables Air Force operational concepts and the capabilities that distinguish air and space power - speed,
flexibility, and global perspective.
Air Force—As stated in 10 USC, Section 8062(d), “The Air Force consists of — (1) the Regular Air
Force, the Air National Guard of the United States, the Air National Guard while in the service of the
United States, and the Air Force Reserve; (2) all persons appointed or enlisted in, or conscripted into, the
Air Force without component; and (3) all Air Force units and other Air Force organizations, with their
8                                                                             AFPD90-10 16 JUNE 2006


installations and supporting and auxiliary combat, training, administrative, and logistic elements; and all
members of the Air Force, including those not assigned to units; necessary to form the basis for a
complete and immediate mobilization for the national defense in the event of a national emergency.”
Air Force Reserve (AFR)—A component of the Air Force constituted to provide a reserve for active
duty. It includes all Reserves of the Air Force who are not members of the Air National Guard of the
United States.
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)—A separate command of the Air Force to which is assigned all
forces of the Air Force Reserve stationed in the continental United States other than forces assigned to the
United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM).
Air National Guard (ANG)—That part of the organized militia of the several States and Territories,
Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, active and inactive, that is an Air Force; is trained, and has its
officers appointed, under the sixteenth clause of section 8, article I, of the Constitution; is organized,
armed, and equipped wholly or partly at federal expense; and is federally recognized.
Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS)—A component of the Air Force all of whose
members are members of the Air National Guard.
Air Reserve Components (ARC)—Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve (AFR), together,
comprise the ARC.
Expeditionary Combat Support (ECS)—A subset of ACS that responds quickly, is highly mobile,
technologically superior, robust, flexible, and fully integrated with operations. ECS is the deployed ACS
capability to provide persistent and effective support for the applications of Air and Space power on a
global basis.
Integration—The process of harmonizing the organization of two or more Air Force component units
(including Regular Air Force, Guard, and Reserve Components, civilians and contractors) in order to
unify training, equipping, supply, recruiting, servicing, mobilizing, demobilizing, administering,
maintaining, etc.
National Guard—The Army National Guard and the Air National Guard.
Regular Air Force (RegAF)—As stated in 10 USC, Section 8075, “The Regular Air Force is the
component of the Air Force that consists of persons whose continuous service on active duty in both
peace and war is contemplated by law, and of retired members of the Regular Air Force. (b) The Regular
Air Force includes -- (1) the officers and enlisted members of the Regular Air Force; (2) the professors,
registrar, and cadets at the United States Air Force Academy; and (3) the retired officers and enlisted
members of the Regular Air Force.”
Total Force—Air Force effort to maximize combat capability and optimize force structure through a
range of innovative organizational constructs and personnel policies implemented to optimize and
integrate the capabilities of all Air Force components. As a fundamental element of Air Force
transformation, the Total Force will create efficiencies, encourage retention of valuable human capital,
and, above all, increase Air Force combat capabilities.
Unit Type Code—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of five characters that
uniquely identify a "typeunit."
AFPD90-10 16 JUNE 2006                                                                                    9


                                              Attachment 2



Figure A2.1. Integration Initiative Coordination Linkages
NOTE: This depiction is intended to show the inter-relationships between the various contributors in the
overall Total Force integration effort. Nothing in this chart is intended to suggest any abrogation of func-
tional responsibilities by Secretariat, Air Staff, MAJCOM, state military department representatives,
components of the units themselves.
