BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-17
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          29 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                            Special Management

                                                                     ENERGY MANAGEMENT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/IEN                                                                Certified by: SAF/IE
                                                                            (Mr. Terry Yonkers)
Supersedes:    AFPD90-17, 16 July 2009                                                   Pages: 7


This Directive establishes the framework for energy management within the Air Force. It
implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 4170.10, Energy Management Policy;
DoD Directive 5126.46, Defense Energy Information System; DoD Directive 5134.15, Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy Plans and Programs; and Office of the Under
Secretary of Defense (AT&L) Memorandum, Implementing Executive Order 13423. This AFPD
also interfaces with policy and responsibilities found in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 23-2,
Management of US Air Force Bulk Petroleum and Related Products; and DoD Directive
4140.25, DoD Management Policy for Energy Commodities and Related Services, as they relate
to energy management. The policy also implements Air Force goals related to Executive Order
13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance. This AFPD
applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel; it also applies to all Air Force Reserve
units and the Air National Guard. This publication will be applied to contractors or other
persons through the contract or other legally binding agreement with the Department of the Air
Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route Air Force Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain
of command. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.
 2                                                           AFPD90-17 29 NOVEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially rewritten and must be completely reviewed. The rewrite
updates and restructures the energy and water management policy, removes outdated
requirements and requirements more appropriate for Air Force Instructions (AFIs) and clarifies
terms.
1. Overview. This Directive creates the necessary overarching structure, including policies,
roles and responsibilities, to enable the Air Force to manage its energy and water conservation
programs efficiently and effectively. It addresses energy activities throughout the Air Force,
both at home station and expeditionary locations. Activities include, but are not limited to,
organizing, training, equipping, research and development, operational energy, and energy
security.
2. Background. Energy enables all Air Force missions, operations, and organizations, and is
necessary for Air Force power projection. The Air Force has a strategic rationale and operational
imperative for both decreasing energy demand and diversifying sources of supply as a means to
enhance its energy security. Integrating energy management across mission areas and
implementing cross-functional strategies and policies helps improve operational capabilities and
maximize fiscal resources. Energy enables the Air Force to deliver its designed capabilities, and
is essential for successful accomplishment of the mission. Water conservation, but not water
quality, is included as part of the energy management program within the Air Force.
3. Policy. The Air Force promotes policies, procedures, and practices that provide maximum
opportunities to enhance the Air Force energy security posture and energy management.
     3.1. The Air Force will establish and maintain energy governance structures at the
     Department, Major Command (MAJCOM), Direct-Reporting Unit (DRU), and installation
     levels to provide cross-functional constructs to establish direction from the strategic to the
     tactical level, as well as resolve energy issues impacting more than one organization or
     functional area.
        3.1.1. The scope of the energy governance structures will extend to all matters related to
        energy, including, but not limited to, facility energy; aviation and ground vehicle fuel
        consumption; acquisition and energy research, development, test and evaluation;
        operational energy, and energy security.
            3.1.1.1. The energy governance structures will establish subgroups, such as steering
            or working groups, as necessary.
            3.1.1.2. The Department-level energy governance structure, which includes
            representatives from Headquarters Air Force and each MAJCOM, will establish Air
            Force energy priorities, goals, and objectives, and will interface with the Air Force
            Corporate Structure on energy management resources and issues.
            3.1.1.3. Organizations designated by the Department-level energy governance
            structure will develop and execute plans to achieve assigned energy goals and
            objectives. This includes establishing the performance-based goals, measures, and
            metrics necessary to assess energy performance and trends, as well as providing the
            energy governance structures the ability to provide overarching energy program
            direction and oversight.
AFPD90-17 29 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                        3


   3.2. The Air Force will develop and maintain an overall approach to energy management,
   including both an energy strategic plan and an energy implementation plan.
      3.2.1. The energy strategic plan will:
          3.2.1.1. Identify the long-term vision, the strategic priorities, goals and objectives for
          the Air Force energy program in accordance with AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning.
          3.2.1.2. Be evaluated on a biennial basis and updated by the Department-level energy
          governance structure as necessary.
          3.2.1.3. Be reflected through Air Force strategic and planning documents where
          appropriate, including, but not limited, to the Annual Planning and Programming
          Guidance and the Core Function Master Plans.
      3.2.2. The energy implementation plan will:
          3.2.2.1. Detail the actions to be taken to achieve the priorities, goals, and objectives
          identified in the energy strategic plan, as well as the metrics and milestones necessary
          to provide sufficient monitoring and oversight.
          3.2.2.2. Be evaluated and updated on an annual basis in accordance with the Program
          Objective Memorandum (POM) deliberations and timelines.
   3.3. Execution of the Air Force energy program at all levels will comply with federal laws,
   all Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and Air Force energy strategies, policies, and
   instructions implementing federal energy policies, such as legislation, regulation, and
   Executive Orders, as appropriate without impacting mission execution. When specific DoD
   direction or guidance does not exist for any new federal energy policies, the Department-
   level energy governance structure, or its designee, will provide guidance for the Air Force.
   3.4. The Air Force will support DoD energy strategies, policies, and operational energy
   certification requirements, as appropriate, and will budget for energy consistent with DoD
   and Air Force requirements and priorities.
   3.5. The Air Force will appropriately consider energy at all levels of planning, decision
   making, budgeting, acquisition, and all phases of operations to ensure energy is recognized as
   a mission critical need that can help increase combat capabilities, optimize operations, and
   improve efficiencies for both installations and weapon systems.
4. Roles and Responsibilities. This        Directive establishes the following roles            and
responsibilities:
   4.1. The Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/OS) and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force
   (AF/CC) will approve the overall Air Force strategic approach to energy management
   through an Air Force energy strategic plan to provide direction to the Air Force.
   4.2. The Under Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/US) will:
      4.2.1. Serve as the Senior Energy Official of the Air Force.
      4.2.2. Serve as the Senior Operational Energy Official of the Air Force. As required,
      serve on DoD-level operational energy governance forums.
4                                                          AFPD90-17 29 NOVEMBER 2011


       4.2.3. Oversee, monitor, and report on the Air Force’s energy program to ensure
       priorities and goals are addressed.
       4.2.4. Provide Secretariat perspective on Air Force energy issues by utilizing the energy
       governance structure.
       4.2.5. Serve as the principal advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force and Chief of Staff
       of the Air Force on all energy-related issues.
       4.2.6. Provide resolution when conflicts arise over areas of energy responsibilities or
       priorities.
       4.2.7. Co-chair the Department-level energy governance structure with the Vice Chief of
       Staff of the Air Force.
    4.3. The Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force (AF/CV) will:
       4.3.1. Provide operational insight to the development and oversight of the Air Force
       energy program.
       4.3.2. Co-chair the Department-level energy governance structure with SAF/US.
    4.4. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics
    (SAF/IE) will:
       4.4.1. Serve as the OPR supporting SAF/US’s role as the Senior Energy Official and
       oversee energy program development and implementation.
       4.4.2. Serve as the Senior Energy Official and the Senior Operational Energy Official in
       the absence of SAF/US or when designated by the Secretary of the Air Force or SAF/US.
       4.4.3. Develop overarching energy policy for approval by the Secretary of the Air Force.
       4.4.4. Develop the Air Force energy strategic plan for approval by the Department-level
       energy governance structure, the Secretary of the Air Force, and Chief of Staff of the Air
       Force.
       4.4.5. Serve as the principal contact between the Air Force, OSD and other Services on
       issues concerning energy management and other energy-related issues.
       4.4.6. Conduct overall oversight and monitoring of the progress towards meeting energy
       goals and objectives.
       4.4.7. Submit to OSD, as required, the results of Air Force studies and initiatives
       conducted in connection with the DoD Operational Energy Strategy.
    4.5. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will establish and
    manage the policies, procedures, and responsibilities for implementing energy considerations
    in accordance with DoD Instruction 5000.02.
    4.6. The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Operations, Plans and Requirements
    (AF/A3/5) will implement energy as a key performance parameter requirement per Chairman
    of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 3170.01G.
    4.7. The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Logistics, Installations and Mission
    Support (AF/A4/7) will establish and manage the information systems and associated
AFPD90-17 29 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                     5


  policies, procedures, and responsibilities for reporting and tracking facility and ground
  vehicle energy and water consumption data.
  4.8. The Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8)
  will ensure the Air Force strategic energy priorities and goals inform POM deliberations.
  4.9. The General Counsel of the Department of the Air Force (SAF/GC) will provide legal
  advice and support to the HAF offices with responsibilities under this Directive.
  4.10. All HAF Directorates will:
     4.10.1. Ensure Air Force publications written within their area of responsibility are
     consistent with Air Force energy goals and objectives.
     4.10.2. Provide direction and oversight for energy programs where applicable within
     their area of responsibility and in support of the Air Force strategic energy priorities and
     goals.
     4.10.3. Participate in the Department-level energy governance structure, as identified by
     the Department-level co-chairs.
  4.11. MAJCOMs and DRUs will:
     4.11.1. Develop and implement programs, plans, and policies in support of the Air Force
     strategic energy priorities and goals.
     4.11.2. Establish formal energy governance structures, chaired by, at a minimum, the
     Vice Commander at all MAJCOMs and DRUs exercising custody and control over real
     property.
     4.11.3. Ensure energy management is considered at installations through establishment
     of formal energy governance structures.




                                           MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
 6                                                          AFPD90-17 29 NOVEMBER 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008
AFPD 23-2, Management of US Air Force Bulk Petroleum and Related Products, March 27,
2009
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, March 26, 2009
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 3170.01G, Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System, March 1, 2009
DoD Directive 4140.25, DoD Management Policy for Energy Commodities and Related
Services, April 12, 2004
DoD Directive 5126.46, Defense Energy Information System, December 2, 1987
DoD Directive 5134.15, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy Plans and
Programs, May 17, 2011
DoD Instruction 4170.10, Energy Management Policy, August 8, 1991
DoD Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, December 8, 2008
Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
Management, January 24, 2007
Executive Order 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy, and Economic
Performance, October 5, 2009
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Report Unit
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
AFPD90-17 29 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                      7


Terms
Energy—Any usable power, including, but not limited to, electricity and power produced from
coal, petroleum products, steam, natural gas, propane, military operational fuels and propellants,
alternative fuels, and alternative and renewable energy sources, such as solar, wind, geothermal,
and nuclear.
Energy Governance—Energy governance is the combination of procedures, structures, and
authorities implemented by the Air Force to achieve energy priorities and goals.
Energy Governance Structure—The focal points for energy-related matters in an organization,
including the Department, MAJCOMs, DRUs, and installations. The structures will be, at a
minimum, chaired by the Vice Commander, or the civilian equivalent, with representatives from
at least the major tenant organizations, civil engineering, transportation, aircraft operations,
budget, supply, public affairs, contracting, acquisition, and fuels management organizations.
Energy Management—The process of developing, executing, and overseeing plans, programs,
and initiatives to achieve energy goals and objectives across all functional areas.
Energy Security—Assured access to reliable supplies of energy and the ability to protect and
deliver sufficient energy to meet operational needs.
Operational Energy—Energy required for training, moving, and sustaining military forces and
weapons platforms for military operations. The term includes energy used by tactical power
systems, generators, and weapons platforms.
