BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 60-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        29 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                               Standardization

                                                          AIR FORCE STANDARDIZATION
                                                                           PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/AQRE                                                            Certified by: SAF/AQ
                                                                         (William A. LaPlante)
                                                                                      Pages: 10
Supersedes:   AFPD60-1, 23 October 2006


This directive implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4120.24, Defense
Standardization Program, DoD Manual (DoDM) 4120.24, Defense Standardization Program
(DSP) Procedures, and parts of both DoDI 2010.06, Materiel Interoperability and
Standardization with Allies and Coalition Partners, and Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff
Instruction (CJCSI) 2700.01, International Military Agreements for Rationalization,
Standardization, and Interoperability (RSI) Between the United States, Its Allies, and Other
Friendly Nations. It establishes Air Force policy to achieve materiel standardization objectives
required by DoDI 4120.24, and DoDM 4120.24, and materiel and operational international
military standardization objectives required by DoDI 2010.06 and CJCSI 2700.01. It applies to
all Air Force organizations including the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC). Assistant Secretary of the Air Force Acquisition (SAF/AQ) is the waiver
authority for the provisions in this directive. Waiver requests shall contain compelling
justification and must be submitted formally through SAF/AQR. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
 2                                                           AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
incorporates revised DoDM 4120.24; contains improvements describing the scope of the DSP
and how the Air Force supports it; makes it clear that DoD policy directs due consideration of
using and developing non-Government standards, unless such is impractical; assigns
responsibility for the Item Reduction Program to AF/A4/7; and contains improved language
citing the benefits and objectives of standardization.
1. Overview: The Secretary of Defense, in compliance with the Cataloging and Standardization
Act and related statutory requirements, established a single integrated DSP under DoDI 4120.24
and DoDM 4120.24 to achieve the most efficient use of resources and efficient participation in
combat, contingency and exercise operations with United States (US) Military Services and
Allies. The DSP also provides the uniform processes for developing and deploying new
standardization documents, including defense, international military, and non-governmental, to
enable application of emerging technology and meet operational user and program management
needs.
     1.1. DSP consists of: 1) standardization document development and maintenance; 2)
     defining standardization requirements; 3) documenting standardization decisions; 4) making
     standardization knowledge available through information technology tools such as the DSP
     web site (http://www.dsp.dla.mil) and the Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization
     Information System (ASSIST) at (https://assist.dla.mil/online/start/index.cfm); and 5)
     includes two integrated life cycle management activities: parts management and item
     reduction.
     1.2. The Secretary of the Air Force, in compliance with DoD policy and procedure,
     designates a Component Standardization Executive and establishes a Departmental
     Standardization Office (DepSO) to manage assigned portions of the DSP and Air Force
     Standardization Program. Air Force works with the Office of the Secretary of Defense
     (OSD), other military departments and agencies, non-government standards development
     organizations, and international military standardization organizations to implement an
     integrated standardization process.
     1.3. The Air Force Standardization Program consists of two separate but related functions: 1)
     the Air Force portion of the DSP under DoDI 4120.24 and DoDM 4120.24 for materiel
     standardization, and 2) the Air Force portion of International Military Standardization (IMS)
     activities under DoDI 2010.06, and CJCSI 2700.01 for materiel and operational
     standardization.
     1.4. Standardization is an enabling strategy to help achieve materiel and operational
     interoperability, reduce system life cycle cost, logistics footprint, and procurement cycle
     time. Standards provide a basis for warfighters to identify and assess military capability
     needs for solutions during capability-based requirements development. Use of appropriate
     standards in acquisition and sustainment programs enables the program manager to establish
     clear expectations with industry and provides the warfighter and combat support units with
     materiel that is compatible, interoperable, and interchangeable.
AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                        3


2. Policy. The Air Force will participate in standardization efforts with DoD Components, other
government agencies, US allies and other friendly nations, and national and international non-
government standards bodies to achieve the following objectives:
   2.1. Improve military operational readiness.
       2.1.1. Achieve interoperability of systems, subsystems, and equipment among the
       Military Departments and with our allies and other friendly nations.
          2.1.1.1. Enhance interoperability, warfighting capabilities, and exportability IAW
          DoDI 2010.06, CJCSI 2700.01, and DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense
          Acquisition System.
              2.1.1.1.1. Develop, ratify, and implement operational international
              standardization agreements (ISA) based on joint doctrine and materiel ISAs based
              on DSP policy. Agreements that meet the definition of an international agreement
              (IA) IAW AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining
              International Agreements are legally binding and are ratified as provided for in
              AFI 51-701. Materiel ISAs are not considered IAs as defined by AFI 51-701.
              2.1.1.1.2. Comply with, to the maximum extent feasible, applicable US ratified,
              AF subscribed-to materiel ISAs in procurements when supported by validated
              warfighter and program exportability requirements.
              2.1.1.1.3. Register reservations to US ratified, AF subscribed-to materiel ISAs
              when applicable ISA requirements or their US implementing documents are not
              incorporated in new procurement contracts.
       2.1.2. Improve logistics support and reduce logistics footprint by reducing the variety of
       supply items.
       2.1.3. Improve the reliability, maintainability, and safety of systems and supply items.
       2.1.4. Modernize existing systems, subsystems, and equipment through enabling
       insertion of new technology and parts.
   2.2. Reduce total ownership costs.
       2.2.1. Reduce the number of nonstandard parts.
       2.2.2. Facilitate competition.
       2.2.3. Promote the use of common processes and open systems.
       2.2.4. Promote standard commercial processes and practices to help harmonize national
       military and civilian standardization needs, facilitate the development and use of
       voluntary consensus standards, and achieve global operational objectives.
       2.2.5. Use non-government standards and DSP specifications and standards mandated by
       public law or regulation for the acquisition and sustainment of weapon systems. Except
       for documents required by law or international treaty, it is DoD policy to first consider
       using an existing non-Government standard (NGS) or support revising or developing a
       NGS to meet DoD needs. Guidance for the use of mandatory and non-mandatory
       standards is provided in DoDM 4120.24 and AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle
       Management.
 4                                                           AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014


        2.2.6. Reduce training costs.
     2.3. Reduce procurement cycle time.
        2.3.1. Use off-the-shelf and previously qualified standard items.
        2.3.2. Use open systems and standard interfaces to permit rapid introduction of new
        technologies.
3. Responsibilities and Authorities.
     3.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) is responsible for the
     AF portion of the DSP as required by DoDI 4120.24 and DoDM 4120.24, and for
     collaborating with AF/A3/5 on execution of the US Air Force IMS Program for materiel
     standardization.
     3.2. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) manages
     the US Air Force International Armaments Cooperation (IAC) Program as required by DoDI
     2010.06 that applies to international requirements harmonization, research, development,
     test, evaluation, acquisition, production and support of weapons and weapons-related
     technology IAW AFPD 16-1, International Affairs.
     3.3. Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer, Office of the
     Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/CIO A6) manages the development, designation, and
     approval of the AF Enterprise Architecture consisting of information technology (IT) and
     National Security System (NSS) standards, profiles and preferred products for use in
     planning and acquiring IT/NSS capabilities IAW AFPD 33-4, Information Technology
     Governance, and AFPD 33-5, Warfighting Integration. SAF/CIO A6 serves as the AF
     representative to the Military Communications Electronic Board (MCEB) IAW DoD
     Directive (DoDD) 5100.35, Military Communications-Electronics Board (MCEB). In this
     capacity, SAF/CIO A6 assists in the development of changes to joint and allied principles,
     technical standards, and procedures for obtaining interoperability, compatibility, and
     standardization of C4 equipment, including communications-electronics ISAs of the North
     Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). With the exception of intelligence-related systems
     and standards, SAF/CIO A6 in coordination with SAF/AQ, shall establish and maintain the
     technical standards, protocols, technical guidelines, reference architecture, and
     implementation constraints for the desired future state of the Air Force - Department of
     Defense Information Network (AF-DoDIN) infrastructure and services, IAW AFPD 33-1,
     Cyberspace Support, and AFPD 33-4.
     3.4. Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5) is
     responsible for the Air Force IMS Program and the management of operational capability
     requirements.
     3.5. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Installations, Logistics, and Mission Support
     (AF/A4/7) ensures materiel standardization and Item Reduction Program, as described in
     SD-23, are addressed in Departmental Logistics guidance and processes.
     3.6. Air Force Program Executive Offices (PEO) and Program Managers (PM) will
     ensure that materiel standardization is addressed in the acquisition process as prescribed in
     and DoDM 4120.24, and AFI 63-101/20-101.
AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                5


  3.7. Designated Major Commands (MAJCOM) and Field Operating Agencies (FOA)
  commanders will provide resources to execute the DSP and the IMS program as assigned or
  tasked by SAF/AQ. MAJCOMs and FOAs will perform the DSP responsibilities of Lead
  Standardization Activity (LSA), Departmental Standardization Activity (DSA), Document
  Management Activity (DMA), and Item Reduction Activity (IRA) as assigned by the DepSO,
  and provide members of delegations to international military standardization bodies and
  travel funding when requested by AF/A3/5. In addition, Subordinate MAJCOM
  organizations and FOAs with assigned responsibilities will designate a Center
  Standardization Executive (CSE) or organization Standardization Management Executive
  (SME) as appropriate. Detailed responsibilities are defined in AFI 60-101, and AFI 60-106.
  (T-0)
     3.7.1. HQ Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and HQ Air Force Space
     Command (AFSPC) (and other MAJCOMs as directed) commanders will establish a
     Command Standardization Office (ComSO) to coordinate and manage command/agency
     standardization activities. (T-1)




                                         DEBORAH LEE JAMES
                                         Secretary of the Air Force
 6                                                         AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AAP-3(J), Production, Maintenance and Management of NATO Standardization Documents, 10
November 2010
CJCSI 2700.01E, International Military Agreements for Rationalization, Standardization, and
Interoperability Between the United States, Its Allies, and Other Friendly Nations,
18 January 2012
DoDI 2010.06, Materiel Interoperability and Standardization with Allies and Coalition
Partners, 29 July 2009
DoDI 4120.24, Defense Standardization Program (DSP), 13 July 2011
DoDM 4120.24, Defense Standardization Program Procedures, 24 September 2014
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDI 5000.02 Interim, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 25 November 2013
DoDD 5100.35, Military Communications-Electronics Board (MCEB), 10 March 1998
DoDD 8000.1, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, 10 February
2009
JP 1-02, The Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, as amended
through 15 March 2012
AFPD 16-1, International Affairs, 2 November 2009
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 August 2012
AFPD 33-4, Information Technology Governance, 17 January 2013
AFPD 33-5, Warfighting Integration, 11 January 2013
AFPD 63-1/20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012
AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining International Agreements, 16
August 2011
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
SD-23, DoD Item Reduction Program, 5 January 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Material Command
AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014                                               7


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
ASIC—Air and Space Interoperability Council
ASSIST—Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System
ComSO—Command Standardization Office
C3—Consultation, Command and Control
CSE—Center Standardization Executive
DepSO—Departmental Standardization Office
DMA—Document Management Activity
DSA—Departmental Standardization Activity
DSP—Defense Standardization Program
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IA—International Agreement
IAC—International Armaments Cooperation
IAW—in accordance with
IMS—International Military Standardization
IRA—Item Reduction Activity
ISA—International Standardization Agreement
ISO—International Standardization Office
IT—Information Technology
JP—Joint Publication
LSA—Lead Standardization Activity
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCEB—Military Communications Electronic Board
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NAVSTAG—Naval Standardization Agreement
NGS—non-government standard
NSS—National Security System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
 8                                                          AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014


PA—Preparing Activity
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
QSTAG—Quadripartite Standardization Agreements
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SE—Standardization Executive
SME—Standardization Management Executive
STANAG—Standardization Agreement (NATO)

Terms
Sources—sources appear parenthetically at end of term
Air and Space Interoperability Council (ASIC)—Formerly named the Air Standardization
Coordinating Committee (ASCC); an international organization formed in 1948 that works for
the air forces of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States of
America. Its principal objective is ‘to enhance current and future coalition warfighting
capabilities through air and space power interoperability’.
Architecture—A framework or structure that portrays relationships among all the elements of
the subject force, system, or activity. (JP 1-02, The Department of Defense Dictionary of
Military and Associated Terms)
Center Standardization Executive (CSE)—see Standardization Management Executive
DoD Components—Collectively, the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military
Departments (including the National Guard and Reserve components), the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities.
Implementation—The fulfillment by a nation's Department of Defense or Ministry of Defense
of its obligations under an ISA. (DoDM 4120.24)
Information Technology (IT)—Any equipment, or interconnected system or subsystem of
equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission or reception of data or
information by the DoD Component. (DoDD 8000.1, Management of DoD Information
Enterprise)
International Agreement—Any agreement concluded with one or more foreign governments
(including their agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions) or with an international
organization, that: Is signed or agreed to by any DoD Component, or by representatives of the
Department of State or any other Department or Agency of the US Government; signifies the
intention of the parties to be bound in international law; is denominated as an IA or as an MOU,
MOA, memorandum of arrangements, exchange of notes, exchange of letters, technical
arrangement, protocol, note verbal, aide memoir, agreed minute, contract, arrangement,
statement of intent, letter of intent, statement of understanding, or any other name connoting a
similar legal consequence; and is not among the following categories of agreements which… are
not considered international agreements: (d) Standardization Agreements, NATO
AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                           9


Standardization Agreements (STANAG), Quadripartite Standardization Agreements (QSTAG),
Air and Space Interoperability Council Air Standards (ASIC Air Standards), and Naval
Standardization Agreements (NAVSTAG) that record the adoption of like or similar military
equipment, ammunition, supplies and stores or operational, logistic, and administrative
procedures. (EXCEPTION: A STANAG which provides for mutual support or cross-servicing of
military equipment, ammunition, supplies and stores or for mutual rendering of defense services,
including training, does constitute an international agreement). (AFI 51-701)
International Military Standardization (IMS)—A program to enable the air forces of the
United States, its allies and other friendly coalition nations to operate together in the most
effective manner; achieved through the closest practical cooperation among these military
forces, the efficient use of resources, and the reduction of operational, logistical, technical, and
procedural obstacles.
International Standardization Agreement (ISA)—The record of an agreement among several
or all of the member nations of a multi-national treaty organization to standardize on materiel
and non-materiel areas.
Materiel—All items (including ships, tanks, self-propelled weapons, and aircraft, etc., and
related spares, repair parts, and support equipment, but excluding real property, installations, and
utilities) necessary to equip, operate, maintain, and support military activities without distinction
as to its application for administrative or combat purposes. (JP 1-02). In a military context,
materiel relates to the specific needs of an army to complete a specific mission. The term is also
used in a general sense ("men and materiel") to describe the needs of a functioning military.
Materiel Standard—These are standards that affect the characteristics of future or current
materiel to include Consultation, Command and Control (C3). They may cover production codes
of practice as well as materiel specifications. Materiel embraces complete systems, C3 systems,
weapon-systems sub-systems, interfaces, assemblies, components, spare parts and consumables
(including ammunition, fuel, supplies, stores and spares). (NATO AAP-3)
National Security System—Any telecommunications or information system (IS) operated by
the U.S. Government, the function, operation, or use of which: 1) involves intelligence activities;
2) involves cryptologic activities related to national security; 3) involves command and control
of military forces; 4) involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapon system;
or 5) is critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions (this does not include
a system that is to be used for routine administrative and business applications, including payroll,
finance, logistics, and personnel management applications). (DoDD 8000.1)
Operational Standard—These are standards that affect future or current military practice,
procedures or formats. They may apply, among other things, to such matters as concepts,
doctrine, tactics, techniques, logistics, training, reports, forms, maps and charts. (NATO AAP-3)
Program Executive Officer (PEO)—The individual dedicated to executive management and
supervision of a portfolio of mission-related ACAT and selected programs. The PEO is
accountable to the Service Acquisition Executive. (AFPD 63-1/20-1)
Program Manager (PM)—The designated individual with responsibility for and authority to
accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s
operational needs. The PM shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance
reporting to the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA). (DoDD 5000.01)
 10                                                         AFPD60-1 29 SEPTEMBER 2014


Ratification—The declaration by which a nation formally accepts, with or without reservation,
the content of a standardization agreement. (JP 1-02)
Reservation—The stated qualification by a nation that describes the part of a standardization
agreement that it will not implement or will implement only with limitations. (JP 1-02)
Standardization Management Executive— An executive-level person charged with the
responsibility of providing high-level advocacy, support, and direction on standardization issues
as they relate to the organization under which the Standardization Management Activity is
assigned. The SME at an AFMC Center and at Space and Missile Systems Center is called a
Center Standardization Executive (CSE).
Standardization—The process of developing and agreeing on (by consensus or decision)
uniform engineering criteria for products, processes, practices, and methods for achieving
compatibility, interoperability, interchangeability, or commonality of materiel. (DoDM 4120.24)
Also, the process by which the DoD achieves the closest practicable cooperation among the
Services and Defense agencies for the most efficient use of research, development, and
production resources, and agrees to adopt on the broadest possible basis the use of: a. common or
compatible operational, administrative, and logistic procedures; b. common or compatible
technical procedures and criteria; c. common, compatible, or interchangeable supplies,
components, weapons, or equipment; and d. common or compatible tactical doctrine with
corresponding organizational compatibility. (CJCSI 2700.01)
Subscription—An agreement by a nation’s Military Services to accept and abide by, with or
without reservation, the details of a standardization agreement. (JP 1-02)
Systems Engineering—An interdisciplinary approach encompassing the entire set of scientific,
technical, and managerial efforts needed to evolve, verify, deploy, and support an integrated and
life-cycle-balanced set of system solutions that satisfy customer needs. (AFI 63-101/20-101)
