BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-43
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                                                                16 MAY 2011
                                                                            Incorporating Change 1, 25 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                                                                     Operations

                                                                                                       STABILITY OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3O-Q                                                                                                  Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                                                          (Lt Gen Herbert J. Carlisle)
                                                                                                                             Pages: 6


This Directive implements DODI 3000.05, Stability Operations, and provides policy for Air
Force (AF) support of stability operations. This publication applies to the Regular Air Force, Air
Force Reserve (AFR) and the Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFPD 10-43 by (1) implementing changes in guidance and
directives relating to the rewrite of DoDD 5100.46, Foreign Disaster Relief, (2) changing the
OPR for AFPD 10-43 Stability Operations from AF/A5XS to AF/A3OQ, and (3) adding
coordination requirements, as defined in DoDD 5100.46, Foreign Disaster Relief. A margin bar
(|) indicates newly revised material.

       1.      Policy. ....................................................................................................................   2
       2.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        3
       3.      Adopted Forms. .....................................................................................................           5

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                6
 2                                                                      AFPD10-43 16 MAY 2011



1. Policy. It is AF policy that:
     1.1. Stability operations, which encompass various military missions, tasks, and activities
     conducted outside the United States in coordination with other instruments of national power
     to maintain or reestablish a safe and secure environment and provide essential governmental
     services, emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and humanitarian relief, are a core U.S.
     military mission. The Department of the Air Force shall organize, train, equip, and provide
     forces prepared to conduct stability operations with a proficiency equivalent to combat
     operations. The Department of the Air Force, as directed, shall be prepared to support the
     Department of Defense (DOD) as they:
        1.1.1. Conduct stability operations activities throughout all phases of conflict and across
        the range of military operations.
        1.1.2. Support stability operations led by other United States (U.S.) Government
        departments or agencies, foreign governments and security forces, international
        governmental organizations (to include regional and/or treaty-based military
        organizations), or when otherwise directed.
        1.1.3. Support stability operations to establish or re-establish civil security and civil
        control, restore essential services, repair and protect critical infrastructure, and deliver
        humanitarian assistance until such time as it is feasible to transition lead responsibility to
        other U.S. Government agencies, foreign governments and security forces or
        international governmental organizations.
     1.2. The AF will, as directed, collaborate with other U.S. Government agencies, foreign
     governments and security forces, international governmental organizations, nongovernmental
     organizations, and/or private sector firms as appropriate to plan, prepare for and provide
     forces to conduct stability operations.
     1.3. The AF will, as directed, continue to support the development, implementation, and
     operations of civil-military teams and related efforts aimed at unity of effort in rebuilding
     basic infrastructure; developing local governance structures; fostering security, economic
     stability, health services capability, and development; and building indigenous capacity for
     such tasks.
     1.4. The AF will, as directed, support and assist other U.S. Government agencies, foreign
     governments and security forces, international governmental organizations and non-
     governmental organizations in planning and executing reconstruction and stabilization
     efforts, to include:
        1.4.1. Disarm, demobilize, and reintegrate former belligerents into civil society.
        1.4.2. Rehabilitate former belligerents and units into legitimate security forces.
        1.4.3. Strengthen governance and the rule of law.
        1.4.4. Foster economic stability, health services capability, and development.
     1.5. The AF will organize, train and equip forces capable of conducting stability operations
     activities. The AF will ensure planning, programming and budgeting processes appropriately
     account for stability operations requirements. Capabilities shall be compatible, through
AFPD10-43 16 MAY 2011                                                                               3


   interoperable and complementary solutions, with those of other U.S. Government agencies
   and foreign governments/security forces to ensure that, when directed, Air Force forces can:
       1.5.1. Provide humanitarian assistance.
       1.5.2. Repair and support critical infrastructure.
       1.5.3. Execute medical stability operations.
       1.5.4. Organize, train, and equip forces capable of supporting USG Foreign Disaster
       Relief efforts.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) is the senior
   AF representative responsible for leading stability operations development efforts. AF/A3/5
   will:
       2.1.1. Coordinate with the Joint Staff to develop and maintain scalable capabilities and
       capacities to provide humanitarian relief and repair critical infrastructure across the range
       of military activities.
       2.1.2. In coordination with AF/A4/7 and AF/A1, maintain a civilian and military
       workforce capable of sustained contributions to civil-military teams conducting stability
       operations activities.
       2.1.3. Develop and maintain concepts for stability operations activities.
       2.1.4. Identify mission-essential tasks and capabilities required in stability operations.
       2.1.5. Ensure training for stability operations activities.
       2.1.6. Conduct assessment to support biennial determination of AF readiness for stability
       operations.
       2.1.7. Conduct analyses to determine operational readiness for stability operations.
       2.1.8. Design and maintain curricula in individual and unit training programs to prepare
       personnel for stability operations, in coordination with the USD(P&R) and the Chairman
       of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
       2.1.9. In coordination with all AF Component Commands, ensure availability of required
       units to perform stability operations activities and provide equipment, training, tactics,
       techniques, and procedures to ensure they are capable of performing these activities.
       2.1.10. Ensure pre-deployment facilities will appropriately support pre-deployment
       training and preparation for civil-military teams.
       2.1.11. Develop guidance and plans to provide contingency access to USAF bases and
       facilities to other U.S. Government agencies, foreign partners and security forces,
       international governmental organizations, nongovernmental organizations, and members
       of the private sector.
       2.1.12. In coordination with the Surgeon General of the Air Force (AF/SG), ensure
       research, development and acquisition programs adequately address medical stability
       operations and re integrated into stability operations activities.
4                                                                    AFPD10-43 16 MAY 2011


       2.1.13. Coordinate and provide the Director, Defense Security Cooperation Agency, cost
       estimates associated with potential participation in foreign disaster relief activities.
    2.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will:
       2.2.1. Identify and track personnel with stability operations-relevant skill sets and
       capabilities, to include foreign language proficiency, area knowledge and information
       operations capabilities.
       2.2.2. Support and assist AF/A3/5 and AF/A4/7 in accomplishing the responsibilities
       identified at paragraph 2.1.2.
    2.3. The Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6)
    will:
       2.3.1. Implement DOD policy and standards for technical information exchange and
       communications between the Department of the Air Force and other U.S. Government
       agencies, foreign governments and security forces, international organizations, non-
       governmental organizations, and/or the private sector.
       2.3.2. In accordance with AFPD 33-3, Information Management and DODI 8220.02,
       Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Capabilities for Support of
       Stabilization and Reconstruction, Disaster Relief, and Humanitarian and Civic
       Assistance Operations, support DOD policies, plans and processes to provide information
       and communications technology strategies, infrastructure, and equipment necessary to
       support the conduct of stability operations.
    2.4. The Director, Public Affairs, Office of the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/PA) will, in
    coordination with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs [OASD /PA]:
       2.4.1. Support the development and implementation of public affairs messages that
       address U.S. military contributions to stability operations.
       2.4.2. Support the development of regionally tailored and focused strategic messages,
       and ensure the AF message is synchronized with the DOD message (includes theater
       combatant commander message) in support of U.S. Government stabilization and
       reconstruction efforts.
    2.5. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7)
    will support and assist AF/A3/5 in accomplishing the responsibilities identified at paragraphs
    2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.1.3, 2.1.4, 2.1.5, 2.1.8, 2.1.10, and 2.1.13 in this Directive.
    2.6. The Director, Studies and Analysis, Assessments and Lessons Learned (AF/A9) will
    support AF/A3/5 as they conduct assessments to support biennial determination of AF
    readiness for stability operations.
    2.7. The Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) will:
       2.7.1. Assist AF/A3/5 in accomplishing the responsibilities identified at paragraphs
       2.1.4, 2.1.8, 2.1.10 and 2.1.11 in this Directive.
       2.7.2. Assist the Air Education and Training Command (AETC) Commander in ensuring
       stability operations are properly integrated into the appropriate doctrine documents and in
AFPD10-43 16 MAY 2011                                                                        5


      the design and maintenance of curricula in Military Service schools to prepare personnel
      for stability operations.
   2.8. The Chief of Air Force Reserve (AF/RE) and the Director, Air National Guard will
   support and assist AF/A3/5 and AF/A4/7 in accomplishing the responsibilities identified at
   paragraphs 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.1.3, and 2.1.5 in this Directive.
   2.9. The Commander, AETC will:
      2.9.1. Ensure stability operations are properly integrated into the appropriate doctrine
      documents.
      2.9.2. Design and maintain curricula in Military Service schools to prepare personnel for
      stability operations, in coordination with the USD(P&R) and the Chairman of the Joint
      Chiefs of Staff.
      2.9.3. Assist AF/A3/5 in the design and maintenance of curricula in individual and unit
      training programs to prepare personnel for stability operations, in coordination with the
      USD(P&R) and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
   2.10. The Surgeon General of the Air Force (AF/SG) will support AF/A3/5 in accomplishing
   the responsibilities identified in paragraph 2.1.12.

3. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication.




                                           ERIC K. FANNING
                                           Acting Secretary of the Air Force
 6                                                                      AFPD10-43 16 MAY 2011


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
DODI 3000.05, Stability Operations, September 16, 2009
DODD 5100.46, Foreign Disaster Relief, 6 July 2012
DODI 6000.16, Military Health Support for Stability Operations, May 17, 2010
DODI 8220.02, Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Capabilities for Support of
Stabilization and Reconstruction, Disaster Relief, and Humanitarian and Civic Assistance
Operations, April 30, 2009

Terms
Foreign Disaster Relief— Prompt aid that can be used to alleviate the suffering of foreign
disaster victims. Normally it includes humanitarian services and transportation; the provision of
food, clothing, medicine, beds, and bedding; temporary shelter and housing; the furnishing of
medical materiel and medical and technical personnel; and making repairs to essential services.
See also foreign disaster. (JP 3-29)
Humanitarian Assistance— Programs conducted to relieve or reduce the results of natural or
manmade disasters or other endemic conditions such as human pain, disease, hunger, or privation
that might present a serious threat to life or that can result in great damage to or loss of property.
Humanitarian assistance provided by US forces is limited in scope and duration. The assistance
provided is designed to supplement or complement the efforts of the host nation civil authorities
or agencies that may have primary responsibility for providing Humanitarian assistance. (JP 3-
57)
Stability Operations— An overarching term encompassing various military missions, tasks, and
activities conducted outside the United States, in coordination with other instruments of national
power, to maintain or reestablish a safe and secure environment, provide essential governmental
services, emergency infrastructure reconstruction, and humanitarian relief (JP 1-02)
