BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 16-6
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           29 DECEMBER 2010
                                                                     Certified Current, 20 March 2012
                                                                              Operations Support

                                                      INTERNATIONAL ARMS CONTROL
                                                AND NONPROLIFERATION AGREEMENTS,
                                                   AND THE DOD FOREIGN CLEARANCE
                                                                         PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3/5                                                               Certified by: AF/A3/5
Supersedes: AFPD16-6, 25 February 2004                                (Maj Gen Johnny A. Weida)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This Directive implements DOD Directive (DODD) 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance
with, Arms Control Agreements, and DODD 4500.54E, DOD Foreign Clearance Program. It
provides policy on arms control and nonproliferation agreements, and foreign clearance. It
applies to the entire Air Force to include the Guard and Reserve. Refer recommended changes
and conflicts between this and other publications to AF/A3/5, 1480 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington D.C. 20330-1480, on the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate office’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes the title of AFPD 16-6 and the term throughout the document from “arms
control agreements” to “international arms control and nonproliferation agreements,” adds
definitions of arms control, nonproliferation, and foreign clearance, adds references regarding the
scope of the Directive, updates responsibilities regarding activities related to international arms
control and nonproliferation agreements, and adds language implementing the DOD Foreign
Clearance Program.
1. The United States Government negotiates and enters into international agreements that
advance US interests. These international agreements can take various forms and cover many
 2                                                           AFPD16-6 29 DECEMBER 2010


areas that promote national security. This Directive applies to those international agreements
that the US Government has entered into, or is considering entering into, that require
identification, verification, inspection, limitation, control, reduction, or elimination of armed
forces and armaments of all kinds including the necessary steps taken to establish an effective
system of international control (“arms control”) or that prevent the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction by dissuading or impeding access to, or distribution of, sensitive technologies,
material, and expertise (“nonproliferation”). This Directive also applies to those international
agreements that the US Government has entered into, or is considering entering into, that address
global access for aircraft, equipment, and personnel (“foreign clearance”). This Directive does
not cover international agreements such as International Armaments Cooperation programs or
joint military arrangements with allied nations. This Directive does not cover status-of-forces
agreements, except in cases where global access issues are included such as payment of aviation-
related fees, aircraft and personnel clearance requirements, and aircraft sovereignty.
Historically, international arms control agreements include the Open Skies Treaty, the
Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty, the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, the
Chemical Weapons Convention, and others, while international nonproliferation agreements
include the Missile Technology Control Regime, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, and the
Proliferation Security Initiative. International sovereignty and foreign clearance agreements
associated with the DOD Foreign Clearance Program include the Convention on International
Civil Aviation (Chicago 1944) as it pertains to State aircraft, the Russia Transit Agreement, and
other access agreements.
2. It is the policy of the Department of Defense, and the Air Force, to support the
negotiation of, and ensure compliance with, international arms control and
nonproliferation agreements, contemplated or entered into by the US Government. It is
also the policy of the DOD, and the Air Force, to support the negotiation of, and ensure
compliance with, international sovereignty and foreign clearance agreements pertaining to the
DOD Foreign Clearance Program. This Directive establishes Air Force policy to ensure
effective Air Force performance related to the negotiation of international arms control and
nonproliferation agreements and for comprehensive implementation and full compliance with all
relevant provisions of the agreements that the US enters into while maintaining US national
defense goals and objectives. This Directive also establishes Air Force policy to ensure effective
performance during the negotiation of international sovereignty and foreign clearance
agreements pertaining to the DOD Foreign Clearance Program, and for comprehensive
implementation and full compliance with all of the relevant provisions of these agreements.
3. All Air Force organizations must know when and how their activities may be affected by
international arms control and nonproliferation agreements. Air Force organizations must
be aware of the prohibitions, limitations, and intrusive inspection and transparency provisions of
these agreements. Air Force organizations will implement relevant agreement provisions and
ensure their programs/activities are in full compliance with the agreements.
4. The Air Force will implement the DOD Foreign Clearance Program and these
international arms control and nonproliferation agreements by integrating their
requirements into the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution system at all
levels. Additionally, the Air Force will continue to review policy, operations, force structure,
and research, development, test and evaluation planning in relation to international arms control
AFPD16-6 29 DECEMBER 2010                                                                         3


and nonproliferation agreements to ensure Air Force interests are protected to the greatest extent
possible.
5. Implementation of, and compliance with, international arms control and
nonproliferation agreements shall be carried out in a manner that avoids the compromise
of national security information. The implementation of the DOD Foreign Clearance Program,
and compliance with the international sovereignty and foreign clearance agreements pertaining
to it shall also be carried out in this manner.
6. The following authorities and responsibilities are established:
   6.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) is the Air
   Force central authority for activities related to international arms control and nonproliferation
   agreements and oversees formulation of guidance for Air Force participation in the
   negotiation, inspection, verification, and compliance support of these agreements. AF/A3/5
   is also the delegated authority for activities related to the DOD Foreign Clearance Program
   and oversees formulation of guidance for Air Force participation in these activities.
   6.2. AF/A3/5 is responsible for managing all Air Force activities related to international
   arms control and nonproliferation agreements. These activities include negotiations support,
   policy formulation, implementation, compliance, education and training, and overall resource
   requirements (budget and manpower). In addition, AF/A3/5 is the office of primary
   accountability for ensuring Air Force responsibilities related to the DOD Foreign Clearance
   Program are met. These include management, coordination, and communication of DOD
   policies, guidance, and procedures regarding the payment of aviation-related fees and the
   sovereign nature of U.S. military aircraft, and the procurement of DOD aircraft diplomatic
   and personnel travel clearances necessary to implement the DOD FCP. Carrying out these
   DOD responsibilities will include communication with other U.S. Government departments
   and agencies, foreign governments, and non-governmental organizations, the formulation of
   policy guidance, advance planning to meet clearance needs, compliance counseling, outreach
   education and training, and overall resource requirements (budget and manpower). In
   addition, AF/A3/5:
       6.2.1. Serves as the Air Force implementation and compliance review manager for each
       international arms control and nonproliferation agreement entered into by the US
       Government. If an activity may raise an issue of compliance with an arms control or
       nonproliferation agreement and AF/A3/5 cannot resolve the matter, AF/A3/5 shall seek
       clearance from the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and
       Logistics, through the appropriate Compliance Review Group, prior to the Air Force
       conducting the activity in question.
       6.2.2. Develops, coordinates, and provides the Joint Staff and the Office of the Secretary
       of Defense with the Air Force position on negotiations and proposals for international
       arms control and nonproliferation agreements.
       6.2.3. As the designee of the Executive Agent for the DOD Foreign Clearance Program,
       will implement aircraft clearance policy in a manner that meets the needs of the
       department of Defense, ensuring that Foreign Clearance Program activities are consistent
       with law and policy. Execution of Foreign Clearance Program functions will include
       conducting or participating in negotiations related to interagency and international
4                                                           AFPD16-6 29 DECEMBER 2010


       agreements as they pertain to the DoD Foreign Clearance Program. Participation will
       include the development, proposal, staffing, and provision of the DoD and Air Force
       positions pertaining to the DOD Foreign Clearance Program.
       6.2.4. Allocates arms-control funded manpower billets at HQ USAF, MAJCOM,
       relevant Numbered Air Forces (NAFs), or Wing level, and coordinates on changes to
       their allocation.
       6.2.5. Conducts reviews of weapons systems throughout the acquisition cycle for
       compliance with the provisions of international arms control and nonproliferation
       agreements.
    6.3. The Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), SAF/AQ, and the
    Deputy Under Secretary (Space Programs), SAF/US(D), shall ensure the appropriate
    acquisition documents, to include test documents, are provided to AF/A3/5 for review and
    assessment of international arms control and nonproliferation implications.
    6.4. The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) is responsible
    for coordinating with Air Force organizations with Special Access Programs on matters of
    international arms control and nonproliferation agreements. SAF/AA will coordinate with
    AF/A3/5 as required.
    6.5. The Office of the General Counsel (SAF/GC) is responsible, within the Department of
    the Air Force, for legal interpretation of international arms control and nonproliferation
    agreements, and international sovereignty and foreign clearance agreements as they pertain to
    the DOD Foreign Clearance Program. SAF/GC shall provide advice and assistance for
    negotiation of, implementation of, and compliance with, international arms control and
    nonproliferation agreements, and international sovereignty and foreign clearance agreements
    affecting global access and the implementation of the DOD Foreign Clearance Program.
    6.6. The Assistant Chief of Staff Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10)
    shall work with AF/A3/5 on matters concerning international arms control and
    nonproliferation agreements that affect Air Force nuclear systems and operations. AF/A10
    shall:
       6.6.1. Assist AF/A3/5 in understanding the impact of proposed provisions of
       international arms control and nonproliferation agreements on Air Force nuclear systems
       and operations and coordinate in developing an Air Force position on proposed
       international agreement language.
       6.6.2. Provide expertise and assistance when AF/A3/5 drafts policy and guidance to
       implement and comply with the provisions of international arms control and
       nonproliferation agreements that the US Government has entered into that affect Air
       Force nuclear systems and operations. Additionally, will develop, in coordination with
       AF/A3/5, plans detailing actions required to achieve arms control limits within specified
       time periods.
AFPD16-6 29 DECEMBER 2010                                                               5


     6.6.3. Provide expertise and assistance with the impact on Air Force nuclear posture
     when AF/A3/5 drafts policy and guidance for the Special Weapons Overflight Guide that
     impacts the peacetime airlift of nuclear weapons, components, and material.




                                        MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                        Secretary of the Air Force
 6                                                       AFPD16-6 29 DECEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 2060.1, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, Jan 09,
2001
DODD 4500.54E, DOD Foreign Clearance Program, Dec 28, 2009
DODD 5530.3, International Agreements, Jun 11, 1987
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, May 31, 2006
AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Operations, Sep 26,
2007
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, Mar 28, 2006
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, Jul 12, 2010
AFI 16-601, Implementation of, and Compliance with, Arms Control Agreements, Jun 7, 2004
AFI 16-603, Education and Training Requirements for Implementation of, and Compliance with,
Arms Control Agreements, May 12, 2007
AFMAN 16-604, Implementation of, and Compliance with, the Treaty on Open Skies, Oct 20,
2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, Mar 1, 2008
AFI 16-605, Implementation of the US-International Atomic Energy Agency Integrated
Safeguards Agreements, Jun 23, 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDW— Air Force District of Washington
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
ANG— Air National Guard
DOD— Department of Defense
DODD— Department of Defense Directive
FCP— Foreign Clearance Program
HQ USAF— Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM— Major Command
NAF— Numbered Air Force
AFPD16-6 29 DECEMBER 2010               7


OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
SAF— Secretary of the Air Force
US— United States
USAF— United States Air Force
