BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-5
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          14 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                      Operations

                                                                                        BASING




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A8P                                                                 Certified by: AF/A8
                                                                    (Lt Gen Michael R. Moeller)
                                                                                        Pages: 6
Supersedes:    AFPD10-5,
               26 November 1993


This directive establishes policies to ensure the Air Force’s installations are optimally used and
tailored to meet long-term Air Force mission requirements. The Air Force (AF), Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC), and the Air National Guard (ANG), as well as other
Services/Agencies requesting basing actions of one year or longer, are subject to the provisions
of this publication. The Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) is the only approval authority and/or
authenticator for this directive, which may not be supplemented at any level. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It supersedes all
previous versions of Air Force Policy Directive 10-5. This revision transfers responsibility for
this publication to AF/A8P and provides new policy for the strategic basing process. See
Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information, for terms used in this
instruction.
1. Overview. There is a continuing AF requirement to conserve its land, facilities,
infrastructure, and airspace to support AF missions and people.
 2                                                               AFPD10-5 14 NOVEMBER 2013


     1.1. The AF will compile data from the largest enterprise of installations practical when
     making basing decisions. This process will be deliberate, repeatable, standardized, and
     transparent while ensuring AF mission requirements are achieved and environmental
     guidance is followed, while considering the overall fiscal ramifications of the proposed
     action.
     1.2. A review of all proposed basing actions will be conducted by the AF Strategic Basing
     Structure (AFSBS) -- comprised of the Basing Request Review Panel (BRRP) and the
     Strategic Basing Executive Steering Group (SB-ESG). After a thorough review, the
     proposed action will be briefed to the SecAF who is the decision authority for all basing
     actions on US-owned installations. For overseas actions, SecAF will present an official AF
     recommendation to the Secretary of Defense (SecDef), who is the final decision authority.
2. Policy
     2.1. The Air Force Strategic Basing Process will be used to achieve basing decisions
     involving AF real property as well as AF units requesting basing approval on non-Air Force
     real property. The AF shall base its forces in order to most efficiently and effectively carry
     out its missions worldwide.
     2.2. All strategic basing actions (e.g., a weapons system change, an organizational change
     request that increases manpower authorizations by 35 or more, a unit movement, a non-AF
     entity requesting to base its unit on an AF-controlled installation for more than a year, or any
     special interest actions) shall be reviewed, administered, and advised by the AFSBS.
     2.3. Air Force overseas basing decisions (including Overseas Force Structure Changes and
     Host Nation Notifications) are governed by CJCSI 2300.02G. All actions shall be
     coordinated with the Joint Staff and the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) before
     obtaining approval at the required levels outside the AF.
     2.4. To ensure compliance with the provisions of 10 USC, Section 18234, all basing actions
     which require OSD to acquire a facility under 10 USC Section 18233 will be coordinated
     with SecDef or his designee.
     2.5. All basing actions which transfer ownership or possession of any aircraft from the
     reserve component to ownership or possession by the regular component must comply with
     Section 345 of the FY2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA.)
     2.6. Basing decisions must have SecAF approval prior to public announcement, which will
     not be published without SAF/PA and SAF/LL coordination.
3. Air Force Strategic Basing Process
     3.1. All applicable basing actions will be submitted to AF/A8PB for initiation of the
     established basing process.
     3.2. The Air Force Strategic Basing process consists of four distinct steps: (1) Criteria are
     established to screen the largest possible enterprise of installations down to a reasonable
     number of candidate installations; (2) once the candidates are selected, a site survey team
     will assess each candidate installation’s ability to host the mission; (3) the site survey results
     are presented to the SecAF for preferred and reasonable alternative selection; and (4) SecAF
     makes the final basing decision.
AFPD10-5 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     3


   3.3. The expedited AF Strategic Basing process may be used for simple, specialized or time-
   sensitive basing actions. An AF strategic basing action may circumstantially be expedited
   through the AF Strategic Basing Process. Expediting the process allows proponents to
   bypass one or more steps in the AF Strategic Basing Process, which may reduce the time
   required to obtain a final basing decision. The final approval authority for expedited basing
   actions is the SecAF.
   3.4. HAF Strategic Basing Division (AF/A8PB) determines the lead MAJCOM to take
   ownership of a basing action. The lead MAJCOM then applies the screening criteria and
   conducts the site surveys. The AF will prepare congressional notification packages on basing
   actions at least annually, or more frequently if required, and will announce publicly all AF
   basing decisions.
4. Roles and Responsibilities
   4.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics
   (SAF/IE) is responsible for providing oversight of basing policy matters.
   4.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) is responsible for
   promulgating specific basing guidance through Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-503, Strategic
   Basing and AFI 10-504, Overseas Force Structure Changes and Host Nation Notification.
   4.3. AF/A8 is the Air Staff focal point for developing policy and advocating resources. As
   the office of primary responsibility for basing decisions, AF/A8 establishes guidance and
   procedures for handling requests for site surveys and unit bed-downs on Air Force property.
   4.4. SAF/IEI and AF/A8P co-chair the SB-ESG.
   4.5. AF/A8PB chairs the BRRP and is the single point of contact for all basing actions.
   AF/A8PB also acts as the approval authority for all required site surveys and serves as the
   executive secretary for the SB-ESG.
   4.6. The basing proponent submits basing actions in compliance with AFIs 10-503 and 10-
   504.
5. Exemptions
   5.1. Base Realignment and Closure and contingency basing actions are exempt from the
   basing process.
   5.2. Basing actions which are temporary (less than one year) are the responsibility of the
   host or lead MAJCOM for appropriate MAJCOM coordination/approval and beddown
   execution.
   5.3. Enhanced Use Leases (EULs) follow Air Force Civil Engineer Center (AFCEC)
   authored instructions and guidance dealing with real property management; EULs are
   coordinated through the Strategic Basing Process.
   5.4. Non-EUL real estate actions are either exempt or may require coordination upon being
   submitted to SAF/IEI for approval.
   5.5. Basing actions governed by the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process defined in AFI
   63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management.
4                                                         AFPD10-5 14 NOVEMBER 2013


    5.6. Basing decisions which are made as part of other Air Force-level decision-making
    processes, such as the Air Force Corporate Structure.
    5.7. Other exemptions are granted by SecAF on a case-by-case basis after being evaluated
    with respect to the benefit of the AF and overall environmental impact.




                                          Eric K. Fanning
                                          Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD10-5 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                    5


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing, 27 Sep 10
AFI 10-504, Overseas Force Structure Changes and Host Nation Notification, 21 October 2011
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
CJCSI 2300.02G, Coordination of Overseas Force Structure Changes and Host Nation
Notification, 04 Sep 12
US Code 10, Section 18234, Location and Use

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFCEC—Air Force Civil Engineering Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSBS—Air Force Strategic Basing Structure
ANG—Air National Guard
BBRP—Basing Request Review Panel
DSOR—Depot Source of Repair
EULS—Enhanced Use Lease
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
SAF/IE—Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics
SB—ESG -Strategic Basing Executive Steering Group
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SecDef—Secretary of Defense

Terms
AF Strategic Basing Structure (AFSBS). A deliberative body consisting of three elements:
(1) the Basing proponent, (2) the Basing Request Review Panel (BRRP), and (3) the
Strategic Basing Executive Steering Group (SB—ESG). The AFSBS presents courses of
action to the SecAF and CSAF, through coordination with the Air Force Corporate Structure for
making criteria-based decisions.
Basing Action. A basing action is any action (i.e., activation, inactivation, adjustment) that
results in the increase and/or movement of: 1) AF or non—AF units, missions, manpower
authorizations, and/or weapon systems to a location determined to be AF real property, or 2) AF
 6                                                            AFPD10-5 14 NOVEMBER 2013


units, missions, manpower authorizations, and/or weapon systems to a location determined to be
non-AF real property. SecAF is the final approval authority for basing actions.
Beddown. The execution of a SecAF—approved basing action establishing a unit, mission,
activity, or manpower on real property for longer than one year. This applies to activities of all
military branches, other DoD, non-DoD federal, state and local governmental, and/or private
agencies requesting the use of Air Force real property.
Enterprise.—Compilation of all AF installations and sites worldwide. The enterprise can be
narrowed based on operational requirements with respect to establishing viable candidates for
impending basing actions.
Expedited Basing Actions. Simple, specialized or time—sensitive actions which allow a
proponent to bypass certain steps in the basing process, in order to accelerate the established
timeline. SecAF is the final approval authority for expedited basing actions.
Installations.—Air Force installations (Air Force Base, Air Base, Air Reserve Base, Air Guard
Base, Air Force Station, Air Station, Air Reserve Station, or Air Guard Station), support sites,
and other activities, and those to which the Air Force, in overseas locations, has complete or
partial access to on a temporary or standby basis.
Support Site. Facility operated by Active, Reserve, or Guard unit that provides general
support to the Air Force mission and does not satisfy the criteria for a major or minor
installation. Examples of support sites are: missile tracking sites, radar bombing scoring
sites, Air Force—owned contractor-operated plants, and radio relay sites.
Other Activities.—Air Force unit or activity that has little or no real property accountability for
the real estate it occupies. Examples include Active, Guard, or Reserve units that are located on
installations belonging to other Services or leased office space that supports recruiting
detachments, Civil Air Patrol, etc.
Site Survey. A field visit to an Air Force—controlled base or parcels of real property for the
purpose of evaluating it/them in light of a proposed relocation to that site(s). The Air Force
major commands or non-Air Force agencies make site survey requests to AF/A8PB.
Standby Facility.—A facility or installation located on foreign territory but designated by the
United States for contingency or wartime use with the consent of the host government, and at
which the United States maintains little or no peacetime presence.
Simple Basing Action.—The basing action that meets criteria for a basing action (weapon
system change, 35 or more manpower authorizations, etc.) and does not require SecAF approval
due to minimal mission and environmental impact on any installation selected to support the
basing requirement.
Specialized Basing Action.—An action that supports unique mission requirements which limit
the enterprise of potential installations to specific locations.
Time—sensitive Basing Action. An action which has SecAF/CSAF support for an accelerated
decision timeline.
