BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 33-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                9 AUGUST 2012

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                                     CYBERSPACE SUPPORT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A3C/A6C                                                        Certified by: SAF/CIO A6
                                                                       (Lt Gen Michael J. Basla)
Supersedes:    AFPD33-1, 27 June 2006                                                   Pages: 8


This Policy Directive establishes Air Force policy for Cyberspace Support under the direction of
the Office of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6). This
publication implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5105.19, Defense Information
Systems Agency (DISA), DoDD 8000.1, Management of the Department of Defense Information
Enterprise, DoDD 8115.01, Information Technology Portfolio Management, DoDD 8220.1,
Single Agency Manager (SAM) for Pentagon Information Technology Services, Department of
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 8100.04, DoD Unified Capabilities (UC), DoDI 8410.01, Internet
Domain Name Use and Approval, and DoDI 8410.02, NetOps for the Global Information Grid
(GIG).    This directive applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel, including
members of the Air Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG). This publication shall
be applied to contractors or other persons through the contract or other legally binding agreement
with the Department of the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially changed in purpose and scope from management of information
resources to providing Cyberspace Support for Cyberspace Operations and business mission
areas. This document must be reviewed in its entirety.
 2                                                                  AFPD33-1 9 AUGUST 2012


1. Overview.
     1.1. Purpose. This directive establishes Air Force policy and assigns responsibilities for Air
     Force Cyberspace Support.
     1.2. Scope. This directive applies to all information, information systems (ISs), and
     information technology (IT) infrastructure within Air Force purview, excluding non-Air
     Force space, Special Access Programs (SAP), and Intelligence Community ISs. Non-Air
     Force space systems are multi-Component space systems (e.g., those supporting more than
     one DoD Component) and are under the purview of United States Strategic Command.
     Nothing in this directive shall alter or supersede the existing authorities and policies of the
     Director of National Intelligence regarding the protection of Sensitive Compartmented
     Information (SCI) or intelligence SAPs. The application of the provisions and procedures of
     this directive to SCI or other intelligence ISs is encouraged where they may complement or
     address areas not otherwise specifically addressed.
2. Policy. It is policy that the Air Force will:
     2.1. Provide Cyberspace Support to combatant commanders.
     2.2. Architect, build, configure, secure, operate, maintain, and sustain the AF portion of
     cyberspace.
     2.3. Develop, integrate, maintain, and sustain required IT capabilities to provide Unified
     Capabilities (UC) in accordance with DoDI 8100.04.
     2.4. Develop, administer, and manage internet domain names and AF-GIG network
     subdomains assigned to the Air Force by DISA in accordance with DoDI 8410.01.
     2.5. Manage Cyberspace Support and resources including systems, equipment, and
     personnel.
     2.6. Develop guidance and technical standards for the procurement, development,
     deployment, administration, and sustainment of IT hardware, software, applications, and
     services.
     2.7. Develop guidance, procedures, and technical standards for the procurement, integration,
     management, and administration of long-haul telecommunications systems, equipment, and
     services.
     2.8. Develop guidance and standards for user responsibilities pertaining to Cyberspace
     Support, the AF-GIG, AF-GIG Infrastructure, AF-GIG Services, and associated IT
     components.
     2.9. Coordinate with DISA on all activities related to Command, Control, Communications,
     and Computers (C4) and information systems for which DISA has development, execution,
     review, integration, testing, or support responsibilities. Further, identify requirements for
     DISA support for networks, telecommunications, and IT systems, services, and capabilities
     to the Director, DISA, in accordance with DoDD 5105.19.
     2.10. Provide required support and coordination to the Secretary of the Army as the Single
     Agency Manager (SAM) for Pentagon IT services in accordance with DoDD 8220.1.
AFPD33-1 9 AUGUST 2012                                                                          3


   2.11. Centrally manage and provision AF-GIG Infrastructure and establish and extend AF-
   GIG Services. When there is a compelling need for a service other than, or in addition to,
   what is provided by the AF-GIG Services, the Air Force will assess existing IT solutions,
   including those used by other DoD Components, for potential Air Force application. The Air
   Force will develop new capabilities only as a last resort if no other solutions satisfy
   requirements. Unless technically or operationally unfeasible, all services developed or
   procured will comply with the following key elements:
       2.11.1. Be based on bounded user requirements with all information assets described
       through detailed business process re-engineering and generating Quality of Service
       (QoS), performance, and access rules consistent with associated architecture products,
       support plans and Service Level Agreements (SLAs).
       2.11.2. Be web-enabled with data made visible, discoverable, and accessible using open,
       standard, lightweight protocols and techniques.
       2.11.3. Be clientless with all web services and applications accessible securely via
       standard web browsers from AF-standard desktops or other edge devices.
       2.11.4. Utilize strong two-way authentication using public key infrastructure (PKI) when
       available.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5) and the
   Chief of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6), through a
   matrixed organization, will:
       3.1.1. Serve as the Air Force lead for cyberspace operations, integrating the activities of
       the Air Force’s operations, ISR, and communications communities to ensure the delivery
       of Air Force cyberspace operational capabilities to warfighters.
       3.1.2. Fulfill additional responsibilities as identified in Air Force policy on Cyberspace
       Operations guidance under AFPD 10-17, Cyberspace Operations, and the Air Force 10-
       17XX series publications.
       3.1.3. Develop policy and provide oversight and guidance for the development,
       deployment, administration, maintenance, and sustainment of the AF-GIG and associated
       AF-GIG Infrastructure.
       3.1.4. Develop policy and provide oversight and guidance for AF-GIG Services and
       resources including systems, equipment, and personnel.
       3.1.5. Develop policy and provide oversight and guidance for NetOps.
       3.1.6. In coordination with Air Force Space Command (AFSPC), participate in the
       planning, design, procurement, development, test, and implementation of capabilities for
       operating and defending the AF-GIG consistent with DoD policy and guidance.
       3.1.7. In coordination with Assistant Secretary for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) and AFSPC,
       establish and maintain the target baseline (consisting of technical standards, protocols,
       technical guidelines, reference architecture, and implementation constraints) for the
       desired future state of the AF-GIG, AF-GIG Infrastructure, and AF-GIG Services
       including software, IT applications, IT services, and associated IT components.
4                                                                 AFPD33-1 9 AUGUST 2012


       3.1.8. Provide required support and coordination to the Secretary of the Army as the
       Single Agency Manager (SAM) for Pentagon IT services in accordance with DoDD
       8220.1.
    3.2. SAF/AQ will:
       3.2.1. Develop, manage, and maintain the implementation baseline consisting of selected
       products and configurations that implement the architecture, standards, protocols, and
       guidelines specified in the target baseline.
       3.2.2. Provide technical support to SAF/CIO A6 and AF/A3/5 to develop policy and
       guidance for the AF-GIG and associated AF-GIG Infrastructure.
       3.2.3. In coordination with SAF/CIO A6, AF/A3/5, and AFSPC, procure and develop the
       AF-GIG components and systems in accordance with the implementation baseline.
       3.2.4. Work with SAF/CIO A6 and AF/A3/5 and the AF Office of Business
       Transformation (SAF/USM) to develop and publish guidance and processes for
       developing AF-GIG Infrastructure and AF-GIG Services.
       3.2.5. Provide integration and test capability for IT components.
    3.3. Headquarters, Air Force Space Command (HQ AFSPC) as Core Function Lead
    Integrator (CFLI) for Cyberspace Superiority and Lead Command for Cyberspace organizes,
    trains, equips and operates cyberspace forces, systems and capabilities. As such, HQ AFSPC
    will:
       3.3.1. Assist SAF/CIO A6 and AF/A3/5 to develop policy and guidance for Cyberspace
       Support, the AF-GIG, AF-GIG Infrastructure, AF-GIG Services and NetOps.
       3.3.2. In coordination with SAF/CIO A6, AF/A3/5, and SAF/AQ, define, develop, and
       deploy the AF-GIG components and systems, associated AF-GIG Infrastructure, and AF-
       GIG Services in accordance with the implementation baseline.
       3.3.3. Establish and maintain the operational baseline for the AF-GIG, AF-GIG
       Infrastructure, AF-GIG Services, and associated IT components.
       3.3.4. Administer, maintain, and sustain the AF-GIG components and systems,
       associated AF-GIG Infrastructure and AF-GIG Services in accordance with the
       operational baseline.
       3.3.5. Execute NetOps functions and responsibilities within the AF-GIG in support of
       Air Force and Combatant Commander requirements in accordance with DoDI 8410.02.
       3.3.6. Support SAF/CIO A6, AF/A3/5, and SAF/AQ in developing target and
       implementation guidance, procedures, and technical standards for the AF-GIG, AF-GIG
       Infrastructure, AF-GIG Services, and associated IT components.
       3.3.7. Develop and implement metrics and measures of effectiveness for Cyberspace
       Support, the AF-GIG, AF-GIG Infrastructure, AF-GIG Services, and NetOps.

                                            MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD33-1 9 AUGUST 2012                                                                   5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5105.19, Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), 25 July 2006
DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, 10 February
2009
DoDD 8115.01, Information Technology Portfolio Management, 10, October 2005
DoDD 8220.1, Single Agency Manager (SAM) for Pentagon Information Technology Services, 1
March 1995
DoDI 8100.04, DoD Unified Capabilities (UC), 9 December 2010
DoDI 8410.01, Internet Domain Name Use and Approval, 14 April 2008
DoDI 8410.02, NetOps for the Global Information Grid (GIG), 19 December 2008
Joint Pub 6-0, Joint Communications System, 10 June 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 10-17, Cyberspace Operations, 31 July 2012
NIST Special Publication 800-59, Guideline for Identifying and Information System as a
National Security System
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF-GIG—Air Force-Global Information Grid
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
C2—Command and Control
CIO—Chief Information Officer
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
GIG—Global Information Grid
 6                                                                  AFPD33-1 9 AUGUST 2012


IA—Information Assurance
IT—Information Technology
NetOps—Network Operations
NSS—National Security System
PKI—Public Key Infrastructure
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAM—Single Agency Manager
UC—Unified Capabilities

Terms
Air Force Global Information Grid (AF-GIG)-—The Air Force-provisioned portion of the
Global Information Grid (GIG) that the Air Force has primary responsibility for the procurement,
operations, and defense. It provides global connectivity and services, in addition to C2 of that
connectivity and those-services that enable Air Force commanders to achieve information and
decision superiority in support of Air Force mission objectives. The AF-GIG consists of fixed,
mobile, and deployable facilities, and equipment, as well as processes, trained personnel and
information.
AF-GIG Infrastructure—The Air Force cyberspace infrastructure consisting of Air Force-
owned/leased and controlled components (hardware, software, networks, systems, equipment,
facilities, and services) operated by DoD, Air Force, contractor or other entity on behalf of the
Air Force, which stores, transmits, receives, or processes information, regardless of classification
or sensitivity.
AF-GIG Services—The AF-GIG Infrastructure, processes, and capabilities which enable the
seamless, secure, and reliable exchange of information across the AF-GIG.
Cyberspace—A global domain within the information environment consisting of the
interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet,
telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
(CJCS CM-0363-08)
Cyberspace Operations—The employment of cyberspace capabilities where the primary
purpose is to achieve military objectives or effects in or through cyberspace. (JP 3-0)
Cyberspace Support—Foundational, continuous or responsive operations in order to ensure
information integrity and availability in, through or from AF controlled infrastructure and its'
interconnected analog and digital portion of the battle space. (AFDD 3-12)
Global Information Grid (GIG)—The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information
capabilities, associated processes and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating, and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel. The Global Information Grid includes owned and leased communications and
computing systems and services, software (including applications), data, security services, other
associated services, and National Security Systems. (JP 6-0)
AFPD33-1 9 AUGUST 2012                                                                                7


Implementation Baseline (IB)—The Implementation Baseline is the baseline of acquisition
selected products and their informed/allowed configurations that implement the architecture,
standards and protocols and guidelines specified in the Target Baseline. The Implementation
Baseline informs the Operational Baseline of the acquisition selected products and how they are
to be configured to support deployment of user applications across the infrastructure topology.
The Implementation Baseline governs the implementation of the Development and
Integration/Test environments.
Information Assurance (IA)—Measures that protect and defend information and information
systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-
repudiation. This includes providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating
protection, detection, and reaction capabilities. (DoDD 8500.01)
Information System (IS)—The entire infrastructure, organization, personnel, and components
for the collection, processing, storage, transmission, display, dissemination, and disposition of
information. (JP 3-13) A set of information resources organized for the collection, storage,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, disposition, display, or transmission of
information. Includes AIS applications, enclaves, outsourced IT-based processes, and platform
IT interconnections.
Information Technology (IT)—Any equipment, or interconnected system or subsystem of
equipment, that is used in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or reception of data or
information by the executive agency. This includes equipment used by a Component directly, or
used by a contractor under a contract with the Component, which (i) requires the use of such
equipment, or (ii) requires the use, to a significant extent, of such equipment in the performance
of a service or the furnishing of a product. The term “IT” also includes computers, ancillary
equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), and
related resources. Notwithstanding the above, the term “IT” does not include any equipment that
is required by a Federal contractor incidental to a Federal contract. The term “IT” includes
National Security Systems (NSS). (DoDD 4630.5). Note: The above term is considered
synonymous with the term “information system” as defined and used in Air Force programs.
National Security System (NSS)—Any information system (including any telecommunications
system) used or operated by an agency or by a contractor of an agency, or other organization on
behalf of an agency, the function, operation, or use of which involves intelligence activities;
involves cryptologic activities related to national security; involves command and control of
military forces; involves equipment that is an integral part of a weapon or weapons system; or is
critical to the direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions; or is protected at all times by
procedures established for information that have been specifically authorized under criteria
established by an Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept classified in the interest of
national defense or foreign policy. (Adapted from NIST SP 800-59)
Network Operations (NetOps)—Activities conducted to operate and defend the Global
Information Grid. (JP 6-0). The DoD-wide operational, organizational, and technical capabilities
for operating and defending the GIG. NetOps includes, but is not limited to, enterprise
management, net assurance, and content management. NetOps provides commanders with GIG
situational awareness to make informed command and control decisions. GIG situational
awareness is gained through the operational and technical integration of enterprise management
 8                                                                AFPD33-1 9 AUGUST 2012


and defense actions and activities across all levels of command (strategic, operational, and
tactical). (DoDI 8410.02)
Operational Baseline (OB)—The Operational Baseline is the set of components of the
Implementation Baseline appropriately configured and deployed across the topology of the AF-
GIG Infrastructure that implements the architecture, standards and protocols and guidelines
specified in the Target Baseline and provide the required warfighter capabilities and
performance. It specifies the exact lay down and configurations of hardware and software within
all facilities in the AF infrastructure topology.
Target Baseline (TB)—The Target Baseline specifies the standards, protocols, guidelines and
implementation constraints for the future state of the AF-GIG Infrastructure. It is used to inform
the development of the implementation baseline. The Target Baseline is thoroughly documented
and continually updated based upon emerging industry standards and the evolving AF enterprise
architecture.
Unified Capabilities (UC)—The integration of voice, video, and/or data services delivered
ubiquitously across a secure and highly available network infrastructure, independent of
technology, to provide increased mission effectiveness to the warfighter and business
communities. (DoDI 8100.04)
