BY ORDER OF THE                                    AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-18
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              23 MARCH 2011

                                                                         Special Management

                                                           SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAMS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/SB                                                             Certified by: SAF/SB
Supersedes: AFPD64-2, 1 May 1996                                       (Mr. Ronald Poussard)
                                                                                      Pages: 6


This Directive implements DoD Directive 4205.01, Small Business Programs, DoD Instruction
5134.04, Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization and DoD Instruction 1432.3,
Small Business Awards Program. This publication applies to all military and civilian Air Force
personnel, and members of the Air Force Reserve. It does not apply to the Air National Guard.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Form 847s from the field through appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially rewritten and must be completely reviewed. The rewrite
updates and restructures the small business policy and clarifies terms. The Policy Directive’s
number has been changed from the contracting series to the special management series. It
deletes the Historically Black College or University/Minority Institution (HBCU/MI) Program
because the Court of Federal Claims declared the authorization for this program, Title 10,
Section 2323, United States Code, (10 U.S.C. 2323), unconstitutional. This revision adds
additional statutory small business programs; i.e., Historically Underutilized Business Zone
(HUBZone) (See 15 U.S.C. 631), Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB),
(See U.S.C. 657(f)), Veteran Owned Small Business (VOSB), (See 15 U.S.C. 631), Small
 2                                                                AFPD90-18 23 MARCH 2011


Business Innovation Research (SBIR) (See 15 U.S.C 638(e)(4)) and Small Business Technology
Transfer (STTR) (See 15 U.S.C. 638 (e)(6)-(8)) programs.
1. Background. The primary mission of the Office of Small Business Programs of the
Department of the Air Force (SAF/SB) is to lead the Air Force by directing, managing,
measuring and overseeing the execution of the Air Force Small Business Program directly in
support of Air Force mission and priorities. Small Business programs (including Small Business
(SB), Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB), Historically Underutilized Business Zones
(HUBZone), Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business (SDVOSB), Veteran Owned
Small Business (VOSB), Women-owned Small Business (WOSB), and the Small Business
Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs
provide commanders/directors agility, innovation and efficiencies in meeting warfighter
capabilities and maintaining a strong industrial base. Air Force commanders/directors must
continually encourage, plan, execute, and measure contract awards to maximize opportunities for
small businesses.
2. Objective. The President and Congress have recognized the contributions of small
businesses to the United States’ industrial base. Both branches of government have directed
federal agencies to allocate a fair share of their contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements for
small business. The Air Force Office of Small Business Programs, in compliance with the OSD
policy and guidance, establishes policy and guidance to plan, execute, and measure the
effectiveness of Air Force awards to cited businesses.
     2.1. The execution of the Air Force’s Small Business Programs is directed at all facets of the
     acquisition process.
     2.2. The Air Force plans and carries out a coordinated system for promoting an outreach
     effort to interest, encourage, and assist small businesses in all aspects of the Air Force’s
     mission.
3. Policy. The Air Force promotes policies, procedures, and practices that provide maximum
opportunities for Small Business Programs to participate in the acquisition process.
     3.1. The Air Force will promote effective outreach efforts to interest, encourage, and assist
     Small Business Programs to provide innovative, efficient and agile capabilities to support the
     Air Force mission.
     3.2. The Air Force will place the maximum practical portion of its purchases, contracts and
     subcontracts with SB, SDB, HUBZone, SDVOSB, VOSB and WOSB.
     3.3. The Air Force will aid, counsel, and assist small businesses in doing business with the
     Air Force.
     3.4. The Air Force will ensure small business programs are aligned with the Air Force
     strategic focus.
     3.5. The Air Force will recognize its military and civilian members for outstanding
     contributions to small business programs.
4. Responsibilities:
     4.1. The Director of the SAF/SB is responsible for:
AFPD90-18 23 MARCH 2011                                                                         3


       4.1.1. Developing and managing the Air Force’s Small Business Programs, including
       developing policies for the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) approval, and issuing
       guidance and procedures necessary to implement and execute Small Business Programs
       in Air Force acquisitions.
       4.1.2. Ensuring that small business programs are aligned with the Air Force strategic
       focus and assessing the impact small business programs on small business development.
   4.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) is responsible for:
       4.2.1. Aligning small business programs with Air Force requirements and within an
       overall Air Force acquisition strategy.
       4.2.2. Managing the SBIR/STTR program, including oversight, developing policy for
       SecAF approval, and issuing implementing guidance and procedures.
       4.2.3. Ensuring maximum practical opportunities for small businesses.
5. Prescribed Forms. There are no prescribed forms with this Directive.

6. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           Michael B. Donley
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                              AFPD90-18 23 MARCH 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008
DoD Directive 4205.01, Department of Defense Small Business Programs, March 10, 2009
DoD Instruction 1432.3, Small Business Awards Program, January 12, 1987
DoD Instruction 5134.04, Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, September
27, 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DOD—Department of Defense
eSRS—Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System
FPDS-NG——Federal Procurement Data System, Next Generation
HUBZone—Historically Underutilized Business Zone
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
SAF/SB—Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of the Air Force
SB—Small Business
SBIR—Small Business Innovation Research Program
SDB—Small Disadvantaged Business
SDVOSB—Service-Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
STTR—Small Business Technology Transfer Program
VOSB—Veteran Owned Small Business
WOSB—Women Owned Small Business

Terms
Acquisition—The acquiring by contract with appropriated funds of supplies or services
(including construction) by and for the use of the Federal Government through purchase or lease,
whether the supplies or services are already in existence or must be created, developed,
demonstrated, and evaluated. See Title 48, Section 201, Code of Federal Regulations, 48 CFR §
201, or Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 201.
AFPD90-18 23 MARCH 2011                                                                         5


Contract—A mutually binding legal relationship obligating the seller to furnish supplies or
services (including construction) and the buyer to pay for them. It includes all types of
commitments that obligate the Government to an expenditure of appropriated funds, and that,
except as otherwise authorized, are in writing which are addressed by Title 31, Section 6301 of
the United States Code, 31 USC § 6301. See Far 201.
Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System—Federal system for electronically filing
subcontracting reports
Federal Procurement Data System-Next Generation—Federal system for electronically
reporting contract action reports.
HUBZone—A historically underutilized business zone that is an area located within one or more
qualified census tracts qualified nonmetropolitan counties, or lands within the external
boundaries of an Indian reservation. See FAR 201.
HUBZone small business—A small business concern that appears on the List of Qualified
HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration. See
FAR 201.
Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business—A small business concern not less than
51% of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly
owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service
disabled veterans and the management and daily business operations are controlled by one or
more service-disabled veterans. See FAR 201.
Small Business—A concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated,
not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts and is
qualified as a small business under the criteria and size standards as specified in Title 13, Part
121, of the Code of Federal Regulations, 13 CFR §§ 121.101 – 121-1205. See Far 201.
Small Business Innovation Research Program—A program under which a portion of the Air
Force’s research and development (R&D) effort is reserved for award to small business concerns
through a uniform process having 1) a first phase to determine the scientific and technical merit
and feasibility of ideas with commercial potential meeting program needs, 2) a second phase to
further develop proposals which meet particular program needs, and 3) if appropriate, a third
phase in which commercial applications of SBIR funded R&D are funded by non-Federal
sources or non-SBIR funding is used for the continuation of R&D. See 15 USC §638(e)(4).
Small Business Programs—Includes small businesses, Small Disadvantaged Businesses,
Historically Underutilized Businesses, Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Businesses,
Veteran Owned Small Businesses and Women Owned Small Businesses, the Small Business
Innovation Research Program and Small Business Technology Transfer Program.
Small Business Technology Transfer Program—A program under which a portion of the Air
Force’s research and development (R&D) effort is reserved for award to small business concerns
and a non-profit research institution partner for cooperative R&D through a uniform process
having three phases similar to the SBIR program. See 15 U.S.C. §§ 638(e)(6)-(8).
Small Disadvantaged Business—A small business that is at the time of offer is at least 51
percent owned by one or more individuals who are socially or economically disadvantaged
individual(s), such as Native American tribes/organizations or Native Hawaiian Organization,
 6                                                              AFPD90-18 23 MARCH 2011


whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more disadvantaged
individuals. See 13 CFR §124.1002; FAR 201.
Veteran Owned Small Business Concern—Means a small business concern not less than 51%
of which is owned by one or more veterans and the management and daily business of operations
are controlled by one or more veterans. See FAR 201.
Women—Owned Business—A small business concern that is at least 51 percent owned by a
woman, or women, or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock
of which is owned by one or more women and whose management and daily business operations
are controlled by women. See FAR 201.
