BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-8
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         2 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                         Special Management

                                                         ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY &
                                              OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT
                                                          AND RISK MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THE PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/IEE                                                             Certified by: SAF/IE
                                                                         (Mr. Terry Yonkers)
Supersedes:   AFPD 90-8,                                                            Pages: 20
              1 September 2004,
              AFPD 90-9, 1 April 2000


This AF Policy Directive (AFPD) implements Department of Defense Directive (DoDD)
4715.1E, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH), DoD Instruction (DoDI),
4715.17, Environmental Management Systems, DoDI 4715.18, Emerging Contaminants (ECs),
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, and in accordance with
Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive (HAF MD) 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
(Installations, Environment, and Logistics). This AFPD also implements the environmental
components of Executive Order (E.O.) 13327, Federal Real Property Asset Management, E.O.
13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management, and
E.O. 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy and Economic Performance. This
AFPD requires the Air Force to reference civilian consensus standards as guides to assist
establishing effective management systems: ANSI Z10-2005, American National Standard -
Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems, and ISO 14000:2004, Environmental
Management Systems – Requirements with Guidance for Use.

This AFPD defines and establishes the AF Environment, Safety and Occupational Health
(ESOH) Program and directs the ESOH functional offices to develop management systems and
all subordinate program elements necessary to implement the guidance across the Air Force.
The use of management systems to achieve goals and objectives related to all Occupational
Safety and Health, Environmental, and Nuclear Regulatory compliance areas and sustainability
requirements. Additionally, this AFPD establishes the AF Risk Management (RM) policy as
related to mission/activity and personal risk management. This Policy Directive applies to all
Air Force personnel, Air Force Reserve, the Air National Guard (ANG), and all AF operations.
 2                                                                                          AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


This AFPD may not be supplemented at any level per AFPD 90-1, Policy Formulation, and AFI
33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications shall be referred to
SAF/IEE,      1665   Air    Force     Pentagon,    Washington,       DC      20330-1665,
safiee.workflow@pentagon.af.mil, on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the definition of ESOH Management System (ESOH MS) as three separate but
complementary systems. This Policy Directive requires an environmental management system
(EMS) that meets the performance elements of International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) 14001:2004-Environmental Management Systems - Requirements with guidance for use.
Occupational Health and Safety management systems will be developed consistent with existing
management system models such as ANSI Z-10, American National Standard - Occupational
Health and Safety Management Systems or the performance elements of the Occupational Safety
and Health Administration (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP) Policies and
Procedures Manual. This Policy Directive establishes a new ESOH vision and priorities for the
AF. It establishes new requirements for Natural Infrastructure Manual and Natural Infrastructure
Assessments (NIAs). It updates office symbols and incorporates provisions of DoDD 4715.1E,
DoDI 4715.17, DoDI 4715.18, DoDI 6055.1, and HAF MD 1-18. This document supersedes
AFPD 90-9, Operational Risk Management, renames Operational Risk Management as Risk
Management and incorporates the policy relating to AF Risk Management process.

Chapter 1—ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY, AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH (ESOH)                                                                             4
       1.1.   ESOH Vision and Priorities. ..................................................................................              4
       1.2.   Management Systems. ...........................................................................................             4
       1.3.   ESOH Policy. .........................................................................................................      4
       1.4.   Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................     5

Chapter 2—RISK MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                 8
       2.1.   Overview. ...............................................................................................................   8
       2.2.   To support these principles, the Air Force will apply RM during all aspects of preparation
              (developing, testing, planning, organizing, training, equipping, sustaining) and
              employment of forces. ........................................................................................... 8
       2.3.   Air Force RM Relationship to Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM), Life Cycle
              Risk Management (LRCM), and System Safety: ...................................................                              9
       2.4.   Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................            9
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                               3


Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION        11

Attachment 2—ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
             MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (ESOHMS) HIERARCHICAL APPROACH         17

Attachment 3—TABLE A3.1. ATTRIBUTES OF AN EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
             SUPPORTING ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY, AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
             REQUIREMENTS                                             18
 4                                                               AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012



                                             Chapter 1

          ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY, AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH (ESOH)

1.1. ESOH Vision and Priorities. The Air Force’s Environment, Safety and Occupational
Health vision is ―to be a world leader in ESOH management - to provide better care for our
Airmen and our environment - to meet our mission in air, space and cyberspace.” To meet this
vision, the Air Force is committed to the following three priorities: (1) comply – comply with all
ESOH legal obligations, (2) reduce risk – ensure availability of workforce, natural and manmade
resources by effectively managing ESOH risks, and (3) continuously improve – instill a culture
of continuous ESOH improvement.
     1.1.1. Compliance. Comply with applicable federal, state, local, DoD and AF ESOH
     statutes, regulations, and other legal requirements. In addition, comply with applicable DoD
     ESOH policies and guidance. Assign the core mission areas the authority, responsibility, and
     accountability for compliance with applicable ESOH requirements. For overseas areas,
     ensure compliance with the ESOH provisions of applicable treaties, international law,
     bilateral and multi-national agreements [e.g., Status of Forces Agreements (SOFA)], country-
     specific Final Governing Standards (FGS), or in countries where no FGS exist, the Overseas
     Environmental Baseline Guidance Document, Unified Combatant Command, Air Force
     Major Command (MAJCOM), and installation-specific requirements.
     1.1.2. Reduce Risk. Commanders/Directors shall provide safe and healthy workplaces and
     conduct operations in a manner that enhances mission accomplishment, preserves resources,
     prevents pollution, minimizes risks to the environment, and ensures safety and health of Air
     Force personnel and the public – both on and off the installation.
     1.1.3. Continuously Improve. Every Airman must constantly seek to minimize ESOH risks
     and to improve execution of the Air Force mission.
1.2. Management Systems. This Policy Directive requires use of accepted management system
principles to enhance ESOH life-cycle efficiencies in every Air Force program. ESOH
management systems are a foundation of a sustainable Air Force. The benefits of management
systems instill a culture of continuous improvement and life cycle decisions to manage and
mitigate ESOH risks, identify and correct deficiencies to improve overall worker and mission
performance. Currently, three complementary, but separate, management systems support each
ESOH program. Where the individual systems overlap, programs shall be combined for
maximum performance and optimization of resources.
1.3. ESOH Policy.
     1.3.1. Implement management systems to support all ESOH programs.                Management
     elements will be established in accordance with Attachment 2.
     1.3.2. Ensure ESOH programs in collaboration with other Air Force efficiency efforts focus
     on mission accomplishment, enable employee involvement, and foster a culture of
     continuous improvement.
     1.3.3. Fully fund all ESOH legal obligations to include infrastructure requirements critical to
     ESOH compliance. Commanders will maintain a prioritized abatement listing which uses
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                       5


   Abatement Priority Numbers (APN) for each ESOH RAC 1, 2, or 3. The APN rank orders
   ESOH risks/vulnerabilities and allows the commander to make informed decisions.
   1.3.4. Maintain readiness by providing access to adequate natural infrastructure (NI), such as
   air, land, water, flora, and fauna assets, to support mission accomplishment. To accomplish
   this objective, NI shall be assessed and managed to ensure these assets have the capacity to
   meet current and future mission needs.
   1.3.5. Where appropriate, encourage and enable Commanders/Directors to seek ESOH
   management system recognition under the OSHA Voluntary Protection Programs.
1.4. Responsibilities.
   1.4.1. Assistant Secretary for Installations, Environment, and Logistics (SAF/IE) will:
       1.4.1.1. Develop and maintain policy, for Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) approval,
       and provide oversight for all Air Force ESOH programs IAW HAF MD 1-18.
       1.4.1.2. Identify Air Force enterprise-wide ESOH program shortfalls and advocate for
       resources through the Air Force Corporate Structure.
       1.4.1.3. Develop and implement guidance for commanders to oversee and assess ESOH
       program performance.
       1.4.1.4. Serve as the Air Force Designated Agency Safety and Health Officer (DASHO).
       1.4.1.5. Report Air Force ESOH program performance to SECAF and Chief of Staff
       United States Air Force (CSAF).
       1.4.1.6. Report Air Force ESOH program performance to Deputy Undersecretary of
       Defense Installations and Environment (DUSD (I&E)).
   1.4.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will:
       1.4.2.1. Integrate ESOH considerations into acquisition policies, instructions, program
       reviews, and training, as appropriate.
       1.4.2.2. Ensure acquisition single item managers employ the system safety RM standard
       practice methodologies to identify, assess, and mitigate ESOH risks and to lower total
       ownership (life-cycle) costs when developing new systems or modifying existing
       systems.
       1.4.2.3. Include ESOH requirements as a mandatory element for all acquisition program
       reviews. Each program review must address the following topics using a life cycle
       approach, whenever possible: (1) status of identified system ESOH risks; (2)
       Environmental Impact Analysis Process completion schedule; and (3) system mishap
       trends and mitigation measures since the last program review.
       1.4.2.4. Ensure contracting policy and guidelines require, as appropriate, government
       environment, safety, and occupational health offices’ review of draft contract
       documentation to ensure ESOH requirements are addressed in: (1) performance-based
       requirements; (2) past performance evaluations for best value contracting; (3) source
       selection criteria; (4) contractor performance assessment plans; (5) award fee
       components; and (6) contract close-out options.
6                                                               AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


    1.4.3. Public Affairs (SAF/PA) will develop guidance and communication tools to aid
    communicating ESOH program compliance and benefits to internal and external audiences.
    1.4.4. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) will:
       1.4.4.1. Ensure ESOH considerations in overseas operations and activities are aligned
       with and support Air Force international objectives and cooperative security efforts.
       1.4.4.2. Integrate ESOH risk and cost reduction strategies within Air Force cooperative
       engagement programs.
    1.4.5. Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) will:
       1.4.5.1. Develop and maintain policy, for SECAF approval, and guidance to ensure that
       military member evaluations and the appropriate civilian employee performance plans
       include ESOH related responsibilities, accountability, and performance.
       1.4.5.2. Develop, implement, oversee, and maintain effective programs aimed at
       reducing Federal Employee Compensation Act (FECA) claim rates and costs throughout
       the Air Force.
    1.4.6. Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) will:
       1.4.6.1. Ensure operational     capabilities and Joint Capabilities Integration and
       Development System (JCIDS)      documents address ESOH related tasks and requirements,
       where applicable. Establish     procedures to ensure any significant ESOH issues are
       identified and, if necessary,   elevated to the appropriate level ESOH Council for
       resolution.
       1.4.6.2. Develop policies, for SECAF approval, to assess and manage ESOH risk for
       airspace and operational ranges.
       1.4.6.3. Ensure the airspace and range NI needed to meet current and future mission
       requirements are assessed and managed.
    1.4.7. Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7) will:
       1.4.7.1. Develop and maintain environmental program policy and guidance within
       AF/A4/7 Air Force publications series pursuant to authorities in HAF MD 1-38, Deputy
       Chief of Staff of the Air Force (Logistics, Installations and Mission Support).
       1.4.7.2. Develop and maintain a list of appropriate facilities as defined by DoDI 4715.17
       and ensure formal Environmental Management Systems (EMS) declaration and/or re-
       declaration guidance is established for all appropriate facilities. Installations may pursue
       third party EMS registration if a benefit to the mission can be documented.
       1.4.7.3. Establish an integrated environment, safety, occupational, and environmental
       health management system.
       1.4.7.4. Ensure environmental subject matter experts review JCIDS documents to
       provide inputs on needed environmental or NI capabilities.
    1.4.8. Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) will integrate ESOH
    requirements into the Air Force strategic and fiscal guidance IAW HAF MD 1-56, Deputy
    Chief of Staff Strategic Plans and Programs.
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                   7


  1.4.9. Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) will:
     1.4.9.1. Develop and maintain occupational and environmental health program policy
     and guidance within AF/SG Air Force publications series pursuant to authorities
     established in HAF MD 1-48, The Air Force Surgeon General.
     1.4.9.2. Provide SAF/IE an annual review of programming and budgeting of the
     occupational and environmental health program, to include the Defense Healthcare
     Program.
     1.4.9.3. Establish an integrated environment, safety, occupational, and environmental
     health management system.
     1.4.9.4. Ensure occupational health subject matter experts review JCIDS documents to
     provide inputs on needed weapon system capabilities.
  1.4.10. Chief of Safety (AF/SE) will:
     1.4.10.1. Develop and maintain safety program policy and guidance within AF/SE Air
     Force publications series pursuant to authorities established in HAF MD 1-46, Chief of
     Safety.
     1.4.10.2. Provide SAF/IE an annual review of programming and budgeting of the safety
     programs, to include the activities of the Air Force Safety Center.
     1.4.10.3. Establish an integrated environment, safety, occupational, and environmental
     health management system.
     1.4.10.4. Ensure safety subject matter experts review JCIDS documents to provide inputs
     on needed weapon system capabilities.
  1.4.11. The General Counsel of the Air Force (SAF/GC):
     1.4.11.1. Serves as the principal legal adviser to SAF/IE on ESOH policy.
     1.4.11.2. Serves as the principal Air Force legal representative on all ESOH compliance-
     related issues involving the OSD office of General Counsel or the General Counsel
     offices of other federal agencies.
 8                                                                AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


                                             Chapter 2

                                     RISK MANAGEMENT

2.1. Overview. This AFPD establishes the Air Force Risk Management (RM) policy and
responsibilities requirements necessary to effectively execute RM by Air Force personnel, both
on- and off-duty. The Air Force RM is designed to sustain resources by providing
policy/guidance and management tools to mitigate risk, strengthen job performance and improve
decision making in all functional areas and levels throughout the Air Force, and is the
Commander’s/Director’s responsibility. RM is designed to expand the Air Force’s warfighting
posture through the implementation of the following principles:
     2.1.1. Accept no unnecessary risk. The most logical choices for accomplishing a mission are
     those that meet all mission requirements while exposing personnel and resources to the
     lowest acceptable risk.
     2.1.2. Make risk decisions at the appropriate level. The appropriate level for risk decisions
     is the one that can allocate the resources to reduce the risk or eliminate the hazard and
     implement controls.
     2.1.3. Integrate RM into operations, activities and planning at all levels. To effectively apply
     risk management, commanders, leaders and personnel must dedicate time and resources to
     integrate RM principles into planning, operational processes and day-to-day activities.
     2.1.4. Apply the process cyclically and continuously. RM is a continuous process applied
     across the full spectrum of military training and operations, base operations functions, and
     day-to-day activities/ events both on- and off-duty.
     2.1.5. The Air Force RM process consists of the following five primary steps:
        2.1.5.1. Identify the Hazards.
        2.1.5.2. Assess the Hazards.
        2.1.5.3. Develop Controls and Make Decisions.
        2.1.5.4. Implement Controls.
        2.1.5.5. Supervise and Evaluate.
2.2. To support these principles, the Air Force will apply RM during all aspects of
preparation (developing, testing, planning, organizing, training, equipping, sustaining) and
employment of forces. The RM process provides leaders and individuals with a method to
assist in identifying the optimum course of action (COA) through optimal risk mitigation
strategies. The process also empowers Airmen to make good RM decisions in their daily
activities. The following are fundamental goals of the RM process:
     2.2.1. Enhance mission effectiveness at all levels, while preserving assets and safeguarding
     health and welfare.
     2.2.2. Create an Air Force cultural mindset in which every leader and Airman is trained and
     motivated to manage risk in all on- and off-duty activities.
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                       9


   2.2.3. Integrate RM into mission and activity planning processes, ensuring decisions are
   based upon assessments of risk integral to the activity and mission.
   2.2.4. Identify opportunities to increase Air Force war fighting effectiveness in all
   environments, and to ensure decisive victory at minimal cost of resources.
2.3. Air Force RM Relationship to Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM), Life Cycle
Risk Management (LRCM), and System Safety:
   2.3.1. LCRM, like any other risk management methodology, is based on the same general
   principles as Air Force RM. The key elements of LCRM described in AFI 63-101,
   Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, and AFPAM 63-128, Guide to
   Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, are tailored specifically for acquisition
   programs, pre-Milestone B, and Services Category I and II programs.
   2.3.2. ILCM mission assurance and ESOH risks are assessed and managed using separate
   methodologies, most importantly MIL-STD-882D, the DoD Standard Practice for System
   Safety. All high and serious ESOH risks must also be translated and presented on the
   standard LCRM 5X5 matrix IAW AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle
   Management at all program, technical, and milestone decision reviews or to support other
   key decision points.
   2.3.3. When a system is fielded, risk data developed through the program’s LCRM and MIL-
   STD-882D process should be provided to system users and should inform the user’s
   Operational and ESOH RM efforts.
2.4. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.4.1. Assistant Secretary for Installations, Environment and Logistics (SAF/IE) will assign
   policy and program domains, provide guidance, direction and oversight for all matters to the
   formulation, review, and execution of plans, policies, programs and budgets relative to DoDI
   6055.1.
   2.4.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisitions (SAF/AQ) will:
       2.4.2.1. Provide Air Force RM guidelines, policies and procedures specifically tied to
       Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management to include all realms of acquisition
       and logistics as directed in AFPD 63-1, AFI 63-101, MIL-STD-882D and other
       associated acquisition and logistics RM guidance.
       2.4.2.2. Work with AF/SE and the Air Force RM Process Manager as necessary to
       ensure effective mission and personal RM integration/sustainment is supported within all
       acquisition and logistical functional areas in conjunction with ILCM requirements.
   2.4.3. The Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) will serve as HAF’s designated authority and
   lead agent for the overall cross-functional integration and sustainment effort of RM (not
   associated with section 2.4.2) into the HAF staff and all subordinate Air Force MAJCOMs,
   units, and agencies.
   2.4.4. Air Education and Training Command and the United States Air Force Academy will:
       2.4.4.1. Integrate Air Force RM principles, processes, tools and techniques into curricula
       for all education and training programs, including accession training, professional
       military education (PME), continuing education, and technical training.
10                                                        AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


     2.4.4.2. Ensure Air Force RM curriculum integration is tailored to meet the unique
     mission of the school or program in consideration of the goals outlined in this Policy
     Directive.




                                        MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                        Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                    11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Executive Order 13327, Federal Real Property Asset Management, February 4, 2004
Executive Order 13423, Strengthening Federal Environmental, Energy, and Transportation
Management, January 24, 2007
Executive Order 13514, Federal Leadership in Environmental, Energy and Economic
Performance, October 8, 2009
DoDD 4715.1E, Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH), 19 Mar 05
DoDI 4715.17, Environmental Management Systems, 15 Apr 09
DoDI 4715.18, Emerging Contaminants (ECs), 11 Jun 09
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 Aug 98
HAF MD 1-10, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Acquisition), 8 Apr 09
HAF MD 1-18, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Installations, Environment, and Logistics),
4 Mar 09
HAF MD 1-38, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force (Logistics, Installations and Mission
Support), 5 Oct 09
HAF MD 1-46, Chief of Safety, 4 Feb 11
HAF MD 1-48, The Air Force Surgeon General, 22 Jan 08
HAF MD 1-56, Deputy Chief of Staff Strategic Plans and Programs, 25 Sep 07
AFPD 63-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 3 Apr 09
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 15 Apr 11
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 Apr 09
AFPAM 63-128, Guide to Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 5 Oct 09
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
MIL STD 882-D, Standard Practice for System Safety, 10 Feb 00
ANSI Z10-2005, American National Standard - Occupational Health and Safety Management
Systems, 25 Jul 05
ISO 14000:2004, Environmental Management Systems – Requirements with Guidance for Use,
15 Nov 04
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
 12                                                      AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AF/SE—United States Air Force Chief of Safety
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
ANG—Air National Guard
APN—Abatement Priority Number
CEQ—Council on Environmental Quality
COA—Course of Action
CSAF—Chief of Staff United States Air Force
DASHO—Designated Agency Safety and Health Officer
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DUSD(I&E)—Deputy Undersecretary of Defense Installations and Environment
EMS—Environmental Management System
E.O.—Executive Order
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
ESOH—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
ESOHCAMP—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program
ESOHMS—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System
FECA—Federal Employee Compensation Act
FGS—Final Governing Standards
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HAF MD—Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive
ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management
ISO—International Organization for Standardization
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
LRCM—Life Cycle Risk Management
MAJCOM—Major Command
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                        13


MIL STD—Military Standard
NI—Natural Infrastructure
RM—Risk Management
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
P2—Pollution Prevention
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RM—Risk Management
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
SOH—Safety and Occupational Health
VPP—OSHA Voluntary Protection Programs

Terms
Abatement Priority Number—relative priority of risk assessment codes based on cost effective
indexes.
Accept no unnecessary risk—Unnecessary risk comes without a commensurate return in terms
of real benefits or available opportunities. All Air Force missions and our daily routines involve
risk. The most logical choices for accomplishing a mission are those that meet all mission
requirements while exposing personnel and resources to the lowest acceptable risk.
Aspect—An element of an Air Force installation, facility, activity, product or service that can
interact with the environment. Activities can have tangible impacts on the environment either
directly or indirectly, adverse or beneficial. Harmful exposures to personnel from activities are
known as hazards.
Compliance Assessments—Systematic, independent, and documented process for obtaining
evidence and evaluating it objectively to determine the extent to which the assessment criteria set
by the organization are fulfilled.
Core Mission Areas—For the purposes of this AFPD and the overall Air Force Environmental,
Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH) programs, the term ―Core Mission Areas‖ refers to the
following organizations at every level of command (where they exist): Operations, Maintenance,
Mission Support, Medical, Acquisition and Installation Support.
Corrective Action—Action to eliminate the cause of a detected noncompliance and/or
nonconformity.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH)—ESOH includes environmental
programs (e.g., compliance, pollution prevention, conservation, clean up), environmental health,
fire protection, safety, and occupational health disciplines.
 14                                                            AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC)—The Air Force ESOH
management forum that provides senior leadership involvement and direction at all levels of
command and reviews policies and programs. Annually, ESOHCs establish goals, measures,
objectives, targets, and provides additional ESOH guidance to subordinate organizations as
required.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program (ESOHCAMP)—An integrated environment, safety, and occupational
health assessment process designed to help commanders assess their base’s environmental,
safety, and occupational health risk and cost reduction programs in order to identify and track
solutions to ESOH problems. Based on the identified problems the organization then builds
supporting financial programs and budgets for resolution of requirements.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS)
Framework—The Air Force’s overarching management system framework that contains the E,
S, and OH systems and that promotes top-to-bottom functional unity and cross-functional
coordination of those systems so as to continuously improve mission performance by
systematically identifying and reducing ESOH risks and costs.
Environmental Health—The discipline and program concerned with identifying and preventing
illness and injury due to exposure to hazardous chemical, physical, and biological agents that
may be encountered in the ambient environment – air, water, or soil.
Hazard—Any active or latent condition that can cause mission degradation; injury, illness, or
death to personnel; or damage to, or loss of, equipment or property.
Impact—Any change to the environment, whether adverse or beneficial, wholly or partially
resulting from organizational activities. Activities can have tangible impacts on the environment
either directly or indirectly.
Integrate RM into operations, activities and planning at all levels—To effectively apply RM,
commanders must dedicate time and resources to integrate RM principles into the planning
processes. Risks are more easily accessed and managed in the planning stages of an operation.
Lead Agent—Office or agency that has primary oversight of their Air Force-level program to
include oversight and development of policies for SECAF approval and guidance, courseware,
tools and/or techniques specific to their area of responsibility. SAF/AQ is the Lead Agent for
Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM), acquisition, test and systems safety RM-related
issues, while AF/SE is the Lead Agent for mission and personal RM-related issues and concerns.
Make risk decisions at the appropriate level—Making risk decisions at the appropriate level
establishes clear accountability. Those accountable for the success or failure of the mission must
be included in the risk decision process.
Management Review—An examination of the management system and the performance of
programs or elements managed within the system. The review is performed by senior leadership
to ensure that the system continues to be suitable, adequate and effective for its intended
purposes, and for making decisions or authorizing actions that need to be taken by staff to ensure
the continuous improvement of one or more of its programs or elements.
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                        15


Management System—A set of interrelated elements used to establish policy and objectives and
to achieve those objectives.         It includes organizational structure, planning activities,
responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes, and resources.
Natural Infrastructure (NI)—Combined natural resource elements used at an installation, e.g.
water, air shed, airspace, open space, flora, and fauna.
Occupational Health—The discipline and program concerned with prevention of illness
resulting from work-related factors. It includes the prevention of illness during deployments not
resulting from hostile acts to reduce disease and non-battle injury (DNBI) rates.
Operational Control—Activities/operations associated with environmental aspects to ensure
they are carried out under specified conditions.
Pollution Prevention (P2)—Source reduction and other practices that reduce or eliminate the
amount of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants entering the waste stream or
otherwise released into the environment prior to recycling, treatment, and disposal; reduces the
hazards to public health and the environment associated with the release of such substances,
pollutants, or contaminants; and, increases efficiency in the use of raw materials, energy, water,
or other resources; or protection of natural resources by conservation.
Preventive Action—Action to eliminate the cause of a potential noncompliance and/or
nonconformity.
Risk—A combination of the probability and severity of a loss or an adverse impact resulting
from exposure to hazards. The greater the risk, the more likely it will cause a drain on resource
capability and negatively affect the mission.
Risk Assessment—The process of detecting/prioritizing hazards and their causes, and
systematically assessing the associated risks to mission or activity success.
Risk Assessment Code—The assignment of a hazard severity and probability of occurrence
indices to a potential hazard. The RAC provides the foundation for comparative analysis among
identified hazardous conditions which may impact human health, public health or the
environment.
Risk Management (RM)—The systematic process of identifying hazards, assessing risk,
analyzing risk control options and measures, making control decisions, implementing control
decisions, accepting residual risks, and supervising/reviewing the activity for effectiveness.
Safety—The discipline and program concerned with the prevention of any active or latent
condition that can cause mission degradation; injury or death to personnel; or damage to, or loss
of, systems, equipment, facilities, or property.
Sustainability and Sustainable—To create and maintain conditions, under which humans and
nature can exist in productive harmony, that permit fulfilling the social, economic, and other
requirements of present and future generations.
System—A composite entity, at any level of complexity, of personnel, procedures, materials,
tools, equipment, facilities, and software. The elements of this composite entity are used together
in the intended operational or support environment to perform a given task or achieve a specific
mission requirement.
 16                                                         AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


System Safety—The term used to describe the application of the RM principles and practices to
the Systems Engineering ESOH risk management process during the developing, sustaining,
modifying, and disposing of a weapon system.
Workforce—Assigned personnel allotment needed to accomplish the mission.
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                       17


                                         Attachment 2
  ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY, AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH MANAGEMENT
           SYSTEM (ESOHMS) HIERARCHICAL APPROACH

Table A2.1. Environmental Safety, and Occupational Health Management System
(ESOHMS) Hierarchical Approach.

Management Level         Management System Requirements
HAF                        Policy (AFPDs)
                           Programs (AFIs)
                           Requirements (laws, OSD, USAF, etc.)
                           AF-level objectives, targets, metrics
                           Communication (to lower levels)
                           Data collection/analysis
                           Checking (HAF and sampling below)
                           Management review (HAF ESOH Council)
                           Reporting (to OSD, EPA, OMB, CEQ, OSHA)
MAJCOM                     Programs (MAJCOM Instructions)
                           Requirements (laws, OSD, USAF, etc)
                           MAJCOM-level objectives, targets, metrics
                           Communication (to higher and lower levels)
                           Data collection/analysis
                           Checking (MAJCOM and sampling below)
                           Management review (MAJCOM ESOH Council)
                           Reporting (to HAF)
Installations                1. All standard elements in place (Attachment 3)
                             a. Environmental management system shall meet the
                                performance elements of ISO 14001
                             b. Occupational Health and Safety Management
                                Systems shall meet the performance elements of
                                ANSI Z10 or OSHA VPP.
Each functional agency should work towards automating all aspects of the ESOH management
hierarchy to reduce administrative burden and increase ability to share data streams as
appropriate. Such, data sharing will enhance the performance of ESOH capabilities throughout
the Air Force through cross-functional analysis and potential interdisciplinary hazard abatement
actions.
 18                                                          AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 3
       TABLE A3.1 ATTRIBUTES OF AN EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
      SUPPORTING ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY, AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH
                             REQUIREMENTS

Element         Sub-Element          Management System Requirement
                Management        ESOH management systems shall be designed to
                System            demonstrate life cycle benefits of reducing ESOH risks
                                  while improving mission performance.
Policy and      Leadership &      ESOH AFIs shall require commanders to establish
Participation   Employee          meaningful ways for Airmen to be actively engaged and
                Participation     participate in ESOH programs effectiveness in the
                                  workplace and to encourage effective incentive/award
                                  programs.
                Aspects / Impacts ESOH AFIs shall define processes to identify and prioritize
                and Requirements the aspects/impacts within the scope of the ESOHMS, and
                                  identify the applicable regulations, standards and legal
                                  requirements. The Risk Assessment Code process shall be
                                  used to support command decisions in prioritizing
                                  corrective actions to identified ESOH risks.
                Objectives,       Annually, HAF, MAJCOM and installation ESOH Councils
                Targets and       shall establish goals, measures, objectives, and targets.
Planning
                Programs          Additionally, annually each ESOH Council shall identify
                                  ESOH aspects carrying the greatest risk and formulate an
                                  action plan to reduce the risk.

                                     ESOH Councils shall employ and support cross-functional
                                     teams, as appropriate, to work issues, develop procedures,
                                     and provide recommendations to senior leadership
                                     necessary to meet ESOH Council goals.
                Resources, roles,    ESOH functional AFIs will clearly define responsibilities
                responsibility and   and authorities for effective ESOH management to reduce
                authority            risk and ensure appropriate resources are available.
                Competence,          ESOH functional AFIs shall ensure that Airmen who have
                training, and        the potential to cause a significant ESOH impact are
Implementatio   awareness            competent on the basis of appropriate education, training or
n and                                experience, and that appropriate training records are
Operation                            maintained. AFIs shall require employee training, that
                                     ensures awareness of the ESOH management system;
                                     ESOH laws, AFIs, and policies that apply to their activities;
                                     specific ESOH risks inherent in the workplace; benefits of
                                     improved ESOH performance and consequences of
                                     departure from specified procedures.
                Communication        ESOH functional AFIs shall establish and implement
AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                19


                                 communication procedures that achieve prompt employee
                                 reporting of work related injuries, illnesses, incidents
                                 (including environmental), and hazards and risks. AFI’s
                                 shall encourage and provide a way for employees to make
                                 recommendations regarding possible hazard control and
                                 reporting procedures; and the identification and removal of
                                 barriers to reporting.
             Documentation       Functional AFIs shall require records created from the
             and Control of      ESOHMS are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
             Documents           363. ESOH functional AFIs shall establish procedures
                                 necessary to ensure Airmen at all levels have access to
                                 ESOH laws, regulations, policies, instructions, and guidance
                                 that govern their activities.
             Operational         Operations with significant aspects/risks shall be controlled
             Control             in a manner to minimize adverse impacts. Safety and
                                 Occupational Health AFIs will include a hierarchy of
                                 controls.
             Emergency           ESOH functional AFIs shall establish necessary plans and
             preparedness and    procedures to prevent, prepare for, and respond to
             response            emergencies. (already covered in AFI 10-2501)
             Design Review       Air Force and ESOH functional AFIs shall define processes
             and Management      to identify and mitigate hazards and reduce potential risks
             of Change           associated with new processes or operations and changes to
                                 existing processes or operations.
             Procurement         Air Force and ESOH functional AFIs will establish
                                 processes to identify, evaluate, and control the potential
                                 ESOH risks associated with products, raw materials, and
                                 other goods before introduction into the work environment.
             Compliance and      SAF/IE shall publish an AFI establishing the ESOHCAMP
             Management          process to perform regulatory compliance and management
             Systems             system assessments. The ESOHCAMP process shall be a
Management
             Assessments         three-tiered assessment requiring periodic work center
Review
                                 assessments, annual functional assessments, and an external
                                 inspection in accordance with AFI 90-201, ―Inspector
                                 General Activities.‖ ESOH functionals shall integrate
                                 external assessments into the inspector general system and
                                 provide IG augmentee support as necessary to support the
                                 ESOHCAMP protocols.

                                 HAF and MAJCOMs shall conduct internal ESOH MS
                                 management reviews of their portion of the ESOH MS on
                                 an annual basis.
             Nonconformity,      The ESOHCAMP AFI shall further describe corrective and
             corrective action   preventive action procedures for findings identified during
             and preventive      the ESOHCAMP process.
             action              ESOH councils will be established at HAF, MAJCOMs and
20                          AFPD90-8 2 FEBRUARY 2012


     installations to effectively manage and oversee ESOH
     programs.
