April 1, 2011

"By order of the Secretary of the Air Force, Air Force Policy Directive 16-14, Information
Protection, dated 28 September 2010, is void and hereby rescinded as of the date of its
issuance and will be published at a later date. AFPD 16-14 superseded valid Air Force
Policy Directives. If you downloaded or printed any copies of the AFPD, please destroy
those copies. Also, if you've posted implementing instructions based on this void and
rescinded AFPD 16-14, rescind those publications as of the date of issuance. All Air
Force Policy Directives superseded by the now invalid AFPD 16-14 (Air Force Policy
Directives 33-2, 16-2, 14-3, 31-4, 31-5, 31-6 and 63-17) are hereby reinstated."
BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 14-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                    1 MAY 1998

                                                                                               Intelligence

                                                                    CONTROL, PROTECTION, AND
                                                               DISSEMINATION OF INTELLIGENCE
                                                                                 INFORMATION


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/XOIIS (Ms Elizabeth Hall)                  Certified by: HQ USAF/XOII (Mr Dennis Alvey)
Supersedes AFPD 14-3, 10 June 1993.                                                          Pages: 6
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This policy directive provides guidance for protecting intelligence information. It defines authority lines,
roles, and responsibilities for oversight and implementation of programs and procedures to ensure proper
controls and protection in preserving the integrity of intelligence collection systems.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

Establishes requirement for AF development of automated systems for efficiency of SCI security man-
agement. Designates HQ USAF/XOIIS as Cognizant Security Authority for SCI. Designates HQ USAF/
XOIIS, Intelligence Security Division as SCI Security Policy Team, chartered to establish SCI control
and release programs for AF. Establishes one Base, one SSO policy. Establishes HQ AIA/SO as OPR for
compilation and submission of quarterly intelligence information compromise and security education
training reporting. Discontinues requirement for HAF-IN(Q) 9327, Results of Security Management
Inspection Report.

1. Intelligence information is crucial to an effective Air Force fighting force. It must be controlled and
protected to preserve the integrity of the intelligence collection system. Some intelligence information
designated as Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) requires additional control and protection.
This Directive establishes policy for the control, protection, and dissemination of Air Force intelligence
information.

2. The Air Force will maintain effective control of the dissemination of intelligence information among
US intelligence community components, US forces outside the intelligence community requiring the
information, foreign nationals, foreign governments, and contractors.

3. Intelligence information will be secured, handled, and disseminated only by properly designated users.
   3.1. The Air Force will validate organizations authorized to receive and handle SCI, indoctrinate per-
   sonnel for access to SCI, and train them to protect against unauthorized disclosures. In addition, the
2                                                                                AFPD14-3 1 MAY 1998

    Air Force will maintain SCI facilities and communications capabilities certified to support SCI han-
    dling.
    3.2. The Air Force will develop automated systems to sustain efficiency of intelligence security man-
    agement.
    3.3. The Air Force will develop procedures to report compromises of classified intelligence informa-
    tion or serious failures to comply with the provisions of security regulations which are likely to result
    in compromise.

4. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
    4.1. Director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, DCS/Air and Space Operations, is the
    Air Force Senior Official of the Intelligence Community (SOIC), responsible for intelligence informa-
    tion security for the Air Force.
    4.2. HQ USAF/XOII (Associate Director for Intelligence) is the Air Force authority for issues involv-
    ing the release of intelligence information.
       4.2.1. HQ USAF/XOIIS is the Air Force Cognizant Security Authority (CSA) for SCI, the single
       principal designated by the SOIC to serve as responsible official for SCI security program man-
       agement.
       4.2.2. HQ USAF/XOIIS will establish intelligence security control and release programs and
       oversee Major Command (MAJCOM), Field Operating Agency (FOA), and Direct Reporting Unit
       (DRU), intelligence security programs. In addition, they will represent the Air Force in national
       and Department of Defense (DoD) intelligence security forums.
    4.3. Air Force activities will control intelligence information in accordance with governing directives
    and report intelligence information security violations to HQ Air Intelligence Agency Security Office
    (AIA/SO).
       4.3.1. Air Force activities will conduct quarterly security awareness training with emphasis on
       reducing or preventing recurrence of violations. MAJCOM SSOs will report number of personnel
       receiving security education training per quarter to HQ AIA/SO. HQ AIA/SO will use training
       satistics to identify and document correlations between security violation trends and the conduct
       security education training.
    4.4. The host Major Air Command (MAJCOM) for an installation will ensure SCI communications
    and security management are provided as necessary to support any Air Force unit mission on that
    installation. The host command may contract with a tenant organization to provide SCI communica-
    tions and SCI security management oversight at an Air Force installation for the host command. Ten-
    ant organizations will work with the host MAJCOM to ensure there is only one AF SSO per
    installation. The Air Force Office of Special Investigations will retain a separate SSO to support its
    counterintelligence and force protection responsibilities.
    4.5. Commanders/Senior Intelligence Officers (SIO) will ensure facilities where intelligence infor-
    mation is used meet security requirements and that personnel are trained to protect the information.
    Commanders/Senior Intelligence Officers may enter into agreements (Memorandums Of Agreement)
    with other United States security organizations to provide or receive security services. The sharing or
    consolidation of security resources and skills required to meet the needs of the participant’s individual
    governing directives is encouraged.
AFPD14-3 1 MAY 1998                                                                                       3

   4.6. HQ USAF/XOIIS will establish objectives and requirements for the electronic exchange and dis-
   semination of security and intelligence information through automated security management systems.

5. This policy applies to all Air Force activities and personnel who produce, receive, or disseminate intel-
ligence information.
   5.1. Air Force Service Cryptologic Elements will also comply with National Security Agency direc-
   tives. Conflicts will be resolved by the Cognizant Security Authorities.

6. This policy directive implements Director of Central Intelligence Directive (DCID) 1/7, Security Con-
trols on the Dissemination of Intelligence Information; DCID 1/14, Personnel Security Standards and Pro-
cedures Governing Eligibility for Access to SCI; DCID 1/16, Security Policy on Intelligence Information
in Automated Systems and Networks; DCID 1/19, Security Policy for Sensitive Compartmented Informa-
tion; DCID 1/21, Physical Security Standards for Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities; and
National Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Instruction, (NTSSI) No. 7000.

7. This policy directive interfaces with DoD S-5105.21-M-1, Sensitive Compartmented Information
Administrative Security Manual; AFPD 31-4, Information Security; AFI 14-302, Control, Protection,
and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information; and AFI 14-303, Release of Collateral Intel-
ligence to US Contractors.

8. See attachment 1 for measures used to assess compliance with this policy.



                                          F. WHITTEN PETERS
                                          Acting Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                             AFPD14-3 1 MAY 1998

                                             Attachment 1
                 MEASURING AND DISPLAYING POLICY EFFECTIVENESS

A1.1. The Air Force will measure the success of controlling, protecting, and disseminating intelligence
information by evaluating the number of intelligence information compromises occurring quarterly . The
data will be displayed on bar charts that show the number of certain, probable, or possible compromises
and the category of each compromise. Analysis will focus on identifying trends in categories of compro-
mise. The objective is to reduce the number of intelligence information compromises.

A1.2. MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs will report all SCI security violations as defined in DoD
S5102.21-M-1, Sensitive Compartmented Information Administrative Security Manual, and AFMAN
14-304, The Security, Use, and Dissemination of Sensitive Compartmented Information.

A1.3. HQ AIA/SO will provide a two-part quarterly report, RCS: HAF-XO(Q) 9326, that identifies
trends in security violations and the impact of security education and training programs on security vio-
lation trends. Part I: Compiled data from initial and follow-up security violations reports received from
MAJCOMs, FOAs, and DRUs. Part II: Compiled data reflecting number of individuals receiving secu-
rity education training. Submit quarterly Intelligence Information Compromise and Security Education
Report to HQ USAF/XOIIS. This report is designated emergency status code D. Immediately discon-
tinue reporting data requirements during emergency conditions.
AFPD14-3 1 MAY 1998                                                                                    5

Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Number of Security Incidents.
                         Number of Intelligence Information Compromises




One set of graphs would reflect SCI incidents and another would reflect Collateral Intelligence Informa-
tion incidents. (The collateral metrics would be caveated to indicate that compromises reflected will be
included in reporting required by AFPD 31-4)
6                                                                              AFPD14-3 1 MAY 1998

Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Number of Individuals Receiving Security Education Training.




Chart will depict compilation of quarterly security education training received. The categories here mir-
ror the categories assigned to security incidents. Actual training reported will not always be one of these
categories by name. The specific training conducted will be assigned the category it best serves.
