BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIF FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 91-4
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           21 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                      SAFETY

                                                    DIRECTED ENERGY WEAPONS (DEW)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFSC/SEWN                                        Certified by: AF/SE (Maj Gen Gregory A.
                                                                                       Feest)
Supersedes:   AFPD 91-4, 11 July 2003                                                Pages: 4


This Directive establishes Air Force directed energy weapons safety policy. Directed energy
weapons provide unprecedented capabilities and produce a broad spectrum of hazards. These
hazards require specific safety measures to prevent directed energy weapon mishaps. This
Directive is consistent with Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 6055.1, DoD Safety and
Occupational Health (SOH) Program, and AFPD 90-8, Environmental, Safety & Occupational
Health Management and Risk Management. This publication applies to Air Force, Air Force
Reserve (AFR), and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records            Disposition            Schedule           (RDS)          located         at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This publication may not be
supplemented.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include inclusion of acoustic weapons and update to responsibilities of various organizations at
Air Staff level and below.
1. The Air Force will ensure directed energy weapons (DEW) receive treatment distinct
from conventional or nuclear weapons because of their characteristics, which may include
 2                                                                   AFPD91-4 21 October 2011


speed-of-light delivery, range, and varied weapons effects. DEW require a scalable approach
to safety that is commensurate with the hazard potential of each weapon.
     1.1. A DEW is a system using a beam of concentrated electromagnetic energy (including but
     not limited to lasers and high power microwave systems), or atomic or subatomic particles
     primarily as a direct means to kill, injure, disable, or temporarily incapacitate people or
     destroy, damage or temporarily incapacitate property or materiel.
     1.2. Acoustic weapons use sound across the entire frequency spectrum to kill, injure, disable,
     or temporarily incapacitate people. Acoustic weapons, although outside the Joint definition
     of DEW, have effects and hazards more similar to DEW than to conventional weapons.
     Acoustic weapons will follow the same safety policy as DEW.
2. The Air Force will ensure protection of personnel, property, operational capability and
the environment from undue risk of damage or harm from DEW, consistent with mission
requirements.
3. The Air Force will establish and conduct a safety program for DEW to ensure the safe
research,     development,        testing,    operation,    training,    maintenance,       storage,
decommissioning, and disposal of these systems. As an element of this program, the Air Force
will determine the applicability of federal, state and local laws and regulations, international law
and host nation laws, as well as the utility of advisory standards developed or adopted by
national or international scientific safety organizations.
4. The Air Force will establish and conduct a safety certification process for DEW. DEW
must be certified as safe prior to operational or training use by AF personnel.
5. The Air Force will investigate mishaps involving DEW in accordance with AFI 91-204,
Safety Investigation and Reports, and other directives as appropriate.
6. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
     6.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics
     (SAF/IE) is responsible for safety and occupational health policy for DEW.
     6.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) is responsible for
     ensuring awareness of DEW safety requirements in acquisition policy. SAF/AQ will ensure
     DEW program managers evaluate effects of DEW on human targets.
     6.3. The Air Force Chief of Safety (AF/SE) is responsible for developing directed energy
     weapons safety policy and procedural guidance. AF/SE is responsible for ensuring
     compliance with safety policy and for developing and maintaining instructions to implement
     this directive, and is the certification authority for DEW safety. AF/SE is responsible to
     determine the utility of advisory standards developed or adopted by national or international
     scientific safety organizations. AF/SE is responsible for establishing DEW testing and
     employment proximity restrictions pertaining to nuclear and conventional weapons.
     6.4. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) is responsible for evaluating, recommending
     controls, diagnosis and treatment of exposure to directed energy weapons.
     6.5. At an early stage of the acquisition process, or a modification of an existing weapon,
     The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA), or the General Counsel (SAF/GC) for a weapon
     developed within a Special Access Program, will ensure that a weapon legal review is
AFPD91-4 21 October 2011                                                                        3


   completed for all DEW and that any such weapon complies with domestic and international
   law.
   6.6. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) is
   responsible for ensuring DEW safety requirements are implemented in range operations
   policy.
   6.7. Each MAJCOM utilizing directed energy weapons is responsible for advocating funding
   requirements and manpower in the budgeting process to ensure sufficient funding and
   manpower are available to develop and implement the requirements of the Directed Energy
   Weapons Safety Program.
   6.8. AFMC/CC is responsible to support development of safe DEW. AFMC/CC is
   responsible to evaluate the human target effects of DEW. AFMC/CC is responsible for
   conducting medical and health effects consulting and education and training. AFMC/CC
   shall establish, administer, and maintain the DoD Electromagnetic Field (EMF) Injury
   Hotline and Tri-Service Laser Injury Hotline to provide immediate expert medical advice in
   the event of an injury or suspected injury to DoD personnel from EMF and lasers.
   AFMC/CC shall establish, administer, and maintain the EMF Overexposure Repository for
   DoD Components to access, analyze, and use in EMF protection programs.
   6.9. AETC/CC is responsible for developing directed energy curricula and providing training
   to accomplish the requirements of this directive.
   6.10. Commanders at all levels with a mission incorporating DEW are responsible for
   understanding the capabilities and hazards of DEW systems. They will incorporate DEW
   safety, consistent with applicable test, training or operational requirements, in their mission
   planning, decisions and operations.
      6.10.1. Outside the United States, its territories or possessions, MAJCOM and NAF
      commanders must be aware of the safe-use requirements of applicable host nation laws
      and advise subordinate commanders.
      6.10.2. Before fielding any DEW, MAJCOM, NAF, and subordinate echelon
      Commanders will coordinate their proposed concept of employment with their staff judge
      advocate (SJA) for a legal review to ensure compliance with applicable law.
7. MAJCOMs, field operating agencies, and direct reporting units, if applicable, will not
issue instructions that implement this policy directive without AF/SE approval.




                                            MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                           AFPD91-4 21 October 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 6055.1, DoD Safety and Occupational Health (SOH) Program, 19 Aug 1998
AFPD 90-8, Environment, Safety & Occupational Health Management and Risk Management, 1
Sep 2004
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 28 Sep 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DEW—Directed Energy Weapon(s)
EMF—Electromagnetic Field
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
