BY ORDER OF THE                                         AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-20
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     12 APRIL 2012

                                                                               Special Management

                                                            ENCROACHMENT MANAGEMENT
                                                                            PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SAF/IE                                                                     Certified by: SAF/IE
                                                                                (Mr. Terry Yonkers)
                                                                                             Pages: 7




This publication implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4165.57, Air
Installations Compatible Use Zones, and Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3200.15,
Sustainment of Ranges and Operating Areas. This publication applies to Air Force military
members and civilian employees, including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the
Air National Guard (ANG). This publication also will apply to contractor support personnel
through specific contractual language or other legally binding agreement with the Department of
the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.


1. Purpose. This directive establishes the overarching encroachment management policy. It
establishes a cross-functional encroachment management structure at all levels of the Air Force
to implement the encroachment management policy. Encroachment, as addressed by this policy
is defined as follows: In connection with the encroachment challenges set forth in Paragraph 1.7,
any deliberate action by any governmental or non-governmental entity or individual that does, or
is likely to inhibit, curtail, or impede current or future military activities within the installation
 2                                                                     AFPD90-20 12 APRIL 2012


complex and/or mission footprint; or any deliberate military activity that is, or is likely to be
incompatible with a community’s use of its resources. Successful encroachment management
requires a framework that integrates existing initiatives and programs, and ensures the ability to
proactively identify and address emerging issues.
     1.1. The continued capability of the Air Force to conduct its mission is dependent on the
     availability and capacity of its installations, ranges, airspace, and electromagnetic spectrum.
     1.2. Successful encroachment management requires proactive and sustained leadership at all
     levels, and an understanding of the potential impacts of encroachment to the Air Force
     mission and nearby communities. Commanders and staff must have the necessary knowledge
     and tools to proactively identify and either prevent or mitigate encroachment impacts.
     1.3. Proactive engagement and collaborative relationships with stakeholders are of
     paramount importance to sustaining the Air Force’s ability to conduct mission operations.
     Successful engagement and collaboration requires establishing and maintaining strong
     relationships between the Air Force and identified stakeholders, including tenants, local
     communities, regional organizations, state and Federal agencies, and the private sector.
     1.4. Promoting compatible use of land, air and sea to prevent adverse impacts to mission and
     communities is a key tenet of the overall encroachment management program. Two key
     objectives of compatible use are to 1) protect Air Force operational capability from the
     effects of land use which are incompatible with aircraft and related operations, and 2) assist
     local, regional, state and federal officials in protecting the public’s health, safety and welfare
     by promoting compatible use of air, land and sea.
     1.5. Sustaining military readiness may require both basic and applied research to resolve
     encroachment impacts on critical mission capabilities. The Air Force will capitalize on its
     research capability to develop solutions and strategies to eliminate or minimize the impacts
     of incompatible development or vulnerabilities to current technologies.
     1.6. Technologies being developed by the private sector have resulted in unintentional
     impacts to the performance of Air Force mission-critical equipment. The Air Force must be
     able to address the impacts of emerging technology that can adversely affect mission
     capability and military readiness.
     1.7. Encroachment challenges are grouped into the following five broad categories:
        1.7.1. Environmental, Health, or Safety regulatory restrictions, such as those concerning
        threatened & endangered species/critical habitat, unexploded ordnance, air quality,
        cultural resources, and marine resources.
        1.7.2. Compatible use issues such as airborne noise, land development, renewable energy
        development, and electromagnetic interference.
        1.7.3. Competition for resources, such as airspace, water supply, and spectrum.
        1.7.4. Security, such as range trespassers.
        1.7.5. Long term mission sustainment challenges, such as climate change and other
        natural factors.
2. Policy. This Air Force Policy Directive creates the necessary overarching structure to enable
the Air Force to execute its encroachment management program efficiently and effectively. The
AFPD90-20 12 APRIL 2012                                                                      3


Air Force encroachment management program builds on existing tools and programs (including
the Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) Program) and integrates these with any
additional strategies and tools, needed to identify and address emerging issues, into a
comprehensive framework. The Air Force will:
   2.1. Assess plans and decisions on developing installation complex lands with all
   appropriate organizations and determine potential impacts to mission, the environment, and
   critical infrastructure.
   2.2. Use technology whenever feasible to eliminate or minimize impacts on Air Force
   training, operations, and research and development, as well as to improve Air Force
   predictive models and enhance outreach to interested communities.
   2.3. Proactively engage with agencies at all levels of the government, Federally-recognized
   Tribes, the public and non-governmental organizations to educate them about Air Force
   mission requirements, and how their activities may impact the Air Force’s execution of those
   missions.
   2.4. Consider the acquisition of real property interests when necessary to protect mission
   capability.
   2.5. Comply with all Executive Orders, Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and Air
   Force policies and instructions related to encroachment management.
   2.6. Develop education and training resources and curricula to increase awareness of
   encroachment issues and the strategies to manage encroachment.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and
   Logistics (SAF/IE):
       3.1.1. Serves as the OPR for the Air Force Encroachment Management program.
       3.1.2. Develops and maintains overarching encroachment management policy for
       Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) approval.
       3.1.3. Directs the establishment of a cross-functional Encroachment Management
       Working Group (EMWG) to assist in the development of policy as well as to review and
       recommend positions on encroachment and long-term mission sustainment challenges.
       3.1.4. Develops encroachment awareness training material and revises curricula to
       include encroachment management sections in educational materials and curricula; in
       coordination with AETC, formal education and training in support of encroachment
       management.
   3.2. The Assistant Secretary for Acquisition (SAF/AQ):
       3.2.1. Ensures Air Force publications written within his/her area of responsibility are
       consistent with Air Force encroachment management policy.
       3.2.2. Provides overall management of Air Force acquisition consistent with
       encroachment management policy including considering the impacts of new weapons
       systems acquisitions on communities.
4                                                                 AFPD90-20 12 APRIL 2012


       3.2.3. Supports Core Function Lead Integrators (CFLI) in identifying research
       requirements for inclusion in Core Function Master Plans and Science and Technology
       Annexes.
       3.2.4. Provides inputs to SAF/IE on mission requirements as required to support Air
       Force encroachment management and compatible development programs related to
       Research and Development activities conducted within the installation complex and
       mission footprint.
    3.3. The Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO
    A6):
       3.3.1. Ensures Air Force publications and equipment standards written within his/her
       area of responsibility are consistent with Air Force encroachment management policy.
       3.3.2. Identifies and assesses research and revised standards needed to prevent or
       mitigate potential encroachment impacts to Information Technology (IT) programs and
       communications equipment.
    3.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1):
       3.4.1. Ensures Air Force publications written within his/her area of responsibility are
       consistent with Air Force encroachment management policy.
       3.4.2. Provides policy and guidance for integrating and vetting new/emerging
       institutional education and training requirements or learning outcomes into accessions,
       professional military education and ancillary training.
    3.5. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5):
       3.5.1. Ensures Air Force publications written within his/her area of responsibility are
       consistent with Air Force encroachment management policy.
       3.5.2. Provides inputs to SAF/IE on mission requirements necessary to support Air Force
       encroachment management and compatible development programs within the installation
       complex and mission footprint.
       3.5.3. Identifies and assesses potential encroachment impacts on Air Force military
       operations and identifies and prioritizes research needed to prevent or mitigate such
       impacts.
    3.6. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7):
       3.6.1. Ensures Air Force publications written within his/her area of responsibility are
       consistent with Air Force encroachment management policy.
       3.6.2. Develops specific guidance in Air Force publications on the management,
       implementation, and execution of the Air Force Compatible Use Program.
       3.6.3. Develops policy and guidance for managing Air Force community noise and
       identify and prioritizes research needed to identify, assess and evaluate noise impacts to
       humans, structures and animals.
    3.7. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8):
AFPD90-20 12 APRIL 2012                                                                      5


     3.7.1. Ensures Air Force publications written within his/her area of responsibility are
     consistent with Air Force encroachment management policy.
     3.7.2. Integrates encroachment management requirements into Air Force fiscal guidance
     through functional input.
     3.7.3. Ensures the Strategic Basing process includes consideration of encroachment to
     mission and local communities.
  3.8. The Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE):
     3.8.1. Ensures Air Force publications written within his/her area of responsibility are
     consistent with Air Force encroachment management policy.
     3.8.2. Provides inputs to SAF/IE on mission requirements as required to support Air
     Force encroachment management and compatible development programs related to Test
     and Evaluation activities conducted within the installation complex and mission footprint.
     3.8.3. Identifies and assesses potential encroachment impacts on Test and Evaluation
     programs and identifies and prioritizes research needed to prevent or mitigate such
     impacts.
  3.9. Air Force Major Commands (MAJCOMs) and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs):
     3.9.1. Develop MAJCOM and DRU-level processes for encroachment management that
     comply with Air Force policy.
     3.9.2. Establish a cross-functional Encroachment Management Team (EMT) to assist
     with the development of the MAJCOM and DRU-level strategic vision and to monitor
     the impact of encroachment and sustainment challenges within their installation
     complexes and mission footprints.




                                          MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                          Secretary of the Air Force
 6                                                             AFPD90-20 12 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Directive 3200.15, Sustainment of Ranges and Operating Areas (OPAREAs), 10 January
2003
DoD Directive 3030.01, Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA), 5 March 2006
DoD Instruction 3030.3, Joint Land Use Study (JLUS) Program, 13 July 2004
DoD Instruction 4165.57, Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) Program, 2 May 2011
DoD Instruction 4710.02, DoD Interactions with Federally Recognized Tribes, 14 September
2006
DoD Instruction 4715.03, Natural Resources Conservation Program, 18 March 2011
DoD Instruction 4715.13, DoD Noise Program, 15 November 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
afrc—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AICUZ—Air Installation Compatible Use Zone
ANG—Air National Guard
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EMWG—Encroachment Management Working Group
EMT—Encroachment Management Team
IT—Information Technology
MAJCOM—Major Command
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
AFPD90-20 12 APRIL 2012                                                                             7


SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force

Terms
Community Noise—(also called Environmental Noise) is noise generated by Air Force
operations and experienced by the community. It does not include workplace noise. It includes
noise generated by military activities and weapon systems including aircraft, ordnance, small
arms, large arms, rockets, bombs, sonic booms, and operation of large ground vehicles.
Compatible Use—Uses of land, water or airspace by the military or others that can co-exist with
minimal adverse effects.
Encroachment Management—Efforts undertaken by the Air Force alone or in conjunction with
other federal, local, state, regional, and private entities, to prevent, eliminate or minimize impacts
caused by encroachment.
Encroachment—In connection with the encroachment challenges set forth in Paragraph 1.7, any
deliberate action by any governmental or non-governmental entity or individual that does, or is
likely to inhibit, curtail, or impede current or future military activities within the installation
complex and/or mission footprint; or any deliberate military activity that is, or is likely to be
incompatible with a community’s use of its resources.
Installation Complex—The land, facilities, airspace and ranges which provide direct mission
support to and /or are managed by the installation. This includes a combination of land and
facilities comprised of a main installation and its noncontiguous properties (auxiliary air fields,
annexes, and missile fields) that provide direct support to or are supported by that installation.
Installation complexes may comprise two or more properties, e.g., a major installation, a minor
installation, or a support site, each with its associated annex(es) or support property(ies).
Major Installation (Air Force Base, Air Base, Air Reserve Base, or Air Guard Base)—A
self-supporting center of operations for actions of importance to Air Force combat, combat
support, or training activities. Operated by an Active, Reserve, or Guard unit of wing size or
larger with all land, facilities, and organic support needed to accomplish the unit mission. Must
have real property accountability through ownership, lease, permit, or other written agreement
for all real estate and facilities. Agreements with foreign governments which give the Air Force
jurisdiction over real property meet this requirement. Shared-use agreements (as opposed to
joint-use agreements where the Air Force owns the runway) do not meet the criteria to be major
installations.
Minor Installation (Air Force Station, Air Station, Air Reserve Station, or Air Guard
Station)—Facility operated by Active, Reserve, or Guard unit of at least squadron size that does
not otherwise satisfy all the criteria for a major installation. Examples of minor installations are
Reserve and Guard flying operations that are located at civilian-owned airports.
Mission Footprint—The installation complex plus any land, facilities, airspace and/or ranges
which are not managed by the installation, but which provide direct, routine support to the
mission.
