BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 84-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                          16 SEPTEMBER 2005
                                                                              Certified Current 16 January 2014
                                                                                          History
                                                                         HISTORICAL INFORMATION,
                                                                               PROPERTY, AND ART



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: AF/HO (Mr William Heimdahl)                              Certified by: AF/HO (Mr. C. R. Anderegg)
Supersedes AFPD 84-1, 1 May 1997                                                               Pages: 4
                                                                                        Distribution: F

Informed perspectives based on historical information enable the Air Force to understand the present and
plan for the future while remembering its rich heritage. The Air Force needs a well-structured history pro-
gram to gather that information and mold those perspectives. The Air Force also requires a viable
museum and heritage system to collect, conserve, and display examples of its material culture and tech-
nology. Furthermore, the Air Force needs a vibrant art program to acquire and display works of art that
portray its mission and history. This directive establishes policies for collecting, preserving, organizing,
retrieving, interpreting, and employing historical information and properties as well as art to keep a com-
prehensive record of the Air Force’s mission accomplishment and meet future needs. This further imple-
ments 10 USC 2572 and DoD Directive 4140.1

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision updates the previous edition of the policy directive and makes a variety of editorial changes
and organizational name changes.


1. Purpose. The Air Force History and Museums Program (HMP) is a Total Force (active, ANG, AFR)
program and performs the following major functions:
   1.1. Collect, record, and preserve valuable historical information in both peace and war.
   1.2. Research and analyze historical information to write, publish, and distribute objective publica-
   tions on past Air Force activities.
   1.3. Provide historical perspective, advice, and factual data to Air Force leaders at all levels.
   1.4. Answer information requests and assist other agency and individual researchers.
   1.5. Promote institutional heritage and awareness of air and space power.

2. Policies. The following policies support the purpose described above.
2                                                                      AFPD84-1 16 SEPTEMBER 2005


    2.1. Air Force organizations, wing level and above (plus unique or independent groups or squadrons)
    will prepare periodic histories to serve as a permanent record of their missions, basic structure, key
    data, and important activities.
    2.2. Air Force organizations will ensure their historians are integral members of commanders’ staffs
    with access to all information needed to compile an accurate and comprehensive historical record.
    2.3. To enhance the Air Force’s institutional memory, historians will provide commanders, staffs, and
    other customers with historical publications and timely background information relevant to current
    issues and actions.
    2.4. To preserve and display its material heritage, the Air Force will operate a national museum,
    which major commands may supplement with field museums, displays of aerospace vehicles, and
    other historical property holdings.
    2.5. To portray its history and culture, the Air Force will accept, maintain, and display the works of
    professional artists.
    2.6. During war, humanitarian missions, and contingency operations, Air Force organizations will
    thoroughly document their involvement to preserve detailed information as a basis for analysis and
    lessons learned, and they will support historical property collection teams in obtaining US, allied, and
    enemy equipment and artifacts for museums and historical displays. HMP will support war and con-
    tingency operations with a well-organized system of deployed historians and appropriate museum
    personnel.
    2.7. History offices and museums will endeavor to inform and educate the public about the history of
    the Air Force and the importance of air power.
    2.8. As a means of fostering esprit de corps and identifying its heritage, each Air Force organization
    will have a unique lineage and distinctive heraldry.
    2.9. To ensure an effective museum and heritage system, as well as art program, Air Force organiza-
    tions will properly account for, protect, and exhibit historical property and Air Force art in their cus-
    tody.

3. Responsibilities. The following responsibilities and authorities implement the policies stated above.
    3.1. The Director, Air Force History and Museums Policies and Programs, (HQ USAF/HO) is respon-
    sible for: setting policies and standards for historical products and services; providing management
    oversight to its subordinate division, the Air Force Historical Studies Office (HQ USAF/HOH), and
    its field operating agency, the Air Force Historical Research Agency (AFHRA); and furnishing guid-
    ance and policy for the USAF museum and heritage system.
    3.2. HQ USAF/HOH is responsible for preparing books, studies, and other publications; supporting
    Headquarters Air Force, government agencies, and individuals with historical analysis and research;
    and engaging in certain educational activities.
    3.3. The AFHRA, as the Air Force’s central historical repository, furnishes information throughout
    the Air Force and to other agencies, institutions, and individuals. It is responsible for collecting, orga-
    nizing, and disseminating USAF and air power related history, providing research services, compiling
    and approving organizational lineage, honors, and heraldry actions, and supporting wartime and con-
    tingency operations.
AFPD84-1 16 SEPTEMBER 2005                                                                             3


  3.4. The National Museum of the United States Air Force, a primary subordinate unit of Air Force
  Materiel Command, is the Air Force’s central museum and is responsible for managing the acquisition
  and care of historical property and serving as the Air Force’s focal point for interfacing with other
  museums worldwide.
  3.5. SAF/AFAPO is responsible to maintain, catalog, inventory, etc., all items designated as Air Force
  art/sculptures that do not fall under the purview of the museum programs.
  3.6. Historians at major commands (MAJCOM) and other field organizations are responsible for pre-
  paring periodic histories and other historical publications according to standards and requirements
  established by HQ USAF/HO.
  3.7. To ensure uniformity and adherence to standards, MAJCOMs are responsible for overseeing and
  assessing the historical products and historical property management of subordinate organizations.
  3.8. Chaplains are responsible for providing historical information under the guidance of the Office of
  the Chief of the Chaplain Service. MAJCOM-level surgeons are responsible for preparing medical
  historical reports under the guidance of the Office of the Air Force Surgeon General, which prepares
  its own annual history.



                                             Pete Geren
                                             Acting Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                   AFPD84-1 16 SEPTEMBER 2005


                                             Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
10 USC 2572, Sections of Title 16
AFMD 30, Air Force Historical Research Agency
AFI 36-2863, History Awards
AFPD 38-5, Unit Designations
AFI 84-101, Historical Products, Services, and Requirements
AFI 84-102, Historical Operations in Contingency and War
AFI 84-103, USAF Heritage Program
AFI 84-104, Art Program
AFI-84-105, Organizational Lineage, Honors and Heraldry

Terms
Air Force Art Office (AFAPO)—consists of paintings and sculptures that portray people, equipment,
activities, facilities, and other subjects related to the United States Air Force and its predecessor
organizations in the U.S. Army. The Air Force Art Collection comprises historically significant works of
Air Force Art, mostly donated by professional artists, controlled through a central inventory by the Air
Force Art Program.
Documentation—consists of paper and other records, including electronic, used by historians to
substantiate decisions and actions, to prepare historical publications, and to provide research and
reference services.
Heraldry—consists of emblems, mottoes, and designations of establishments and units as depicted
respectively on shields and disks.
Historical Properties—consist of aerospace vehicles, weapons, equipment, supplies, personal property,
and other physical manifestations of the Air Force’s heritage designated as artifacts by the Director,
National Museum of the USAF.
Historical Publications—are periodic histories of organizations (normally annual or semiannual), books,
studies, articles, pamphlets, documentaries, and reference works.
Honors—recognize USAF participation in combat or meritorious achievement. They appear as service,
campaign, Armed Forces Expeditionary, and decoration streamers affixed to the organizational flag of an
establishment or to the guiding of a unit.
Lineage—is the tracking of actions affecting the status of an organization over time.
Repository—is a place where historical publications and documentation are stored and safeguarded.
