BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-28
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                   17 APRIL 2012

                                                                                        Operations

                                                     AIR FORCE CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT
                                                                AND EXPERIMENTATION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A5XS                                                                Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                       (Lt Gen Herbert J. Carlisle)
                                                                                          Pages: 6
Supersedes:    AFPD 10-28,
               15 September 2003


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) provides policy for Air Force Concept Development
and Experimentation (AF CD&E). It implements AF responsibilities within Chairman, Joint
Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3010.02C, Joint Concept Development and Experimentation
(JCD&E), applicable guidance in CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System (JCIDS), and Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 5100.01, Functions
of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components, and applies to AF organizations (*see
AFRL/Air Force Planning caveats in terms section), including the Air National Guard, and Air
Force Reserve Command. Recommended changes to this publication should be sent to the office
of primary responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes
include: combining concept development and experimentation into a single AFPD; incorporation
of Joint Concept Development & Experimentation (JCD&E) and Service experimentation
lexicon, policy section added, responsibilities section revised, updated references, Joint (CJCSI)
 2                                                                    AFPD10-28 17 APRIL 2012


and Service definitions added in the Terms section. This directive supersedes and renames Air
Force Policy Directive 10-28, dated 15 September 2003, titled Air Force Concept Development.
1. Policy. Air Force CD&E provides unique opportunities for understanding how the demands
on Air Force (AF) forces will evolve over time. By presenting new ideas for airpower (air, space
and cyberspace) employment, concepts will guide how the AF organizes, trains and equips
forces and describe how capabilities might be used to meet emerging and future
Joint/Interagency challenges. AF concepts can also shape plans for achieving national security
and military objectives. AF experimentation consists of activities designed to examine future
challenges, support the development of new concepts and capabilities, and/or evaluate potential
solutions. Wargaming is one of the primary methods of CD&E experimentation. AF CD&E
supports a range of capability and force development processes, both internal and external to the
AF. The Air Force will:
     1.1. Conduct concept development activities to explore, describe and validate how current
     and/or future capabilities might be employed to accomplish desired ends and address military
     challenges.
     1.2. Conduct experimentation to help mature applicable concepts, identify gaps in future
     capabilities or concepts, and evaluate solutions that can mitigate current and future capability
     gaps.
     1.3. Maintain a wargaming capability focused on mid and long term military challenges.
     1.4. Support JCD&E in accordance with Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) directives.
     1.5. Collaborate with other CD&E stakeholders, Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Combatant
     Commands, sister services, and other applicable organizations to improve development and
     to leverage the use of experimentation opportunities.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Chief of Staff, United States Air Force (CSAF) oversees and approves
     Headquarters Air Force (HAF) Title 10 wargames.
     2.2. Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) exercises policy,
     guidance and oversight (PGO) for Air Force and MAJCOM level CD&E. AF/A3/5 will:
        2.2.1. Represent the AF to the Joint Staff in JCD&E governance activities.
        2.2.2. Integrate AF CD&E objectives into JCD&E activities.
        2.2.3. Link AF CD&E to the operational capability requirements development process
        and documentation procedures.
        2.2.4. Develop and publish a Concept Development Air Force Instruction (AFI).
        2.2.5. Develop and publish an Experimentation AFI.
        2.2.6. Provide periodic AF CD&E activity reports to the CSAF as directed.
        2.2.7. Conduct CSAF directed Title 10 biennial wargame, operationally focused to
        address military challenges and concept exploration.
     2.3. Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) will:
AFPD10-28 17 APRIL 2012                                                                    3


     2.3.1. Conduct CSAF directed Title 10 biennial wargame to address future concepts and
     force structure alternatives.
     2.3.2. Develop and maintain the Air Force Toolbox for use by the Air Force, other
     services, Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the Joint Staff.
     2.3.3. Track CSAF approved Future Capabilities Wargame concept and capability
     studies, and advocate for future programming action.
  2.4. HAF 2-letter offices conducting Air Force CD&E activities will notify AF/A3/5 in order
  to ensure consolidated reporting of Air Force CD&E activities.
  2.5. MAJCOMs, Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) and Forward Operating Agencies (FOAs)
  will:
     2.5.1. Support AF CD&E activities, to include Title 10 wargames, as directed by the
     CSAF and coordinated with lead organization.
     2.5.2. Inform AF/A3/5 and AF/A8 on MAJCOM approved concepts, experimentation
     and wargame plans and activities.
     2.5.3. Submit AF and JCD&E requirements to AF/A3/5 as directed and/or required.
     2.5.4. Participate in JCD&E activities as directed by the CSAF and coordinated with
     AF/A3/5.
     2.5.5. Submit CD&E activity reports to AF/A3/5 as required.




                                          Michael B. Donley
                                          Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                            AFPD10-28 17 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
DoDD 5100.01, Functions of the Department of Defense and Its Major Components, 21 Dec
2010
CJCSI 3010.02C, Joint Concept Development and Experimentation (JCD&E), 15 Jan 2012
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), 10 Jan 2012
JP 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military & Associated Terms, 8 Nov 2010, as amended 15 Aug 2011
JP 3-34, Joint Engineer Operations, 30 Jun 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AF/A3/5—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and
Requirements
AF/A5XS—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Concepts Strategy and Wargaming Division
AF/A8—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and
Programs
AF/A8XC—Headquarters, United States Air Force, Future Concepts and Air Force Strategic
Environmental Assessment Division
AF CD&E—Air Force Concept Development and Experimentation
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CSAF—Chief of Staff, United States Air Force
DoDD—Department Of Defense Directive
DRUs— - Direct Reporting Units
FG—Future Game or Future Capabilities Games
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
AFPD10-28 17 APRIL 2012                                                                           5


JCD&E—Joint Concept Development and Experimentation
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
JS—Joint Staff
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PGO—Policy, Guidance and Oversight
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UE—Unified Engagement

Terms
Air Force Toolbox— Official repository of Air Force Program of Record and future concept
systems and platforms. The Toolbox is maintained by AF/A8XC and used to develop Toolkits
for use by the Air Force, Sister Services, OSD, Joint Staff, and other organizations.
Air Force Toolkit— A subset of the Air Force Toolbox; tailored to meet the customers’ needs;
used to execute wargame, conduct experiments, run exercises, or provide analysis.
Concept— A visualization of future operations; describes how a force, using military art and
science, might employ capabilities necessary to meet future military challenges. Links strategic
guidance, planning process and plans to the development and employment of future Air Force
capabilities. Concepts serve as "engines for transformation" that may ultimately lead to doctrine,
organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities (DOTMLPF)
and policy changes. (See related definition/discussion of Joint Concepts in CJCSI 3010.02C, 15
Jan 12). (*This AFPD does not necessarily apply to concept development efforts accomplished
during the Air Force Development Planning (DP) process. DP concept developers (AF Materiel
Command and AF Space Command) employ Early Systems Engineering (Early SE) to mature
concepts (prospective materiel solutions) against validated JCIDS capability needs leading to a
Materiel Development Decision (MDD). DP concept development and Early SE efforts include
developing Concept Characterization Technical Documents (CCTDs) and supporting MAJCOMs
with Analysis of Alternative (AoA) Study Guidance/Plan development. See AFIs 63-101 and
63-1201 for additional information on DP and Early SE.)
Exercise— A military maneuver or simulated wartime operation involving planning,
preparation, and execution that is carried out for the purpose of training and evaluation. (JP 3-34)
Experiment— A process to explore the effects of manipulating a variable; an analytical activity
to determine the efficacy of something previously untried, examine the validity of a hypothesis,
or demonstrate a known or believed truth within a specific context. (CJCSI 3010.02C, 15 Jan
12)
Experimentation— An iterative process for developing and assessing concept-based hypotheses
to identify and recommend the best value-added solutions for changes in doctrine, organization,
training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel, and facilities and policy required to
achieve significant advances in future joint operational capabilities. (CJCSI 3170.01G, Mar 09)
 6                                                                AFPD10-28 17 APRIL 2012


For the purposes of AF CD&E, experimentation methods include wargaming, exercises and
experiments, with wargaming as the primary method of CD&E experimentation. Experiments
can be another method of experimentation (*this AFPD does not necessarily apply to Research
and Development experimentation such as conducted by the Air Force Research Laboratory).
Experimentation can include live, virtual and constructive activities to provide a “low-risk”
environment to explore and assess new or refined concepts, processes, technology, tactics,
techniques and procedures. Exercises are not an explicit experimentation activity, but can
provide a venue to explore some limited experimentation objectives.
Title 10 Wargame— A CSAF-directed, HAF-conducted wargame which explores current and
future issues impacting doctrine, force structure and concepts (future, employment, operational,
etc.). HAF conducts two Title 10 wargames: 1. Unified Engagement (UE) is the biennial
wargame operationally focused to address military challenges and concept exploration
(traditionally 12 years out), and 2. the AF Future Capabilities wargame (FG) is the biennial
wargame focused on addressing future concepts and force structure alternatives (traditionally
20+ years out).
Wargame— A simulation, by whatever means, of a military operation involving two or more
opposing forces, using rules, data, and procedures designed to depict an actual or assumed real-
life situation. (Joint Publication 1-02, 8 Nov 10, as amended through 15 Aug 11)
