BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 31-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              28 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                          Security

                                                                      INTEGRATED DEFENSE




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A7SO                                                                Certified by: AF/A7S
                                                                  (Brig Gen Jimmy E. McMillian)
Supersedes:    AFPD31-1, 7 July 2007;                                                   Pages: 13
               AFPD31-2, 10 April 2009


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) establishes the framework for how the Air Force
formulates and applies Integrated Defense (ID). This Directive applies to all military and civilian
Air Force personnel, members of the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard, and other
individuals or organizations as required by binding agreement or obligation with the Department
of the Air Force. This Directive implements Department of Defense (DoD) Directive (DODD)
3025.13, Employment of Department of Defense Resources in Support of the United States Secret
Service; DODD 3150.3, Nuclear Force Security and Survivability; DoD Instruction (DODI)
3224.3, Physical Security Equipment (PSE) Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
(RDT&E); DODI 5200.08, Security of DoD Installations and Resources; DODI 5100.76,
Safeguarding Conventional Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives (AA&E), The AA&E Physical
Security Review Board; DODD 5200.31, DoD Military Working Dog (MWD) Program; DODD
5210.41, Security Policy for Protecting Nuclear Weapons; DODD 5210.56, Carrying of
Firearms and the Use of Force by DoD Personnel Engaged in Security, Law and Order, or
Counterintelligence; DoDI 6055.17, Installation Emergency Management Program; and DTM
09-012, Interim Policy Guidance For DoD Physical Access Control. This Directive interfaces
with AFDD 3-10, Force Protection, AFDD 3-27, Homeland Operations, and joint doctrine
contained in the Joint Publication 3-10, Joint Security Operations in Theater. This Directive
issues overarching policy on conducting ID operations in order to sustain air, space, and
cyberspace operations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and questions
 2                                                               AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011


about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Consolidates and
replaces AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense (ID), and AFPD 31-2, Air Provost Operations. This
revision further solidifies the responsibilities of the Installation Commander in protecting and
defending Air Force installations, personnel, and resources. An expanded list of references,
abbreviations, acronyms, and terms (Attachment 1) is attached.
1. Air, space and cyberspace power projection assets are critical enablers to the national security
of the United States and contribute to the achievement of national strategy objectives. A central
and fundamental component of the Air Force capability is the power projection platform from
which we operate, our installations and, their most important critical enabler, our professional
Airmen. Both require a deliberate and focused security strategy for protecting and defending air,
space, and cyberspace power, one that considers mission accomplishment, threats,
vulnerabilities, and the inherent risks associated with operation of a military installation. Within
the Air Force, that strategy is Integrated Defense (ID).
2. Protecting and defending Air Force Installations is a strategy; an end, means, ways
construct, that employs a number of Air Force capabilities in a variety of ways to produce
desired effects in the base defense battle space. This strategy, as depicted in Figure 1, leverages
assigned AF resources against adaptive threats to protect Air Force resources and personnel. It is
an Installation Commander’s inherent responsibility to identify risks and develop risk
management strategies to produce effects-based, integrated defense plans to ensure unhindered
Air Force, Joint and Coalition missions.
3. ID is the integration of multidisciplinary active and passive, offensive and defensive
capabilities, employed to mitigate potential risks and defeat adversary threats to Air Force
operations within the Base Boundary (BB) and the Base Security Zone (BSZ). These threats
include, but are not limited to, terrorists, insiders, foreign intelligence and security services
(FISS) and criminals. It is critical to integrate ID efforts with other Air Force capabilities to
achieve synergistic effects using an all-hazards approach. Potential hazards to an installation
include, but are not limited to, Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear-High Yield Explosive
(CBRNE) attacks, natural and man-made disasters, major accidents, and accidental or deliberate
release of hazardous materials, toxic industrial materials or chemicals.
AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                                                    3


Figure 1. Integrated Defense (ID) Concept.

                           Defending USAF Installations
                   End State: Unhindered Air Force, Joint , & Coalition Missions

 Means (Capabilities)
 1) C4ISR (Intel & Information)
 2) Antiterrorism & FP (FPCONs)
                                                                             Base Perimeter – Physical
 3) Physical Security
                                                                             boundary of the Installation
 4) Integrated Defense Forces
 5) Operational Fires
 6) Emergency Management
 7) IW/COIN
                                                                             Base Boundary – Tactical or
                                                                             Jurisdictional Limit, or
                                                                             “Coordination Line”
 Ways: Integrated Defense COAs
 1) CI/Information/Intel Ops
 2) Critical Asset Protection
 3) Restricted Area Denial                                                  Base Security Zone – Range
 4) Flightline Denial                                                       of Enemy Capabilities
 5) Soft Target Protection
 6) Key Personnel Protection
 7) Base Denial/Base Security          Garrison / Deployed
 8) CBRNE Defense
 9) Deception & OPSEC
                                                                       Threats to AF Assets
 10) Counter IED/IDF/MANPAD
                                                                       1) Natural Disaster
 11) Area Security Ops                                                 2) Industrial Accidents
 12) IW & COIN Ops / Civil Affairs
                                                                       3) Infectious Disease
 13) Counter Battery/CAS Ops                                           4) Overt Hostile Acts
 14) Full Spectrum Ops                                                 5) Covert Hostile Acts
 (Not all-inclusive listing of ways)                                   6) Criminal Activity


     Desired Effects: Anticipate, Deter, Detect, Assess, Warn, Defeat, Delay, Defend & Recover



4. Installation commanders have a wide variety of capabilities available to accomplish ID. The
capabilities (means) associated with ID include but are not limited to: Command, control,
communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR), weather,
Antiterrorism & Force Protection Conditions (FPCONs), Physical Security, Integrated Defense
Forces, Operational Fires, Emergency Management, and Irregular Warfare/Counterinsurgency
(COIN) capabilities. Each of these capabilities is critical to ensuring unhindered Air Force,
Joint, and Coalition operations in all environments from CONUS/OCONUS to austere deployed
locations.
5. The integration of multiple Air Force capabilities within the Military Decision Making
Process helps facilitate Course of Action (COA) development focused on achieving specific
desired effects designed to protect and defend critical assets necessary to meet the commander’s
intent.
6. The nine ID Desired Effects are: Anticipate, Deter, Detect, Assess, Warn, Defeat, Delay,
Defend, and Recover. Ideally, intelligence enables Commanders to anticipate threats and hazards
as the first step in protecting and defending an installation. Commanders will identify additional
ID effects to enable planning and course of action development. Installation Commanders will
publish the desired effects in a Commander’s Intent and mission statement.
7. ID COAs (ways) must comply with applicable laws and regulations. The laws, customs and
culture, Status of Forces Agreements, Rule of Engagement, and Law of Armed Conflict in some
 4                                                              AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011


areas of operation may impose constraints and restrictions on ID operations. Therefore
installations must work to synchronize ID efforts with friendly forces operating within the BSZ.
8. Commanders require timely and credible information and/or intelligence to protect their
forces and make ID operations decisions. The synchronization of information will be executed
through the Information Fusion Cell (IFC) IAW Air Force policy and guidance and tactics,
techniques, and procedures.
9. Communications with and dispatch of ID Forces is conducted from the Base Defense
Operations Center which is a part of the base Emergency Communications Center. Command
and Control of ID Forces will be conducted IAW Air Force Incident Management System
(AFIMS).
10. Roles and Responsibilities.
     10.1. Commanders at all levels will:
        10.1.1. Be responsible for executing assigned missions in the installation’s ID plan.
        10.1.2. Organize, train, and equip appropriate forces to conduct and sustain assigned ID
        operations.
     10.2. AF/A1 will:
        10.2.1. Provide guidance to MAJCOM/A1M on validating Security Forces manpower
        based on Security Forces Capability-based Manpower Standards.
        10.2.2. Provide policy and guidance for integrating and vetting new/emerging
        institutional education and training requirements or learning outcomes into accessions,
        professional military education and ancillary training.
     10.3. AF/A2 will:
        10.3.1. Provide operational, planning, programming and budgeting guidance for AF
        intelligence support to ID operations.
        10.3.2. Provide guidance supporting intelligence preparation of the operational
        environment (IPOE) and other threat information and staff estimates to support
        Installation Commanders’ ID operations.
        10.3.3. Provide collection management for ISR assets to support ID operations within the
        BSZ.
     10.4. AF/A3/5 will:
        10.4.1. Approve the Protection Level (PL) of Air Force assets.
        10.4.2. Oversee development of homeland defense and civil support and Counter-
        Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (C-CBRN) doctrine, policy and
        operational standards, as outlined in AFPD 10-8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support,
        and AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Operations.
        10.4.3. Develop doctrine, policy, standards and requirements for environmental threat
        and hazard information.
AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                                      5


  10.5. AF/A4/7 will:
     10.5.1. Oversee the training, organizing, and equipping of personnel for all facets of
     Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support for ID.
     10.5.2. Ensure Agile Combat Support, sustainment, and readiness through planning,
     programming and budgeting.
     10.5.3. Establish implementation guidance for ID.
     10.5.4. Integrate Air Force policy pertaining to protection and defense against all threats
     and hazards to Air Force Installations.
     10.5.5. Through the AF/A7S, develop sustainment, planning, programming, training,
     integration and guidance for effects-based ID capabilities.
     10.5.6. Through the AF/A7S, manage integration of ID Forces capabilities into AF,
     Joint, and Coalition, planning and operations.
     10.5.7. Through the AF/A7S, manage ID risk management methodology and approaches.
     10.5.8. Through the AF/A7C, provide field expertise, recommendations, support and
     other input for structural, environmental, Fire Emergency Services, Explosive Ordnance
     Disposal (EOD), Emergency Management (EM), and other engineer areas of expertise.
     10.5.9. Ensure the AF/A7C develops engineer-related force protection (FP) and ID
     training standards and equipment requirements.
     10.5.10. Through the AF/A7C, implement non-medical C-CBRN passive defense and
     consequence management programs as part of the EM program.
     10.5.11. Ensure the AF/A7S determines minimum system security standards. Advocate
     MAJCOM, AFRC, and ANG manpower, facilities, and equipment requirements for
     conducting in-garrison and expeditionary ID operations.
     10.5.12. Ensure the AF/A7S approves Air Force ID technology and equipment.
     10.5.13. Through the AF/A7S, establish and interpret policy and oversee Air Force Law
     and Order Programs.
     10.5.14. Develop, and coordinate with AF/A1D approval to integrate institutional
     education and training requirements, i.e. ancillary training, Professional Military
     Education, and accessions into the appropriate venues in support of ID operations prior to
     levying on the Total Force. NOTE: Career field specific requirements will be
     coordinated with the respective career field manager and/or Functional Authority Force
     Development for integration into the Career Field Education Training Plan and Course
     Training Standard as appropriate.
     10.5.15. Provide cost and justification information to the DoD Physical Security
     Equipment Action Group (PSEAG) in support of program budgeting and execution.
     10.5.16. Designate an individual to represent the Department of the Air Force in the DoD
     PSEAG.
     10.5.17. Through the AF/A7S, provide use of Explosive Detection Dog (EDD) Teams to
     support the United States Secret Service (USSS).
6                                                             AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011


       10.5.18. Ensure the AF/A7S designates the DoD program manager for all matters
       pertaining to training of DoD military working dogs.
       10.5.19. Ensure the AF/A7S coordinates with Undersecretary of Defense (Intelligence)
       (USD(I)) on development of policy for proper employment of EDD teams in support of
       the USSS.
       10.5.20. Through the AF/A7S, provide the DoD Physical Security Review Board with
       incident information relating to conventional arms, ammunition and explosives (AA&E)
       and provide support to USD(I) for task groups related to safeguarding AA&E.
       10.5.21. Through the AF/A7S, direct development of policy pertaining to arming of ID
       forces.
       10.5.22. Ensure the AF/A7S coordinates with the USD(I) on the security of DoD
       installations and resources.
    10.6. AF/SG will:
       10.6.1. Develop medical-related FP and ID training standards and equipment
       requirements.
       10.6.2. Provide field expertise, recommendations, support and other input for medical
       emergency management, medical CBRN operations and other medical areas of expertise.
    10.7. SAF/IG will:
       10.7.1. Ensure AFOSI provides Installation Commanders and Defense Force
       Commanders (DFCs) applicable counterintelligence (CI) information within the BSZ.
       10.7.2. Ensure AFOSI establishes an effective liaison with host nation and civilian
       intelligence, security, and law enforcement agencies.
       10.7.3. Ensure AFOSI maintains the capability to respond to criminal activities in
       support of law enforcement operations.
       10.7.4. Ensure AFOSI provides immediate, worldwide, complementary support to the
       deployed area commanders by conducting specialized CI, counter-threat, and protective
       service operations.
    10.8. MAJCOMs and ANG will:
       10.8.1. Develop guidance and procedures in support of installation ID operations.
       10.8.2. Program and budget resources to organize, train, and equip ID forces in support
       of installation ID operations.
    10.9. Installation Commanders will:
       10.9.1. Minimize mission degradation from threat activity within the BB and coordinate
       necessary support within the BSZ when the BSZ is not congruent with the BB; minimize
       loss of life and injury from threat activity and natural events; and protect government
       property and personnel from natural disasters, hostile and criminal acts.
       10.9.2. As the Integrated Defense Risk Authority, assume identified risk for assigned,
       attached or transient DoD personnel and assets.
AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                                         7


       10.9.3. Ensure an organic capability exists to continuously fuse all-source FP
       information and deliver force protection intelligence (FPI) in support of ID.
       10.9.4. Consider the potential effects produced by the threat/hazard, not just the nature of
       the threat/hazard.
       10.9.5. Ensure Installation Commander’s Intent and risk tolerance level is known and
       incorporated into local plans and instructions.
       10.9.6. Ensure the DFC appropriately coordinates, assigns and tasks the Integrated
       Defense Force.
       10.9.7. Ensure ID operations are synchronized with the appropriate Battle Space Owner
       (BSO).
       10.9.8. Establish and maintain appropriate Support Agreements (SA) with local, regional
       and state civil authorities, private sector organizations and other federal facilities to
       address local support that either party might provide for immediate response to
       emergencies. When developing SAs, Commander’s will ensure that Air Force
       commitments are consistent with relevant regulatory and statutory requirements,
       including specific funding authority.
11. Commanders of nuclear capable installations must plan and execute nuclear weapon security
operations in accordance with DoD S-5210.41-M, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual, and
AFMAN 31-108, Volumes 1-3, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Security Manual supplement.




                                             MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
 8                                                             AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD O-2000.8-H, DoD Antiterrorism Handbook, February 1, 2004
DoD Directive 3025.13, Employment of Department of Defense Resources in Support of the
United States Secret Service, September 13, 1985
DoD Directive 3150.3, Nuclear Force Security and Survivability (S2), March 8, 2004
DoD Directive 5200.27, Acquisition of Information Concerning Persons and Organizations Not
Affiliated with the Department of Defense, January 7, 2009
DoD Directive 5200.31, DoD Military Working Dog (MWD) Program, March 29, 2006
DoD Directive 5210.56, Use of Deadly Force and the Carrying of Firearms by DoD Personnel
Engaged in Law Enforcement and Security Duties, November 1, 2001
DoD Directive 5240.1, DoD Intelligence Activities, August 22, 2007
DoD Directive 5240.1-R, Procedures Governing the Activities of DoD Intelligence Components
That Affect United States Persons, December 1982
DoD Directive 5525.5, Department of Defense Cooperation with Civilian Law Enforcement
Officials, December 20, 1989
DoD Instruction 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism Standards, December 8, 2006
DoD Instruction 3224.03, Physical Security Equipment (PSE) Research, Development, Test, and
Evaluation (RDT&E), October 1, 2007
DoD Instruction 5030.34, Agreement Between the United States Secret Service and the
Department of Defense Concerning Protection of the President and Other Officials, September
17, 1986
DoD Instruction 5100.76, Safeguarding Conventional Arms, Ammunition, and Explosives
(AA&E) and the AA&E Physical Security Review Board, October 8, 2005
DoD Instruction 5200.08, Security of DoD Installations and Resources, December 10, 2005
DoD Instruction O-5210.63, DoD Procedures for Security of Nuclear Reactors and Special
Nuclear Materials, November 21, 2006
DoD Instruction 6055.17, Installation Emergency Management Program, January 13, 2009
DoD 5200.08-R, Physical Security Program, April 9, 2007
DoD S-5210.41-M, Nuclear Weapon Security Manual, July 13, 2009
Joint Publication 1-02, DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, October 31, 2009
Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations, March 22, 2010
Joint Publication 3-07.2, Antiterrorism, April 14, 2006
Joint Publication 3-10, Joint Security Operations in Theater, February 3, 2010
AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                                       9


Joint Publication 3-11, Operations in Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear
Environments, August 26, 2008
Joint Publication 3-27, Homeland Defense, July 8, 2007
Joint Publications 3-40, Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction, June 10, 2009
AFDD 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, 17 November 2003
AFDD 2-3, Irregular Warfare, 1 August 2007
AFDD 2-4, Combat Support, 23 March 2005
AFDD 3-10, Force Protection, 9 November 2004
AFDD 3-27, Homeland Operations, 21 March 2006
AFDD 3-40, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations, 17
September 2010
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning, Air & Space Expeditionary Force Presence Policy, 30 April
2009
AFPD 10-8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support, 7 September 2006
AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 September 2007
AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations, 30
September 2009
AFPD 10-35, Battlefield Airmen, 4 February 2005
HAF Mission Directive 1-38, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force (Logistics, Installations and
Mission Support),5 October 2009
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program Planning and Operations, 1
November 2010
AFI 15-128, Air Force Weather Roles and Responsibilities, 7 February 2011
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 October 2009, Incorporating Change 1, 20 September 2010
AFMAN 31-108, Nuclear Weapons Security Manual, 1 February 2009
FM 3-0, Operations, June 2001
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIMS—Air Force Incident Management System
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
 10                                                       AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011


AT—Antiterrorism
BB—Base Boundary
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
BSO—Battle Space Owner
BSZ—Base Security Zone
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear
CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and High-Yield Explosive
CCIR—Commander’s Critical Information Requirement
CI—Counterintelligence
COA—Course of Action
COIN—Counterinsurgency
C4ISR—Command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and
reconnaissance
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
DODD—Department of Defense Directive
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
FISS—Foreign Intelligence Security Service
FP—Force Protection
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FPI—Force Protection Intelligence
ID—Integrated Defense
IDP—Integrated Defense Plan
IDRMP—Integrated Defense Risk Management Process
IFC—Information Fusion Cell
IPOE—Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment
ISR—Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance
IW—Information Warfare
LOAC—Law of Armed Conflict
METT—TC—Mission, Enemy, Troops, Terrain/Weather, Time Available, and Civilians
PSEAG—Physical Security Equipment Action Group
PIR—Priority Intelligence Requirement
AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                                        11


PL—Protection Level
SA—Support Agreement

Terms
Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS)—A methodology designed to incorporate
the requirements of HSPD-5, the NIMS, the NRF, and OSD guidance while preserving the
unique military requirements of the expeditionary Air Force. AFIMS provides the Air Force with
an incident management system that is consistent with the single, comprehensive approach to
domestic incident management. AFIMS provides the Air Force with the coordinating structures,
processes, and protocols required to integrate its specific authorities into the collective
framework of Federal departments and agencies for action to include mitigation, preparedness,
response, and recovery activities. It includes a core set of concepts, principles, terminology, and
technologies covering the incident command system, EOCs, incident command, training,
identification, and management of resources, qualification and certification, and the collection,
tracking and reporting of incident information and incident resources. The AFIMS methodology
is incorporated into current operating practices through revised instructions and manuals, training
products, and exercise and evaluation tools.
Antiterrorism (AT)—Defensive measures used to reduce the vulnerability of individuals and
property to terrorist acts, to include limited response and containment by local military and
civilian forces. (JP 1-02)
Base Boundary (BB)—Joint Publication 3-10, Joint Security Operations in Theater, defines the
Base Boundary as a line that delineates the surface area of a base for the purpose of facilitating
coordination and deconfliction of operations between adjacent units, formations, or areas.
Therefore, the Base Boundary is not necessarily the base perimeter; rather, it should be
established based upon the factors of Mission, Enemy, Terrain and Weather, Time, Troops
available, and Civil considerations (METT-TC), specifically balancing the need of the ID forces
to control key terrain with their ability to accomplish the mission. These measures decrease the
likelihood of fratricide, prevent non-combatant casualties, and minimize damage to the property
of friendly civilians. Boundaries may not necessarily coincide with the fenced perimeter,
property lines or legal boundaries. Nevertheless, while tactical considerations will ideally
determine ID boundaries, the DFC will strictly adhere to legal, jurisdictional, host nation
constraints, commander‘s intent, and higher echelon orders and directives when conducting
operations within the Base Boundary.
Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC)—The BDOC is the command and control center for
ID operations during routine and emergency operations. The BDOC serves as the installation
commander’s tactical operation center for the integrated defense effort and in that role should
function as the Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance (C4ISR) integrator for ID operations.
Base Perimeter—The physical boundary of the installation.
Base Security Zone (BSZ)—The Base Security Zone is an Air Force unique concept and term
to be used intra-Service only. The Air Force uses the planning term BSZ to describe the area of
concern around an air base and to support the establishment and adjustment of the Base
Boundary. The BSZ is the area outside the base perimeter from which the base may be
 12                                                               AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011


vulnerable from standoff threats (e.g., mortars, rockets, man portable air defense systems
[MANPADS]). The installation commander should identify the BSZ and coordinate via their
operational chain of command with local, state, federal agencies (CONUS) or host nation or area
commander (OCONUS) for the BSZ to be identified as the Base Boundary. If the Base Boundary
does not include all of the terrain of the BSZ, the installation commander is still responsible for
either mitigating (through coordination with local, state, federal agencies [CONUS] or the area
commander or host nation [OCONUS] or accepting the risks of enemy attack from the terrain
outside the Base Boundary.
C-CBRN Operations—Offensive and defensive activities taken to detect, deter, disrupt, deny or
destroy an adversary’s CBRN capabilities and, if necessary, fight through a CBRN attack and
sustain operations worldwide. The main interlinked components of C-CBRN operations are
proliferation prevention, counterforce, active defense, passive defense and consequence
management. (AFDD 3-40)
Commander’s Critical Information Requirements (CCIRs)—CCIRs include priority
intelligence requirements (PIRs) and friendly force information requirements (FFIRs). CCIRs
generate PIRs and FFIRs; the staff focuses on answering the CCIRs to support the commander‘s
decision-making ability.
Emergency Communications Center (ECC)—The nerve center of an installation’s emergency
services response capability. Resources in the field communicate, often via radio, mobile data
terminal, or mobile phone, with ECC controllers who then effectively manage the emergency
resources for the area. These dispatch centers often use Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD)
software to assist in multiple incident dispatches to keep track of all the resources within their
area of responsibility. The ECC includes a central dispatch capability or its interim equivalent for
the installation. It should include the minimum functions of Fire Alarm Communications Center
(FACC), Base Defense Operations Center, and Medical Dispatch (as applicable).
Force Protection (FP)—The process of detecting threats and hazards to the Air Force and its
mission, and applying measures to deter, pre-empt, negate or mitigate them based on an
acceptable level of risk.
Force Protection Intelligence (FPI)—Analyzed, all-source information concerning threats to
Department of Defense (DoD) missions, people or resources and capabilities arising from
terrorists/insurgents, insiders, criminal entities, Foreign Intelligence and Security Services (FISS)
and opposing military forces and environmental/medical hazards. FPI is proactive and drives FP
decisions and operations. FPI is performed collaboratively by Intelligence, AFOSI, and Security
Forces personnel, with cooperation and support from several other entities (i.e., operations,
weather, medical, communications, etc). Intelligence supports unit deployments, readiness
training, mission planning and other mission execution functions, to include, but not limited to
integrated defense, the critical infrastructure program, and emergency management. In an
OCONUS environment, intelligence activities are conducted on foreign adversaries. However in
the CONUS, AFOSI and the local authorities are the lead for local adversaries, with intelligence
providing support to their efforts.
Information Fusion Cell (IFC)—IFC is an action cell where subject matter experts (SMEs)
from the Intelligence, AFOSI, Antiterrorism and Security Forces collaborate and conduct
Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE); the goal being to leverage
information and intelligence to support the timely identification of indicators and warnings of
AFPD31-1 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                                        13


emerging localized threats and threats within the area of interest. The IFC and its products are
the primary information sources that directly support the installation commander, the Integrated
Defense Working Group and the Threat Working Group (TWG) in making proactive decisions
for ID planning. The DFC must ensure information gaps identified within the IDRMP are
properly identified. This is accomplished through the development of Priority Intelligence
Requirements (PIRs) that are coordinated with the installation commander for inclusion into the
Commander’s Critical Information Requirements (CCIRs). IFC membership will be determined
by the installation/higher headquarters commander.
Integrated Defense (ID)—The integration of multidisciplinary active and passive, offensive and
defensive capabilities, employed to mitigate potential risks and defeat adversary threats to Air
Force operations.
Law and Order Operations—Law and Order Operations are a core capability of Air Force
Security Forces. These operations include active and passive defense measures, employed across
the legally-defined ground dimension of the operational environment, to mitigate potential risks
and defeat adversary threats, to promote public order and efficient military operations. Law and
Order Operations directly contribute to an installation’s Integrated Defense. Law and Order
Operations encompass many special disciplines. These include crime prevention, criminal
investigations, corrections, traffic enforcement, access control and military working dogs. The
specific authorities for Law and Order Operations may depend upon jurisdictional status of the
installation which must be considered in planning for, and providing these Operations.
Operational Fires—Operational fires are the operational-level commander’s application of
nonlethal and lethal weapons effects to accomplish objectives during the conduct of a campaign
or major operation.
Physical Security—That part of security concerned with physical measures designed to
safeguard personnel; to prevent unauthorized access to equipment, installations, material, and
documents; and to safeguard them against espionage, sabotage, damage, and theft. (JP 1-02)
Security—Measures taken by a military unit, activity, or installation to protect itself against all
acts designed to, or which may, impair its effectiveness. (JP 1-02)
