BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-70
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              13 OCTOBER 2010

                                                                                    PERSONNEL

                                                                                      DIVERSITY



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/MRD                                                                Certified by: SAF/MR
                                                                             (Daniel B. Ginsberg)
                                                                                           Pages: 6


This directive provides policy and oversight for Air Force Diversity. It implements, in part, DoD
Directive (DoDD) 1020.02, Diversity Management and Equal Opportunity (EO) in the
Department of Defense, and provides direction for its implementation within the Air Force. This
Directive applies to all Air Force personnel, active duty military, civilian employees, and Air
Force Reserve (AFR) and Air National Guard (ANG) units and members in Federal status.

Send recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR), the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Strategic
Diversity Integration (safmrd.workflow@pentagon.af.mil) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of a Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Scope and Definition.
   1.1. General. Diversity is a military necessity. Air Force capabilities and warfighting skills
   are enhanced by diversity among its personnel. At its core, such diversity provides our Total
   Force an aggregation of strengths, perspectives, and capabilities that transcends individual
   contributions. Air Force personnel who work in a diverse environment learn to maximize
   individual strengths and to combine individual abilities and perspectives for the good of the
   mission. Our ability to attract a larger, highly talented, diverse pool of applicants for service
   with the Air Force, both military and civilian, and develop and retain our current personnel
   will impact our future Total Force. Diversity is about strengthening our force and ensuring
 2                                                              AFPD36-70 13 OCTOBER 2010


     our long-term viability to support our mission to Fly, Fight, and Win…in Air, Space, and
     Cyberspace.
     1.2. Definition. In the Air Force, diversity is broadly defined as a composite of individual
     characteristics, experiences and abilities consistent with the Air Force Core Values and the
     Air Force Mission. Air Force Diversity includes but is not limited to: personal life
     experiences, geographic background, socioeconomic background, cultural knowledge,
     educational background, work background, language abilities, physical abilities,
     philosophical/spiritual perspectives, age, race, ethnicity and gender.
        1.2.1. This concept of diversity is to be tailored as specific circumstances and the law
        require.
        1.2.2. Diversity encompasses:
            1.2.2.1. Demographic Diversity - inherent or socially defined personal
            characteristics, including age, race/ethnicity, religion, gender, socioeconomic status,
            family status, disability, and geographic origin.
            1.2.2.2. Cognitive/Behavioral Diversity - differences in styles of work, thinking,
            learning and personality.
            1.2.2.3. Organizational/Structural Diversity - organizational/institutional background
            characteristics affecting interaction, including Service, component, and
            occupation/career field.
            1.2.2.4. Global Diversity - intimate knowledge of and experience with foreign
            languages and cultures, inclusive of both citizen and non-citizen personnel, exchange
            officers, coalition partners, and foreign nationals with whom we interact as part of a
            globally engaged Air Force.
     1.3. Air Force diversity initiatives complement, but remain separate and distinct from, Air
     Force Equal Opportunity compliance programs and activities.
     1.4. Air Force diversity is grounded on mutual respect among all personnel.
2. Air Force Diversity Policy
     2.1. The Air Force will develop and maintain comprehensive diversity initiatives to enhance
     the all volunteer Total Force, to include active duty, Guard, Reserve, and civilians.
     2.2. The initiatives will:
        2.2.1. Ensure all qualified personnel are welcome in America’s Air Force.
        2.2.2. Educate and train all personnel on the importance of diversity, including mutual
        respect, thus promoting an Air Force culture that values inclusion of all personnel in the
        Total Force and views diversity and inclusion throughout the workforce as a force
        multiplier in accomplishing the mission of the Air Force.
        2.2.3. Ensure that all personnel in the Total Force understand they are valued and have
        the opportunity to achieve their full potential while contributing to the mission of the Air
        Force.
AFPD36-70 13 OCTOBER 2010                                                                       3


       2.2.4. Establish effective diversity training, mentoring, and professional development
       that provide the tools for personnel to navigate career progression.
       2.2.5. Provide cultural awareness training to enhance organizational capabilities.
       2.2.6. Assess and report progress on these initiatives.
3. Roles and Responsibilities
3.1. Implementation of this diversity policy is the responsibility of every Air Force leader.
   3.2. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) establishes diversity policy.
   3.3. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs) (SAF/MR) is
   responsible for diversity at all levels of the Air Force and will:
       3.3.1. Provide strategic direction, oversight and guidance for attracting, recruiting,
       developing, leading, and retaining a diverse Total Force to leverage the unique qualities
       of the citizenry we serve and to achieve mission excellence.
       3.3.2. Establish and lead the Air Force Diversity Committee (AFDC). The AFDC will
       offer advice on major diversity policy issues and long-term strategic oversight and
       perspectives. The committee will be made up of representatives from functions
       responsible to implement this directive.
   3.4. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) provides
   guidance, resource advocacy, and implements diversity strategy, guidance and outreach and
   will:
       3.4.1. Be responsible for providing assessment and analysis of diversity initiatives. This
       assessment will include identification and analysis of any barriers to diversity within the
       Total Force (barrier analysis).
       3.4.2. Thru SAF/MR, provide SECAF and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF)
       periodic updates and an annual report on Air Force diversity.
       3.4.3. AF/A1 will co-chair the AFDC.
   3.5. Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC) and The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) will
   advise the SECAF, SAF/MR, and AF/A1 in all matters covered by this directive.
   3.6. Major Commands (MAJCOMs), National Guard Bureau (NGB), Field Operation
   Agencies (FOAs), and Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) will develop diversity initiatives and
   procedures which implement departmental policy and guidance.
   3.7. All leaders will be directly engaged in and accountable for all aspects of diversity
   initiatives and their implementation, including barrier analysis.
   3.8. All supervisors and managers are responsible for evaluating and strengthening their
   subordinates’ opportunities for success.
   3.9. All personnel are expected to understand the importance of diversity, including mutual
   respect, thereby helping to promote and strengthen an Air Force culture that values inclusion
   of all personnel in the Total Force and views diversity throughout the workforce as a force
   multiplier in accomplishing the mission of the Air Force.
 4                                                       AFPD36-70 13 OCTOBER 2010


4. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                        Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD36-70 13 OCTOBER 2010                                                                           5


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 1020.02, Diversity Management and Equal Opportunity
(EO) in the Department of Defense, 5 February 2009
Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower
and Reserve Affairs), 15 December 2008
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel, 23 December 2008
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training, 22 March 2004
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 August 2008
AFPD 36-27, Equal Opportunity, 22 May 2009
AFPD 36-34, Air Force Mentoring, 1 July 2000
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 1 February 2007

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DoD—Department of Defense
DRU—Direct Reporting Units
FOA—Field Operating Agencies
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
NGB—National Guard Bureau

Terms
Barrier Analysis—An investigation of anomalies found in workplace policies, procedures, and
practices that limit or tend to limit employment opportunities for individuals based on any of the
characteristics, experiences and abilities found in the definition of diversity (including members
of any race or national origin, either sex, or based on an individual's disability status). Barrier
analysis identifies the root causes of those anomalies, and if appropriate, eliminates them.
Diversity—Broadly defined as a composite of individual characteristics, experiences and
abilities consistent with the Air Force Core Values and the Air Force Mission. Air Force
Diversity includes but is not limited to: personal life experiences, geographic background,
socioeconomic background, cultural knowledge, educational background, work background,
language abilities, physical abilities, philosophical/spiritual perspectives, age, race, ethnicity and
gender.
Equal Opportunity (EO)—The right of all Airmen, military and civilian, to equal opportunity
in employment, free from discrimination.
 6                                                        AFPD36-70 13 OCTOBER 2010


Policy—A statement of important, high-level direction that guides decisions and actions
throughout the Air Force. Policy translates the ideas, goals, or principles contained in the
mission, vision, and strategic plan into actionable directives.
