                              Template modified:      27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                               AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-18
AIR FORCE                                                                                   1 MARCH 1997

                                                                                                 Operations

                                                       FOREIGN GOVERNMENTAL AIRCRAFT USE
                                                       OF UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AIRFIELDS



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: SAF/IAD (Stephen C. Stubbs)                                                Certified by: HQ USAF/XO
                                                                                    (Lt Gen John P. Jumper)
                                                                                                     Pages: 3
                                                                                              Distribution: F

This AFPD establishes policy on the use of United States Air Force airfields by foreign governmental air-
craft to balance United States Air Force operational needs with the furtherance of United States foreign
policy and national security objectives by permitting foreign governmental aircraft to land at United
States Air Force airfields and by providing support to those aircraft while on United States Air Force
installations.

1. The Air Force will manage the use of United States Air Force airfields by foreign governmental air-
craft.
   1.1. With the exception of in-flight emergencies, operation of foreign governmental aircraft at Air
   Force airfields will be limited to flights in support of official government business. The United States
   Air Force will permit foreign governmental aircraft, including military aircraft and civil aircraft char-
   tered for official governmental business, the use of Air Force airfields when compatible with the US
   defense mission. Official governmental business may be assumed with regard to airfields within the
   United States and its territories if the foreign government flight has been diplomatically cleared by the
   Department of State.
   1.2. Foreign governmental aircraft use of an Air Force airfield will be approved only if there will be
   no compromise of operations, security, readiness, safety, environment, or quality of life.

2. Air Force requirements will take precedence over foreign governmental aircraft operations, whether or
not previously authorized.

3. Foreign governmental aircraft use of Air Force airfields in the United States will be subject to Federal
laws and regulations. Foreign governmental aircraft use of Air Force airfields in foreign countries will be
subject to Federal laws and regulations that have extra-territorial effect and to applicable international
agreements with the country in which the Air Force installation is located.

4. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
   4.1. As program manager for foreign governmental aircraft, the Disclosure Division (SAF/IAD),
   Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force (International Affairs) determines the level of decision
   authority for landing authorizations. It may act on any request for any type of foreign governmental
   use; however, approval for certain categories and locations may be delegated to MAJCOM and instal-
   lation commanders. Foreign governmental aircraft landings approved by SAF/IAD are assigned an
   aircraft landing authorization number (ALAN). Unauthorized landings must be reported to SAF/IAD
   in accordance with AFI 10-1801.
   4.2. SAF/IAD makes decisions on all requests for exceptions or waivers to this policy directive and
   its implementing instruction. The decision process includes consultation with other Federal agencies
   and affected functional area managers if appropriate. Potential impacts on current and future Air
   Force policy and operations strongly influence such decisions.
   4.3. Major commands may issue supplements to establish command-unique procedures permitted by
   and consistent with this directive and its implementing instructions.

5. This policy directive applies to all regular United States Air Force, Air National Guard, and United
States Air Force Reserve installations with airfields. This policy directive is also applicable to foreign
governmental aircraft use of Air Force ramps at civil airports hosting Air National Guard and United
States Air Force Reserve units.

6. Related publications includes AFI 10-1801, Foreign Governmental Aircraft Landings at United States
Air Force Installations.

7. See Attachment 1 for measures of compliance with this directive.




                                         JOHN P. JUMPER, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Plans and Operations




                                                2
                                            Attachment 1

                          MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. The Air Force assesses compliance with this policy directive by tracking landing permits and unau-
thorized landings. SAF/IAD tracks the number of aircraft landing authorization numbers issued annually
and the number of unauthorized landings at US Air Force airfields reported during the same period. This
information is compiled and displayed on a chart that shows trends in progress (Figure A1.1.) toward the
goal of reducing the number of unauthorized landings.

Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of SAF/IAD Approved Aircraft Landing Authorizations and Land-
ings Without Authorization.




                                               3
