BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                             AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-26
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                         26 SEPTEMBER 2007
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 23 APRIL 2013
                                                                      Certified Current 9 January 2014
                                                                                         Operations

                                                      COUNTER-CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL,
                                                          RADIOLOGICAL AND NUCLEAR
                                                                        OPERATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A5XP                                                            Certified by: AF/AA3/5
                                                          (Major General Richard Y. Newton III)
                                                                                       Pages: 13
Supersedes:    AFPD10-26, 6 February 2001


This directive establishes overarching policy to ensure the Air Force plans, organizes, trains and
equips personnel to be able to conduct counter-chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear
(CCBRN) operations across the operational spectrum. As defined, the operational spectrum
includes the full range of adversary actions, from a minor terrorist incident involving CBRN
materials, to state use of weaponized agents. This directive implements Department of Defense
Directive (DoDD) 2060.02, Department of Defense (DoD) Combating Weapons of Mass
Destruction (WMD) Policy, and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 6440.03, DoD Laboratory Network
(DLN). This directive is consistent with DoDD 3150.08, DoD Response to Nuclear and
Radiological Incidents, DoDI 3150.10, DoD Response to U.S. Nuclear Weapon Incidents, and
DoDI 3020.52, DoD Installation Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield
Explosive (CBRNE) Preparedness Standards. Additional guidance that pertains to this directive
is found in Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 3-40, Counter-Chemical, Biological,
Radiological and Nuclear Operations, Joint Publication (JP) 3-11, Joint Doctrine for Operations
in Nuclear, Biological and Chemical (NBC) Environments and JP 3-40, Joint Doctrine for
Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), which provide authoritative guidance on
countering WMD and operating in a CBRN environment. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records                 Disposition               Schedule               located                 at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to AF/A5XP using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change
 2                                                           AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007


of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National
Guard (ANG) Units.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change expands the scope of C-CBRN operations to include all eight military
mission areas outlined in the National Military Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass
Destruction, and as further specified in DoDD 2060.02. It also expands the scope of C-CBRN
operations to include the DoD response to nuclear and radiological incidents, as outlined in
DoDD 3150.08 and DoDI 3150.10. This interim change also implements DoDI 6440.03, which
outlines the Department’s policies and guidance with respect to the DoD laboratory network. A
margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
1. Many adversaries possess or seek to obtain CBRN weapons, to include toxic industrial
chemicals and toxic industrial materials, and employ these as weapons against friendly
forces.The Air Force must have the offensive and defensive capabilities to detect, deter, disrupt,
deny or destroy an adversary’s CBRN offensive capabilities and, if necessary, to fight through a
CBRN attack, restore mission capability and sustain operations worldwide. The ability to fight
through a CBRN attack increases Air Force deterrent posture by making potential targets less
vulnerable, and therefore less attractive.
2. This policy directive defines the Air Force C-CBRN operations capability in support of the
multi-tiered capability to combat WMD as defined in JP 3-40. Through complementary
structures, these Joint and Air Force capabilities seek to ensure that the United States will prevail
in any conflict in which an adversary possesses or uses CBRN weapons. Air Force capabilities to
counter the CBRN threat are described within five interlinked C-CBRN pillars: proliferation
prevention, counterforce, active defense, passive defense and consequence management. These
pillars, specific to the Air Force mission, complement both the broader pillars of
nonproliferation, counter proliferation and consequence management identified in the National
Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction, as well as the eight mission areas described in
the National Military Strategy for Combating WMD.
3. The Air Force will organize, train, equip, and otherwise prepare Air Force forces that are
prepared to detect, deter, disrupt, deny or destroy an adversary’s WMD capabilities and to
minimize the effects of an enemy CBRN attack. As part of that effort, the Air Force will
establish, maintain, improve and evaluate the following activities to ensure readiness to conduct
combating WMD and C-CBRN operations across all five C-CBRN pillars:
     3.1. Establish measurable operational and enabling standards and requirements in order to
     determine the equipment, training, manpower and ancillary resources needed to conduct and
     sustain C-CBRN operations, as required by combined, Joint and Air Force tasks.
     3.2. Ensure that appropriate Air Force inspections and assessments include an evaluation of
     a unit’s capability to conduct and sustain C-CBRN operations consistent with the unit’s
     mission.
     3.3. Maintain a reporting system (e.g., the Defense Readiness Reporting System) to assess
     C-CBRN capability and personnel accountability, determine budgetary allocation and
AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                     3


     management action impacts, answer congressional inquiries, analyze trends and support
     decisions to improve C-CBRN operational readiness.
     3.4. Ensure that Science and Technology (S&T) programs, to include Advanced Technology
     Demonstrations and Advanced Concept Technology Demonstrations, address Air Force
     operational requirements, including technical key performance parameters for C-CBRN
     materiel and equipment.
     3.5. Incorporate C-CBRN concepts into operational, functional and individual guidance and
     training.
     3.6. Integrate C-CBRN operational capabilities into the appropriate Chief of Staff of the Air
     Force’s (CSAF) CONOPS.
     3.7. Identify and ensure appropriate C-CBRN education, training and exercise (ETE) events
     are provided to military personnel, Department of Defense (DOD) civilians, other persons
     who work on the installations and facilities and military family members who work or live on
     Air Force installations and facilities worldwide.
     3.8. Ensure C-CBRN training, exercise, evaluation, manpower and equipment requirements
     are planned and budgeted to effectively execute C-CBRN operations (in accordance with
     United States Code 50, 1522, Conduct of Chemical and Biological Defense Program).
     3.9. Incorporate C-CBRN actions into homeland defense, civil support, emergency
     management, integrated defense, force health protection, critical infrastructure protection,
     antiterrorism and deployment planning and operations.
     3.10. Coordinate C-CBRN operations with other Services, coalition partners and host-nation,
     federal, state and local organizations, as necessary and appropriate.
     3.11. Implement CBRN survivability of Air Force CBRN mission-critical systems through
     materiel measures or remediation of vulnerabilities through tactics, techniques, and
     procedures throughout the system’s life cycle, and by regularly assessing the systems are
     CBRN survivable.
4.   The following outlines authorities and responsibilities.
     4.1. Commanders and civilian equivalents at all levels will:
        4.1.1. Develop plans, policies and procedures to execute C-CBRN operations consistent
        with the unit mission.
        4.1.2. Organize, train, equip and exercise forces to conduct and sustain C-CBRN
        operations in support of Air Force operations, and integrate C-CBRN capabilities in
        accordance with CSAF CONOPS.
     4.2. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) through the
     Office of Services (AF/A1S) will:
        4.2.1. Provide incident response capability to recover and contain chemical, biological
        and radiological contaminated human remains and their associated personal effects.
        4.2.2. Serve as the focal point for victim and family assistance services for all EM
        activities.
4                                                         AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007


    4.3. Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) will
    provide policy (excluding all policy pertaining to counterintelligence with the exception of
    policy regarding Intelligence Oversight) for planning, programming, training and budgeting
    resources necessary to ensure the Air Force has the capability to collect, analyze, produce
    and disseminate all-source intelligence information to support each of the following C-
    CBRN pillars:
       4.3.1. Proliferation Prevention. Intelligence personnel will integrate and invigorate all
       US intelligence efforts to uncover and monitor terrorist plans and intentions involving
       obtaining or using WMD. Intelligence personnel provide required support to
       nonproliferation treaty verification, including Open Skies missions.
       4.3.2. Counterforce. Focus aggressive and innovative intelligence collection techniques
       to close knowledge gaps related to WMD technologies and associated weapons programs
       to identify an adversary’s capability to develop, manufacture, stockpile, or employ CBRN
       weapons prior to use.
       4.3.3. Active Defense. Integrate intelligence analysis efforts within and external to the
       Intelligence Community to support wide-ranging policy and military response options
       against CBRN attacks to include intelligence support to missile defense initiatives.
       4.3.4. Passive Defense. Ensure that CBRN intelligence information is coupled with
       protective countermeasures information and disseminated to all service and agency
       components.
       4.3.5. Consequence Management. Work closely with foreign intelligence services to
       form a common assessment of threats and develop effective options in response to CBRN
       incidents.
    4.4. Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) will:
       4.4.1. Develop, integrate and synchronize policy for and oversee:
           4.4.1.1. C-CBRN operational standards and doctrine development.
           4.4.1.2. Incorporation of C-CBRN operational concepts and standards into Air Force-
           level CONOPS, plans, programs, requirements and budgets (except medical and non-
           medical passive defense equipment) through the HQ USAF C-CBRN Council.
           4.4.1.3. Inspection criteria development to assess a unit’s capability to conduct C-
           CBRN operations.
           4.4.1.4. Coordination with the Office of the Inspector General to ensure criteria are
           compatible with inspection policy.
           4.4.1.5. C-CBRN concept incorporation into homeland defense, civil support, EM,
           force protection, force health protection, critical infrastructure protection,
           antiterrorism and deployment planning and operations.
           4.4.1.6. ETE operational objective development, in close association with user Major
           Commands (MAJCOMs).
AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                      5


         4.4.1.7. C-CBRN operational analysis, ensuring Air Force requirements for C-CBRN
         S&T, modeling and simulation and research, development and acquisition are
         operationally relevant and technically sufficient.
     4.4.2. Serve as Air Force lead on Joint, DOD and combined C-CBRN initiatives and may
     delegate Air Force representation responsibilities to other offices as appropriate. These
     activities apply across the spectrum of C-CBRN operations.
     4.4.3. Perform specific functions for each of the following C-CBRN pillars:
         4.4.3.1. Proliferation Prevention. Formulate or oversee development of guidance for
         Service participation in the inspection, verification, and compliance support of
         nonproliferation treaties, CBRN control protocols and export control activities.
         Activities will also include assisting in the identification of potential proliferants and
         planning and conducting denial and interdiction operations as directed by the
         President or Secretary of Defense.
         4.4.3.2. Counterforce. Advocate Service measures that divert, deny, degrade or
         destroy an adversary's capability to develop, manufacture, stockpile or employ CBRN
         weapons prior to use. Develop, sponsor and approve counterforce capabilities, policy
         and guidance in conjunction with appropriate MAJCOMs to ensure C-CBRN-unique
         and -related requirements are identified throughout the targeting cycle.
         4.4.3.3. Active Defense. Develop guidance for active force protection and defensive
         counter-air against CBRN attacks. Provide input to Joint and Service missile defense
         initiatives.
         4.4.3.4. Passive Defense. Oversee integration of appropriate functional passive
         defense guidance to ensure a seamless, synergistic and operationally-focused
         approach to C-CBRN operations.
         4.4.3.5. Consequence Management. Oversee development of guidance for measures
         that deliberately respond to the use and effects of CBRN incidents and the actions
         required to restore essential operations and services in a permissive environment.
     4.4.4. In conjunction with the Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG), conduct appropriate
     capabilities-based assessments of laboratories, programs, or activities within the DoD
     with analytic or response capabilities related to CBRN agents, infectious diseases, and
     other all-hazards agents of military or national significance, as needed.
     4.4.5. Serve as the Air Force lead to integrate and coordinate Air Force CBRN
     survivability efforts, and represent the Air Force to the DoD CBRN Survivability
     Oversight Group.
  4.5. Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7), will:
     4.5.1. Implement the non-medical crisis and consequence management aspects of
     homeland operations, force protection, critical infrastructure protection, antiterrorism, as
     well as the non-medical passive defense and consequence management aspects of C-
     CBRN operations, as part of the EM program, outlined in AFPD 10-25.
     4.5.2. Incorporate CBRN passive defense and consequence management into appropriate
     Air Force inspection criteria and AF/A4/7 functional program guidance.
6                                                           AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007


       4.5.3. Develop non-medical CBRN passive defense and consequence management
       tactics, techniques and procedures.
       4.5.4. Plan, program and budget for resources to organize, train, equip and exercise
       forces in support of Air Force non-medical CBRN passive defense and consequence
       management tasks identified in the CSAF CONOPS and the Air Force Master
       Capabilities Library
       4.5.5. Provide functional expertise to support the non-medical CBRN passive defense
       and consequence management aspects of operational analysis, equipage, accession
       training, professional military education, competency training and exercising, functional
       area task qualification, exercises, S&T, modeling and simulation and research,
       development and acquisition activities.
       4.5.6. Provide the designated Air Force representation to the Joint Requirements Office
       on all CBRN Defense modernization and sustainment efforts.
       4.5.7. Consistent with DoDD 3150.08 and DoDI 3150.10, serve as the Air Force lead to
       organize, train and equip Air Force forces to perform crisis and consequence
       management response to a U.S. nuclear weapon incident or accident while weapons are
       in USAF custody, or supporting response actions when directed by the Secretary of
       Defense (SECDEF).
    4.6. Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) will:
       4.6.1. Ensure that Air Force strategic plans, programs and operational concepts include
       an effective C-CBRN capability.
       4.6.2. Work closely with Air Force Core Function Lead Integrators (CFLI) to address
       CCBRN capabilities in their respective Air Force Core Function Master Plans (CFMP).
    4.7. Director for Studies & Analyses, Assessments, and Lessons Learned (AF/A9) will
    ensure the Air Force analyzes, assesses, and provides lessons learned to ensure that C-CBRN
    plans, programs, operational concepts, education, training and exercising is appropriate at all
    levels throughout the Air Force.
    4.8. Surgeon General (AF/SG) will:
       4.8.1. Incorporate medical C-CBRN measures into applicable plans, programs,
       requirements and budgets and support C-CBRN operations by ensuring a fit and healthy
       force, preventing casualties, restoring health and enhancing human performance.
       4.8.2. Prioritize medical CBRN detection, identification, quantification and defense
       capabilities.
       4.8.3. Develop and provide medical response capabilities for expeditionary, home
       station, and local-area CBRN events and support homeland defense, civil support,
       emergency management, force protection, force health protection, critical infrastructure
       protection, antiterrorism and consequence management operations by providing
       environmental and clinical surveillance, health risk assessment, force health protection
       recommendations, diagnostics and treatment.
       4.8.4. Advise on health effects and risk during development of Air Force and MAJCOM
       policies and procedures.
AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                 7


     4.8.5. Provide functional expertise to support the medical aspects of C-CBRN
     operational analysis, equipage, accession training, professional military education and
     training, functional area task qualification, exercises, S&T, modeling and simulation for
     force health protection and research, development and acquisition activities.
     4.8.6. Program and budget resources to organize, train, equip and exercise forces in
     support of Air Force medical C-CBRN operations.
     4.8.7. Provide rapid and effective response, treatment and consequence management to
     decrease disease and injury and increase the return-to-duty rate after enemy attacks or
     disasters.
     4.8.8. Provide personal protective equipment for medical personnel that protects,
     controls contamination and permits active medical intervention.
     4.8.9. Provide coordinated transfer of care within Medical Treatment Facilities and
     civilian hospitals/agencies.
     4.8.10. Work closely with host nation, ANG and AFRC medical units in support of local
     civil authorities.
     4.8.11. Serve as the Air Force lead directorate for the DoD Laboratory Network (DLN).
     In that role, the AF/SG will:
        4.8.11.1. Provide representatives to the DLN from: AF/SG3X (Medical Readiness),
        AF/SG3PB (Bioenvironmental Engineering), and the Chief Consultant for Medical
        Laboratory to the AF/SG.
        4.8.11.2. Identify all laboratories, programs or activities with analytic or response
        capabilities related to CBRN agents, infectious diseases, and other all-hazards agents
        of military or national significance, and provide a listing of these to the DLN.
     4.8.12. Organize, train, and equip an Air Force radiation assessment team to provide
     radiological monitoring and analysis capability for nuclear and radiological incidents.
     4.8.13. Incorporate medical aspects of CBRN consequence management into appropriate
     Air Force inspection criteria and AF/SG functional program guidance.
     4.8.14. Develop medical CBRN consequence management tactics, techniques and
     procedures.
  4.9. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ), in accordance with
  operational standards and policy developed by AF/A3/5, will:
     4.9.1. Ensure C-CBRN requirements are addressed for research, development and
     acquisition programs.
     4.9.2. Review and comment on CBRN S&T policy and guidance.
     4.9.3. Plan, budget and manage the C-CBRN S&T activities as required by the Joint
     Science and Technology Office (JSTO) for Chemical and Biological Defense (CBD).
     4.9.4. Provide designated Air Force representation to the Joint Program Executive Office
     for CBD, Defense Threat Reduction Agency’s Chemical and Biological Technologies
     Directorate/ JSTO, and Program Analysis and Integration Office.
8                                                          AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007


       4.9.5. Assist AF/A3/5 in collecting data on CBRN mission-critical systems in support of
       annual reporting requirements.
    4.10. Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs (SAF/IA) will provide
    politico-military analysis for C-CBRN programs, support for beneficial security assistance
    programs with partner nations, assistance in establishing cooperative programs, disclosure
    and technology transfer strategies, and advocacy for international interoperability. SAF/IA
    will serve as the focal point for the Office of the Secretary of Defense and other military
    departments, the Department of State and other government agencies for CBRN issues
    involving international interests.
    4.11. Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG) will review inspection criteria developed
    within functional areas (e.g., operations, maintenance, civil engineering, medical, services
    and force protection). The inspection criteria will be written to assess a unit’s emergency
    response and recovery capability and will be compatible with inspection policy. Additionally,
    the inspection criteria will ensure appropriate Air Force inspections and assessments include
    an evaluation of the unit’s capability to conduct and sustain C-CBRN operations consistent
    with the unit mission and be operationally focused (e.g., sortie generation). Air Force
    Inspection Agency/SG will develop medical inspection criteria and unit self-inspection
    guidance as part of the EM Program.
    4.12. Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) Center will plan, participate in or
    conduct OT&E activities in support of the Air Force C-CBRN operations as required to
    assure materiel and equipment meet operational standards.
       4.13.1. Carry out these responsibilities in conjunction with SAF/AQ.
       4.13.2. Provide the director of analytical services from the Air Force Research
       Laboratory – United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine (USAFSAM), who
       serves as the Air Force Lab Response Network (LRN) Gatekeeper, as a representative to
       the DLN.
       4.13.3. Establish and maintain Air Force CBRN survivability standards IAW Air Force
       CCBRN Council guidance.
    4.14. DELETED.
    4.15. Air Combat Command is the Air Force CBRN Modernization Combat Developer for
    C-CBRN Passive Defense materiel solutions.
    4.16. MAJCOMs, ANG, Direct Reporting Units (DRUs) and Field Operating Agencies
    (FOAs) will develop plans, policies, and procedures and budget to organize, train, equip and
    exercise forces to conduct and sustain C-CBRN operations in support of Air Force operations
    and to integrate C-CBRN capabilities into appropriate CSAF CONOPS.
AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                            9


  4.17. Air Force Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance Agency, under the control
  and authority of the AF/A2, will provide a representative to the DLN from the Air Force
  Technical Applications Center.




                                        Michael W. Wynne
                                        Secretary of the Air Force
 10                                                       AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
United States Code 50, 1522, Conduct of Chemical and Biological Defense Program
National Security Strategy, May 2010
National Strategy to Combat Weapons of Mass Destruction, December 2002
National Military Strategy of the United States of America, 2011
National Military Strategy for Combating WMD, 16 February 2006
DoDD 2060.02, Department of Defense (DoD) Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction
(WMD) Policy, 19 April 2007
DoDD 3150.08, DoD Response to Nuclear and Radiological Incidents, 20 January 2010
DoDI 3150.09, The Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Survivability
Policy, 17 September 2008
DoDI 3150.10, DoD Response to U.S. Nuclear Weapon Incidents, 2 July 2010
DoDI 6440.03, Department of Defense Laboratory Network (DLN), 10 June 2011
JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 15 April 2012
JP 3-11, Operations in Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) Environments,
26 August 2008
JP 3-40, Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction, 10 June 2009
AFDD 3-10, Force Protection, 28 July 2011
AFDD 3-40, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Operations, 26 January
2007
AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 September 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 May 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services
AF/A1S—Office of Services
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AF/A3/5—Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements
AF/A4/7—Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
AF/A8—Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs
AF/A9—Director for Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned
AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007                                             11


AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General
AFDD—Air Force Doctrine Document
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CBD—Chemical and Biological Defense
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear
C-CBRN—Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CSAF—Chief of Staff United States Air Force
CWMD—Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction
DLN—Defense Laboratory Network
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EM—Emergency Management
ETE—Education, Training and Exercise
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FOA—Field Operating Agency
JP—Joint Publication
JSTO—Joint Science and Technology Office
MAJCOM—Major Command
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
S&T—Science and Technology
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
SAF/IA—Deputy Under-Secretary of the Air Force, International Affairs
SAF/IG—Office of the Inspector General
SG—Surgeon General
TTPs— —Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
USAF—United States Air Force
 12                                                          AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007


USAFSAM—United States Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine
WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Terms
Active Defense—The employment of limited offensive action and counterattacks to deny a
contested area or position to the enemy. (JP 1-02) [As a component of C-CBRN operations,
active defense operations attempt to intercept CBRN weapons en route to their targets.] (AFDD
3-40) {Words in brackets apply only to the Air Force and are offered for clarity.}
Adversaries—State and non-state actors to include terrorists, violent extremists, terrorist
networks, transnational threats, non-governmental organizations, businesses, rogue
scientists/technicians, as well as individuals acting independently of any organization.
C-CBRN Operations—Offensive and defensive activities taken to detect, deter, disrupt, deny or
destroy an adversary’s CBRN capabilities and, if necessary, fight through a CBRN attack and
sustain operations worldwide. The main interlinked components of C-CBRN operations are
proliferation prevention, counterforce, active defense, passive defense and consequence
management. (AFDD 3-40)
Critical Infrastructure Protection—Mission Assurance/Risk Management program involving
actions taken to prevent, remediate or mitigate the risks resulting from vulnerabilities of critical
infrastructure assets. Depending on risk, these actions could include changes in tactics,
techniques or procedures; adding redundancy; selection of another asset; isolation or hardening;
guarding; or similar measures. (DoDD 3020.40)
Consequence Management—Actions taken to maintain or restore essential services and
manage and mitigate problems resulting from disasters and catastrophes, including natural,
manmade, or terrorist incidents. (JP 1-02) [As a component of C-CBRN operations, consequence
management activities serve to reduce the effects of a CBRN attack or event and assist in the
restoration of essential operations and services at home and abroad in a permissive
environment.] (AFDD 3-40) {Words in brackets apply only to the Air Force and are offered for
clarity.}
Counterforce—The employment of strategic air and missile forces in an effort to destroy or
render impotent selected military capabilities of an enemy force under any of the circumstances
by which hostilities may be initiated. (JP 1-02) [As a component of C-CBRN operations,
counterforce operations aim to detect, deter, deny, degrade or destroy adversary CBRN
capabilities including research and development, production and storage facilities, fielded forces
and related command and control.] (AFDD 3-40) {Words in brackets apply only to the Air
Force and are offered for clarity.}
CBRN Environment—A condition of warfare in which an adversary possesses, is assessed to
possess and/or uses chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons or materials or their
by-products, infrastructure, and associated delivery methods.
AFPD10-26 26 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                    13


Emergency Management Program—The single, integrated Air Force program to coordinate
and organize efforts to manage, prepare for, respond to and recover from the direct and indirect
consequences of CBRN and conventional weapon attacks, major accidents and natural disasters.
The primary missions of the Air Force EM Program are to 1) save lives, 2) minimize the loss or
degradation of resources and 3) continue, sustain and restore combat and combat support
operational capability in an “all hazards” physical threat environment at Air Force installations
worldwide. The ancillary missions of the EM Program are to support homeland defense
operations and to provide support to civil and host-nation authorities in accordance with DoD
directives and through the appropriate Combatant Command. The Office of The Civil Engineer,
AF/A7C, manages the EM Program.
Force Protection—Preventive measures taken to mitigate hostile actions against Department of
Defense personnel (to include family members), resources, facilities, and critical information.
Force protection does not include actions to defeat the enemy or protect against accidents,
weather, or disease. Also called FP. (JP 1-02) [The process of detecting threats and hazards to
the Air Force and its mission, and applying measures to deter, pre-empt, negate or mitigate them
based on an acceptable level of risk.] (AFDD 3-10) {Italicized definition in brackets applies only
to the Air Force and is offered for clarity.}
Functional Area Manager (FAM)—The individual accountable for the management and
oversight of all personnel and equipment within a specific functional area to support the
operational planning and execution. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, developing
and reviewing policy; developing, managing and maintaining Unit Type Codes; developing
criteria for and monitoring readiness reporting; force posturing and analysis. At each level of
responsibility (Headquarters Air Force, MAJCOM, Air Component, FOA, DRU and Unit), the
FAM should be the most highly knowledgeable and experienced person within the functional
area and have the widest range of visibility over the functional area readiness and capability
issues.
Force Health Protection—All services performed, provided or arranged by the Services to
promote, improve, conserve or restore the mental or physical well-being of personnel. These
services include, but are not limited to, the management of health services resources, such as
manpower, monies and facilities; preventive and curative health measures; evacuation of the
wounded, injured or sick; selection of the medically fit and disposition of the medically unfit;
blood management; medical supply, equipment and maintenance thereof; combat stress control;
and medical, dental, veterinary, laboratory, optometry, medical food and medical intelligence
services. See also force protection. (JP 4-02) [A comprehensive threat-based program directed at
preventing and managing health-related actions against Air Force uncommitted combat power.]
(AFDD 2-4.2) {Words in brackets apply only to the Air Force and are offered for clarity.}
Passive Defense—Measures taken to reduce the probability of and to minimize the effects of
damage caused by hostile action without the intention of taking the initiative. (JP 1-02)
Proliferation Prevention—To deny attempts by would-be proliferants to acquire or expand
their CBRN capabilities by providing inspection, monitoring, verification and enforcement
support for nonproliferation treaties and CBRN arms control regimes; supporting export control
activities; assisting in the identification of potential proliferants before they can acquire or
expand their CBRN capabilities and, if so directed by the National Command Authorities,
planning and conducting denial operations. (AFDD 3-40)
