BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 61-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            18 AUGUST 2011

                                                         Scientific Research and Development

                                                        MANAGEMENT OF SCIENCE AND
                                                                      TECHNOLOGY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQR                                                             Certified by: SAF/AQ
                                                                    (Mr. David M. Van Buren)
Supersedes:   AFPD61-1, 13 June 2003                                                   Pages: 5


This directive establishes policies for managing and executing the Air Force Science and
Technology (S&T) program. It applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel; members
of the Air Force Reserves; members of the Air National Guard; and other individuals or
organizations as required by binding agreement or obligation with the Department of the Air
Force. This AFPD implements Department of Defense Instructions (DoDI) 3201.01,
Management of DoD Research and Development Laboratories, DoDI 3210.1, Administration
and Support of Basic Research by the Department of Defense, DoDI 3201.3, DoD Research and
Development Laboratories, and DoDI 3201.4, In-House Laboratory Independent Research
(ILIR) and Independent Exploratory Development (IED) Programs. If there is any conflicting
policy between this AFPD and Department of Defense (DoD) issuances, the latter shall take
precedence. This AFPD cannot be supplemented. Send all recommendations for changes or
comments to Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Science, Technology, and Engineering
(SAF/AQR), via email to SAFAQR.Workflow@pentagon.af.mil (SAF/AQR Workflow) or to
1060 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1060, through appropriate channels using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records           Disposition             Schedule           (RDS)           located         at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.fcm.
 2                                                                 AFPD61-1 18 AUGUST 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It updates Air
Force policy to provide greater clarity concerning the roles and responsibilities of all Air Force
organizations directly involved in the management of Air Force S&T.
1. Policy. The Air Force is committed to a strong S&T program that will enable a fully
integrated air, space and cyberspace force to meet the challenges of the 21st Century. This S&T
program lays the technological foundation for the current and future Air Force to assure
America’s security through global vigilance, reach, and power. The Air Force will manage Air
Force S&T as an integrated program that invests in the future while providing the warfighter
appropriate near-term support. The Air Force S&T program will carefully balance the
investment portfolio in basic research, applied research, and advanced technology development,
allocated between in-house and contracted activities, to produce both evolutionary and
revolutionary technologies focused on Air Force service core functions and capabilities. These
S&T efforts may be initiated in the absence of a validated user requirement or programmed
funding for formal acquisition. The Air Force manages the S&T program as a corporate
investment and focuses on the entire investment.
     1.1. The Air Force will cooperatively plan and execute its S&T program by participating
     with other Department of Defense organizations and Government agencies. In addition, the
     Air Force will leverage national and international programs in S&T development.
     1.2. The Air Force will consider criteria that include near-, mid-, and long-term warfighter
     needs, affordability, performance, sustainability, industrial base, and energy in developing
     and executing its S&T program.
     1.3. The Air Force will ensure that funds appropriated for any Air Force S&T Program
     Element (PE) will be used for S&T efforts consistent with the approved Congressional
     Descriptive Summaries and any subsequent formal reprogramming.
2. Governance. Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Centers, and
the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) participate in Air Force S&T governance.
Operational MAJCOMs provide prioritized capability and technology needs to Air Force
Materiel Command (AFMC) for review, assessment, and subsequent transmission to the S&T
community, and AFMC provides a mechanism for MAJCOM evaluation and feedback on the AF
S&T program. Many organizations contribute to the transition of the resulting demonstrated
technologies to new system developments or as improvements to existing systems and
capabilities.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) and Chief of Staff of the Air Force (CSAF)
     shall:
        3.1.1. Set the overall strategic direction for Air Force S&T.
        3.1.2. Approve the Air Force S&T Strategy.
     3.2. Chief Scientist of the Air Force (AF/ST) shall provide independent, technical advice
     on current and future Air Force technological capabilities to Air Force senior leaders.
     3.3. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) shall:
AFPD61-1 18 AUGUST 2011                                                                    3


     3.3.1. Develop Air Force S&T policy for SECAF approval, and provide strategy,
     implementing guidance, planning and programming guidance, and oversight of the Air
     Force S&T program.
     3.3.2. Develop the Air Force S&T Strategy. Submit the Air Force S&T Strategy to
     SECAF and CSAF for approval.
     3.3.3. Represent and support the Air Force S&T program in all Air Force corporate
     processes. Advocate and defend the Air Force S&T program to the Office of the
     Secretary of Defense and the Congress.
     3.3.4. Conduct periodic reviews of the Air Force S&T program, as required.
     3.3.5. Appoint/designate an Air Force Technology Executive Officer (TEO) and direct
     the TEO to execute the Air Force S&T program per the Air Force S&T Strategy.
     3.3.6. In coordination with AFMC/CC, develop Air Force S&T PE descriptions, ensure
     proper distribution of S&T PE funding, prepare budget justification for Congress, and
     initiate S&T reprogramming actions consistent with the Air Force Corporate process.
     3.3.7. Ensure technology is reviewed for transition to new or existing systems and
     capabilities, consistent with Air Force requirements and priorities.
     3.3.8. Direct, administer, and control activities for Air Force S&T relating to patents,
     inventions, trademarks, copyrights, royalty payments, and matters connected therewith.
  3.4. Commander, AFMC (AFMC/CC) shall:
     3.4.1. Provide infrastructure, equipment and trained personnel necessary to plan,
     program, and execute the Air Force S&T program.
     3.4.2. Prepare and submit the annual Air Force S&T Program Objective Memorandum
     (POM) to the HAF within the AFMC POM submission.
     3.4.3. Advocate for Air Force S&T to Air Force senior leadership, including Air Force
     MAJCOMs.




                                         MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                         Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                            AFPD61-1 18 AUGUST 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5134.03, Director of Defense Research and Engineering (DDR&E), November 3, 2003
DoDD 7045.14, The Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS), May 22, 1984
DoDI 3201.01, Management of Research and Development Laboratories, January 3, 2006
DoDI 3201.3, DoD Research and Development Laboratories, March 31, 1981
DoDI 3201.4, In-House Laboratory Independent Research (ILIR) and Independent Exploratory
Development (IED) Programs, October 8, 1993
DoDI 3210.1, Administration and Support of Basic Research by the Department of Defense,
September 16, 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DTM—Directive-Type Memorandum
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
MAJCOM—major command
PE—program element
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
S&T—Science and Technology
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
TEO—Technology Executive Officer

Terms
Advanced Technology Development—Includes all efforts that have moved into the
development and integration of hardware for field experiments and tests. Also referred to as
“6.3” or RDT&E Budget Activity Code 3.
AFPD61-1 18 AUGUST 2011                                                                        5


Applied Research—Systematic study to gain knowledge or understanding necessary to
determine the means by which a recognized and specific need may be met. Also referred to as
“6.2” or RDT&E Budget Activity Code 2.
Basic Research—Systematic study directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of the
fundamental aspects of phenomena and of observable facts without specific applications towards
processes or products in mind. It includes all scientific study and experimentation directed
toward increasing fundamental knowledge and understanding in those fields of the physical,
engineering, environmental, and life sciences related to long-term national security needs. It is
farsighted high payoff research that provides the basis for technological progress. Also referred
to as “6.1” or RDT&E Budget Activity Code 1.
Science—The investigation of material phenomena, a pursuit of knowledge, an understanding of
phenomenology.
Technology—The application of science to industrial or military objectives.
Technology Executive Officer—The individual dedicated to executive management and
supervision of the Air Force S&T portfolio, analogous to a Program Executive Officer (defined
in AFPD 63-1/20-1). The TEO shall be appointed/designated by and is accountable to the
Service Acquisition Executive.
