BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                             AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-6
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                           6 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                     Operations

                                                             CAPABILITY REQUIREMENTS
                                                                         DEVELOPMENT


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A5R-P                                                            Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                           (Lieutenant General Burton M. Field)
                                                                                      Pages: 12
Supersedes:   AFPD 10-6, 31 May 2006


This directive establishes the framework for the development of Air Force (AF) capability
requirements consistent with DoD Directive 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System; Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System; and the associated Manual for the Operations of the Joint Capabilities
Integration and Development System (JCIDS Manual). It applies to all AF organizations,
including the Air National Guard and AF Reserve Command and to all unclassified, collateral,
compartmented and special access programs. AF/A3/5 is the waiver authority for the provisions
in this instruction. Waiver requests shall contain compelling justification and must be submitted
formally through AF/A5R-P. Request recommended changes to this publication by submitting
an AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; staffed through the appropriate
functional OPR’s chain of command for review and coordination. All records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the AF Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This directive supersedes and renames Air Force Policy Directive 10-6, dated 31 May 2006,
titled Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development. This document has been
significantly changed and requires complete review.
 2                                                               AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013


1. Purpose.
     1.1. This directive prescribes policies and establishes responsibilities and authorities related
     to capability requirements development. Air Force organizations must use formal
     capabilities-based processes to identify, evaluate, develop, field and sustain capabilities that
     compete for limited resources. The intent of these processes is to facilitate timely
     development of affordable and sustainable operational systems needed by combatant
     commanders. Results of these processes will align with the National Defense Strategy,
     National Military Strategy and other high level strategy and planning efforts and will feed the
     Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) process.
     1.2. To ensure capability requirements development occurs continuously and collaboratively
     with other program stakeholders, this AFPD must be used in conjunction with AFPD 63-
     1/AFPD 20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System
     and AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process.
2. Policy. The Air Force shall:
     2.1. Establish and use the Air Force Requirements Oversight Council (AFROC) as the
     single, corporate body to validate and prioritize all Air Force capability requirements,
     including both Quick Reaction Capabilities (i.e., Urgent Operational Needs) and predecessor
     capability development efforts (i.e., Development Planning, Joint Capability Technology
     Demonstrations, Science and Technology Flagship Capability Concepts).
     2.2. Use the JCIDS for the development of all capability requirements, including Quick
     Reaction Capabilities.
     2.3. Use Capabilities-Based Assessments (CBAs) to initiate the development of capability
     requirements. CBAs are conducted in support of National Defense Strategy, National
     Military Strategy, Defense Planning Scenarios, AF Strategic Planning Documents and Core
     Function Master Plans.
     2.4. Validation of capability requirements occurs at a point in time and is dependent upon
     the current and future projections of the National Military Strategy, the threat environment,
     and the fiscal environment. Significant changes to national strategy and the operating
     environment may require revalidation of the capability requirement
     2.5. Ensure capability requirements are fiscally informed and affordable.
     2.6. Establish and use the AF Risk Assessment Framework for all capability requirements
     across Air Force Core Functions.
     2.7. Use validated capability requirements and associated risk assessment to inform the AF
     Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution process.
     2.8. Use JCIDS for information technology systems designated as National Security
     Systems. Use the Defense Business Systems Management Committee for Defense Business
     Systems.
3. Responsibilities and Authorities.
     3.1. The Air Force Chief of Staff (CSAF) is the approval authority for all Air Force
     Acquisition Category (ACAT) I JCIDS documents.
AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                      3


  3.2. The Air Force Vice Chief of Staff (VCSAF) shall:
     3.2.1. Exercise oversight and execution authority for the development of all Air Force
     operational requirements.
     3.2.2. Act as the approval authority for all Air Force ACAT II and ACAT III JCIDS
     documents.
  3.3. The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5)
  shall:
     3.3.1. Establish the Air Force capability requirements development process, assign
     responsibilities, and provide guidance and procedures to implement this directive.
     3.3.2. Appoint a General Officer (GO) or Civilian Senior Executive (CSE) Principal to
     chair the AFROC.
         3.3.2.1. Ensure the AFROC identifies, assesses and validates operational
         requirements.
         3.3.2.2. Ensure the AFROC has considered non-materiel and existing materiel
         solutions being pursued by other Services and DoD Components before proceeding
         with a materiel solution and entering the JCIDS process.
         3.3.2.3. Ensure the AFROC verifies operational requirements align with need date
         and available resources prior to validation.
         3.3.2.4. Ensure the AFROC considers tradeoffs in life cycle cost, schedule and
         performance for all operational requirements.
     3.3.3. Ensure affordability discussions take place at all GO-level operational
     requirements forums.
     3.3.4. Use the AF Risk Assessment Framework in the development of all capability
     requirements.
     3.3.5. Support and prepare Air Force senior leaders for attendance at the Joint
     Requirements Oversight Council.
     3.3.6. Direct responsible organizations within Headquarters Air Force (HAF), Major
     Commands (MAJCOMs) and Agencies to review and staff JCIDS requirements
     documents.
  3.4. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition (SAF/AQ) shall:
     3.4.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
     3.4.2. Designate a single office of primary responsibility (OPR) within SAF/AQ to
     coordinate requirements activities with AF/A3/5.
     3.4.3. Ensure affordability discussions take place at all GO-level acquisition forums.
     3.4.4. Ensure contractual specifications accurately reflect AFROC validated operational
     requirements.
     3.4.5. Ensure life cycle cost and capability tradeoff analysis is used for all Air Force
     Review Boards and Configuration Steering Boards.
4                                                             AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013


    3.5. Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Information Dominance and Chief Information
    Officer (SAF/CIO A6) shall:
       3.5.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
       3.5.2. Designate a single OPR within SAF/CIO A6 to coordinate operational
       requirements activities with AF/A3/5.
       3.5.3. Ensure all capability requirements are compliant with DoD, Joint Staff and Air
       Force Net Ready and Networthiness standards.
    3.6. Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) shall:
       3.6.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
       3.6.2. Designate a single OPR within AF/A2 to coordinate operational requirements
       activities with AF/A3/5.
       3.6.3. Ensure all capability requirements documents are reviewed for sufficiency in
       intelligence mission data, threat and any other relevant intelligence content pertinent to
       mandatory KPPs. As per DoDD 7045.20, Capability Portfolio Management, ensure
       consistency with Joint portfolio management as aligned with the current Joint Capability
       Areas.
    3.7. Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations & Mission Support (AF/A4/7) shall:
       3.7.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
       3.7.2. Designate a single OPR within AF/A4/7 to coordinate operational requirements
       activities with AF/A3/5.
       3.7.3. Ensure capability planning contains executable and affordable agile combat
       operational support for materiel, systems, installations and mission-support requirements
       before Initial Operational Capability (IOC). AF/A4/7 provides agile combat support for
       most, but not all systems. For systems outside their portfolio, AF/A4/7 will advise the
       appropriate HAF functional area.
    3.8. Deputy Chief of Staff, Strategic Plans & Programs (AF/A8) shall:
       3.8.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
       3.8.2. Designate a single OPR within AF/A8 to coordinate operational requirements
       activities with AF/A3/5.
       3.8.3. Ensure all capability requirements are fiscally informed and programmed funding
       is aligned with the validated requirements for each acquisition phase.
       3.8.4. In coordination with AF/A9, review risk assessments for all capability
       requirements to ensure the use of the AF Risk Assessment Framework.
    3.9. Director, Studies & Analysis, Assessment and Lessons Learned (AF/A9) shall:
       3.9.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
       3.9.2. Designate a single OPR within AF/A9 to coordinate operational requirements
       activities with AF/A3/5.
AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                     5


     3.9.3. Review risk assessments for all capability requirements to ensure proper use of the
     AF Risk Assessment Framework.
     3.9.4. Ensure appropriate AF/A9 tools, studies and Lessons Learned are available to
     Sponsors and Implementing Commands to consider during their CBA, Analysis of
     Alternative (AoA) and Development Planning efforts.
     3.9.5. Review and assess AoAs for select programs, as directed by the AFROC.
  3.10. Assistant Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence and Nuclear Integration (AF/A10)
  shall:
     3.10.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
     3.10.2. Designate a single OPR within AF/A10 to coordinate operational requirements
     activities with AF/A3/5.
     3.10.3. Provide integration and oversight of all nuclear related capability requirements
     and maintain synchronization in strategic deterrence responsibilities across the nuclear
     enterprise.
  3.11. Air Force Test and Evaluation (AF/TE) shall:
     3.11.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
     3.11.2. Designate a single OPR within AF/TE to coordinate operational requirements
     activities with AF/A3/5.
     3.11.3. Collaborate with requirements sponsors and system developers to improve the
     development, testing, and fielding of Air Force systems or subsystems.
     3.11.4. Ensure all capability requirements are testable and measurable.
  3.12. Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) shall:
     3.12.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
     3.12.2. Designate a single OPR within AFOTEC to coordinate operational requirements
     activities with AF/A3/5.
     3.12.3. Certify all capability requirements are testable and measurable.
  3.13. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) shall:
     3.13.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
     3.13.2. Designate a single OPR within AETC to coordinate operational requirements
     activities with AF/A3/5.
     3.13.3. Review all capability requirements to ensure training considerations are properly
     addressed and fully resourced.
  3.14. Lead Command/Core Function Lead Integrator shall:
     3.14.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
     3.14.2. Designate a single OPR within the Lead Command to coordinate operational
     requirements activities with AF/A3/5.
6                                                            AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013


       3.14.3. Through the Core Function Master Plan, provide a strategic vision for the Service
       Core Function (SCF) and force structure options to inform the requirement process, the
       Planning, Programming, Budgeting & Execution process and the acquisition process, to
       ensure consistency with strategic direction.
       3.14.4. Sponsor capability requirements documents.
       3.14.5. Use the AF Risk Assessment Framework in the development of all capability
       requirements.
       3.14.6. Ensure life cycle cost assessments, cycle times, and requirements tradeoffs are
       addressed in acquisition decision forums, to include Configuration Steering Boards and
       AF Review Boards. NOTE: For the purposes of this directive, Lead Command is
       normally the sponsoring MAJCOM. In addition, a Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) or a
       Field Operating Agency (FOA) with no direct MAJCOM oversight can sponsor JCIDS
       requirements. The DRU/FOA must follow all guidance specified for Lead Commands
       when acting in this capacity.
    3.15. Implementing Command (Air Force Materiel Command, Air Force Space Command,
    or Air Force Civil Engineer Center) shall:
       3.15.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
       3.15.2. Designate a single OPR within the Implementing Command to coordinate
       operational requirements activities with AF/A3/5.
       3.15.3. Ensure all capability requirements are feasible (technically achievable and
       executable within the estimated schedule and budgeted life cycle cost).
       3.15.4. Ensure sufficient development planning is conducted to support feasible and
       affordable capability requirements.
       3.15.5. Ensure life cycle cost assessments, cycle times, and requirements tradeoffs are
       addressed in acquisition decision forums, to include Configuration Steering Boards and
       AF Review Boards.
       3.15.6. Support the requirements sponsor by advising and assisting during the Capability
       Based Planning and Analysis activities within and across SCFs to ensure investment on
       highest priority capability gaps and shortfalls.
    3.16. Air Reserve Component (National Guard Bureau and Office of the Air Force Reserve)
    shall:
       3.16.1. Designate a GO or CSE Principal to the AFROC.
       3.16.2. Designate a single OPR to coordinate operational requirements activities with
       AF/A3/5.
AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   7



3.16.3. Review all capability requirements for impacts to assigned Air Reserve Component
missions.




                                           ERIC K. FANNING
                                           Acting Secretary of the Air Force
 8                                                           AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March
2007
AFPD 10-28, Air Force Concept Development & Experimentation, 17 April 2012
AFPD 16-5, Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution Process, 27 September 2010.
AFPD 63-1/AFPD 20-1, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 3 July 2012
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 March 2009
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
AFI 14-111, Intelligence Support to the Acquisition Life Cycle, 18 May 2012
AFI 63-101/20-101, Integrated Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
AFI 63-114, Quick Reaction Capability Process, 4 January 2011
AFI 63-131, Modification Management, 19 March 2013
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation, 26 February 2008
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012
CJCSI 5123.01F, Charter of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council, 10 January 2012
CJCSI 6212.01F, Net Ready Key Performance Parameter, 21 Mar 2012
DoDAF v2.0, Department of Defense Architecture Framework, 28 May 2009
DoDD 5000.01, Defense Acquisition System, 20 November 2007
DoDD 7045.20, Capability Portfolio Management, 25 September 2008
DoDI 5030.55, Department of Defense Procedures for Joint DOD-DOE Nuclear Weapons Life-
Cycle Activities, 6 March 2006
Joint Publication (JP) 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated
Terms, 8 November 2010
JS/J8, Manual for the Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System,
19 January 2012

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFROC—Air Force Requirements Oversight Council
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
CBA—Capabilities-Based Assessment
AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                         9


CDD—Capability Development Document
CJCSI—Chairman, Joint Chief of Staff Instruction
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force
CSE—Civilian Senior Executive
DoD—Department of Defense
DOTmLPF—P – Doctrine, Organization, Training, materiel, Leadership and education,
Personnel, Facilities, and Policy
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FCC—Flagship Capability Concept
FOA—Field Operating Agency
GO—General Officer
HAF—Headquarters Air Force, includes the Secretariat and the Air Staff
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PM—Program Manager
VCSAF—Vice Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force

Terms
NOTE—: The purpose of this glossary is to help the reader understand the terms listed as used
in this publication. It is not intended to encompass all terms. See pertinent Joint and AF specific
publications for standardized terms and definitions for DoD and AF use.
Acquisition Category (ACAT)— Categories established to facilitate decentralized decision
making and execution, and compliance with statutorily imposed requirements. The categories
determine the level of review, decision authority and applicable procedures.
Affordability— The degree to which the life-cycle cost of an acquisition program is in
consonance with the long-range modernization, force structure and manpower plans of the
individual DoD Components (military department and defense agencies), as well as for the
Department as a whole. For major defense acquisition program, affordability assessments are
required at Milestones B and C. The purpose of the assessment is for the DoD Component to
demonstrate that the program’s projected funding and manpower requirements are realistic and
achievable, in the context of the DoD Component’s overall long-range modernization plan.
Affordability constraints force prioritization of requirements, drive performance and cost trades,
and ensure that unaffordable programs do not enter the acquisition process. If affordability caps
are breached, costs must be reduced or program cancelation is expected. Constraints stem from
long-term affordability planning and analysis, which is a Component leadership responsibility
 10                                                               AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013


that should involve the Component’s programming, resource planning, requirements and
acquisition communities. Affordability is reviewed during Air Force Requirements Review
Group and AFROC reviews.
Analysis of Alternatives (AoA)— The AoA is an analytical comparison of the operational
effectiveness, suitability, risk and life cycle cost of alternatives that satisfy established capability
needs stipulated in an approved initial capabilities document (ICD). The AoA helps decision
makers select courses of action to satisfy an operational capability need.
Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA)— The CBA is the Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System analysis process. It answers several key questions for the validation
authority prior to their approval: define the mission; identify capabilities required; determine the
attributes/standards of the capabilities; identify gaps/shortfalls; assess operational risk associated
with the gaps/shortfalls; prioritize the gaps/shortfalls; identify and assess potential non-materiel
solutions; provide recommendations for addressing the gaps/shortfalls.
Capability— The ability to achieve a desired effect under specified standards and conditions
through combinations of means and ways across the doctrine, organization, training, materiel,
leadership and education, personnel, facilities and policy (DOTmLPF-P) to perform a set of tasks
to execute a specified course of action.
Capability Gaps— The inability to execute a specified course of action. The gap may be the
result of no existing capability, lack of proficiency or sufficiency in an existing capability
solution, or the need to replace an existing capability solution to prevent a future gap.
Capability Requirement (or Requirement)— A capability required to meet an organization’s
roles, functions, and missions in current or future operations. To the greatest extent possible,
capability requirements are described in relation to tasks, standards and conditions in accordance
with the Universal Joint Task List or equivalent DoD Component Task List. If a capability
requirement is not satisfied by a capability solution, then there is also an associated capability
gap which carries a certain amount of risk until eliminated. A requirement is considered to be
‘draft’ or ‘proposed’ until validated by the appropriate authority.
Capability Shortfall— A lack of full military utility required for an operational sponsor to
execute a task effectively.
Capability Solution— A materiel solution or non-materiel solution required to satisfy one or
more capability requirements (or needs) and reduce or eliminate one or more capability gaps.
Defense Business System— The term "defense business system" means an information system,
other than a national security system, operated by, for, or on behalf of the Department of
Defense, including financial systems, mixed systems, financial data feeder systems, and
information technology and information assurance infrastructure, used to support business
activities, such as acquisition, financial management, logistics, strategic planning and budgeting,
installations and environment and human resource management.
Feasible— A requirement that is technically achievable and executable within the estimated
schedule and budgeted life cycle cost.
Flagship Capability Concept (FCC)— FCC is a demonstration of the maturity and potential of
advanced technologies for enhanced military operational capability or cost effectiveness. FCCs
AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                         11


are commissioned by the AFROC with scope, objectives and organizational responsibilities
defined in a Technology Transition Plan.
Implementing Command— The command (usually Air Force Materiel Command, Air Force
Space Command, or Air Force Civil Engineering Center) providing the majority of personnel in
direct support of the program manager responsible for development, production and sustainment
activities.
Information System (IS)— As defined by CJCSI 6212.01F, Net Ready Key Performance
Parameter, is any equipment, or interconnected system or subsystem of equipment, that is used
in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement, control, display,
switching, interchange, transmission or reception of data or information and includes computers
and computer networks, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures,
services (including support services) and related resources. Notwithstanding the above, the term
information technology (IT) does not include any equipment that is acquired by a federal
contractor incidental to a federal contract. The term “information systems” is used
synonymously with IT (to include National Security Systems).
Initial Operational Capability (IOC)— That first attainment of the capability to employ
effectively a weapon, item of equipment, or system of approved specific characteristics with the
appropriate number, type, and mix of trained and equipped personnel necessary to operate,
maintain, and support the system. It is normally defined in the Capability Development
Document (CDD). NOTE: IOC is event-driven and not tied to a specific future date.
Joint Capability Technology Demonstration (JCTD)— An OSD approved program that seeks
to rapidly and collaboratively demonstrate, assess, and transition solutions to address Combatant
Commanders’, Joint, Interagency, and Coalition problems. A JCTD demonstrates the military
utility of significant new technology and provides an assessment to clearly establish operational
utility and system integrity.
Lead Command— The command that serves as the operators’ interface with the Program
Manager for a system as defined by AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and
Responsibilities for Weapon Systems.
Materiel Solution— Correction of a deficiency, satisfaction of a capability gap, or incorporation
of new technology resulting in the development, acquisition, procurement, or fielding of a new
item (including ships, tanks, self-propelled weapons, aircraft, and related software & data,
spares, repair parts, and support equipment, but excluding real property, installations, and
utilities) necessary to equip, operate, maintain, and support military activities without disruption
as to its application for administrative or combat purposes. In the case of family of systems and
system of systems approaches, an individual materiel solution may not fully satisfy a necessary
capability gap on its own.
Militarily Useful Capability— A capability that achieves military objectives through
operational effectiveness, suitability and availability, which is interoperable with related systems
and processes, transportable and sustainable when and where needed and at costs known to be
affordable over the long term.
Non-Materiel Solution— Changes in doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and
education, personnel, facilities, or policy to satisfy identified functional capabilities. The
materiel portion is restricted to commercial or non-developmental items that may be purchased
 12                                                           AFPD10-6 6 NOVEMBER 2013


commercially or by purchasing more systems from an existing materiel program.                The
acquisition of the materiel portion must comply with all acquisition policies.
Operational Capability— The ability to achieve a desired effect under specified standards and
conditions through combinations of means and ways across the doctrine, organization, training,
materiel, leadership and education, personnel, facilities and policy (DOTmLPF-P) to perform a
set of tasks to execute a specified course of action. It is defined by an operational sponsor and
expressed in broad operational terms in the format of an ICD or a Joint DOTmLPF-P change
recommendation. In the case of materiel proposals/documents, the definition will progressively
evolve to DOTmLPF-P performance attributes identified in the capability development
document and the Capability Production Document.
Operator— An operational command or agency that employs acquired systems for the benefit
of warfighters. Operators may also be warfighters.
Program Manager (PM)— The PM, as defined in DoDD 5000.01, Defense Acquisition System,
is the designated individual with the responsibility for and authority to accomplish program
objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s operational needs.
As used in this instruction applies collectively to System Program Director, Product Group
Manager, Single Manager, or acquisition program manager.
Quick Reaction Capability— An expedited process for documenting and staffing materiel
solutions to urgent, time-sensitive requirements. The process is fully described in AFI 63-114,
Quick Reaction Capability Process.
Requirement— see Capability Requirement.
Requirements Risk Assessment— The requirements risk assessment provides the AFROC the
level of risk to the applicable SCF if a capability requirement is not executed and how the risk
will change if the capability requirement is executed. Additionally, the requirements risk
assessment is used in 1) establishing the justification to proceed with next step in the JCIDS
process (specifically the ICD) 2) to provide a relative comparison of AF programs for use by the
AF principal during Functional Capabilities Board prioritization discussions and 3) to inform the
AF planning and programming process to better shape the future force. The requirements risk
assessment encompasses those capabilities for which the AF is pursuing a materiel solution;
specifically, those capabilities that will lead to development of ICDs and CDDs. A risk
assessment must be accomplished for every capability seeking AFROC validation.
Sponsor— The organization responsible for documentation, periodic reporting, and funding
actions necessary to support needed capabilities (e.g., MAJCOM, FOA, DRU).
Urgent Operational Need— AF specific needs identified during conflict or crisis situations that
if not satisfied in an expedited manner, would result in unacceptable loss of life or critical
mission failure.
Validation— The review of documentation by an operational authority other than the sponsor to
confirm the operational capability. Validation is a precursor to approval.
Warfighter— An operational command or agency that receives or will receive benefit from the
acquired system. Combatant commanders and their Service component commands are the
warfighters. There may be more than one warfighter for a capability.
