BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                             AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-29
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            6 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                       Operations

                                                               WORLDWIDE AEROMEDICAL
                                                                EVACUATION OPERATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A3O-AM                                                              Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                         (Lt Gen Burton M. Field)
Supersedes:    AFPD 10-29, 6 August 2007                                                  Pages: 4


This directive establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for aeromedical evacuation (AE)
operations and implements DoDI 6000.11, Patient Movement (PM), and DoD 4515.13-R, Air
Transportation Eligibility. It applies to Active Component, Air Force Reserve Command, and
Air National Guard AE units. Aeromedical Evacuation is a unique Air Force (AF) mission and
one modality of the larger Department of Defense patient movement enterprise. USAF AE
provides a critical patient movement capability that cuts across traditional service lines. It is a
Total Force mission requiring continuous collaboration between the operations (A3) and medical
(SG) communities. This directive specifies roles and responsibilities, notes policy interfaces,
and defines key terms.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include clarification of authorities and responsibilities in support of AE operations.
 2                                                            AFPD10-29 6 NOVEMBER 2012


1. Policy. The rapid evacuation of patients during contingencies is necessary to prevent undue
suffering and preserve military strength. Aeromedical Evacuation provides time-sensitive en
route care of regulated casualties to and between medical treatment facilities using organic
and/or contracted aircraft with medical aircrew trained explicitly for the mission. Aeromedical
Evacuation forces can operate as far forward as aircraft are able to conduct air operations, across
the full range of military operations, and in all operating environments. Specialty medical teams
may be assigned to work with the AE aircrew to support patients requiring more intensive en
route care.
     1.1. The Air Force has primarily been organized, trained and equipped as an air and space
     expeditionary force (AEF). The Air Force will ensure AE unit mission readiness by
     conducting operational and training missions. These missions require AE clinical personnel
     to maintain currency and proficiency. Although not resourced for humanitarian assistance,
     disaster response or defense support to civil authorities (DSCA), the Air Force will be
     prepared to provide AE for these operations as directed by the National Command Authority.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5)
     serves as lead for all operational aspects of AE and maintains overall responsibility for
     assigned AE forces and missions. This designation streamlines operational aircraft and
     personnel assigned to the AE squadrons under the same authority. In this capacity, the
     AF/A3/5 directs intra/inter-theater AE operations and all airlift aspects of the AE mission.
     AF/A3/5 is responsible for establishing and implementing operational training and evaluation
     guidance for AE as outlined in 10 and 11 series publications.
     2.2. The Air Force Surgeon General (AF/SG) serves as lead for the medical/clinical aspects
     of AE. This includes standardization of medical and nursing policies and procedures, clinical
     training, patient safety, and quality programs for the evaluation of care provided in the en
     route care system. This designation streamlines AE system support, patient staging, critical
     care transport and specialty medical team assets under the same authority. Aeromedical
     Evacuation system support provided by the AF/SG includes management of the medical
     logistics, medical equipment, and war reserve material (WRM) programs. AF/SG is
     responsible for establishing and implementing clinical training and standards guidance for
     AE as outlined in entire 40 series publications.
     2.3. Air Mobility Command (AMC) serves as the lead major command (MAJCOM) for AE.
     As outlined in AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities, AMC
     will manage and coordinate with the other commands involved in air mobility operations, to
     include AE, those processes designated to enable the interoperability of air mobility forces
     regardless of the command. AMC will maintain clear, detailed, and accountable standards in
     this mission area to ensure efficient employment and interoperability. AMC ensures that
     appropriate forces are organized, trained, and equipped to perform the AE mission across the
     full spectrum of operations to meet global AE requirements. All AE forces will comply with
     lead MAJCOM readiness standards addressing operational and clinical requirements.
     Aeromedical Evacuation policies and procedures will be fully coordinated through AMC and
     supporting MAJCOMs to ensure needs are identified and policies and procedures are
     thoroughly formulated.
AFPD10-29 6 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                   3


  2.4. Aeromedical Evacuation commanders and AE functional experts are responsible to
  make recommendations and elevate to AMC, through their respective MAJCOM, any
  training, standardization, equipment, clinical, communications, and planning issues based on
  current day practices and/or shortfalls.




                                          Michael B. Donley
                                          Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                        AFPD10-29 6 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, November 1, 1994, incorporating through
change 3, April 9, 1998
DoDI 6000.11, Patient Movement (PM), 4 May 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008
AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities, May 1, 1998
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AE—Aeromedical Evacuation
AMC—Air Mobility Command
DSCA—Defense Support to Civil Authorities
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
WRM—War Reserve Material
