BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                            AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-7
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             4 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                   Operations

                                                             INFORMATION OPERATIONS




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This AFPD is available for downloading from the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A3O-QI                                                       Certified by: HQ AF/A3/5
                                                                      (Lt Gen Burton M. Field)
                                                                                     Pages: 18
Supersedes: AFPD10-7, 6 September 2006;
           AFPD10-11, 31 May 2001;
           AFPD10-20, 1October 1998


This policy directive implements DoDD 3600.01, Information Operations (IO), 2 May 2013;
DoDD S-3321.1, Overt [MISO] Conducted by the Military Services in Peacetime in
Contingencies Short of Declared War; DoDI S-3604.01, DoD Military Deception (MILDEC), 11
March 2013; DoDD 5205.02E, DOD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, 20 June 2012;
DoDI 3608.11, Information Operations Career Field, 4 November 2005, directing the
establishment of IO professional development boards in each Military Service; and DoDI
3608.12, Joint IO Education, Change 1, 6 December 2011, assigning responsibilities within the
Air Force for Joint IO education and providing guidance for planning and conducting Air Force
Information Operations (IO) to support the warfighter and achieve national strategy objectives.
This policy applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel, members of the Air Force
Reserve, Air National Guard, DoD contractors, and individuals or activities under legal
agreements or obligations with the Department of the Air Force. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS).
 2                                                                                                   AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change incorporates the 20 February 2014 administrative and substantive changes to AFPD
10-7. These changes deletes obsolete references and updates office symbols and publication
dates; implements DoDD 3600.01, Information Operations (IO), 2 May 2013, directing
fundamental change in the definition of IO; and includes administrative and policy changes from
HQ USAF.


        1.      Introduction. ...........................................................................................................      2
        2.      General. ..................................................................................................................    3
        3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        4
        4.      See Attachment 1 for references and supporting information. ..............................                                    12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                13


1. Introduction. IO is the integrated employment, during military operations, of information-
related capabilities (IRCs) in concert with other lines of operation to influence, disrupt, corrupt,
or usurp the decision-making of adversaries and potential adversaries while protecting our own.
The definition emphasizes the distinction between employing individual IRCs versus IO as an
integrating function of IRCs. Therefore, the individual employment of a single IRC may or may
not be related to IO, depending upon its intended use.
     1.1. IRCs are tools, techniques, or activities employed within a dimension of the information
     environment that can be used to create effects and operationally desirable conditions. The
     information environment is the aggregate of individuals, organizations, and systems that
     collect, process, disseminate, or act on information. For analytical purposes, the information
     environment is subdivided into the physical, informational, and cognitive dimensions. It is
     important to note that in addition to what are normally thought of as capabilities, IRCs may
     also include activities (e.g., counterpropaganda, engagements, and show-of-force) and
     techniques (e.g., having a partner designated as the lead for night raids or not using dogs to
     search houses). Although not all inclusive, the following is a list of several Air Force IRCs.
     1.1.1. Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) in support to IO.
        1.1.2. Electronic Warfare (EW) and its three sub-divisions of electronic attack (EA),
        electronic protection (EP), and electronic warfare support (ES).
        1.1.3. Cyberspace Operations (CO) and its mission categories, including offensive
        cyberspace operations (OCO), defensive cyberspace operations (DCO), and DoD
        information network (DoDIN) operations.
        1.1.4. Military Deception (MILDEC)
        1.1.5. Operations Security (OPSEC)
        1.1.6. Military Information Support Operations (MISO)
        1.1.7. Public Affairs (PA), including Combat Camera
AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                         3


       1.1.8. Special Technical Operations (STO)
       1.1.9. Counterintelligence
       1.1.10. Space related capabilities
2. General. IO is not about ownership of individual capabilities, but rather the integrated and
synchronized planning, monitoring, and assessment of IRCs that are then employed to create a
desired effect contributing to a specified end state. IO considerations will be integrated into
military strategy across the range of military operations and exercises; Air Force specialized
training; communications-computer architectures and processing; information processing;
doctrine, operational concepts, operational and tactical planning and execution; weapons systems
research, development, testing and evaluation (RDT&E); inspections; acquisition and
procurement; force development; and professional military education.
   2.1. IO is inextricably linked with Command and Control (C2). C2 is the exercise of
   authority and direction by a properly designated commander over assigned and attached
   forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command and control functions are performed
   through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications, facilities, and procedures
   employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and controlling forces and
   operations. Similarly, IO focuses on the planning and coordination of a combination of IRCs
   aimed at ultimately creating effects in the cognitive dimension.
   2.2. The Air Force may use an IRC by itself or in conjunction with other IRCs for the
   purpose of both conducting and supporting a wide range of missions. Any IRC can be a
   significant contributor to IO and should be taken into consideration in the planning process.
   Integrating IRCs to affect decision-making will be part of the normal Joint Operational
   Planning Process Air and/or Joint Air Tasking Cycle and will not be viewed as a separate
   plan or planning effort.
   2.3. Proper use of IO can have a major effect in successfully meeting component and
   combatant command objectives. One focus of IO is to influence, disrupt, corrupt or usurp an
   adversary‘s use of information and information systems relating to C2, intelligence, and other
   critical information-based processes directly related to conducting military operations. A
   second focus of IO is to ensure themes and messages designed to influence adversaries and
   potential adversaries are synchronized with actions to support operational objectives. The
   Air Force will employ a strategy to render an adversary’s information and influence efforts
   ineffective and create an operational advantage by effectively planning IO and appropriately
   employing IRCs, synchronized with allied and coalition IO. To these ends, the Air Force
   will:
       2.3.1. Maximize United States (U.S.), allied, and coalition military effectiveness by
       integrating IO into military strategy, plans, operations, exercises, training,
       communications architectures, information processing, systems development, and
       professional military education while reducing friendly vulnerabilities.
       2.3.2. Organize, train, and equip forces to provide IRC specialists and IO planners to
       combatant and component commanders, as required.
       2.3.3. Implement procedures to defend the sources of friendly information that may be
       exploited by adversaries.
 4                                                                   AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


        2.3.4. Maintain capabilities and procedures to identify, collect, and analyze friendly
        unclassified information communications to determine if any critical or classified
        information transmitted could adversely affect U.S. (and allied/coalition) operations.
        2.3.5. Plan for IO and employ IRCs in a manner to minimize undesired interpretations of
        intent.
        2.3.6. Ensure IO considerations are coordinated and integrated with all US, allied, and
        coalition planning and employment to the maximum extent practical.
        2.3.7. Provide trained personnel to the joint community as part of the Joint IO force. The
        Joint IO force is defined as: A force consisting of units, staff elements, and individual
        military professionals in the Active and Reserve Components, and DoD civilian
        employees who conduct or directly support the integration of IRCs against adversaries
        and potential adversaries during military operations, as well as those who train these
        professionals.
        2.3.8. Ensure the appropriate and systematic consideration, integration, coordination and
        synchronization of all planned verbal, visual, symbolic activities, and products which
        may be employed at the operational and tactical levels, to convey intentions, themes, and
        messages. This effort should support an approved combatant command and/or component
        theater communication strategy.
        2.3.9. When reactionary IO considerations are required, such as unintended
        consequences of friendly actions or in response to enemy inform or influence efforts, be
        prepared to facilitate the response (e.g. supporting counterpropaganda efforts), as
        required.
        2.3.10. Recognize allied and coalition partner cultural values, interests, concerns, rules of
        engagement, legal constraints for operating within the information environment as well as
        be familiar with their doctrine, tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs). Learn these as
        early in the process as possible in order to maximize the sharing of information so that an
        integrated and achievable IO strategy can be developed and implemented throughout the
        operation. Allied and coalition partner cultural expertise is critical to knowing the
        audience for cognitive affect, whether that be change or sustainment of behavior.
3. Responsibilities. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
     3.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) will serve
     as the office of primary responsibility (OPR) for oversight of Air Force IO doctrine,
     organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel and facilities
     (DOTMLPF-P) considerations. The AF/A3/5 will serve as the senior Air Force IO officer
     and representative. AF/A3/5 is responsible for integrating PA activities focused on
     adversaries and potential adversaries. Other offices having responsibilities for IRCs will
     coordinate with AF/A3/5 to ensure the consistent and standardized application of IO strategic
     planning, policy, guidance, and programmatic oversight.
        3.1.1. AF/A3/5 will delegate IO OPR responsibilities to the Director of Irregular Warfare
        (AF/A3O-Q). AF/A3O-Q will:
            3.1.1.1. Oversee the operation of an AF Integrated Process Team (AF IO IPT) to
            ensure an integrated approach in delivering effects based capabilities by linking the
AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                       5


        Concept of Operations (CONOPS) for IO to the Warfighter, AFPD 10-7, Information
        Operations and serve as co-chair with Air Combat Command (ACC). The AF IO IPT
        ensures requirements and capabilities are integrated across the Air Force. They
        develop a consolidated plan that documents, validates, and prioritizes the Air Force‘s
        identified IO capabilities gaps and shortfalls, and completes a solution search across
        each DOTMLPF-P category.
     3.1.2. The Information Operations Division (AF/A3O-QI) will serve as lead for
     coordinating oversight of IO DOTMLPF-P issues. All other Headquarters Air Force
     (HAF) offices with IRC responsibilities will coordinate with AF/A3O-QI on policy and
     guidance related to IO matters which direct the integrated employment of IRCs. This
     coordination requirement excludes DOTMLPF-P issues related to individual IRCs (e.g.
     CO, EW and ISR). To this end, AF/A3O-QI will:
        3.1.2.1. Be responsible for all Air Force IO-related policy, guidance, strategy, and
        investment priorities.
        3.1.2.2. Be responsible for oversight of IO training for IO force personnel, as well as
        general IO training for all Airmen.
        3.1.2.3. Serve as the OPR for the Air Force portion of the analysis and findings to the
        Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence (USD[I]) and the Chairman of the Joint
        Chiefs of Staff, on accession, retention and promotion rates of the IO force.
        3.1.2.4. Coordinate all programmatic actions related to IO with Deputy Chief of Staff
        for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8), or other panel chairs as appropriate, and
        submit required changes through the Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS) in
        accordance with (IAW) AFI 16-501.
            3.1.2.4.1. Ensure IO requirements and capabilities are integrated across the Air
            Force.
        3.1.2.5. Serve as the Functional Manager for Air Force designated IO force positions.
            3.1.2.5.1. In coordination with IRC career field managers (CFMs), AF/A3O-QI
            will be responsible for development and management of the IO force.
            3.1.2.5.2. Coordinate with the Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and
            Services (AF/A1) and IRC Functional Managers (FMs) and Development Teams
            to ensure assignment of their respective personnel, as available, to appropriate IO
            positions making use of IO SEIs and the U-Prefix to the maximum extent
            possible.
            3.1.2.5.3. Coordinate with AF/A1, Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), and
            CFMs to develop and maintain a baseline of IO positions and an automated
            capability to identify and track Air Force and Joint IO billets and personnel with
            IO experience.
            3.1.2.5.4. Coordinate with AF/A1, AFPC, and CFMs to establish or supplement
            current professional development boards to monitor accession, training, education
            and career development for the IO force.
            3.1.2.5.5. Coordinate with AF/A1, AFPC, and CFMs to establish education,
6                                                                  AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


               training, and experience standards.
               3.1.2.5.6. Develop and implement procedures that provide appropriate oversight
               of education, training, and career development opportunities for members of the
               IO force.
           3.1.2.6. Coordinate with appropriate HAF, ACC, Air Force Materiel Command
           (AFMC), Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC), Air Force Space
           Command (AFSPC), Air Force Global Strike Command (AFGSC), and Air Mobility
           Command (AMC) organizations to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into Joint/Air
           Force experimentation and acquisition activities.
           3.1.2.7. Ensure an IPT is formed to help steer IO in the Air Force.
           3.1.2.8. Participate as a co-chair of the AF IO IPT to ensure requirements and
           capabilities are integrated across the Air Force.
    3.2. The Director of Operational Capability Requirements (AF/A5R) will participate in the
    AF IO IPT to ensure requirements and capabilities are integrated across the Air Force.
    3.3. The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Directorate of Public Affairs (SAF/PA)
    will serve as OPR for PA operations and participate in the AF IO IPT to ensure PA
    requirements and capabilities are integrated across the Air Force.
    3.4. The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, Information Dominance and Chief
    Information Office (SAF/CIO A6) will:
       3.4.1. Participate in the AF IO IPT to ensure technical integration is addressed for the
       Air Force enterprise.
       3.4.2. Coordinate with other appropriate HAF elements, ACC, AFMC, AFSOC, AFSPC,
       AFGSC, and AMC to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into Joint/Air Force
       experimentation and acquisition activities.
           3.4.2.1. Ensure integration of Combat Air Forces (CAF), Special Operation Forces
           (SOF), and Mobility Air Forces (MAF) IO TTPs.
    3.5. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence (AF/A2), as the lead for AF ISR DOTMLPF-
    P, will:
       3.5.1. Participate in the AF IO IPT to ensure intelligence requirements and capabilities
       are integrated across the Air Force.
       3.5.2. Coordinate with other appropriate HAF elements, ACC, AFMC, AFSOC, AFSPC,
       AFGSC, and AMC to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into Joint/Air Force
       experimentation and acquisition activities.
    3.6. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisitions (SAF/AQ) will serve as the OPR
    for the RDT&E of Air Force IO acquisition activities, to include providing direction,
    guidance and supervision over all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, approval and
    execution of plans, policies, and programs relative to research, development, production and
    acquisition of IO programs and defense materiel. SAF/AQ will:
       3.6.1. Participate in the AF IO IPT to ensure IRC requirements and capabilities are
       integrated across the Air Force.
AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                     7


     3.6.2. Coordinate with the AF IO IPT to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into
     Joint/Air Force experimentation and acquisition activities.
     3.6.3. Create, coordinate, and represent appropriate IO funding justification IAW
     decisions made by the AFCS for the Air Force, DoD and Congress, to include
     management of funds allocated for acquisition programs within the RDT&E
     appropriation.
     3.6.4. Ensure that the AF IO IPT is well informed of all relevant RDT&E efforts
     throughout the Air Force and other DoD and National Agencies.
  3.7. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel, and Services (AF/A1) and AFPC, in
  coordination with AF/A3O-QI and CFMs, will:
     3.7.1. Develop a baseline of IO positions and an automated capability to identify and
     track Air Force IO billets and personnel, as well as the IO force.
     3.7.2. Document education, training, and experience standards for the IO force.
     3.7.3. Assign skilled and qualified personnel to IO positions making use of IO SEIs and
     the U-Prefix to the maximum extent possible.
     3.7.4. Establish or supplement current professional development boards to monitor
     accession, training, education and career development for the IO force.
  3.8. The Office of the General Counsel, Division of International Affairs (SAF/GCI) ensures
  all Air Force applications of IRCs are consistent with U.S. policy and law.
  3.9. Air Combat Command, as the lead command for IO, has IO responsibilities and
  authorities at the Air Force, CAF and Major Command (MAJCOM) level as directed in
  AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems. ACC is
  also the lead command for the MILDEC, OPSEC, MISO, and EW IRCs. Any agreement
  between ACC and another MAJCOM to delegate roles or responsibilities will be outlined in
  a Memorandum of Agreement between the two and a copy will be provided to AF/A3O-QI.
  To that extent, ACC will:
     3.9.1. Coordinate with other MAJCOMs and consolidate input on funding requirements,
     justification, and out-year strategy. Provide inputs to AF/A3O-QI to support planning
     and programming for IO.
     3.9.1.1. Execute IO funding in accordance with spend plan.
         3.9.1.2. Organize, train, and equip IO forces and capabilities, to include readiness
         assessment and evaluation functions, and leading integration of IO into all CAF-
         mission areas.
         3.9.1.3. Work issues to include establishing and integrating IO within the Air Force
         Forces (AFFOR) and AOC; consolidate/ integrate IO into theater air operations; and
         standardize CAF IO organization and be responsible for the formation, manning, and
         training of IO forces.
         3.9.1.4. Act as the primary functional manager, training manager, syllabus review
         and registrar responsibilities for IO and the OPSEC and MILDEC courses.
8                                                                 AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


          3.9.1.5. Serve as OPR for course content and standards for all Air Force IO Initial
          Qualification Training (IQT), CAF Mission Qualification Training (MQT) and
          continuation training for IO forces.
          3.9.1.6. Lead development of training for capability specialists to conduct IO tactics,
          techniques, and procedures and operational level planners to apply the doctrine and
          tenets of Air Force IO within the Air and Space Operations Centers (AOCs).
          3.9.1.7. Provide updated IO training course information to the Joint Training Course
          Database according to Joint Staff guidance.
          3.9.1.8. Include IO in CAF-sponsored and supported exercises, as appropriate.
          3.9.1.9. Serve as OPR for the development of all Air Force IO enabling concepts,
          Operational-TTP’s, with assistance from AFSPC, and for the assessment of IRCs,
          including against potential threats.
          3.9.1.10. Be responsible for all functions related to defining, documenting,
          advocating, programming, and directing the transformation, modernization,
          sustainment, upgrade, and testing of CAF IO systems and programs.
          3.9.1.11. Define CAF IO operational requirements.
          3.9.1.12. Maintain CAF IO readiness and resolve related issues.
          3.9.1.13. Serve as the CAF interface with the HQ Air Force staff and other agencies
          for IO modernization interoperability.
          3.9.1.14. Advocate and monitor for CAF IO modernization needs and solutions.
          3.9.1.15. Charter and establish the supporting structure in order to develop the AF IO
          IPT and ensure its products are integrated into the Air Force strategic planning
          process. ACC will serve as co-chair of the AF IO IPT with AF/A3O-Q and be the
          Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) for the AF IO IPT.
          3.9.1.16. Ensure all Air Force commands, organizations, and agencies will use the
          AF IO IPT when addressing IO shortfalls. The AF IO IPT will collect, assess,
          prioritize, and advocate for IO solutions to be included in Program Objective
          Memorandum using the appropriate Program Element Codes (PECs).
       3.9.2. Coordinate with the AF IO IPT to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into
       Joint/Air Force experimentation and acquisition activities.
       3.9.3. Assist and support Air Staff in the performance of their DOTMLPF-P
       responsibilities, as required.
       3.9.4. Perform reachback targeting support for IO and operations focused on influence of
       foreign audiences, via the Air Force Targeting Center.
    3.10. Air Mobility Command is the lead for IO at the MAF. AMC will:
       3.10.1. Support the MAF integration into the Air Force strategic planning process.
       3.10.2. Organize, train and equip MAF IRCs to include assets supporting IO conducted
       by MAF organizations. AMC will lead centralized management of MAF IRCs; establish
       and integrate IO in the 618 AOC (TACC); coordinate specialized IO related
AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                      9


     requirements; consolidate/integrate MAF IO requirements into theater air operations;
     standardize MAF IO organization, training and equipment; and integrate MAF special
     access programs into operations and exercises. AMC will:
        3.10.2.1. Serve as MAF OPR for the development of OTTPs and for the assessment
        of IRCs.
        3.10.2.2. Serve as OPR for planning, coordinating, and conducting MQT for MAF
        IO forces.
        3.10.2.3. Coordinate with the AF IO IPT to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into
        Joint/Air Force experimentation and acquisition activities.
  3.11. Air Force Special Operations Command will:
     3.11.1. Coordinate with the AF IO IPT to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into
     Joint/Air Force experimentation and acquisition activities.
     3.11.2. Organize, train and equip SOF IRCs to include assets supporting IO conducted
     by SOF organizations. AFSOC will lead centralized management of SOF IRCs; establish
     and integrate IO in the Joint Special Operations Air Component (JSOAC); coordinate
     specialized IRCs; consolidate requirements into SOF air operations; and integrate SOF
     special access programs into operations and exercises.
        3.11.2.1. Serve as OPR for planning, coordinating, and conducting qualification
        training for assigned IO forces.
        3.11.2.2. Serve as SOF OPR for the development of TTPs and for the assessment of
        IO capabilities.
        3.11.2.3. Coordinate with appropriate Air Staff and MAJCOM IO offices on all
        exercise and training requirements for IO personnel.
  3.12. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will:
     3.12.1. Coordinate with the AF IO IPT to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into
     Joint/Air Force experimentation and acquisition activities.
     3.12.2. Provide the subject matter expertise necessary to assist the Air Force Life Cycle
     Management Center (AFLCMC), the Program Managers, and AOCs to explore
     alternative developmental courses of action for new IRCs, as well as ensuring integration
     of IO into weapon systems’ RDT&E.
     3.12.3. Ensure that IO mid-term and long-term research and technology shortfall issues
     are adequately addressed through Air Force Research Laboratory activities, and advocate
     for solutions.
     3.12.4. Ensure that the AF IO IPT is well informed of all relevant RDT&E efforts
     throughout the Air Force.
     3.12.5. Educate MAJCOMs, Combatant Commands (CCMDs), Component Numbered
     Air Forces, and AOCs on intelligence capability for support of intelligence acquisition
     requirements with the appropriate offices/agencies.
  3.13. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will:
10                                                               AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


     3.13.1. Implement the approved life-cycle strategy, as defined by the Air Force IO
     Training Planning Team (TPT), which defines total force education and training needed
     to satisfy mission-generated IO requirements.
     3.13.2. Participate in and chair, when appropriate, Utilization and Training Workshops
     (U&TWs) and TPTs, which address IO training requirements for the core Air Force
     Specialty Codes (AFSCs) that feed the IO force.
  3.14. Air Force Space Command, as lead command for Air Force cyberspace capabilities,
  AFSPC will:
     3.14.1. Serve as OPR for planning, coordinating, and conducting training for AFSPC IO
     forces.
     3.14.2. Coordinate with the AF IO IPT to incorporate Air Force IO initiatives into
     Joint/Air Force experimentation and acquisition activities.
     3.14.3. Advance AF IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC, capabilities in collaboration with
     U.S. Government national level agencies and organizations, i.e. DoD, Interagency
     OPSEC Support Staff, etc, in the National Capital Region.
     3.14.4. Support development of Air Force IO capabilities.
     3.14.5. Plan and participate in AF and Joint exercises for the purpose of capturing and
     evaluating IO, MISO, MILDEC, and OPSEC Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures.
     3.14.6. Test and evaluate emerging IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC, and offensive and
     defensive cyberspace capabilities for operational forces, national agencies, and the
     acquisition community.
     3.14.7. Provide IO, MISO, MILDEC, and OPSEC initial and advanced qualification
     training instruction for the Air Force as directed.
     3.14.8. Be Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for all IO force courses for which
     39th Information Operations Squadron (IOS) and 229th IOS are designated as the Office
     of Primary Development Responsibility (OPDR). This includes all current and any
     future IO force courses.
     3.14.9. Develop IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC, tactics, techniques, and procedures for
     joint and AF operational planners in support of current and future operations.
     3.14.10. Provide support to IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC, planning and assessment
     conducted by Numbered Air Forces and MAJCOMs.
     3.14.11. Provide IO, MISO, MILDEC, OPSEC process and tool assessments and
     document/refine IO requirements and operational architectures.
     3.14.12. Provide and support IO education and training for the total force, employing
     advanced distributed learning (ADL) and instructors.
     3.14.13. Ensure IO courses are created in accordance with the Air Force Instructional
     System Development (ISD) process.
AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                     11


     3.14.14. Coordinate on all IO, MISO, MILDEC, and OPSEC Task Training Lists (TTL)
     and training syllabi; Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP) development; exercise
     support; and reachback support requirements.
     3.14.15. AFSPC will coordinate and assist ACC, other component MAJCOMS, and
     component Numbered Air Forces (NAF) with:
         3.14.15.1. Operation of the AF IO training unit providing Airmen with technical,
         tactical, and operational skills required to plan missions and operate AF IO, MISO,
         MILDEC, and OPSEC capabilities for operational forces, national agencies, and the
         acquisition community.
         3.14.15.2. Prioritization of IO-related education and training efforts.
         3.14.15.3. Providing personnel support and funding of AFSPC IO forces for
         exercises.
         3.14.15.4. Production of IO white papers and concepts.
         3.14.15.5. The support of air, space, cyber and IO ranges.
         3.14.15.6. Supporting reachback requests for all Air Force IO, MISO, MILDEC, and
         OPSEC personnel.
         3.14.15.7. AOC IOTs efforts through reachback capabilities and support to include,
         but not limited to: planning; strategy development and analysis; targeting and
         weaponeering; synchronization of kinetic and non-kinetic activities; and assessments.
         3.14.15.8. Development and delivery of Air Force IRCs that disrupt, corrupt, and
         usurp adversarial decision making while protecting our own.
         3.14.15.9. Integrating IO, MISO, MILDEC, and OPSEC capabilities, planning and
         execution into the Mobility Air Forces’ and Combat Air Forces’ training and
         exercises at the operational and tactical levels.”
         3.14.15.10. Conducting the Information Operations Integration Course (IOIC), and
         other IO force training to ensure AOC Information Operations Team (IOT)
         requirements are being fulfilled.
         3.14.15.11. Supporting the Air Force Warfare Center (USAFWC) with IO expertise
         for training and exercises.
  3.15. National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) will support AFFOR and AOC
  IO and influence efforts, to include, but not limited to support via behavioral influence
  analysis.
  3.16. All MAJCOMs, FOAs, DRUs, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and the Air
  National Guard (ANG) will:
     3.16.1. Develop IO programs and policies aligned with Air Force IO program and policy
     guidance issued by AF/A3/5 and ensure subordinate organizations integrate applicable
     IRCs into day-to-day operations.
     3.16.2. Be responsible for actively participating in and supporting the AF IO IPT.
 12                                                             AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


      3.16.3. Use established requirements procedures and documentation, such as Initial
      Capabilities Documents, Capability Development Documents, inputs to the combatant
      commanders’ Integrated Priority Lists and Joint Requirements Oversight Council
      reviews, Quadrennial Defense Reviews, lessons learned, and ad hoc studies to identify
      and document IO requirements and deficiencies, and to provide those inputs to the AF IO
      IPT in accordance with guidance. Also submit potential solutions for vetting, visibility,
      and advocacy among all AF IO IPT members.
      3.16.4. When specifically authorized by HAF, organize, train and equip assigned IO
      forces. IO units shall not be created nor will existing units become IO units, without
      specific authorization from HAF.
      3.16.5. Coordinate with AFRC/ANG on matters pertaining to total force integration with
      IO requirements.
      3.16.6. Plan and participate in AF and joint exercises for the purpose of capturing and
      evaluating IO, MISO, MILDEC, and OPSEC TTPs as applicable.
   3.17. In coordination with AF/A3/5 and other appropriate agencies, AFFOR and AOC
   commanders are responsible for IO implementation, posture and operations within their
   commands and units.
4. See Attachment 1 for references and supporting information.




                                           DEBORAH LEE JAMES
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                     13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD, National Defense Strategy, June 2008
DoD Directive (DoDD) 3600.01, Information Operations (IO), 2 May 2013
DoDD 5205.02E, DOD Operations Security (OPSEC) Program, 20 June 2012
DoDD 5240.01, Change 1, DoD Intelligence Activities, 29 January 2013
DoDD 8500.01E, Information Assurance, 24 October 2002
DoDD O-8530.1, Computer Network Defense (CND), 8 January 2001
DoD Instruction (DoDI) 3604.01, DoD Military Deception, 11 March 2013
DoDI 3608.11, Information Operations Force Development, 4 November 2005
DoDI 8560.01, Communications Security (COMSEC) Monitoring & Information Assurance (IA)
Readiness Testing, 9 October 2007
CJCS, National Military Strategy, January 2012
CJCS Instruction (CJCSI) 3170.01F, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
(JCIDS), 10 Jan 2012
CJCSI 3210.01B, Joint Information Operations Policy (U), 13 January 2010
CJCSI 3211.01D, Joint Policy for Military Deception, 1 August 2007
CJCSI 3213.01C, Joint Operations Security, 17 July 2008
CJCSI 3320.01D, Joint Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations (JEMSO), 21 Jan 13
CJCSI 6212.01E, Interoperability and Supportability of Information Technology & National
Security Systems, 15 December 2008
CJCSI 6510.01F, Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense (CND), 09
February 2010
CJCS Manual (CJCSM) 1630.01, Joint Information Operations Force, 16 March 2009, (CAO 16
May 11)
Joint Publication (JP) 1-02, Amended, DoD Dictionary of Military & Associated Terms, 31
January 2011
JP 3-13, Information Operations, 27 November 2012
Air Force Doctrine Volume IV, Operations; Chapter 3, A Review of Air Force Operations;
Annex 3-13, Information Operations, 29 October 2013
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning & Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation & Responsibilities for Weapons Systems, 8 March
2007
 14                                                               AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


AFPD 10-17, Cyberspace Operations, 31 July 2012
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance Program, 03 August 2011
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 08 September 2011
AFPD 35-1, Public Affairs Management, 28 September 2012
AFPD 71-1, Change 2, Criminal Investigations and Counterintelligence, 30 September 2011
AFI 10-601, Capabilities Based Requirements Development, 12 July 2010
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 8 June 2011
AFI 10-702, Military Information Support Operations (MISO), 7 June 2011
AFI 10-703, Electronic Warfare Integrated Reprogramming, 19 October 2010
AFI 10-704, Military Deception Program, 30 August 2005
AFI 10-706, Electronic Warfare (EW) Operations, 30 November 2007
AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, 20 June 2005
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 23 April 2012
AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 August 2006
AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS), 24 May 2006
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Responsibilities and Management, 18 August 2010
AFI 71-101V4, Counterintelligence, 8 November 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Interim Computer Network Attack (CNA) Security Classification Guide, 3 June 2002
(Classified: contact AF/A3C/A6C)
Air Force Military Deception Security Classification Guide, 15 March 2011 (Classified: contact
AF/A3O-QI)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCS—Air Force corporate structure
AFDD—Air Force doctrine document
AFFOR—Air Force Forces
AFI—Air Force instruction
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN—Air Force manual
AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                 15


AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force specialty code
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFWC—Air Force Weapons Course
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—air and space operations center
C2—command and control
CAF—Combat Air Force
CCMD—Combatant Commands
CFM—career field manager
CI—counterintelligence
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
CO—cyberspace operations
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
DCO—defensive cyberspace operations
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DOTMLPF—P —doctrine, organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, personnel
and facilities policy
DRU—direct reporting unit
EW—electronic warfare
FOA—field operating agency
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HQ—headquarters
AF/A1—Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower, Personnel and Services
AF/A2—Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AF/A3/5—Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans, and Requirements
 16                                                           AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


AF/A3C/A6C—Director of Cyberspace Operations
AF/A3O—Q —Irregular Warfare Directorate
AF/A3O—QI —Information Operations Division
AF/A3S—Director of Strategic Security
AF/A5R—Director of Operational Capability Requirements
AF/A5X—Director of Operational Plans and Joint Matters
IA—information assurance
IAW—in accordance with
IO—information operations
IPT—integrated process team
IRC—information related capabilities
IQT—initial qualification training
ISR—intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
JP—joint publication
MAF—Mobility Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILDEC—military deception
MISO—military information support operations
MQT—mission qualification training
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OCO—offensive cyberspace operations
OCR—office of collateral responsibility
OPR—office of primary responsibility
OPSEC—operations security
OTTP—operational tactics, techniques, and procedures
PA—public affairs
RDT&E—research, development, testing and evaluation
SAF/AQ—Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisitions
SAF/CIO A6—Directorate for Information Dominance, Chief Information Officer
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force, Inspector General Office
SAF/PA—Secretary of the Air Force, Office of Public Affairs
SEI—special experience identifier
AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014                                                                         17


TMAP—Telecommunications Monitoring Assessment Program
TPT—training planning team
TTP—tactics, techniques and procedures
US—United States
U&TW—utilization and training workshop

Terms
Counterintelligence (CI)—Information gathered and activities conducted to protect against
espionage, other intelligence activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of
foreign governments or elements thereof, foreign organizations, or foreign persons, or
international terrorist activities. (AFDD 3-13; JP 1-02)
Cyberspace Operations—The employment of cyberspace capabilities where the primary
purpose is to achieve objectives in or through cyberspace. (JP 3-12)
Functional Manager—The authority responsible for policy and procedures associated with
systems within a given functional area.
Information—1) Facts, data, or instructions in any medium or form. 2) The meaning that a
human assigns to data by means of the known conventions used in their representation. (AFDD
3-13; JP 1-02)
Information Environment— The aggregate of individuals, organizations, and systems that
collect, process, disseminate, or act on information. (JP 3-13)
Information Related Capability—Capabilities, techniques, and activities employed within a
dimension of the information environment that can be used to achieve a specific end(s). (JP 3-13)
Information Assurance (IA)—Measures that protect and defend information and information
systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-
repudiation. This includes providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating
protection, detection, and reaction capabilities. (JP 3-13)
Information Operations (IO)—The integrated employment, during military operations, of
information—related capabilities in concert with other lines of operation to influence, disrupt,
corrupt, or usurp the decision making of adversaries and potential adversaries while protecting
our own. (JP 3-13)
Information Operations Force (IO force)—A force consisting of units, staff elements, and
individual military professionals in the Active and Reserve Components, and DoD civilian
employees who conduct or directly support the integration of IRCs against adversaries and
potential adversaries during military operations as well as those who train these professionals.
(DoDD 3600.01)
Information System—The entire infrastructure, organization, personnel, and components for
the collection, processing, storage, transmission, display, dissemination, and disposition of
information. (JP 3-13)
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)—Intelligence, surveillance, and
reconnaissance are integrated capabilities to collect, process, exploit, and disseminate accurate
 18                                                                 AFPD10-7 4 AUGUST 2014


and timely information that provides the battlespace awareness necessary to successfully plan
and conduct operations. (AFDD 3-13; AFDD 2-0)
Military Deception (MILDEC)—Actions executed to deliberately mislead adversary military
decision makers as to friendly military capabilities, intentions, and operations, thereby causing
the adversary to take specific actions (or inactions) that will contribute to the accomplishment of
the friendly forces mission. (AFDD 3-13; JP 1-02) [There are five categories of military
deception. See JP 1-02 for the complete definition.]
Military Information Support Operations (MISO)—Planned operations to convey selected
information and indicators to foreign audiences to influence their emotions, motives, objective
reasoning, and ultimately the behavior of foreign governments, organizations, groups, and
individuals in a manner favorable to the originator’s objectives. (JP 3-13.2)
National Capital Region (NCR)— A geographic area encompassing the District of Columbia
and eleven local jurisdictions in the State of Maryland and the Commonwealth of Virginia. (JP 1-
02)
Operations Security (OPSEC)—A process of identifying critical information and subsequently
analyzing friendly actions attendant to military operations and other activities to: a) identify
those actions that can be observed by adversary intelligence systems; b) determine indicators
hostile intelligence systems might obtain that could be interpreted or pieced together to derive
critical information in time to be useful to adversaries; and c) select and execute measures that
eliminate or reduce to an acceptable level the vulnerabilities of friendly actions to adversary
exploitation. (AFDD 3-13; JP 1-02)
Public Affairs (PA)— Those public information, command information, and community
engagement activities directed toward both the external and internal audiences with interest in
the Department of Defense (JP 1-02; JP 3-61). Through the release of timely, truthful, and
accurate information and imagery, PA puts operational actions in context, facilitates
development of informed perceptions about military operations, and helps undermine adversary
propaganda.
Total Force—The entire range of organizational roles and responsibilities that comprise the
active duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard.
