BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-38
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                     23 MAY 2011

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                     PERSONNEL READINESS, REPORTING
                                                                AND ACCOUNTABILITY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AF/A1PR                                                                  Certified by: AF/A1
                                                                         (Lt Gen Darrell D. Jones)
Supersedes:    AFPD 36-38,                                                                Pages: 3
               12 December 2007


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements DoD Instruction (DoDI) 3001.02,
Personnel Accountability In Conjunction With Natural Or Manmade Disasters. It establishes
policies to maintain visibility and accountability of personnel and to ensure the Air Force
maintains its ability to respond across the range of military operations. This publication applies
to Air Force active duty military, civilian, the Air National Guard and the Air Force Reserve.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) at
AFA1PR.WORKFLOW@ PENTAGON. AF.MIL using AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Clarifies Personnel Accountability responsibilities and establishes specific personnel
accountability and reporting policies.
1. People have always been the Air Force’s greatest asset; across the span of our total
force, they are essential to our ability to perform our missions. During time of war, natural
disasters or national emergencies, the ability to quickly assess the status of our members, and in
many cases, their families, is critical to establishing stability, to recover, and return to normal
operations as quickly as possible.
 2                                                                   AFPD36-38 23 MAY 2011


2. Taking care of our people is essential if we are to provide trained and ready Airmen and DAF
Civilians capable of performing assigned tasks to satisfy Combatant Commander’s (CCDR)
requested capabilities.
3. The Air & Space Expeditionary Force (AEF) concept has significantly changed how the Air
Force organizes, trains, equips, deploys, and sustains its mission; the personnel community
contributes to the AEF by providing mission-ready forces as well as providing total force
accountability, casualty reporting and personnel policies and procedures to all levels involved in
readiness operations. Understanding and accomplishing these roles and responsibilities is crucial
for ensuring the primary goal of accurate real-time total force accountability is met.
4. This Directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
     4.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) is
     responsible for policy oversight and advocacy of the Air Force’s Personnel Readiness
     Program and for interface with the Office of the Secretary of Defense staff concerning
     development of the Department of Defense (DoD) policy and legislative initiatives.
     4.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1):
        4.2.1. Develops, coordinates, and executes personnel policies and essential procedural
        guidance for managing the Personnel Readiness Program.
        4.2.2. Ensures the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) manages the day-to-day operation
        of the Personnel Readiness Program.
5. This Directive establishes the following policies:
     5.1. Personnel Accountability is inherent to command/unit leadership and a shared
     responsibility between a commander/civilian director and their personnel.
     Commanders/Directors account for and maintain visibility of their personnel using
     established personnel accountability and reporting systems.
     5.2. Personnel Accountability reporting is a primary mission of the Air Force personnel
     community. Personnel reports accountability information using established personnel
     accountability and reporting systems.
     5.3. Personnel accountability and reporting systems, procedures, and processes will be
     developed to support Personnel accountability, reporting, and visibility requirements of DoD,
     the Joint Staff, and Air Force leadership. These systems, procedures, and processes will:
        5.3.1. Include use of Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) codes to account for and
        report by individual unit.
        5.3.2. Enable accounting, reporting, and historical tracking of the daily location of
        Airmen and DAF Civilians deployed in support of CCDR operations.




                                             MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                             Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD36-38 23 MAY 2011                                                                      3


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 3001.02, Personnel Accountability In Conjunction With Natural Or Manmade Or
Disasters, May 3, 2010
DoDI 7730.19, Reporting of Dependants of Active Duty Military Personnel and U.S. Citizen
Employees, Mar 22, 1988
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CCDR—Combatant Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PAS—Personnel Accounting Symbol
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
