BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 25-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            28 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                Logistics Staff

                                               INTRA-SERVICE SUPPORT AGREEMENTS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAF/A4LX                                                 Certified by: HQ USAF/A4/7
                                                                 (Lt Gen Judith Fedder, USAF)
                                                                                      Pages: 5
Supersedes:   AFPD 25-2, 12 October 2012


This Directive implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4000.19, Support
Agreements and clarifies its application for Air Force (AF) to AF (intra-service) support
agreements. It establishes the framework for intra-service support agreement policies,
responsibilities, and procedures for management of this program and it applies to all
organizational entities within the Department of the Air Force, including Air National Guard
(ANG) and Air Force Reserve units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route the AF Form 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the Policy Directive to incorporate the changes in DoDI 4000.19 and must
be completely reviewed. This revision provides an update to the impasse resolution process, and
updates terminology and references.
1. Scope. This directive applies to support agreements administered by the AF to AF units
(Intra-service Support Agreements). Development and implementation of other types of support
agreements, such as those that may exist between the AF and other Department of Defense
 2                                                                 AFPD25-2 28 AUGUST 2014


(DoD) Components (Intra-agency Support Agreements) and non-DoD Federal Activities (Inter-
agency Support Agreements) are addressed in DoDI 4000.19.
2. Policy Statements. It is AF policy that:
     2.1. AF Supplier organizations will document required and provided support to Receiver
     organizations to ensure effective resource management, to unify efforts toward a common
     goal, and to guard against jeopardizing organization mission capability.
     2.2. Intra-service support will be provided by a supplier and obtained by a receiver in the
     manner that maximizes the benefit to the AF as a whole. Also, a supplier will provide the
     same quality and quantity of support to all AF receivers, unless a given supplier and a given
     receiver agree to different levels of support.
     2.3. Intra-service Supplier/Receiver support responsibilities will be included in the AF
     implementing instruction and may be further supplemented by the Major Command
     (MAJCOM) and/or Wing.
     2.4. Impasses concerning support agreements shall be resolved at the lowest level possible
     and if required, elevated for resolution through each affected activity’s chain of command.
     2.5. When practical, support agreement modifications and terminations should be made
     bilaterally and with sufficient advance notification to permit appropriate resource
     adjustments to be made during the budget formulation process. If a support agreement must
     be unilaterally terminated, suspended, or significantly modified with less than 180-day notice
     to other parties of the agreement, the initiating party may be billed by affected parties for
     reimbursement of unavoidable termination or re-procurement expenses incurred up to 180
     days following the written notification.
     2.6. Reimbursements for expenses incurred as the result of significant unilateral, short-notice
     modifications, suspensions, or terminations may only be paid for support that has not been
     otherwise funded (i.e., through the non-initiating party’s budget process). Conversely, non-
     initiating parties may not request adjustments to their appropriations to fund qualifying
     expenses that it reasonably expects will be reimbursed by the initiating party.
     2.7. Costs associated with common use infrastructure are non-reimbursable. Indirect costs
     will not be included in reimbursement charges, except those included in stabilized rates
     charged for Working Capital Fund mission products and services.
3. Authorities and Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installation & Mission Support (AF/A4/7) is the
     designated senior AF official responsible for the AF Intra-service Support Agreement
     Program and in that capacity will:
        3.1.1. Designate an individual to be the AF’s point of contact for policy issues pertaining
        to intra-service support agreements.
        3.1.2. Oversee the implementation of this publication through one or more AF
        instructions.
        3.1.3. As practical, sponsor intra-service organization meetings, workshops, and/or
        conferences to share ideas for solving common problems and identify opportunities for
AFPD25-2 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                          3


     improving support and by exploring the feasibility of improving quality, efficiency, and
     effectiveness through the use of support agreements and other cooperative initiatives.
     3.1.4. Ensure the use of appropriate internal controls and oversight measures with respect
     to intra-service support agreements (i.e. tri-annual reviews, monitored suspense dates,
     compliance inspections, etc.).
     3.1.5. Ensure that each level of authority and each activity that provides support services
     to other intra-service activities or that receives support from another intra-service activity
     has a designated Support Agreements Manager and Functional Area Agreement
     Coordinator. (T-0)
     3.1.6. Staff impasse packages within the Headquarters AF that involve cross-functional
     areas in dispute.
     3.1.7. Provide requested support to other intra-service activities to the extent that it is in
     the best interest of the AF.
  3.2. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Financial Management and Comptroller
  (SAF/FM) will develop guidance on the types of costs that can be charged, and ensure
  appropriate costing of activities by FM resource management is included in the budget
  process.
     3.2.1. The Installation Financial Management Comptroller, or designated representative,
     will coordinate on all AF intra-service support agreements.
     3.2.2. The Installation Financial Management Comptroller, or designated representative,
     will perform a budget review of support agreement reimbursements on an annual basis.




                                            DEBORAH LEE JAMES
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
 4                                                               AFPD25-2 28 AUGUST 2014


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 4000.19, Support Agreements, 25 April 2013
Headquarters AF Mission Directive 1-38, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Air Force (Logistics,
Installations and Mission Support), 5 October 2009
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 15
March 2014
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
DD—Defense Department
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
FM—Financial Management and Comptroller
IAW—In Accordance With
MAJCOM—Major Command
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force

Terms
Note: Additional terms used in this Policy Directive are defined in DoDI 4000.19 and Joint
Publication 1—02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms
Functional Area Agreement Coordinator—The appointed individual who executes the review
process for a support agreement and obtains their leadership’s consensus.
AFPD25-2 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                         5


Indirect Cost—Cost of resources, including overhead, that support more than one cost object
(e.g., not consumed by a single cost object).
Inter-Agency Support—Support provided by the Air Force to a non-DoD Federal Agency or
federally-recognized Indian tribe and vice versa. Support agreements between ANG and Non-
DoD Federal Agencies or federally-recognized Indian tribes are also considered Inter-Agency.
Inter-agency support does not include support provided to or received from foreign governments.
Inter-Service Support (also called Intra-Agency Support)—Support provided by the Air
Force to a DoD Component. When ANG is the Receiver on AF Active Duty base, with AF
property and AF appropriations, the relationship is also considered an inter-service or intra-
agency support agreement.
Intra-Service Support—Support provided by the Air Force to another Air Force unit to include
Air Force Reserve Command. An intra-service relationship between ANG and AF Active Duty
exists when ANG is the Supplier on AF Active Duty or ANG property, with 100% AF
appropriations (i.e., funds provided by the AF instead of the States). ANG to ANG (between
different states) support agreements will also be considered intra-service (within the Air Force).
Support Agreement—An intra-service, intra-agency, or inter-agency support agreement for a
Supplier to provide support to a Receiver. It can take the form of a Defense Department (DD)
Form 1144, Memorandum of Agreement, or Memorandum of Understanding. It is used to
document recurring support in order to provide the unit commander with the capability to ensure
resources are expended wisely and to help eliminate unnecessary resource duplication. It can
also be used for single or non-recurring reimbursable support and non-reimbursable support.
Support Agreement Manager—The appointed individual responsible for managing the unit’s
or organization’s support agreements. There is a support agreement manager for each Supplier
and Receiver.
