BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 21-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                         25 FEBRUARY 2003

                                                                                            Maintenance

                                                                   AIR AND SPACE MAINTENANCE




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/ILMM (Maj Hoffman)                             Certified by: HQ USAF/IL (Lt Gen Zettler)
Supersedes AFPD 21-1, 10 August 1993                                                         Pages: 9
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This directive provides overarching guidance for the maintenance of air and space equipment. It imple-
ments policies in DoD Directive 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 12 August 1992. This policy
directive applies to all Air Force and DoD contractor activities, including the Air National Guard and the
Air Force Reserve. Records Disposition: ensure all records created by this publication are maintained and
disposed of IAW AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
All sections have been revised to emphasize readiness and support to air expeditionary forces. Policy,
objectives and responsibilities stress DoD guidance and measurement/reporting of results. An expanded
list of publications, acronyms and terms (Attachment 1) and metrics (Attachment 2) is attached.


1. Policy. This publication establishes policy and assigns responsibilities for the maintenance of air and
space equipment to meet operational needs, including mobilization and surge requirements.
   1.1. Maintenance shall be performed at the lowest level to optimize readiness and resources.
   1.2. Organizations, tools, equipment and skills shall be standardized where possible.
   1.3. A depot maintenance capability shall be maintained to meet military contingency requirements.
       1.3.1. Performance-based agreements, including partnerships, shall be used as a means to achieve
       economies and efficiencies.
   1.4. Inter- and intra-Service and joint contracting maintenance support arrangements shall be estab-
   lished.

2. Objectives. Our overarching objective is to maintain air and space equipment in a safe, serviceable
and ready condition to meet mission needs. Toward that end, the AF shall:
2                                                                      AFPD21-1 25 FEBRUARY 2003


    2.1. Support readiness objectives by maintaining equipment in optimum condition (A2.1.).
    2.2. Assign skilled personnel necessary to support expeditionary air forces (A2.2.).
    2.3. Manage fleet health to ensure long-term capability of air and space equipment (A2.3.).

3. Roles and Responsibilities.
    3.1. Headquarters Air Force. The DCS/Installations and Logistics (AF/IL) is the chief HAF agency
    with responsibility for policy, resources and management of air and space equipment.
       3.1.1. Policy. Prepares, publishes and reviews AF-level policy. This publication should be
       reviewed annually and revised, if necessary.
       3.1.2. Resources. Advocates resources to sustain maintenance operations.
           3.1.2.1. Arranges cost-effective maintenance support between services.
           3.1.2.2. Analyzes or summarizes maintenance trends.
    3.2. Major Command. MAJCOMs provide manpower, resources and training consistent with the
    assigned mission. Provide detailed policy, funding and analysis to optimize readiness.
       3.2.1. Air Force Materiel Command. AFMC will provide adequate support for logistics, engineer-
       ing and research, development, test and evaluation to support all MAJCOMs.
           3.2.1.1. Oversees depot-level maintenance activities and manages air logistics centers.
           Improves efficiency and effectiveness of depot maintenance through inter-servicing and com-
           petition. Annually determines and quantifies core capability.
           3.2.1.2. Serves as the final determining authority for the content of technical orders.
           3.2.1.3. Ensures operational safety, suitability and effectiveness.
       3.2.2. Air Education and Training Command. AETC will provide formal training for technicians
       to maintain air and space equipment.
    3.3. Wings. Air Force Wings are the primary maintenance level, as air and space equipment is ulti-
    mately maintained at the unit level.
       3.3.1. Base-level aircraft maintenance activities must have the capability to launch and recover
       aircraft and sustain the preventive maintenance program.
       3.3.2. All units shall strictly enforce compliance with technical manuals and supplements.

4. Measurement and Reporting.
    4.1. Air Force organizations shall measure and report maintenance data to evaluate maintenance per-
    formance and compliance consistent with this policy.
AFPD21-1 25 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                      3


     4.1.1. Air Staff, MAJCOMs and Wings/Units will prepare and report metrics in accordance with
     Attachment 2.



                                               James G. Roche
                                               Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                 AFPD21-1 25 FEBRUARY 2003


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-602, Determining Mission Capability and Supportability Requirements
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-116, Maintenance Management of Communications – Electronics
AFI 21-118, Improving Aerospace Equipment Reliability and Maintainability
AFI 21-201, Management and Maintenance of Non-Nuclear Munitions
AFI 36-2232, Maintenance Training
AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization
AFI 63-111, Contract Support for Systems and Equipment
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.
AFPD 20-3, Air Force Weapon System Reparable Asset Management
AFPD 63-12, Assurance Of Operational Safety, Suitability, & Effectiveness
DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel
DoDD 5025.12, Standardization of Military and Associated Terminology
JP 1-02, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms

Abbreviations and Acronymns
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ALC—Air Logistics Center
CAMS—Core Automated Maintenance System
CANN—Cannibalization
DLR—Depot-level Repairable
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
EDW—Enterprise Data Warehouse
FY—Fiscal Year
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
AFPD21-1 25 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                                5


IAW—In Accordance With
IDEAS—Interactive Demographic Analysis System
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
JP—Joint Publication
MIS—Maintenance Information System
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Mission Capable
NMC—Not Mission Capable
NMCM—Not Mission Capable Maintenance
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness
RAW—Retrieval Applications Website
REMIS—Reliability & Maintainability Information System
TAV—Total Asset Visibility
TO—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Air and Space Equipment—Equipment used and maintained to meet the Air Force mission. It includes
aircraft, missiles, space equipment, communications-electronic equipment, avionics, engines, training
equipment, support equipment, aircraft and space ground equipment, sound suppressor systems, test,
measurement and diagnostic equipment and major end-items of all equipment.
Availability—An expression of the percentage of time a piece of air or space equipment is ready to
perform at least some part of its intended work for its operational user. This percentage is expressed as a
mission capability rate.
Cannibalization—Authorized removals of a specific assembly, subassembly, or part from one weapon
system, system, support system, or equipment end-item for installation on another end-item to meet
priority mission requirements with an obligation to replace the removed item.
Core Capability—An integral part of a depot maintenance skill and resource base that shall be
maintained within depot activities to meet contingency requirements. Core comprises a minimum level of
mission-essential capability within DoD.
Depot Maintenance—Maintenance performed on materiel requiring major overhaul or a complete
rebuild of parts, assemblies, subassemblies, and end-items, including the manufacture of parts,
modifications, testing, and reclamation as required. Depot maintenance serves to support lower categories
of maintenance by providing technical assistance and performing maintenance beyond their
responsibility. Depot maintenance provides stocks of serviceable equipment by using more extensive
facilities for repair than are available in lower level maintenance activities.
6                                                                      AFPD21-1 25 FEBRUARY 2003


Fleet Health—The overall condition of aircraft, equipment, assets, and/or forces to execute a long-term
course of action (e.g., number of delayed discrepancies, number of serviceable assets versus
requirements, and/or level of training).
Intermediate Maintenance—Maintenance that is the responsibility of and performed by designated
maintenance activities in direct support of using organizations. Its phases normally consist of: calibration,
repair, or replacement of damaged or unserviceable parts, components, or assemblies; the emergency
manufacture of non-available parts; and providing technical assistance to using organizations.
Interoperability—The ability of systems, units, or forces to provide services to and accept services from
other systems, units, or forces and to use the services so exchanged to enable them to operate effectively
together.
Inter-Service Maintenance Support—Maintenance either recurring or nonrecurring, performed by the
organic capability of one Military Service, or element of it, in support of another Military Service or
element.
Maintenance Engineering—The application of techniques, engineering skills and efforts organized to
ensure that the design and development of weapon systems and equipment provide adequately for their
effective and economical maintenance.
Maintenance Training—Any proficiency, qualification, or certification required by a technician to
perform duties in their primary Air Force Specialty.
Materiel—Hardware, equipment, software, or any combination thereof, associated with DoD weapon
systems and their related spares, repair parts, and support necessary to equip, operate, maintain and
support military activities for administrative, support or combat purposes.
Mission Capable Rate—The MC rate is defined as the combination of the fully mission capable (FMC)
and partially mission capable (PMC) rates. It represents how long, in percent of possessed time, a system
can perform at least one of its assigned missions.
Organizational Maintenance—The first level of maintenance performed on-equipment (directly on
aerospace vehicles or support equipment). This type of maintenance generally includes minor repairs,
inspection, testing or calibration.
Readiness—The ability of US military forces to fight and meet the demands of the national military
strategy. Unit readiness is the ability to provide capabilities required by the combatant commanders to
execute their assigned missions.
Reliability-Centered Maintenance—A logical discipline for developing a scheduled-maintenance
program that will realize the inherent reliability levels of complex equipment at minimum cost.
Technical Order—An AF publication that gives specific technical directives and information on
inspection, storage, operation, modification and maintenance of given AF items and equipment.
Total Asset Visibility—The capability to provide users with timely and accurate information on the
location, movement, status, and identity of units, personnel, equipment, materiel, and supplies.
AFPD21-1 25 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                               7


                                             Attachment 2

               MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A2.1. Readiness shall be determined through the use of mission capability rates and other manage-
ment indicators. These rates shall be reported by mission design series (e.g., F-15E) and/or organization
(e.g., 1st FW). Sources for this measurement include the AF Portal and Maintenance Information Systems
such as CAMS/IMDS and EDW/REMIS.

Figure A2.1. Sample Metric of Annual Mission Capability Rate for Fighter Aircraft.




A2.2. Skilled personnel shall be determined by training and availability. As a minimum, manning data
shall be reported by specialty and skill level. Sources for this measurement include the Interactive Demo-
graphic Analysis System and Retrieval Applications Website.
8                                                                   AFPD21-1 25 FEBRUARY 2003


Figure A2.2. Sample Metric of Availability of Munitions Maintenance Personnel (2W0).




A2.3. Fleet health shall be determined through the use of management indicators such as deferred
discrepancies, break/fix rates, cannibalization rates and abort rates. These indicators shall be closely
monitored and reported to ensure the long-term capability and sustainability of equipment. Sources for
these indicators include the AF Portal and Maintenance Information Systems (MIS) such as CAMS/
IMDS, EDW/REMIS and G081.
AFPD21-1 25 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                9


Figure A2.3. Sample Metric of Cannibalization Rate for C-5 Aircraft (per 100 sorties).
