BY ORDER OF THE                                      AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 65-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               21 APRIL 2010

                                                                       Financial Management

                                                                      INTERNAL AUDITING



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFAA/DOV                                                         Certified by: SAF/AG
Supersedes: AFPD65-3, 25 July 2005                                  (Mr. Theodore J. Williams)
                                                                                       Pages: 3


This directive implements Department of Defense (DOD) Instruction 7600.02, Audit Policies,
April 27, 2007; and DOD Instruction 7600.6, Audit of Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities
and Related Activities, January 16, 2004. This directive applies to all Air Force organizations
and activities, including the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve. This directive
establishes policies regarding the use of audits to improve programs; make financial reporting
more accurate; and ensure public resources are used efficiently, effectively, economically, and
legally throughout the Air Force. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force Form (AF) 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision removes references to the commanders audit program and updates the implemented
directives.
1. Under the guidance and direction of the Auditor General (SAF/AG), the Air Force
Audit Agency (AFAA) is the sole provider of internal audit services to the Air Force. The
AFAA is organizationally placed to maintain the independence required by both Public
Law and Comptroller General government auditing standards. Auditors will not perform
line, staff, or other collateral duties that would impair this independence.
 2                                                                   AFPD65-3 21 APRIL 2010


2. All Air Force organizations, functions, activities, and levels of operations may be
audited.
3. Air Force management will use audit reports as recommendations to help correct
deficiencies and prevent their recurrence.
4. Audits will not interfere with combat operations. Audits within combat theaters will
emphasize the adequacy and effectiveness of combat support and the controls used to prevent
unauthorized diversion of equipment, supplies, or other resources.
5. The Air Force may contract for audits of nonappropriated fund activities. Other audits
may not be contracted out unless the AFAA determines it does not have the expertise to
complete them or it needs temporary help to meet legal or regulatory requirements.
6. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
     6.1. The AFAA will, without limitation, select activities for audit based on internal risk
     assessments, management requests, and resource availability. The AFAA will determine the
     scope of audit work, perform the necessary audit work and report results to senior Air Force
     management.
     6.2. AFAA auditors will remain independent from all activities they audit. In all matters
     relating to the audit work, auditors should be free in both fact and appearance from
     impairments to independence.
     6.3. AFAA auditors will follow government auditing standards, and their reports will include
     recommended corrective actions and management’s position on the issues discussed in the
     report. Auditors will not develop systems, methods, or procedures, nor will they change or
     order changes in the audited activity’s operations.
     6.4. Air Force management will ensure that properly cleared AFAA auditors have full and
     unrestricted access to all personnel, records, or facilities needed to meet an announced audit
     objective. After proper clearances are confirmed, auditors usually have access without
     reference to higher authority. Only the Secretary of the Air Force may deny AFAA auditors
     access to Air Force records.
     6.5. The Auditor General of the Air Force, the Deputy Auditor General, and the Assistant
     Deputy Auditor General are the disclosure or denial authorities for all AFAA reports of audit
     and supporting audit records under the Freedom of Information Act.




                                              MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD65-3 21 APRIL 2010                                                                         3


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 7600.02, Audit Policies, April 27, 2007
DODI 7600.6, Audit of Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities and Related Activities, January
16, 2004
DOD 7600.07-M, Internal Audit Manual, February 13, 2009
United States Government Accountability Office, Government Auditing Standards, 2007
Revision.
