BY ORDER OF THE                                        AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 25-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  26 JUNE 2012

                                                                               Logistics Support

                                                               ALLIED LOGISTICS SUPPORT




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A4LX                                                               Certified by: AF/A4/7
                                                                          (Lt Gen Judith Fedder)
                                                                                         Pages: 3
Supersedes:    AFPD 25-3, 2 March 1993


This directive establishes Air Force policy for the acquisition and provision of logistic support,
supplies, and services directly to/from eligible countries and international organizations. It
implements DoD Directive (DoDD) 2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement. This
directive must be used in conjunction with various functional publications and directives (i.e.
DoD Instruction 2010.6, Materiel Interoperability and Standardization with Allies and Coalition
Partners and DoDD 5530.3, International Agreements). This publication applies to all AF
personnel including the Air Force Reserve and the Air National Guard on Title 10 status. This
AFPD cannot be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Records Disposition. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARYOF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This revision removes outdated references and omits compliance measures since those measures
are addressed to Combatant Commands (COCOMS). It points to DoDD 2010.9 for additional
definitions of Terms used in this AFPD. The title has been changed to delete the term North
 2                                                                     AFPD25-3 26 JUNE 2012


Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) since NATO countries are covered in the term ‘Allied’.
This document does not duplicate the information in DoDD 2010.9.


1. Policy. The United States Air Force (USAF) (under DoDD 2010.9), supports the logistics
objectives of eligible countries (Atch 1) and international organizations by acquiring, and in
some cases providing, logistic support, supplies, and services from or to eligible countries and
international organizations, thereby increasing allied force effectiveness through efficient use of
defense resources.
2. Responsibilities and Authorities: The following responsibilities and authorities are
established/noted:
     2.1. The authority granted to the Secretary of the Air Force in DoDD 2010.9 is re-delegated
     to the Commander of each USAF Component Command to exchange logistics support,
     supplies, and services with eligible nations and international organizations, unless otherwise
     specified. Authority to negotiate and conclude implementing arrangements (IA) must be
     delegated by the appropriate COCOM. Procedures for negotiating and concluding IA must
     be in accordance with DoDD 5530.3, International Agreements, and AFPD 51-7,
     International Law.
     2.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7) will
     serve as the Air Force Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement Manager, and will:
        2.2.1. Develop guidance and instructions to implement the policy in this directive.
        2.2.2. Oversee the rationalization of logistics as the agent of the Secretary of the Air
        Force.
        2.2.3. Ensure the NATO rationalization process is consistent with US laws and
        regulations and while recognizing that each nation is responsible for the logistics support
        of its own forces, it will encourage mutual provision of support among eligible countries.
        2.2.4. To the extent possible, incorporate NATO logistics policy and their rationalization
        process in all planning and programming for the logistics support of USAF organizations,
        inclusive of the Air Reserve Component, stationed in or scheduled for deployment to
        eligible countries in peace, war, or emergency.




                                              Michael B. Donley
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD25-3 26 JUNE 2012                                                                            3


                                         Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES & SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements, April 28, 2003
DoDD 5530.3, International Agreements, June 11, 1987
DoDI 2010.6, Materiel Interoperability and Standardization with Allies and Coalition Partners,
July 29, 2009
JP 4-08, Joint Doctrine for Logistics Support of Multinational Operation, 25 September 2002
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 5 February 2009
AJP 4, Allied Joint Logistics Doctrine, December 2003
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Terms
See DoDD 2010.9 for additional ‘Terms’—Eligible Countries. The definition of ‘Eligible
Countries’ differs depending on the type of agreement: acquisition only agreement or cross
servicing agreement.
1. In the context of an acquisition only agreement, “Eligible Countries’ includes governments of
other NATO countries. Additionally the term includes the government of a non NATO country
that meets one or more of the following criteria:
a. Has a defense alliance with the United States;
b. Permits the stationing of members of the US Armed Forces or home porting of US Naval
vessels in such country;
c. Has agreed to preposition US materiel in such country; or
d. Serves as a host country for US Armed Forces in exercises or permits other US military
operations in such country.
2. In the context of a cross servicing agreement, ‘Eligible Countries’ includes governments of
other NATO countries. Additionally the term includes the governments of designated non
NATO countries (such designation being made by the Secretary of Defense after consultation
with the Secretary of State and appropriate notification to Congress).
Rationalization. Any action that increases the effectiveness of allied forces through more
efficient and effective use of defense resources committed to the alliance. Rationalization
includes consolidation, reassignment of national priorities to higher allied needs,
standardization, specialization, mutual support or improved interoperability, and greater
cooperation. Rationalization applies to both weapons and materiel resources and
nonweapon military matters (Joint Pub 1— 02).
