                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF THE                                  AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 34-5
AIR FORCE                                                                                   22 JULY 1993

                                                                 Morale, Welfare, Recreation, and Services

                                                                                  MORTUARY AFFAIRS




NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR:    HQ USAF/MWP (Mr Willis Pickering)            Certified by: HQ USAF/MW (Mr Arthur J. Myers)
                                                                                          Pages: 6
                                                                                   Distribution: F

1. The Air Force is responsible for meeting the needs and protecting the interests of the next of kin
(NOK) of deceased Air Force members. The following policies provide for the identification, care, dis-
position, and military honors for the deceased, and the retrieval, protection, and disposition of the
deceased’s personal property during the sensitive time following a death.

2. The Air Force will accord to surviving relatives every possible consideration within the limitations of
existing statutes and applicable directives.

3. The Air Force will identify the individual remains of deceased personnel when possible.

4. The Air Force will provide mortuary services to satisfy requirements contained in the operational plans
of the warfighting Commanders-in-Chief. To this end, mobility programs at the Air Force, major com-
mand (MAJCOM), and base levels will organize and train Morale, Welfare, Recreation, and Services mil-
itary forces (Prime Readiness in Base Support [RIBS]) for wartime and peacetime contingency combat
service support roles. Specific mortuary guidance is found in AFI 10-214, Air Force Prime RIBS Pro-
gram.

5. Following are established responsibilities and authorities:
   5.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, Installations and Envi-
   ronment (SAF/MI) is responsible for mortuary affairs policy matters as described in Air Force Policy
   Directive 90-1, Strategic Planning and Policy Formulation, paragraph 1.5.2. SAF/MI approval is
   required before this document is changed, reissued, or rescinded.
   5.2. The Directorate of Morale, Welfare, Recreation, and Services (HQ USAF/MW) is responsible
   for policy, resource advocacy, and oversight of the Mortuary Affairs Program throughout the Air
   Force.
   5.3. The Air Force Morale, Welfare, Recreation, and Services Agency (AFMWRSA) commander is
   responsible for technical management of the Mortuary Affairs Program including identifying remains,
   prescribing the Honor Guard Program, and protecting personal effects and property of deceased mem-
   bers. The AFMWRSA provides technical assistance to all levels of command and assistance to the
   NOK of deceased members as required, to include assistance to NOK for repatriated remains of mem-
   bers who were formerly categorized as missing in action or captured as a prisoner of war, as well as
   persons who were in any other casualty category and whose remains were not recovered at the time of
   death.
   5.4. Commanders are responsible for establishing mortuary affairs programs, identifying require-
   ments and executing their programs to comply with this policy.
   5.5. Installation commanders of Dover AFB and Travis AFB are responsible for managing and oper-
   ating the port mortuaries located there, to include receiving, inspecting, reprocessing, and shipping of
   remains of deceased personnel of all Services from outside the continental United States (CONUS),
   including remains of authorized US civilians. Headquarters United States Air Force and Headquarters
   Air Mobility Command are responsible for contingency plans to expand these port mortuary facilities
   and processing capabilities during mass casualty situations. Installation commanders of Pacific Air
   Force bases are responsible for managing and operating mortuaries located on their installations.
   Headquarters United States Air Forces in Europe is responsible for managing and operating mortuar-
   ies located on Air Force bases in Europe. Unified and specified combatant commanders are responsi-
   ble for the recovery and return of fatalities to the CONUS port mortuaries. When air or other
   expeditious transportation is not available, or when the human remains contain chemical, biological,
   or nuclear contamination, they must be temporarily buried.            Contaminated remains cannot be
   safely autopsied or embalmed.

6. See Attachment 1 for measures used to comply with this policy.

7. This directive implements policies from the sources in Attachment 2, as well as Department of
Defense (DoD) Directive 1300.15, Military Funeral Support, September 30, 1985.

8. Related instructions and prescribed DoD and Air Force forms are found in AFI 34-501, Mortuary
Affairs Procedures and Benefits (formerly AFR 143-1, AFM 143-3, and AFPs 143-9 and 143-10); AFI
34-502, Disposition of Personal Property (formerly AFR 143-6); AFI 34-503, USAF Base Honor Guard
Program (formerly 900-37); and the following joint departmental publications: AFM 143-2, AFR 143-5,
AFR 143-7, and AFP 143-8).




                                         NORMAND G. LEZY, Brig General, USAF
                                         Director of Morale, Welfare, Recreation, and Services




                                                2
                   Attachment 1MEASURING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY


A1.1. The AFMWRSA will provide the following data to HQ USAF/MW and the MAJCOMs on a quar-
terly basis using RCS: HAF-MWP(Q)9313, Quarterly Mortuary Affairs Effectiveness Report.

A1.2. Mortuary Funds Audit. Mortuary funds will be managed to ensure the NOK receive payments in
the exact amounts authorized. This will be measured by reporting the number of cases audited by cate-
gory of overpayments, underpayments, and error-free payments (Figure A1.1., Figure A1.2., and Figure
A1.3.).

A1.3. Complaints by NOK. Customer service provided to the NOK of deceased members for mortuary
services will be structured to achieve their complete satisfaction for the services provided within public
law and entitlements. Customer service will be measured by the number of valid and invalid congres-
sional inquiries received by category of decedent and the number of valid and invalid complaints
received by category of decedent concerning preparation of remains for transportation and interment, as
determined by AFMWRSA/MWD.




                                                3
Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Mortuary Complaints.




Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Mortuary Complaints on Preparation of Remains.




                                         4
Figure A1.3. Sample Metric of Mortuary Funds Audit.




                                         5
                                             Attachment 2

                      RELEVANT STATUTES AND EXECUTIVE ORDERS



Title 5, U.S.C., Section 5742, Transportation of Remains, Dependents, and Effects; Death Occurring
Away From Official Station or Abroad
Title 10, U.S.C., Sections
1481-1490, Death Benefits
2575, Disposition of Unclaimed Property
4712, Disposition of Effects of Deceased Persons by Summary Court-Martial
4713, Disposition of Effects of Deceased Persons by Soldiers’ Home
9712, Disposition of Effects of Deceased Persons by Summary Court-Martial
Title 37, U.S.C., Sections
407, Travel and Transportation Allowances: Dislocation Allowance
411, Travel and Transportation Allowances: Administrative Provisions
554, Travel and Transportation; Dependents; Household and Personal Effects; Trailers; Additional
Movements; Motor Vehicles; Sell of Bulky Items; Claims for Proceeds; Appropriation Chargeable
555, Secretarial Review
556, Secretarial Determination
Executive Order 11609 *Section 1(13), Delegation of Certain Function Vested in the President to Other
Officers of the Government

NOTE:
*Applies to civilian employees of the United States and their dependents.




                                                6
