BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-3
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   17 MAY 2006

                                                                                                Operations

                                                               AIR RESERVE COMPONENT FORCES




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/A3/5GH (Col Eric D. Sillery)                                   Certified by: HQ USAF/A3/5
                                                                             (Lt Gen Carroll H. Chandler)
Supersedes AFPD10-3, 2 May 1994                                                                   Pages: 6
                                                                                           Distribution: F

Within the United States Air Force, Total Force is more than a policy; it is an operational imperative. Vir-
tually no mission in the Air Force today can be fully successful without the synergistic teamwork of the
Regular Air Force (RegAF), Air National Guard (ANG), and the Air Force Reserve (AFR). This AFPD
implements the SecDef ‘s Total Force policy first established in August, 1973, as well as Chapters 1003,
1005, 1007 and 1211 of Title 10, United States Code, and Title 32, United States Code. Policy in this
directive is implemented by AFI 10-301, Responsibilities for Air Reserve Component Forces. This direc-
tive applies to all Air Force personnel including AFR and ANG.
Note: For purposes of this publication, RegAF is not inclusive of retired members. Also, this publication
deals only with the military components (RegAF, ANG and AFR) of the Total Force.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision updates terminology to properly reflect the Air Force Reserve as a major command, adds the
Air Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC) and the Readiness Management Group (RMG) as organizations
requiring coordination for mobilization of individual mobilization augmentees (IMAs), and highlights the
role of Total Force Integration concepts in the structuring of Air Force roles and missions.

1. By definition (10 USC 8062(d)), the Air Force consists of the Regular Air Force, the Air National
Guard (ANGUS) of the United States, the Air National Guard while in the service of the United States,
and the Air Force Reserve. The AFR and the ANG are referred to as the Air Reserve Components or
ARC, and together with the regular component create a Total Force that provides air, space and cyber
power for the joint warfighter through the entire continuum from peacetime/rotational operations through
wartime operations.
2                                                                                AFPD10-3 17 MAY 2006


Under the Total Force Policy established by the Department of Defense (DoD) in 1973, both regular and
reserve assets are considered as parts of a single United States military resource. All aspects of regular and
reserve forces must be considered when determining an appropriate force mix. Significant factors include
contribution of forces to national security, availability of forces in view of time, statutory or regulatory
constraints, and the cost to equip and maintain forces. Considerations unique to ANG units include their
dual state and Federal (Title 10) missions. ARC forces will be staffed and trained to meet the same train-
ing standards and readiness levels as Regular Component forces, and supplied with the same equipment
on an equal priority. Equipment may not be withdrawn, diverted, or reassigned to the regular component
for other commitments, or for the Security Assistance Program, without the advance written approval of
the Secretary of Defense (SecDef) or Deputy Secretary of Defense.
    1.1. Reserve force requirements will be included in Air Force planning to ensure resources are made
    available to staff, equip, upgrade, train, and evaluate ARC units and individuals as well as RegAF
    units and individuals.
    1.2. Within the Department of the Air Force, the regular component will implement Total Force pol-
    icy by including ARC forces in deliberate and crisis action planning and employment actions.
    1.3. The ANG and AFRC will prepare to meet their wartime requirements as members of the Total
    Force. Where appropriate, they will perform peacetime missions as an adjunct to training for wartime
    missions and as directed in cases of support to civil authorities during disaster responses. To ensure
    responsiveness and combat readiness, ARC forces will be continuously evaluated, modernized and
    trained as a critical element of the Total Force that can be seamlessly employed alongside regular
    component counterparts.
    1.4. When not mobilized, ARC forces complement the regular component through a system of volun-
    teerism. This volunteerism supports Total Force policy and is a force multiplier for meeting short-term
    and rotational operational requirements. Major contingencies requiring a large amount of ARC sup-
    port may require a formal declaration authorizing some level of mobilization.
    1.5. ARC personnel policies will be consistent with those established by the Secretary of the Air
    Force and Headquarters US Air Force (HQ USAF). The Director of ANG is responsible for the
    administration of personnel and policies governing the ANG, and the Commander, Air Force Reserve
    Command is responsible for the personnel and policies governing the AFR.

2. The Total Force Integration concept is utilized in reshaping Air Force roles and missions to effectively
meet evolving national security goals. To this end, regular component and ARC units may be integrated in
an expanded variety of the proven associate constructs, to include Classic Associate, Active Associate
(and a variant on Active Associate referred to as Community Basing), ARC Associate, Integrated Associ-
ate or Fully Integrated Associate (refer to Glossary for definitions). Conversely, stand-alone ARC units
may still be organized to take advantage of state or regional demographics, and often will not be located
at major, multi-squadron bases as is normally the case with regular component resources. These units are
termed “unit equipped”, and provide the additional benefit of implementing a strong relationship with the
civilian community, which helps build public support for the Air Force as a whole.

3. In situations where mobilization is required, units shall be mobilized based on Unit Type Code (UTC)
capability assigned against the unit and the Combatant Commander’s (CCDR) requirements. When com-
plete units are required, the mobilization requests should include reserve command and administrative
AFPD10-3 17 MAY 2006                                                                                      3


personnel as well. ARC forces will be given equitable opportunity to fill command roles during contin-
gency operations.

4. The following responsibilities and authorities are established:
     4.1. Command jurisdiction for non-mobilized ANG units is vested in the governor of the state, com-
     monwealth, or territory, or in the President in the case of the District of Columbia. Communications to
     and within the National Guard Bureau (NGB) on matters pertaining to ANG units will be coordinated
     through the Director of ANG.
     4.2. Program Action Directive (PAD) 97-09, directed the reassignment of all forces of the Air Force
     Reserve, to include IMA’s, except those assigned to USSOCOM, to Air Force Reserve Command.
     Thus, Administrative Control (ADCON) of non-mobilized Air Force Reserve personnel (including
     IMAs) is exercised through the Commander, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) who is, in turn,
     responsible to the Chief of Staff, USAF.
     4.3. Per AFDD 2, when ARC unit forces are mobilized, Operational Control (OPCON) of those
     forces transfers in accordance with SecDef orders. The Commander of Air Force Forces (COMAF-
     FOR) receives specified ADCON over all attached forces. Short of full mobilization, ADCON (other
     than specified ADCON) will remain with AFRC or ANG, as appropriate, unless a specific agreement
     is made to integrate the ARC and regular components.
     4.4. Mobilization manpower sourcing from the ARC will be determined by the gaining MAJCOM in
     concert with HQ USAF and the ARC. Mobilization of IMAs will be coordinated with RMG via HQ
     AFRC.
     4.5. The Director, NGB and AFRC/CC will develop and justify their programs and submit them to the
     Air Force Corporate Structure for inclusion in the Air Force budget.

5. In some cases, policy directives and instructions will not be applicable to ARC units in nonmobilized
status. Applicability to the ARC is determined in conjunction with the National Guard Bureau and AF/
RE.
30

6. See Attachment 1 for the terms used in this policy.



                                                Michael W. Wynne
                                                Secretary of the Air Force
4                                                                             AFPD10-3 17 MAY 2006


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 2, Organization and Employment of Aerospace Power
AFI 10-301, Responsibilities of Air Reserve Component (ARC) Forces
AFI 36-2629, Individual Mobilization Augmentee Management
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records (soon to be renumbered as AFMAN 33-363)
JP 01-2, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms
Title 10, United States Code
Title 32, United States Code
Program Action Directive (PAD) 97-09, dated 22 Sep 97

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADCON—Administrative Control
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Components
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
CCDR—Combatant Commander
COMAFFOR—Commander of Air Force Forces
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
MAJCOM—Major Command
OPCON—Operational Control
RegAF—Regular Air Force
RMG—Readiness Management Group
UTC—Unit Type Code

Terms
Activation—The process of placing members of the selected reserve on active duty. Activation includes
all forms of mobilization and active duty other than for training, including full mobilization (10 U.S.C. §
12301(a)), partial mobilization (10 U.S.C. § 12302), and the Presidential Reserve Call-Up (10 U.S.C. §
12304) as well as consensual, or voluntary service under 10 U.S.C. § 12301(d), generally referred to as
volunteerism. The term nonmobilized is understood to be the opposite of activated; i.e., peacetime duty or
AFPD10-3 17 MAY 2006                                                                                      5


training in the form of inactive duty for training, annual tours, additional flying training periods or
proficiency training, and school tours.
Active Associate Unit—An integration model where a reserve component unit has principal
responsibility for weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more regular component units.
The ARC and regular component units retain separate organizational structures and chains of command.
Varying degrees of functional integration are based on memoranda of understanding.
Administrative Control—Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other organizations in
respect to administration and support, including organization of Service forces, control of resources and
equipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and unit training, readiness, mobilization,
demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included in the operational missions of the subordinate
or other organizations. Also called ADCON. [JP 1-02]
ARC Associate Unit—An integration model where two or more ARC units integrate with one retaining
principal responsibility for a weapon system or systems, which are shared by all. Each unit retains
separate organizational structures and chains of commands. Varying degrees of functional integration are
based on memoranda of understanding.
Classic Associate Unit—An integration model where a regular component unit retains principal
responsibility for a weapon system or systems, which it shares with one or more reserve component units.
Regular and ARC units retain separate organizational structures and chains of command. Varying degrees
of functional integration are based on memoranda of understanding.
Command—The authority that a commander in the Armed Forces lawfully exercises over subordinates
by virtue of rank or assignment. Command includes the authority and responsibility for effectively using
available resources and for planning the employment of, organizing, directing, coordinating, and
controlling military forces for the accomplishment of assigned missions. It also includes responsibility for
health, welfare, morale, and discipline of assigned personnel. [JP 1-02]
Combatant Commander—A commander of one of the unified or specified combatant commands
established by the President. [JP 1-02]
Community Basing—A variation on the Active Associate model where regular component forces are
garrisoned at an ARC unit location. Support functions traditionally provided on a full service installation
(housing, medical, commissary, BX, etc) are instead available in the local community.
Full Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by Congress and the
President to mobilize all Reserve Component units in the existing approved force structure, as well as all
individual reservists, retired military personnel, and the resources needed for their support to meet the
requirements of a war or other national emergency involving an external threat to the national security. [JP
1-02]
Fully Integrated Unit—An integration model where members from different components comprise a
single organization, falling under the same chain of command.
Gaining Command—The major command, field operating agency, or other organization to which units
or individuals are assigned upon mobilization.
Integrated Associate Unit—An integration model where members of two or more components belong to
one unit with administrative control and support provided by the respective components via detachments.
Mobilization—The process by which the Armed Forces or part of them are brought to a state of readiness
6                                                                                AFPD10-3 17 MAY 2006


for war or other national emergency. This includes activating all or part of the Reserve Components, as
well as assembling and organizing personnel, supplies, and materiel. [JP 1-02]
Nonmobilized—See Activation.
Operational Control—The authority to perform those functions of command over subordinate forces
involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and
giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. Operational control includes
authoritative direction over all aspects of military operations and joint training necessary to accomplish
missions assigned to the command. Operational control should be exercised through the commanders of
subordinate organizations. Normally this authority is exercised through subordinate joint force
commanders and Service and/or functional component commanders. Operational control normally
provides full authority to organize commands and forces and to employ those forces as the commander in
operational control considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions; it does not, in and of itself,
include authoritative direction for logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal organization,
or unit training. Also called OPCON. [JP 1-02]
Partial Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by Congress (up to
full mobilization) or by the President (not more than 1,000,000 for not more than 24 consecutive months)
to mobilize Ready Reserve Component units, individual reservists, and the resources needed for their
support to meet the requirements of a war or other national emergency involving an external threat to the
national security. [JP 1-02]
Readiness Management Group—An organization established by AFRC to provide readiness oversight
of all Individual Mobilization Augmentees
Regular Air Force—The component of the Air Force that consists of persons whose continuous service
on active duty in both peace and war is contemplated by law, and of retired members of the Regular Air
Force. [10 USC 8075]
Selected Reserve—Those units and individuals within the Ready Reserve designated by their respective
Services and approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as so essential to initial wartime missions that they
have priority over all other Reserves. All Selected Reservists are in an active status. The Selected Reserve
also includes persons performing initial active duty for training. [JP 1-02]
Selective Mobilization—Expansion of the active Armed Forces resulting from action by Congress and/
or the President to mobilize Reserve Component units, Individual Ready Reservists, and the resources
needed for their support to meet the requirements of a domestic emergency that is not the result of an
enemy attack. [JP 1-02]
Short of Full Mobilization—Includes partial mobilization, Presidential Reserve Call-up, and
volunteerism.
Specified ADCON—Exercise of authority over subordinate or other organizations with respect to certain
elements of administration or support, including accomplishment of assigned tasks for operational
missions; support of operational and exercise plans; organization, training, equipping, and sustaining
forces for in-theater missions; establishment of force protection requirements; and discipline. Exercised
by Commander holding OPCON over attached forces.
Unit Type Code—A Joint Chiefs of Staff developed and assigned code, consisting of five characters that
uniquely identify a “type unit”. [JP 1-02]
