BY ORDER OF THE                                       AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 91-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                          13 DECEMBER 2010
                                                              Certified Current 28 January, 2013
                                                                                          Safety

                                                       NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND SYSTEMS
                                                                            SURETY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR:          AFSC/SEW                                                     Certified by: AF/SE
Supersedes:   AFPD 91-1,                                            (Maj Gen Gregory A. Feest)
              13 February 2007                                                         Pages: 2


This Directive implements DoD Directive 3150.2, DoD Nuclear Weapon System Safety
Program, 23 December 1996, and establishes the Air Force Nuclear Surety Program. The
potential destructive power of nuclear weapons is well known, and all radioactive materials pose
hazards if not properly controlled. Nuclear systems require special handling and other protective
measures to prevent accidents, unauthorized use, or dangerous exposure. This Directive provides
policies for managing nuclear weapons and weapon systems, and for protecting personnel,
property, and the environment from hazardous exposure to radioactive materials. These policies
apply to all Air Force personnel, the Air National Guard and Reserve, nuclear certified
equipment, and facilities involved with nuclear weapons, nuclear weapon systems, radioactive
materials-related programs, and nuclear systems certified software. Personnel involved with
nuclear weapons, nuclear weapon systems, and radioactive materials are responsible for
compliance. Do not issue complementing surety instructions without coordination from AF/SE.
Refer recommend changes and questions about his policy directive to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Added emphasis on the Nuclear Enterprise to paragraph 1; added public perception to accidents
and unauthorized acts to paragraph 2.
 2                                                             AFPD91-1 13 DECEMBER 2010


1. Nuclear surety is the centerpiece of the Air Force Nuclear Enterprise. Air Force leaders
at all levels will provide emphasis to ensure focus remains on nuclear surety. Priority will be to
strengthen nuclear surety compliance in accordance with guidance outlined within Air Force
publications and technical order standards.
2. The Air Force will ensure nuclear weapons and weapon systems receive special attention
and consideration because of their political and military importance, their destructive
power, and the potential consequences of an accident, unauthorized act, or public
perception of such.
3. The Air Force will ensure that personnel, the environment, and property are protected
from undue risk of damage or harm by maintaining risks as low as reasonably possible
consistent with mission requirements. This policy applies to nuclear weapons, nuclear energy
power and propulsion systems, and the life cycle of all terrestrial reactors. Also included are
radioactive sources intended for missile or space use.
4. The Air Force will keep personnel exposures to intrinsic ionizing radiation from nuclear
weapons as low as reasonably achievable (also known as ALARA) consistent with mission
requirements.
5. The Air Force will establish and conduct programs to maintain surety of nuclear
weapons and weapon systems in Air Force custody. Additionally, the Air Force will ensure
the safety and security of terrestrial reactors the Air Force owns or operates; all nuclear energy
power and propulsion systems, and radioactive sources intended for missile or space use.
6. The following responsibilities are to be derived from this policy:
     6.1. SAF/IE will, in accordance with the HAF Mission Directive 1-18, provide guidance,
     direction, and oversight of all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of
     policies, plans, programs, and budgets relative to environment, safety, and occupational
     health (ESOH) matters. SAF/IE coordination is required before this document is changed,
     reissued, or rescinded.
     6.2. The Chief of Safety (AF/SE) will oversee nuclear surety of nuclear weapons and
     weapons systems throughout the Air Force.
7. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                              Michael B. Donley
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
