                             Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 16-8
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                 18 MAY 1993

                                                                                     Operations Support

                                                           ARMING OF AIRCREW, MOBILITY, AND
                                                                        OVERSEA PERSONNEL



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR:    HQ USAF/XOOT                                                        Certified by: HQ USAF/XO
       (Lt Col Gregory C. Winn)                                              (Col George R. Durham, Jr.)
                                                                                                 Pages: 5
                                                                                          Distribution: F

1. Air Force personnel deployed to hazardous duty locations in support of national defense strategy
require small arms equipment and training to defend themselves and to protect resources. This directive
establishes policy to ensure all aircrew members, personnel assigned overseas, and personnel filling
mobility positions subject to oversea deployment are equipped and trained to use small arms.

2. Aircrew members will receive small arms training upon assignment to a position which may require
deployment for operational missions where there is a threat to aircrew or aircraft.

3. Aircrew arming requirements are based on the following guidelines:
   3.1. Aircrew members may be armed in peacetime for protection of Air Force assets and personal
   defense (PD). Examples are aircrews armed for air operations security (antihijacking) and primary
   nuclear airlift flights.
   3.2. Aircrew members may be armed for PD in a combat area during wartime, in designated hostile
   force areas not during wartime, or during training exercises to prepare for such missions.

4. Oversea major commands (MAJCOM) will identify personnel who will receive small arms training
before being stationed overseas. They will also determine the small arms training requirements for in-the-
ater personnel and ensure their personnel receive the required small arms refresher training.

5. Air Force personnel will receive small arms training upon assignment to a mobility position.
   5.1. A minimum of one weapon will be available for each mobility position requiring oversea deploy-
   ment and each oversea selective arming position.
   5.2. Individuals assigned to mobility positions deploying to Intra-Continental United States
   (CONUS) locations do not require a dedicated weapon.

6. HQ US Air Force has oversight responsibility for arming of aircrews, mobility, and oversea personnel
policy. Specifically, HQ USAF/XO will establish and approve policies pertaining to the arming of air-
crews, mobility, and oversea personnel. HQ USAF/SP will develop policy, provide guidance, and man-
age small arms training and air base defense programs. HQ USAF/LG will develop policy and provide
guidance for procuring, storing, and shipping of resources to support this policy.

7. MAJCOMs will organize, train, and equip aircrew, mobility, and oversea personnel to comply with
these policies. In addition, MAJCOMs will develop plans, guidance, and procedures for using and arming
aircrews, as well as for selective arming and use of mobility and oversea personnel.

8. Gaining (supported) commands will direct by contingency plan or tasking message the weapons and
arming mission requirements for deploying personnel.

9. Terms Explained:
   9.1. Aircrew. The total complement of rated (pilots, navigators, and observers) and nonrated person-
   nel (11XXX Air Force Specialty Code) responsible for the safe ground and flight operation of the air-
   craft and onboard systems. Individuals must be on aeronautical orders and assigned to an authorized
   aircrew position.
   9.2. Personal Defense (PD). An individual armed for self-defense or to defend someone else. A per-
   son is armed for PD when there is a reasonable expectation the armed individual will be isolated from
   friendly forces (for example, aircrews participating in a combat sortie), or when there is a threat
   against the person to be armed or protected.
   9.3. Selective Arming. The arming of preselected personnel by installation commanders to defend
   Air Force resources. These personnel have access to weapons while performing their primary war-
   time duty and provide a force multiplier to dedicated base defense forces.
   9.4. Small Arms. Hand portable, individual, and crew-served ground weapon systems used mainly
   against personnel and lightly armored or unarmored equipment. Officers normally are equipped with
   a handgun and enlisted personnel with M-16 rifles unless functional, mission, or local requirements
   dictate otherwise.
   9.5. Small Arms Training. Weapons training programs designed to provide the skills needed by
   individuals to handle small arms safely and effectively.

10. SeeAttachment 1 for measures used to comply with this policy.

11. See Attachment 2 for a listing of interfacing publications for related policies and procedures.




                                         BUSTER C. GLOSSON, Lt General, USAF
                                         DCS/Plans and Operations




                                                2
                                            Attachment 1

               MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Compliance with the Air Force’s Arming of Aircrew, Mobility, and Oversea Personnel policy will
be assessed in two areas: Status of Resources (availability of small arms); and Small Arms Training
(training completion rates). Reporting will be made through the Status of Resources and Training System
(SORTS). HQ USAF/SPO will monitor and report MAJCOM compliance with this policy at least semi-
annually.
   A1.1.1. Status of Resources. MAJCOMs will use SORTS to report status (Figure A1.1.) and avail-
   ability of small arms to support this policy.
   A1.1.2. Small Arms Training. MAJCOMs will use SORTS to report small arms training (Figure
   A1.2.) completion rates for those individuals who require training according to this policy.




                                               3
Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Availability of Small Arms.




Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Small Arms Training Rates.




                                           4
                                          Attachment 2

                          LIST OF INTERFACING PUBLICATIONS
AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning , No Former Publication
AFPD 31-1, Physical Security, No Former Publication
AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement, No Former Publication
AFPD 31-3, Air Base Defense , No Former Publication
AFI 10-401, Operation Plan and Concept Plan Development and Implementation, (Formerly contained in
AFRs 28-2, 28-3, 28-4, 28-6, 28-10 and AFP 28-33)
AFI 10-403, US Air Force Mobility Planning, (Formerly AFR 28-4)
AFI 10-404, Base Support Planning, (Formerly AFR 28-31)
AFI 31-101, Air Force Physical Security Program, (Formerly contained in AFRs 207-1, 207-2, 207-5,
207-6, 207-7, 207-8, 207-21, and 207-23)
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, (Formerly AFR 125-26)
AFI 31-301, Air Base Defense Program, (Formerly AFRs 125-25, 206-3, and 207-1, Volume 2)
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Training and Maintenance (CATM) Program, (Formerly AFR 50-36)
AFP 31-302, Air Base Defense and Contingency Operations , No Former Publication




                                            5
