BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 11-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                             10 AUGUST 2004

                                                                                      Flying Operations

                                                                            FLYING HOUR PROGRAM




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAF/XOOTF                                                          Certified by: HQ USAF/XO
       (Lt Col Michael Tillema)                                                (Lt Gen Ronald E. Keys)
Supersedes AFPD 11-1, 30 January 1995                                                            Pages: 3
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This directive provides guidelines to ensure all directly assigned units at and above the squadron level
receive timely and effective guidance for the Air Force flying hour program. Ensure that records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFM 37-123,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) (https://webrims.amc.af.mil).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision reflects HQ USAF staff changes, inputs from major commands (MAJCOM) and recent pub-
lication changes. Changes include the phrase “Total Air Force” which comprises the Active Air Force, Air
National Guard, and the Air Force Reserve. Another change discusses planning the flying hour program
based on peacetime, home station training requirements. A final change is the sample metric included in
the Attachment.

1. The Air Force flying hour program is a closely monitored program that equates flying hours to combat
capability. To meet these expectations, the Air Force must explicitly program flying hours that fully sup-
port required capability and then execute the resources associated with flying hours. This directive pro-
vides policies for all in the “Total Air Force” (Active Air Force, Air National Guard, and the Air Force
Reserve) who are accountable for the flying-hour program.

2. This directive establishes the following policies. The Air Force will:
   2.1. Plan the flying hour program based on peacetime, home station training requirements.
   2.2. Execute its approved flying hour program to the maximum extent possible.
   2.3. Allocate resources to support its approved flying hour program.
2                                                                         AFPD11-1 10 AUGUST 2004


3. This directive establishes the following responsibilities:
    3.1. HQ USAF/XO provides policy, resource advocacy, and oversight of Air Force flying hour pro-
    gram.
    3.2. Major commands identify flying hour requirements based on peacetime, home station training
    requirements and execute their programs to comply with these policies.
    3.3. MAJCOM requests for programmatic changes (Program Change Requests) to their flying hour
    programs will be submitted to HQ USAF/XPP for SECAF and Chief of Staff approval.
    3.4. MAJCOM requests for unanticipated changes to their flying hour programs in the execution year
    will be coordinated through HQ USAF/XOOT with an informational copy to SAF/FMBOO.

4. This directive applies to all personnel in the “Total Air Force” (Active Air Force, Air National Guard,
and the Air Force Reserve).

5. Related instructions are AFI 11-101, Management Reports on the Flying Hour Program, AFI 11-102,
Flying Hour Program Management, and soon to be published AFI 11-103, Aircraft Standard Utilization
Rate Procedures.

6. See Attachment 1 for metric used to measure compliance with the policy.



                                                      JAMES G. ROCHE
                                                      Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD11-1 10 AUGUST 2004                                                                               3


                                            Attachment 1

               MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Compliance with the flying hour program is assessed by comparing reported flying hour execution
with the programmed President’s Budget (PB) flying hours.
   A1.1.1. Programmed flying hour levels (Figure A1.1.) are reflected in the Congressionally approved
   flying hour program for each fiscal year. They are available in the budget year’s Programming Docu-
   ment Vol II and the AF/XOOT “Initial MAJCOM FYxx President’s Budget/Financial Plan Flying
   Hour” message.
   A1.1.2. Flying hour execution will be determined using information reflected in the MAJCOM’s
   monthly execution reports (see AFI 11-101).
   A1.1.3. Dividing reported flying hour execution by the related PB flying hour program yields the per-
   cent of PB program executed. This percentage may indicate potential problems and areas of concern.
   This data also forms a yearly historical record of program execution.

Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of USAF Flying Hour Execution.
