BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                              7 AUGUST 2012



                                                                      AIR FORCE CULTURE




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This AFPD is available for downloading from the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/CVA                                                                Certified by: AF/CC
                                                                  (General Norton A. Schwartz)
                                                                                       Pages: 3




This directive highlights Air Force culture and establishes Air Force policy with regards to the
professionalism and standards expected of all Airmen. This directive applies to all Air Force
uniformed personnel (Active Duty, Air Force Reserve, and Air National Guard) and civilian
personnel. Send all recommended changes about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363 - 1 March 2008, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This instruction is subject to the
Privacy Act of 1974.


1. Policy.
   1.1. Service as an Airman in the United States Air Force is both an honor and a privilege. It
   often requires significant sacrifice which is rewarded by the high esteem, respect, and trust
   which the American public affords our service and the profession of arms. All Airmen have
   a sacred duty to preserve and protect this critical position within our society. To do so,
   service as an Airman must be much more than just a job; it should become a way of life.
   Ours is a demanding profession, rich in tradition and culture, and built on the foundation of
   our oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States and values forged from
   the outset of our existence as a separate Service. The strength of our foundation, which is
 2                                                                       AFPD1 7 AUGUST 2012


     reflected in the Air Force Core Values and the Airman’s Creed, is reinforced daily by the
     professionalism and adherence to Air Force standards exhibited by every single Airman.
        1.1.1. It is every Airman’s duty and obligation to act professionally and meet all Air
        Force standards at all times. Only by doing so can the United States Air Force continue
        to be the world’s greatest Air Force and retain its time-honored culture and the vital trust,
        respect, and confidence of the American public.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Chief of Staff of the Air Force develops, coordinates, and executes policy and
     guidance for the management of Air Force standards.
     2.2. Commanders and Senior Noncommissioned Officers of our Air Force are responsible
     for ensuring compliance with this policy and implementing guidance.




                                              Michael B. Donley
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD1 7 AUGUST 2012                                         3


                                  Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
