BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                               AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-8
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                             15 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                        Operations

                                                                     DEFENSE SUPPORT OF
                                                                 CIVIL AUTHORITIES (DSCA)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A3O-AH                                                               Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                                  (Lt Gen Carlisle)
Supersedes:    AFPD 10-8, 7 Sep 06                                                        Pages: 10


This publication implements Defense Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer (EPLO)
Program; DODD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA); and DODD 5525.5,
DOD Cooperation with Civilian Law Enforcement Officials and establishes policy to ensure the
Air Force plans, organizes, and trains forces to conduct Defense Support of Civil Authorities
(DSCA) operations within the United States and its territories and protectorates consistent with
the Air Force mission. Doctrine in support of this Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) is found in
Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 3-27, Homeland Operations; AFDD 3-40, Counter-
Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations; AFDD 4-02, Health Services; Joint
Publication (JP) 3-28, Civil Support; and JP 3-41, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear,
and High-Yield Explosives Consequence Management which provide official doctrine on Air
Force support to federal, state, or local civil authorities in cases of natural or man-made domestic
emergencies, civil disturbances, or authorized law enforcement activities. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the
Air       Force        Records        Disposition         Schedule        (RDS)        located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to AF/A3O-AH using AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional
authority‘s chain of command. This directive applies to all active duty; Air National Guard
(ANG) operating in federal status; and AF Reserve Command (AFRC) units, civilians and
contract personnel; and Civil Air Patrol (CAP) assets performing AF-assigned missions.
 2                                                             AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes the title from Homeland Defense and Civil Support to Defense Support of
Civil Authorities and clarifies doctrine, policy, organizational roles and responsibilities to
coordinate and organize efforts to manage, prepare for, and respond to natural or man-made
disasters. This document does not duplicate the requirements of AFPD 10-25, Emergency
Management or AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear
Operations.
1. Overview
1.1. Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), often referred to as civil support, is
Department of Defense (DOD) support provided during and in the aftermath of domestic
emergencies–such as terrorist events or major disasters—and for designated law enforcement
and other activities. DSCA missions include, but are not limited to supporting the Department of
Justice (DOJ) in preventing or defeating terrorist attacks; response to chemical, biological,
radiological, nuclear, or high-yield explosive (CBRNE) incidents; response to natural disasters
(e.g., earthquakes, fires, and hurricanes); support to civilian law enforcement agencies for
designated activities, including supporting counterdrug activities and border protection; and
response to civil disturbances or insurrection when properly directed.
     1.2. This policy directive assigns responsibilities and establishes policy for Air Force
     elements providing DSCA in coordination with lead Federal agencies and law enforcement
     officials, in accordance with Public Law, Executive Orders (EO), and DOD policy and
     doctrine. Air Force warfighting capabilities constitute the basis for support to designated
     domestic civil authorities as outlined in the National Response Framework and the National
     Strategy for Homeland Security.
2. Policy. To ensure readiness to conduct DSCA planning and response operations, the Air
Force will:
     2.1. Establish measurable operational and enabling standards and requirements derived from
     warfighting capabilities in order to determine the equipment, training, manpower, and
     ancillary resources needed to conduct and sustain DSCA planning activities and response
     operations.
     2.2. Develop and incorporate DSCA planning and response concepts into appropriate Air
     Force doctrine, policy, guidance, and instructions; and appropriate training and education
     courses.
     2.3. Develop DSCA concepts, policies, and guidance as necessary to assist with national
     efforts to synchronize national (federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial) preparedness.
     2.4. Ensure appropriate Air Force inspections and assessments include an evaluation of a
     unit‘s compliance with DSCA-related policy, guidance, and instructions.
     2.5. Plan, program, and budget for warfighting capabilities that may be used to support
     DSCA operations.
     2.6. Seek reimbursement for support provided to civil authorities, when authorized or
     mandated by Public Law, EOs, and DOD policy.
     2.7. Sustain an Air Force Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer (EPLO) program.
AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                       3


   2.8. Establish policy, guidance, and instruction for Air Force support of law enforcement
   activities consistent with military preparedness, national security requirements and applicable
   law.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services (AF/A1) will:
       3.1.1. Provide incident response capability to recover chemical, biological, or
       radiological contaminated human remains and their associated personal effects; and
       transfer fatalities to designated collection points within the incident site.
       3.1.2. Provide mortuary affairs support as directed.
       3.1.3. Implement policy and provide guidance for integrating and vetting DSCA
       education and training requirements or learning outcomes into professional military
       education (PME) and ancillary training.
   3.2. Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2) will
   implement policy and provide guidance for planning, programming, training, and budgeting
   resources necessary to ensure the Air Force has the capability to collect, analyze, produce,
   and disseminate all-source intelligence information to prepare for, respond to, and recover
   from natural or man-made disasters in accordance with EO 12333, United States Intelligence
   Activities, as amended and applicable federal statutes.
   3.3. Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5) will:
       3.3.1. Serve as the Air Force focal point for DSCA planning and operational issues with
       the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Joint Staff, Services, Combatant Commanders,
       National Guard Bureau, and other Federal and State offices and agencies.
       3.3.2. Oversee the development, coordination, and implementation of DSCA planning
       and response operations doctrine, policy, guidance, instructions, and operational
       standards.
       3.3.3. Coordinate with AF/A1 to integrate institutional education and training
       requirements (e.g., accessions, ancillary, and PME) into the appropriate venues prior to
       levying on the Total Force.
       3.3.4. Oversee the development, coordination, and implementation of the Air Force
       EPLO program.
       3.3.5. Oversee the development, coordination, and implementation of the Continuity of
       Operations (COOP) program.
       3.3.6. Coordinate with the Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG) to ensure DSCA
       inspection requirements are in accordance with AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities,
       as applicable.
       3.3.7. Coordinate with the Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission
       Support (AF/A4/7) to integrate DSCA planning and response operations doctrine, policy,
       guidance, and instructions with emergency management, chemical, biological,
       radiological, and nuclear response, and force protection-related doctrine, policy,
       guidance, and instruction.
4                                                              AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012


    3.4. Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (AF/A4/7) will:
       3.4.1. Plan, program, organize, train, and exercise AF/A4/7 forces in support of DSCA
       planning and response operations.
       3.4.2. Oversee the aspects of CBRN consequence management and DSCA planning and
       response operations.
       3.4.3. Manage Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS) to integrate policy,
       procedures and oversight relative to Air Force DSCA policies and procedures, the
       National Incident Management System (NIMS) and installation support requested under
       the National Response Framework (NRF).
    3.5. Office of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6) will
    oversee the development and sustainment of integrated, interoperable and network-centric
    communications infrastructure that is survivable in ‗all hazard‘ environments.
    3.6. Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8) will ensure Air Force
    strategic plans and fiscal guidance incorporate plans, programs, manpower, and equipment
    requirements to support DSCA activities.
    3.7. Director for Studies and Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned (AF/A9) will
    provide senior leadership with independent and objective analyses and lessons learned to
    enhance DSCA plans, programs, operational concepts, education, training, and exercises.
    3.8. Office of the Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) will ensure that Air Force DSCA
    doctrine, strategy, policy, guidance, and instructions comply with applicable law, Presidential
    Directives, EOs, and DOD policy and guidance. AF/JA will also provide advice on the
    legality of proposed DSCA operations to Air Force commanders and others involved in
    planning and executing DSCA operations.
    3.9. Office of the Surgeon General (AF/SG) will:
       3.9.1. Provide medical expertise to support the development of Air Force policies and
       procedures and associated medical response capabilities.
       3.9.2. Provide functional expertise to integrate medical response capabilities into DSCA
       planning activities and response operations to ensure medical forces are properly
       organized and trained to support DSCA operations.
    3.10. Office of the Inspector General (SAF/IG) will review DSCA inspection criteria and
    establish special interest items to assess a unit‘s compliance with doctrine, policy, and
    guidance or gather information on known or suspect problems/deficiencies as warranted.
    3.11. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
    (SAF/FM) will publish policy and guidance pertaining to reimbursement and accountability
    of Air Force, Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command appropriations expended
    in DSCA planning thru response phases of operations.
    3.12. Office of the Air Force General Counsel (SAF/GC) will advise the Secretary of the Air
    Force and Secretariat on DSCA doctrine, strategy, policy, guidance, and instructions
    ensuring their compliance with applicable law, Presidential Directives, EOs, and DOD policy
    and guidance.
AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                   5


   3.13. Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs
   (SAF/MR) provides guidance, direction, and oversight for Defense Support of Civil
   Authorities policy in accordance with Public Law, Executive Orders, and DOD policy and
   doctrine.
   3.14. Director of the Air National Guard (NGB/CF) will:
      3.14.1. Provide guidance and staff coordination for DSCA issues related to ANG.
      3.14.2. Receive guidance and provides oversight relative to federal employment of the
      ANG in DSCA planning and response operations from NGB-JA.
      3.14.3. Supports State Adjutant Generals (TAGs) in efforts to maintain mission readiness
      to perform Federal duties under Title 10, USC while also preparing to perform
      responsibilities under Title 32 USC or State Active Duty (SAD).
   3.15. Air Force MAJCOM, DRU, and FOA commanders will develop plans, guidance, and
   procedures to organize and train forces to execute assigned DSCA operations consistent with
   military preparedness, and coordinate DSCA-related activities, initiatives, and information
   through AF/A3O-AH.
   3.16. Commanders and civilian leaders at all levels will:
      3.16.1. Develop plans, guidance, and procedures to support assigned DSCA planning
      and response operations.
      3.16.2. Organize and train personnel to conduct assigned DSCA planning and response
      operations.
4. See attachment 1 for glossary of DSCA-related documents and an explanation of terms
used in this directive.




                                            MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
 6                                                          AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012


                                           Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
PPD-8, National Preparedness, 30 Mar 11
HSPD-5, Management of Domestic Incidents, 28 Feb 03
HSPD-10, Biodefense for the 21st Century, 28 Apr 04
HSPD-18, Medical Countermeasures against Weapons of Mass Destruction, 31 Jan 07
National Security Strategy, May 10
National Strategy for Homeland Security, Oct 07
Federal Strategic Guidance Statement for Chemical Attacks in the United States, 26 Jun 09
DOD Strategy for Homeland Defense and Civil Support, Jun 05
DoDI 3003.01, DoD Support to Civil Search and Rescue (SAR), 26 Sep 11
DODD 3025.12, Military Assistance for Civil Disturbances (MACDIS), 4 Feb 94
DODI 3025.16, Defense Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer (EPLO) Programs, 08 Sep 11
DODD 3025.18, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), 29 Dec 10
DODD 3160.01 Homeland Defense Activities Conducted by the National Guard, 25 Aug 08
DODD 5030.46, Assistance to the DC Government in Combating Crime, 26 Mar 71 (IC 15 Jul
74)
DODD 5105.83, National Guard Joint Force Headquarters-State (NGJFHQs-State), 05 Jan 11
DODD 5111.13, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and Americas’ Security
Affairs (ASD (HD&ASA)), 16 Jan 09
DODD 5525.5, DOD Cooperation with Civilian Law Enforcement Officials, 15 Jan 86 (IC 20
Dec 89)
DODD 6010.22, National Disaster Medical System (NDMS), 21 Jan 03
CJCSI 3125.01B, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA) for Domestic Consequence
Management (CM) Operations in Response to a Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, or
High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) Incident, 19 Aug 09
Joint Pub 1-02, DOD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 Nov 10 (Amended, 15 Aug
11)
Joint Pub 3-28, Civil Support, 14 Sep 07
Joint Pub 3-41, Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High Yield Explosive
Consequence Management, 02 Oct 06
AFDD 3-27, Homeland Operations, 21 Mar 06 (IC 28 Jul 11)
AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                   7


AFDD 3-40, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) Operations, 26
Jan 07 (IC 28 Jul 11)
AFDD 4-02, Health Services, 11 Dec 02
AFPD 10-25, Emergency Management, 26 Sep 07
AFPD 10-26, Counter-Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear Operations, 26 Sep 07
AFPD 10-27, Civil Air Patrol, 29 July 05
AFPD 10-29, Worldwide Aeromedical Evacuation Operations, 06 Aug 07
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 07 Jul 07 (IC 22 Apr 09)
AFI 10-801, Assistance to Civilian Law Enforcement Agencies, 15 Apr 94
AFI 10-802, Military Support to Civil Authorities, 19 Apr 02
AFI 14-104, Oversight of Intelligence Activities, 16 Apr 07
Air Force Guidance Memorandum to AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management Program
Planning and Operations, 01 May 11
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 Jun 09
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 08
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommend for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AF/A1—AF Deputy Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services
AF/A2—AF Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
AF/A3/5—AF Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements
AF/A4/7—AF Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations and Mission Support
AF/A7C—AF Civil Engineer
AF/A8—AF Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs
AF/A9—AF Director for Studies & Analyses, Assessments and Lessons Learned
AF/SG—AF Surgeon General
AF/JA—AF Judge Advocate
AFDD—AF Doctrine Document
AFI—AF Instruction
AFIMS—AF Incident Management System
AFMAN—AF Manual
AFPD—AF Policy Directive
 8                                                       AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012


AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ASD (HD&ASA——Assistant Secretary of Defense, Homeland Defense and America‘s
Security Affairs
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear
CBRNE—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield Explosive
CJCS—Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
COOP—Continuity of Operations
DHS—Department of Homeland Security
DOD—Department of Defense
DODD—DOD Directive
DODI—DOD Instruction
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
DSCA—Defense Support of Civil Authorities
EM—Emergency Management
EO—Executive Order
EP—Emergency Preparedness
EPLO—Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
FOA—Field Operating Agency
HAF—Headquarters Department of United States Air Force
HSPD—Homeland Security Presidential Directive
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
JS—Joint Staff
MA—Mission Assignment
MAJCOM—Major Command
NDMS—National Disaster Medical System
NGB—National Guard Bureau
NGB/CF—Director Air National Guard
NGB/JA—National Guard Bureau Judge Advocate
NIMS—National Incident Management System
AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                      9


NRF—National Response Framework
OPR—Office                 of                Primary                 Responsibility
OASD (HD&ASA) —Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense, Homeland Defense and
America‘s Security Affairs
PME—Professional Military Education
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFA—Request for Assistance
SAD—State Active Duty
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SAF/CIO A6—Office of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer
SAF/FM—Assistant Secretary for Financial Management and Comptroller
SAF/GC—General Counsel
SAF/IG—Secretary of the Air Force Inspector General
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
US—United States
U.S.C.——United States Code

Terms
Civil Support— Department of Defense support to US civil authorities for domestic
emergencies, and for designated law enforcement and other activities. (JP 1-02)
Consequence Management— Actions taken to maintain or restore essential services and
manage and mitigate problems resulting from disasters and catastrophes, including natural, man-
made, or terrorist incidents. (JP 1-02)
Continuity of Operations— The degree or state of being continuous in the conduct of
functions, tasks, or duties necessary to accomplish a military action or mission in carrying out
the national military strategy. It includes the functions and duties of the commander, as well as
the supporting functions and duties performed by the staff and others acting under the authority
and direction of the commander. (JP 1-02)
Emergency Management—The single, integrated Air Force program to coordinate and
organize efforts to manage, prepare for, respond to, and recover from the direct and indirect
consequences of CBRN and conventional weapon attacks, major accidents and natural disasters.
The primary missions of the Air Force EM Program are to 1) save lives, 2) minimize the loss or
degradation of resources and 3) continue, sustain, and restore combat and combat support
operational capability in an ―all hazards‖ physical threat environment at Air Force installations
worldwide. The ancillary missions of the EM Program are to support homeland defense and civil
support and to provide support to civil and host-nation authorities in accordance with DOD
directives and through the appropriate Combatant Command. The Office of The Civil Engineer,
HQ AF/A7C, manages the EM Program. (AFPD 10-25)
 10                                                            AFPD10-8 15 FEBRUARY 2012


Emergency Preparedness— Measures taken in advance of an emergency to reduce the loss of
life and property and to protect a nation‘s institutions from all types of hazards through a
comprehensive emergency management program of preparedness, mitigation, response, and
recovery. (JP 1-02)
Emergency Preparedness Liaison Officer— A senior reserve officer who represents their
Service at the appropriate joint field office conducting planning and coordination responsibilities
in support of civil authorities. (JP 1-02)
Homeland Defense— The protection of United States sovereignty, territory, domestic
population, and critical defense infrastructure against external threats and aggression or other
threats as directed by the President. (JP 1-02)
Homeland Operations—Incorporates all applications of air and space power designed to detect,
preempt, respond to, mitigate, and recover from the full spectrum of incidents and threats to the
homeland, whether man-made or natural. This includes homeland defense, defense support of
civil authorities, and emergency preparedness. This construct for homeland defense and civil
support establishes the Air Force‘s responsibilities in direct support of homeland security.
(AFDD 3-27)
