BY ORDER OF THE                                     AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 40-7
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                        4 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                           Medical Command

                                              MEDICAL SUPPORT TO FAMILY MEMBER
                                                   RELOCATION AND EXCEPTIONAL
                                               FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAM-MEDICAL
                                                                       (EFMP-M)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFMOA/SGHW                                                     Certified by: USAF/SG
                                                                   (Lt Gen Thomas W. Travis)
                                                                                      Pages: 9




This directive establishes policies for the Exceptional Family Member Program-Medical (EFMP-
M) process. It implements Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 1315.19, Authorizing
Special Needs Family Members’ Travel Overseas at Government Expense, December 20, 2005.
The EFMP-M process supports the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) described
within AFI 36-2110, Assignments, September 22, 2009, AFI 36-3020, Family Member Travel,
October 22, 2009, and AFI 36-2102, Base Level Relocation Procedures, September 18, 2006.
The policies outlined in this directive guide Air Force (AF) facilities on three components of
family member travel: (1) the authorization of family member travel at government expense for
active duty service members assigned overseas, (2) the coordination with the Air Force
Personnel Center (AFPC), or other functionals that manage their own assignment process based
on statutory authority to do so, on military assignments within CONUS for sponsors who have
family members with special needs, and (3) the mechanisms for processing family member travel
requests of DoD civilian employees where special needs are identified. This directive does not
apply to Air National Guard unless on Title 10, Extended Active Duty (EAD). This directive
applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) personnel when on Title 10, EAD or Active
Guard Reserve tour. Title 10, United States Code Section 1076 entitles military family members
to medical and dental care. Title 20, United States Code Section 1400 et seq., The Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) guarantees free and appropriate public education for
persons with disabilities, and is implemented by Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI)
1342.12, Provision of Early Intervention and Special Education Services to Eligible DoD
 2                                                             AFPD40-7 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


Dependents, April 11, 2005, and the AF in AFPD 40-6, Educational and Developmental
Intervention Services, June 30, 2006. AFI 36-2110 provides guidance for command sponsorship
for active duty family member travel. The authority to collect and maintain records is prescribed
in Title 10, United States Code Section 8013, Privacy Act System Notice F044 AF SG U,
Special Needs and Educational and Developmental Intervention Services (EDIS), and AFI 33-
332, Air Force Privacy Program, May 16, 2011, AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient
Administration Functions, June 6, 2012, and the administrative provisions of the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 guide the protection and privacy of
individually identifiable health care information. DoD Directive 5400.07, Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) Program, January 2, 2008, applies to the disclosure of health care
information to the public. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, March 1, 2008, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) maintained in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. It is AF
policy that:


1. The AFPC and Air Force Medical Service (AFMS), or other functionals that manage
their own assignment process based upon statutory authority to do so, work cooperatively
to: identify active duty sponsors whose family members have special medical and educational
needs and to determine the availability of services for assignment purposes. AFMS additionally
supports DoD civilian personnel who plan to take family members with special needs overseas.
This directive establishes policy for managing the EFMP-M process throughout the AF.
2. The EFMP-M process supports: AF readiness by promoting access to family member
health care and by decreasing barriers to free and appropriate public education for the children of
military and civilian sponsors. It ensures AF compliance with DoD policy pertaining to
mandated services for individuals with special needs. AF EFMP-M promotes health and
education through broad-based awareness activities and information technology. The goals are to
ensure appropriate access to information and care, and to prevent untimely relocations from areas
where medical services and special education services are not available for family members. The
primary considerations under EFMP-M are the safety of family members requesting
government-sponsored travel to accompany sponsors, and the protection of their federal
entitlements.
3. Military Treatment Facilities (MTFs) will: identify special education and medical needs of
military family members and document them for the purpose of assignment coordination. AFPC
will ensure military and civilian sponsors are informed of the requirements and procedures for
family member screening prior to OCONUS travel at government expense. AFPC will ensure
appropriate confirmation of needed medical and educational service availability by the MTF
prior to the issuance of PCS orders for active duty sponsors with special needs family members.
AF EFMP-M will assist civilian personnel accepting employment overseas upon request by
inquiring about service availability prior to family member travel.
AFPD40-7 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                          3


   3.1. Active duty sponsors of family members whose needs meet DoD criteria for special
   educational and medical services as specified in DoDI 1315.19 must be enrolled in the EFMP
   via MTF notification to AFPC, via the local Military Personnel Section (MPS) where
   applicable, to issue assignment limitation code “Q”. An assignment coordination screening
   activity, the Family Member Relocation Clearance (FMRC) process, assesses the family
   members’ medical and educational conditions and confirms the availability of required
   services for both CONUS and OCONUS relocations. The EFMP-M process supports the AF
   assignment function by informing AFPC, or other functionals that manage their own
   assignment process based upon statutory authority to do so, if specific needs cannot be met in
   a projected location prior to the issuance of travel orders. Command sponsorship for family
   members of active duty sponsors will not be offered for OCONUS travel where services do
   not exist to meet special needs.
   3.2. The EFMP-M staff completes the FMRC process upon request for DoD civilians who
   accept
employment overseas and plan to travel with family members who have special needs.
Information regarding the availability of needed medical and educational services at the gaining
locations is provided through HQ USAF/A1, Civilian Personnel or their designees, to inform
employees’ decision-making prior to travel. Decisions regarding family member travel
OCONUS remain with civilian sponsors. Civilian sponsors are not enrolled in EFMP.
   3.3. The EFMP-M staff supports other DoD components in the determination of available
   services prior to family member relocation overseas upon request. These may include, but are
   not limited to, families of AF sponsors who are enrolled in EFMP or whose dependent(s)
   have medical needs which require travel determination by a gaining location and are assigned
   to State Department duties or as military attachés, families of AF Reservists on extended
   active duty, and families with sponsors of other branches of military service. While
   supportive coordinating and referral services are offered by EFMP-M for these families,
   these other DoD sponsors are not enrolled in AF EFMP.
4. This directive establishes the following responsibilities and authorities:
   4.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower & Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR)
   provides policy oversight and guidance for EFMP-M policy.
   4.2. The Deputy Under Secretary of the Air Force, International Airmen Division
   (SAF/IAPA) reviews family relocation clearance packages regarding AF Attaché
   assignments.
   4.3. AF/SG implements policy and advocates for the Air Force EFMP-M process. AF/SG
   interfaces with SAF/MR and the staff of the Office of the Secretary of Defense to develop
   proposed policy and legislative initiatives.
   4.4. The Air Force Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA) acts as the agent for AF/SG in
   carrying out the AF’s approved and directed policies of prevention, record keeping,
   reporting, and program evaluation.
   4.5. The Program Manager, AF Programs for Families with Special Needs
   (AFMOA/SGHW), advises the Air Force Surgeon General to form plans and policies for the
   EFMP-M process and tracks and reports AF implementation of DoD policies.
4                                                            AFPD40-7 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


       4.5.1. Ensures the maintenance of a data collection system and informational website for
       EFMP-M staff, sponsors, and family members. Ensures access to protected health
       information stored in AF-wide data systems is appropriately controlled and monitored.
       4.5.2. Conducts evaluation of AF-wide data, performance standards, program
       components, and other research that directly contributes to the success of the EFMP-M
       and continuous process improvement.
       4.5.3. In collaboration with the Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA), monitors the
       implementation of approved policy, of current practice standards, and the overall quality
       of installation EFMP-M programs/services. Analyzes noted trends from the program
       evaluation processes, and applies findings from research, to recommend enhancements to
       quality monitoring standards.
       4.5.4. Provides oversight, resources, education, training, and program guidance to all
       personnel involved in the AF EFMP-M to ensure compliance with AF guidance for
       EFMP-M. Provides data and information in support of training or briefing development
       to MAJCOMs, to unit commanders, and to AFMOA-sanctioned entities upon request.
       4.5.5. Provides consultation on the AF EFMP-M to DoD and other officials. Contributes
       to the development of DoD Directives, Instructions, data requirements, and participates in
       DoD Integrated Process Teams. Interacts with US Army, US Navy, and Marine Corps
       EFMP Managers and supports joint initiatives that enhance services to DoD families.
       4.5.6. Reviews medical summaries, searches military medical electronic health records
       in the Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA), extracts
       relevant data from other AF sanctioned databases, and evaluates medical information
       submitted from various agencies in support of clearances requiring assistance beyond the
       base level EFMP-M office.
       4.5.7. Coordinates relocation actions with non-medical AF and DoD entities, advocating
       for medical needs of family members, while ensuring appropriate protections of family
       member privacy/confidentiality.
    4.6. The Family Medical Consultant (AFMOA/SGHM), or designee if unavailable, provides
    clinical oversight to ensure that Major Command Surgeons (MAJCOM/SG) comply with the
    FMRC process for active duty members with embassy attaché and/or State Department
    duties. AFMOA/SGHM coordinates with representatives of Combatant Commands where
    AF MAJCOMs have no direct oversight of services to family members, and coordinates with
    AFMOA/SGHW as needed.
    4.7. MAJCOM/SGs support and monitor the EFMP-M process to ensure their installations
    comply with DoD and AF policy. Additionally, gaining OCONUS MAJCOM/SG or their
    designees:
       4.7.1. Provide oversight and management of the family member clearance process in
       support of families of DoD civilians and those assigned to embassy attaché and/or State
       Department duties.
       4.7.2. Coordinate with TRICARE Regional Offices as needed to determine available
       services for civilian and attaché clearances.
AFPD40-7 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    5


     4.7.3. Ensure coordination with regional Department of Defense Dependent Schools
     (DODDS) personnel and the responsible Defense Department for Educational and
     Developmental Intervention Services where special needs are identified in children of
     active duty or civilian sponsors requesting government-sponsored travel into the
     MAJCOM.
  4.8. AFPC, through MPS Commanders, ensures the establishment and monitoring of
  procedures that support the coordination of accompanied assignments of active duty
  personnel with the MTF EFMP-M process, according to DoD and AF Policy and
  implementing guidance.
  4.9. AFPC/DPAPH, or other functionals that manage their own assignment process based
  upon statutory authority to do so, manages EFMP Reassignments when services for newly
  identified medical or educational needs are unavailable, or when violations of the assignment
  coordination process have occurred. These violations may include those in which a
  previously existing condition was not properly identified by the losing MTF, those in which a
  sponsor withheld information or did not fully participate in the EFMP-M process, or those in
  which an error in processing assignment orders occurred prior to completion of the FMRC
  process. EFMP Reassignment is described in AFI 36-2110, Attachment 25.
  4.10. AFPC and AFMOA/SGHW will ensure education on DoD and AF Policy issuances
  regarding family member travel requirements and the EFMP-M process to all active duty
  personnel, and to civilian personnel accepting overseas employment.
  4.11. Unit commanders will ensure appropriate actions are taken when there is evidence that
  active duty sponsors willfully violated the FMRC process, either through refusal to fully
  participate in the screening process or through disregard of official recommendations against
  family member travel. All active-duty sponsors will comply with procedures for identifying
  family members with special needs, with EFMP enrollment procedures, and with established
  procedures for the review of those special needs prior to relocating family members at
  government expense.
  4.12. Civilian Personnel staff involved in civilian employee recruiting, hiring, and
  relocations will ensure DoD employees are aware of the coordinating supportive services
  available to them through EFMP-M for family members with special needs. Civilian
  Personnel will ensure appropriate notifications are made to those considering overseas
  employment in accordance with (IAW) DoDI 1315.19.
  4.13. Civilian Personnel employees will follow Civilian Personnel guidance and DoDI
  1315.19 regarding screening procedures for civilian employees’ family member travel
  overseas. MTF Special Needs Coordinators (SNCs) may determine the availability of special
  medical and educational resources at projected locations upon request of the civilian
  employee. The MTF provides information to support those selected for overseas positions in
  making the best decisions possible for their special needs family members. Civilian
  employees maintain the responsibility for obtaining and paying for needed care for family
  members when choosing to relocate them overseas. The exception is for those services
  authorized under DoDI 1342.12 to support a free, appropriate public education for eligible
  minor children as would be provided under IDEA.
 6                                                           AFPD40-7 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


5. Standards of Care: MTF Commanders and personnel will comply with DoD issuances, AF
policies pertaining to family members with special needs, the AFIA, the Accreditation
Association for Ambulatory Health Care, and The Joint Commission standards. Standards of
Practice: Standards of practice are the parameters of service provision as permitted by licensure
and accrediting bodies. The scope of practice for medical providers is covered in AFI 44-119,
Medical Quality Operations, August 16, 2011.
6. Standards of Performance: AFPC/DPAPH and AFMOA/SGHW will measure the
standards developed by OSD centrally and report annually to OSD (P&R) on the effectiveness of
AF processes as specified in DoDI 1315.19, para. 5.4.15.
7. This policy applies to all military and civilian beneficiaries who are entitled to receive
care in an MTF. Additionally, DoD civilians not normally served by the MTF are supported
upon request for inquiries into the availability of care for special needs family members when
planning travel overseas.




                                            ERIC K. FANNING
                                            Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD40-7 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                     7


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, United States Code Section 1076, Medical and Dental Care for Dependents: General
Rule
Title 10, United States Code Section 8013, Secretary of Air Force
Title 20, United States Code Section 1400 et seq.
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act: http://idea.ed.gov/
DoDI 1315.19, Authorizing Special Needs Family Members Travel Overseas at Government
Expense, December 20, 2005, Incorporating Through Change 1, February 16, 2011
DoDI 1342.12, Provision of Early Intervention and Special Education Service to Eligible DoD
Dependents, April 11, 2005
AFPD 40-6, Educational and Developmental Intervention Services, June 30, 2006
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, May 16, 2011
AFI 36-2102, Base Level Relocation Procedures, September 18, 2006
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, September 20, 2009
AFI 36-3020, Family Member Travel, October 22, 2009
AFI 41-210, TRICARE Operations and Patient Administration Functions, June 6, 2012
AFI 44-119, Medical Quality Operations, Aug 16, 2011
AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Program, October 21, 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, March 1, 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, Sep 22, 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFIA—Air Force Inspection Agency
AFMOA—Air Force Medical Operations Agency
AFMOA/SGHM—Air Force Medical Operations Agency/Provision of Medical Care Division
AFMOA/SGHW—Air Force Medical Operations Agency/Mental Health Division
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AFPC/DPAPH—Air Force Personnel Center, Humanitarian/EFMP Assignments Branch
 8                                                       AFPD40-7 4 SEPTEMBER 2013


AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General
AHLTA—Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application
CONUS—Continental United States
DOD—Department of Defense
DODDS—Department of Defense Dependent Schools
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
EAD—Extended Active Duty
EDIS—Educational and Developmental Intervention Services
EFMP—Exceptional Family Member Program
EFMP—M—Exceptional Family Member Program-Medical
FDI—Facility Determination Inquiry
FMRC—Family Member Relocation Clearance
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
IAW—In Accordance With
IDEA—Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
MAJCOM—Major Command
MAJCOM/SG—Major Command Surgeon General
MPS—Military Personnel Section
MTF—Military Treatment Facility
MTF/CC—Military Treatment Facility Commander
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF/IAPA—Secretary of the Air Force, International Airmen Division
SAF/MR—Secretary of the Air Force, Manpower & Reserve Affairs
SNC—Special Needs Coordinator

Terms
Exceptional Family Member Program—Established by the DoD to identify and serve
sponsors with family members who have special needs. The AF EFMP consists of EFMP-
Assignments (EFMP-A), EFMP-Family Support (EFMP-FS), and EFMP-Medical (EFMP-M).
AFPD40-7 4 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                      9


Collaboration between the three facets of the program ensures appropriate assignment
considerations, and in-place support for active duty members with special needs dependents.
Facility Determination Inquiry—The mechanism used by AF EFMP-M offices to forward
documented family member special needs (medical and/or educational) to gaining MTFs for the
review of available services.
Family Members—The spouse, child, or other person actually residing in the member’s
household who is dependent on the member for over half of his or her financial support.
Family Member Relocation Clearance—The coordination process between the MPS (for
active duty sponsors), the Civilian Personnel office (for DoD civilian employees), and the MTFs
(both at losing and gaining installations) that supports family member travel in conjunction with
assignment or employment activities. Family Support Centers, Family Member Programs, and
Housing Management may be asked to provide resource information to support sponsors
relocating with their special needs family members.
Military Treatment Facility—A DoD health care provision location, whether clinic or hospital.
Special Educational Needs—The educational needs of a family member who meets DoD
criteria for identifying a family member with special needs as defined in DoDI 1315.19,
Enclosure 4.
Special Medical Needs—The medical needs of a family member who meets DoD criteria for
identifying a family member with special needs as defined in DoDI 1315.19, Enclosure 4.
Special Needs Coordinator—Designated in writing by the MTF/CC, the SNC is the medical
officer or officer-equivalent responsible for implementation of EFMP-M at the base level.
Special Needs Identification—The mandatory process for all base agencies to identify and refer
active duty family members with special needs in order to ensure family member access to
required services at current and projected assignments. It is also the process used by Civilian
Personnel to inquire of the presence of special needs among family members of civilian
personnel who have accepted employment overseas and plan to take accompanying family
members into OCONUS areas.
Q-code—Designation for the assignment limitation code “Q” that is placed in AFPC’s database
of Air Force personnel when a sponsor has one or more family members that meet(s) DoD
criteria for the Exceptional Family Member Program.
