BY ORDER OF THE                                    AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 32-30
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                               21 JUNE 2013
                                                           Certified Current 31 March 2014
                                                                            Civil Engineering
                                                      EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at:
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AF/A7CXR                                                           Certified by: AF/A4/7
                                                                    (Lt Gen Judith A. Fedder)
                                                                                      Pages: 7
Supersedes:   AFPD32-30,
              18 December 2009


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) implements DoD Directive (DoDD) 5160.62, Single
Manager Responsibility for Military Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technology and Training
(EODT&T) and DoDD 5101.13, DoD Executive Agent for the Unexploded Ordnance Center of
Excellence (UXOCOE). This publication establishes policies to provide the Air Force with a
ready capability for mitigating and defeating hazards caused by domestic or foreign explosive
ordnance (EO) or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) containing conventional explosive,
nuclear, biological, chemical, radiological, incendiary material, or homemade explosives. This
publication applies to all Air Force personnel to include Air Force Reserve and Air National
Guard members. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) maintained in the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims./rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this directive to the OPR using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, through the functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised and the following changes have been made: refined Air Force
Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) policy and responsibilities.
 2                                                                     AFPD32-30 21 JUNE 2013


1. Overview. The Air Force must have an EOD capability to be employed alone or as part of an
AF, Joint, Interagency, or Coalition force, to support Combatant Commander and/or Air Force
objectives. This force must be capable of countering the threat of Weapons of Mass Destruction
(WMDs), IEDs or unexploded ordnance (UXOs) delivered or placed by friendly or enemy
forces, as well as rendering safe US and allied EO made dangerous by accident or other
circumstance. The Air Force will organize, train, and equip EOD forces to protect the mission,
people, resources and the environment for Homeland Defense and worldwide contingencies to
include major conflicts and irregular warfare operations while delivering distinctive EOD
expertise in both airfield and ground combat environments. EOD forces exist to provide Air
Force and Joint commander capabilities to mitigate or defeat the hazards presented by enemy or
friendly employment of EO to include IEDs or conventional explosive, nuclear, biological,
chemical, radiological, or incendiary material. The Air Force will comply with all US laws and
Department of Defense (DoD) policy in providing EOD services to Federal and civil authorities.
2. Policy.
     2.1. The Air Force will have EOD-qualified military members who are the only designated
     and authorized personnel within the Air Force organized, trained and equipped to analyze,
     mitigate and defeat threats from hazardous EO and criminal/terrorist IEDs. EOD teams also
     confirm, identify, evaluate, render safe and dispose of EO hazards presented from incidents
     and accidents, including evidence protection in support of criminal and mishap
     investigations. To ensure an Air Force EOD capability all EOD units will organize, train and
     equip to conduct or support the following areas:
        2.1.1. Aerospace Systems/Vehicles and Conventional Munitions. Support sortie
        generation and space operations by responding to airfield in-flight and ground
        emergencies or crash situations. EOD provides evaluation, diagnosis, render safe,
        recovery and final disposal of conventional munitions involved in incidents/accidents.
        2.1.2. Counter-IED (CIED). Eliminate or mitigate explosive hazards and
        terrorist/criminal devices, to include missions outside the base boundary or Base Security
        Zone to enable greater freedom of maneuver for air or surface operations. Perform IED
        defeat actions to include (but not limited to) the following: recover/destroy weapon
        caches; perform immediate actions to defeat emplaced IEDs; conduct post-blast analysis
        of IED events; provide military authorities with technical intelligence, analysis and
        exploitation; and provide key insights to enable development of CIED tactics, techniques
        and procedures to mitigate IED effectiveness.
        2.1.3. Combating Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD). Peacetime EOD force WMD
        response efforts are limited in scope to provide initial threat confirmation, risk mitigation,
        situational awareness and site stabilization; however EOD forces may also provide
        additional technical support as required. During contingencies, EOD forces provide full-
        spectrum response capability to nuclear, biological, chemical, radiological, incendiary,
        conventional explosive ordnance and IEDs.
        2.1.4. Nuclear Weapon Response. All active duty AF EOD units provide immediate
        initial support to nuclear weapon accidents or incidents in order to mitigate risk, provide
        site stabilization and situational awareness. Direct support units certified on specific
        weapon systems and aerospace platforms form the core of weapons recovery teams and
        must respond in conjunction with the Tactical Response Force to explosively defeat
AFPD32-30 21 JUNE 2013                                                                           3


       assault obstacles, conduct passive diagnostics and provide technical assessments through
       secure communications with National Render Safe assets while supporting the National
       Military Command Center and Response Task Force (RTF) incident/accident or
       recapture/recovery efforts.
       2.1.5. Unexploded Ordnance (UXO) Recovery Operations. Provide emergency response
       to neutralize hazards from explosive related incidents presenting a threat to operations,
       installations, personnel or materiel, including but not limited to, evaluation of individual
       ordnance items, support of developmental and operational ordnance/weapons system
       testing, and large-scale recovery of airbases denied by ordnance (RADBO) operations.
       2.1.6. Operational Range Clearance. Clear active bombing and gunnery ranges of
       explosive hazards in support of range management offices to enhance aircrew safety
       during training operations.
       2.1.7. Mortuary Services. Removal and safing of ordnance left on or embedded in
       casualties.
       2.1.8. Defense Support to Civil Authorities. Assist Federal and civil authorities with
       terrorist or other criminal acts, accidents, found explosive items and other requests for
       support.
       2.1.9. Irregular Warfare (IW). Serve as combat enablers to General Purpose and Special
       Operations Forces in the execution of various IW missions to include security force
       assistance, counterinsurgency (COIN), stability operations and building partnership
       capacity.
       2.1.10. VIP Protective Support. Provide counter-explosive search teams in support of
       the U.S. Secret Service (USSS), Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the
       Department of State (DoS).
   2.2. All EOD units will participate in the Annual EOD Safety Day.
3. Responsibilities:
   3.1. The Deputy Chief of Staff, Logistics, Installations and Mission Support (AF/A4/7)
   develops policy; allocates resources; plans, programs, and budgets; represents EOD matters
   in interdepartmental affairs; and provides a Program Director for the Air Force EOD
   program.
       3.1.1. Provide Air Force general officer representative to the EOD Program Board in
       accordance with DoDD 5160.62.
       3.1.2. Provide the Air Force EOD Action Officer (AO) serving in an advisory and staff
       capacity to the Air Force EOD Program Board member, and as a focal point for Joint
       EOD matters from the Military Technical Acceptance Board (MTAB) and Technical
       Training Acceptance Board (TTAB) in accordance with DoDD 5160.62.
       3.1.3. Designate an Air Force EOD representative to the Naval EOD Technical Division,
       MTAB, and to the Naval School EOD, TTAB, in accordance with DoDD 5160.62.
       3.1.4. Advise Air Force representative to the Joint Counter Radio-Controlled Improvised
       Explosive Device Electronic Warfare (CREW) Program Board on EOD specific systems
       and requirements IAW DoDD 5101.14, DoD Executive Agent and Single Manager for
 4                                                                 AFPD32-30 21 JUNE 2013


        Military Ground-Based Counter Radio-Controlled Improvised Explosive Device
        Electronic Warfare (CREW) Technology.
        3.1.5. Coordinate support for the Unexploded Ordnance Center of Excellence
        (UXOCOE) per DoDD 5101.13.
        3.1.6. Represent the AF EOD program equities to Headquarters Air Force, DoD, Joint
        EOD and Interagency organizations.
     3.2. Major commands shall:
        3.2.1. Establish EOD units and ensure each is properly organized, trained, equipped and
        provided technical data to support EOD missions.
        3.2.2. Assess the effectiveness of their EOD programs during inspections and staff
        assistance visits. Only EOD-qualified military personnel serving in EOD billets are
        authorized to perform technical inspections of EOD procedures. Government civilian
        personnel performing EOD management duties may perform non-operational
        assessments of their units (i.e. review/assessment of functional areas during staff
        assistance visits).
4. Related Publications. This policy directive supports Presidential Policy Directive (PPD) 17
Countering Improvised Explosive Devices; DoDD 3025.13, Employment of DoD Capabilities in
Support of the U.S. Secret Service (USSS), Department of Homeland Security (DHS); DoDD
3025.18, Defense Support to Civil Authorities (DSCA); DoDD 4715.11, Environmental and
Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges Within the United States; DoDD 4715.12,
Environmental and Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges Outside the United
States; DoDD 5101.14, DoD Executive Agent and Single Manager for Military Ground-Based
Counter Radio-Controlled Improvised Explosive Device Electronic Warfare (CREW)
Technology; AFPD 10-8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support; AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic,
Airfield, Airspace and Range Management; and AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense.




                                            MICHAEL B. DONLEY
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD32-30 21 JUNE 2013                                                                         5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
PPD-17, Countering Improvised Explosive Devices, 15 Jun 2012
DoDD 3025.13, Employment of Department of Defense Resources in Support of the United
States Secret Service, 8 October 2010
DoDD 3025.18, Defense Support to Civil Authorities (DSCA), 29 Dec 2010
DoDD 4715.11, Environmental and Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges
Within the United States, 10 May 2004
DoDD 4715.12, Environmental and Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges
Outside the United States, 12 July 2004
DoDD 5101.14; DoD Executive Agent and Single Manager for Military Ground-Based Counter
Radio-Controlled Improvised Explosive Device Electronic Warfare (CREW) Technology, 11
June 2007
DoDD 5160.62; Single Manager Responsibility for Military Explosive Ordnance Disposal
Technology and Training (EODT&T), 3 June 2011
DoDD 6055.9E, DoD Explosives Safety Management and the DoD Explosives Safety Board, 19
Aug 2005
AFPD 10-8, Homeland Defense and Civil Support, 15 Feb 2012
AFPD 13-2, Air Traffic, Airfield, Airspace and Range Management, 7 Aug 2007
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 Oct 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommend for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System

Terms
Biological—As used herein, biological weapons, agents, operations, fillers, are only addressed in
relation to foreign or improvised ordnance. This term refers to weapons using biological
materials as their attacking agent.
 6                                                                    AFPD32-30 21 JUNE 2013


Direct Support Units—An EOD flight that provides a full capability for nuclear support from
initial response through recovery actions. Included are EOD flights supporting nuclear capable
wings, nuclear weapon storage areas, or consolidated support bases storing these systems.
Explosive Ordnance (EO)—All munitions containing explosives, nuclear fission or fusion
materials, and biological and chemical agents. This includes bombs and warheads; guided and
ballistic missiles; artillery, mortar, rocket, and small arms ammunition; all mines, torpedoes, and
depth charges; demolition charges; pyrotechnics; clusters and dispensers; cartridge and
propellant actuated devices; electro-explosive devices; clandestine and improvised explosive
devices; and all similar or related items or components explosive in nature.
Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD)—The detection, identification, on-site evaluation,
rendering safe, recovery, and final disposal of unexploded explosive ordnance. Also call EOD.
(JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms)
EOD Incident—The suspected or detected presence of UXO, a damaged or discarded military
munition, an improvised explosive devices (IED), or a chemical-biological-radiological-nuclear
and high-yield explosives that constitutes a hazard to friendly operations, installations, personnel,
or material. Not included is the accidental arming or other conditions that develop during the
manufacture of high explosive or nuclear material, technical service assembly operations, or the
laying of mines and demolition charges. (Note: Such situations will be neutralized by qualified
personnel of the organization performing the manufacturing, assembling, or placement of mines
and demolition charges: however, such organization may request assistance from EOD units.)
EOD Procedures—Those particular courses or modes of action taken by an EOD Team for
access to, diagnosis, render-safe, recovery, and final disposal of explosive ordnance or any
hazardous material associated with an EOD incident. EOD procedures involving the movement
or other disturbance of hazardous devices and explosives are never performed by less than two
trained and qualified individuals.
EOD—qualified—Military personnel graduated from the Naval School, Explosive Ordnance
Disposal (NAVSCOLEOD)
Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) Team—The standard Air Force EOD Team is comprised
of at least three EOD-qualified personnel one of which has been awarded a 7-skill level or
higher. These parameters may be adjusted to a minimum of two EOD-qualified personnel one of
which is an E-5 that has been awarded a 5-skill level, when the mission is defined by EOD
coordinated instructions (local stand-by duties, exercise support, testing support, etc), or using
Commander ORM determination during periods of critical manning and other unique
circumstances to meet mission requirements. An EOD team is not complete without special
training, publications, and specialized equipment to perform EOD related procedures. Note: One
EOD-qualified 7-level may be used in situations requiring reconnaissance, assessment, and
evaluation as long as EOD Render Safe Procedures (RSP), recovery, or disposal procedures are
not attempted and ordnance/explosives are not moved or otherwise disturbed.
Improvised Explosive Devices (IED)—A weapon that is fabricated or emplaced in an
unconventional manner incorporating destructive, lethal, noxious, pyrotechnic, or incendiary
chemicals designed to kill, destroy, incapacitate, harass, deny mobility, or distract. (JP 1-02,
Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms)
AFPD32-30 21 JUNE 2013                                                                         7


Indirect Support Units—All EOD flights provide emergency nuclear support as a minimum
level of nuclear capability providing initial response, damage assessment, emergency render safe,
and incident site stabilization. Units that are not special mission units are by default indirect
support units.
Unexploded Explosive Ordnance (UXO)—Explosive ordnance which has been primed, fused,
armed or otherwise prepared for action, and which has been fired, dropped, launched, projected,
or placed in such a manner as to constitute a hazard to operations, installations, personnel, or
material and remains unexploded either by malfunction or design or for any other cause. (JP 1-
02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms).
Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD)—Chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear weapons
capable of a high order of destruction or causing mass casualties and exclude the means of
transporting or propelling the weapon where such means is a separable and divisible part of the
weapon. Also called WMD (JP 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and
Associated Terms).
