BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                              AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-17
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                    31 JULY 2012

                                                                                        Operations

                                                                  CYBERSPACE OPERATIONS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AF/A3C-A6C                                                             Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                         (Lt Gen Burton M. Field)
                                                                                          Pages: 9
Supersedes:    AFPD 13-3, 11 Jan 08


This policy directive implements DoDD O-8530.1, Computer Network Defense (CND), and
National Security Presidential Directive 38 (title classified at higher level), and provides
direction for planning and conducting Air Force cyberspace operations to support the warfighter
and achieve national security objectives. This policy directive applies to all military and civilian
Air Force personnel, members of the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and individuals or
activities, authorized by an appropriate government official to conduct cyberspace operations or
to access the Air Force-provisioned portion of the Global Information Grid (GIG) (AF-GIG).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
submitting organization’s chain of command. Waivers to this directive may be granted only by
the United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans and Requirements
(AF/A3/5).


1. Overview. This Directive establishes Air Force policy and assigns responsibilities for the
planning and execution of cyberspace operations.
2. Policy. It is Air Force policy that:
 2                                                                 AFPD10-17 31 JULY 2012


     2.1. Cyberspace is an operational domain.
     2.2. The Air Force will conduct operations in, through and from cyberspace across the range
     of military operations.
     2.3. The Air Force will conduct cyberspace operations in support of combatant commanders
     in the areas of offensive cyberspace operations, defensive cyberspace operations, and
     cyberspace support.
     2.4. Cyberspace operations will be conducted by personnel trained and certified in
     accordance with applicable Air Force and intelligence community directives and authorities.
     2.5. Decisions affecting the availability of any portion of the AF-GIG will be made by the
     responsible operational commander, with the advice and support of the responsible
     communications organization commander.
     2.6. Providing policy, guidance, and oversight for cyberspace operations is a shared
     responsibility of the Office of Information Dominance and Chief Information Officer
     (SAF/CIO A6) and the AF/A3/5, in coordination with Commander, Air Force Space
     Command (AFSPC/CC) as the core function lead integrator (CFLI) for cyberspace
     operations. SAF/CIO A6 retains responsibility, with the support of AF/A3/5, for those
     activities and reporting requirements assigned to the CIO by public law.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. AF/A3/5 and SAF/CIO A6, through a matrixed organization, will:
        3.1.1. Provide Headquarters Air Force (HAF)-level policy, guidance, and oversight for
        cyberspace operations, integrating the activities of the Air Force’s operations;
        intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR); and communications communities to
        ensure the delivery of Air Force cyberspace operational capabilities to warfighters.
        3.1.2. Develop, coordinate, publish, implement, and enforce Air Force-wide guidance for
        cyberspace command and control (C2) and cyberspace operations.
        3.1.3. Validate requirements for cyberspace operational capabilities through the Air
        Force Requirements Oversight Council.
        3.1.4. Ensure development, coordination, publishing, implementation, and enforcement
        of procedures for conducting operations under conditions of diminished or denied
        network availability.
        3.1.5. With the Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
        (AF/A2), develop cyberspace processes and ensure that the force is trained and equipped
        to plan and assess cyberspace operations.
        3.1.6. Ensure ISR capability requirements are identified to AF/A2 for incorporation into
        future cryptologic capability development.
        3.1.7. Advise and assist in the development of organizational constructs that integrate
        cyberspace operational capabilities into Air Force and joint warfighting components.
        3.1.8. Ensure operational assessment of current and future cyberspace operations and
        information superiority capabilities are integrated in the Air Force capability based
        planning process.
AFPD10-17 31 JULY 2012                                                                     3


     3.1.9. Advise and assist in the development, coordination, and integration of strategy,
     doctrine, and guidance for cyberspace operations capabilities into Air Force, Joint,
     combatant command, coalition, and national planning and operations.
     3.1.10. Define Air Force guidance and standards for position descriptions, training and
     certification of personnel responsible for development, management, and repair of the
     AF-GIG.
     3.1.11. Develop, coordinate, publish, implement, and enforce guidelines and procedures
     for network/system certification, accreditation, assessment, and authorization.
     3.1.12. Serve as the functional authority for the 17D, 1B, and 3D Air Force specialty
     codes and related civilian career fields.
     3.1.13. Develop certification criteria and identifiers for cyberspace expertise or
     experience and track personnel so identified.
     3.1.14. Advocate for cyberspace operations funding and program support within the Air
     Force corporate structure.
  3.2. AF/A2 will:
     3.2.1. Ensure ability to provide collaborative analysis, fused intelligence, and cross-
     domain, integrated, and automated ISR PCPAD (planning and collecting, collection,
     processing and exploitation, analysis and production, dissemination) capabilities to
     enable cyberspace operations.
     3.2.2. Provide cyber ISR expertise to influence national, Department of Defense (DoD),
     Joint, and Service policy and doctrine development for cyberspace operations.
     3.2.3. Organize, train, and equip ISR forces for Air Force computer network exploitation
     (CNE) operations in the cyberspace domain.
     3.2.4. Provide planning, programming, and budgeting oversight for ISR capabilities
     supporting cyberspace operations.
     3.2.5. Ensure that operational commanders are provided with the information needed to
     plan and assess cyberspace operations.
     3.2.6. Ensure provision of ISR CNE capabilities to enable multi-domain operations.
     3.2.7. Ensure that ISR forces, assigned to Service Reserve Code 0U, are available to
     provide direct support to network warfare squadrons for execution of United States Cyber
     Command (USCYBERCOM) tasked/approved operations.
     3.2.8. Oversee development of specialized ISR capabilities, resources, products, and
     services in direct support of stated cyberspace operational requirements.
     3.2.9. Oversee, in partnership with Air Force ISR Agency (AFISRA), the collaboration
     of the Air Force Service Cryptologic Component (SCC) with the National Security
     Agency to conduct CNE and facilitate cryptologic signals intelligence (SIGINT) support
     for cyberspace operations, and cryptologic training.
     3.2.10. Manage ISR capabilities and requirements and advocate them through the Air
     Force capabilities based planning process. Coordinate with 24th AF (AFCYBER) to
4                                                                     AFPD10-17 31 JULY 2012


       prioritize intelligence needs and employ forces, within resource and authority constraints,
       to satisfy those intelligence needs.
           3.2.10.1. As the Air Force SCC, AFISRA is the service lead for all Air Force
           cryptologic activities and has management oversight of those elements of the Air
           Force performing cryptologic functions regardless of program to ensure these
           activities are compliant with national and departmental guidelines, including SIGINT
           security, training, authorities, accountability of resources, and oversight (inspections,
           skill evaluations, and reporting).
       3.2.11. Manage ISR capabilities and requirements and advocate them through the Air
       Force capabilities based planning process. Coordinate with AFCYBER to prioritize
       intelligence needs and employ forces, within resource and authority constraints, to satisfy
       those intelligence needs.
       3.2.12. Advocate and defend Air Force cyber ISR requirements to national level
       agencies. Review AFISRA, AFCYBER, USCYBERCOM, Defense Intelligence Agency
       (DIA), and national cyber requirements processes (i.e., validation, tasking, and
       satisfaction) for adequacy.
    3.3. The Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ) will develop and
    acquire cyberspace operational capabilities in response to validated requirements.
       3.3.1. The Program Executive Office, Command, Control, Communications,
       Intelligence, and Networks (PEO C3I&N) will develop, acquire, and sustain cyberspace,
       communications, cryptologic and space/nuclear network capabilities across Air Force,
       Joint, and interagency communities. Additionally, the PEO C3I&N will develop and
       maintain an implementation baseline for the tactical and AFNET (Air Force network)
       communications and commoditized infrastructure supporting multiple capability areas to
       include cyberspace.
    3.4. The General Counsel (SAF/GC) and The Judge Advocate General (AF/JA) will:
       3.4.1. Advise the Air Force on legal matters related to cyberspace operations.
       3.4.2. Provide advice and legal analysis to ensure operations and activities carried out in
       and through cyberspace are conducted in accordance with U.S., international, and other
       applicable law.
       3.4.3. Conduct legal reviews of cyberspace operational capabilities. Those capabilities
       protected under special access programs (SAP) will be reviewed by SAF/GC; those not
       so protected will be reviewed by AF/JA.
       3.4.4. Conduct legal reviews of rules of engagement for cyberspace capabilities.
    3.5. The Inspector General (SAF/IG) will:
       3.5.1. Validate functional inspection criteria to ensure that Air Force cyberspace
       operational capabilities are properly developed in response to documented requirements,
       and that cyberspace operations are being properly executed.
       3.5.2. Through the Air Force Office of Special Investigations, investigate allegations of
       criminal, fraudulent, and other illegal activities conducted over the AF-GIG, and perform
AFPD10-17 31 JULY 2012                                                                           5


     other criminal investigations and counterintelligence activities in accordance with
     applicable law, as needed, to protect the AF-GIG.
     3.5.3. Assist the Secretary of the Air Force in his/her role as the Executive Agent for the
     DoD Cyber Crime Center, pursuant to DoDD 5505.13E, DoD Executive Agent for the
     DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3).
  3.6. The Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/AA) will serve as
  the senior security official for the Air Force with oversight and policy authority for all cyber-
  related Air Force SAPs.
  3.7. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) will:
     3.7.1. Serve as the lead major command for Air Force cyberspace operations and the
     CFLI for the cyberspace superiority mission area. Develop departmental guidance and
     procedures for HAF release in departmental publications in accordance with AFI 33-360,
     Publications and Forms Management.
     3.7.2. Organize, train, and equip Air Force cyberspace operations forces.
     3.7.3. Present organized, trained and equipped cyberspace forces to combatant
     commanders as directed.
     3.7.4. As directed by the Air Force Roadmap for the Development of Cyberspace
     Professionals (Change 1), and until updated guidance is published:
         3.7.4.1. Serve as the cyberspace professional functional authority responsible to
         develop combat capability in the cyberspace warfighting domain.
         3.7.4.2. Articulate cyberspace professional requirements to functional authorities.
         3.7.4.3. Provide strategic level guidance to the functional communities that provide
         Air Force cyberspace capabilities.
     3.7.5. Command, control, implement, configure, secure, operate, maintain, sustain, and
     defend the AF-GIG.
     3.7.6. Command, control, and employ Air Force cyberspace operational capabilities.
     3.7.7. Develop and implement measures of effectiveness and performance for cyber
     operations.
     3.7.8. In coordination with Air Education and Training Command (AETC), develop and
     implement programs to educate Airmen on cyberspace operations, the employment of
     related capabilities, and the integration of those capabilities with capabilities of all other
     domains.
     3.7.9. Recommend organizational constructs which facilitate the integration of
     cyberspace operational capabilities into Air Force and Joint warfighting components.
     3.7.10. Define requirements for cyberspace operational capabilities.
     3.7.11. Conduct operational tests of cyberspace systems in accordance with AFI 99-103,
     Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation.
     3.7.12. Develop, coordinate, publish, implement, and enforce network configuration
     management guidelines and standards.
6                                                                     AFPD10-17 31 JULY 2012


       3.7.13. Develop tactics, techniques, and procedures for the integration and employment
       of cyberspace operational capabilities.
       3.7.14. Coordinate, delineate, and de-conflict cyberspace operations and ISR capabilities
       between the cyberspace superiority and global integrated ISR core function master plans
       (CFMP).
    3.8. Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) will:
       3.8.1. Conduct technological research and materiel development activities to acquire,
       perform developmental testing of, field, and sustain current and future cyberspace
       capabilities.
       3.8.2. Provide cyberspace environments for training and exercise of cyber units.
    3.9. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will:
       3.9.1. Provide initial skills training for cyberspace professionals.
       3.9.2. In coordination with AFSPC, develop and implement programs to educate Airmen
       on cyberspace operations, the employment of related capabilities, and the integration of
       those capabilities with capabilities of all other domains.




                                              Michael B. Donley
                                              Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD10-17 31 JULY 2012                                                                         7


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5505.13E, DoD Executive Agent for the DoD Cyber Crime Center (DC3), 1 Mar 2010
DoDD O-8530.1, Computer Network Defense (CND), 8 Jan 2001
DoDI 8410.02, NETOPS for the Global Information Grid, 19 Dec 2008
DoDI O-8530.2, Support to Computer Network Defense, 3 Mar 2001
Joint Pub 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms, 8 Nov 10,
as amended through 31 Jan 11
AFDD 3-12, Cyberspace Operations, 15 Jul 10, with Change 1, 30 Nov 11
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 11 Jun 09
AFI 51-402, Legal Reviews of Weapons and Cyber Capabilities, 27 Jul 11
AFI 99-103, Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation, 26 Feb 08
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFPD 16-7, Special Access Programs, 29 Dec 10
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Infrastructure and Support, in coordination.
AFPD 33-2, Information Assurance (IA) Program, 3 Aug 11
Air Force Roadmap for the Development of Cyberspace Professionals (Change 1), 13 Aug 10
National Security Presidential Directive 38, Title Classified at higher level, 7 July 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFCYBER—24th Air Force, as the Air Force component to USCYBERCOM
AF—GIG – The Air Force provisioned portion of the Global Information Grid
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
C2—Command and Control
CCDR—Combatant Commander
 8                                                                  AFPD10-17 31 JULY 2012


CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CFMP—Core Function Master Plan
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CND—Computer Network Defense
CNE—Computer Network Exploitation
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
DC3—DoD Cyber Crime Center
DCO—Defensive Cyberspace Operations
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
GIG—Global Information Grid
HAF—Headquarters Air Force, includes the Secretariat and the Air Staff
IA—Information Assurance
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCPAD—Planning & Collecting, Collection, Processing & Exploitation, Analysis &
Production, Dissemination
PEO C3I&N—Program Executive Office, Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence,
and Networks
PKI—Public Key Infrastructure
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SCC—Service Cryptologic Component
SIGINT—Signals Intelligence
USCYBERCOM—United States Cyber Command
VCJCS—Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff

Terms
Air Force Global Information Grid (AF—GIG) - The Air Force-provisioned portion of the
Global Information Grid (GIG) for which the Air Force has primary responsibility for the
procurement, operations, and defense. It provides global connectivity and services, in addition to
C2 of that connectivity and those services that enable Air Force commanders to achieve
information and decision superiority in support of Air Force mission objectives. The AF-GIG
consists of fixed, mobile, and deployable facilities, and equipment, as well as processes, trained
personnel and information. (AFPD 13-3)
AFPD10-17 31 JULY 2012                                                                           9


Computer Network Exploitation (CNE)— Enabling operations and intelligence collection
capabilities conducted through the use of computer networks to gather data from target or
adversary automated information systems or networks. (Joint Pub 3-13)
Cyber (adj.)— of or pertaining to the cyberspace environment, capabilities, plans, or operations.
(Air Force definition)
Cyber Capability— Any device or software payload intended to disrupt, deny, degrade, negate,
impair, or destroy adversarial computer systems, data, activities, or capabilities. Cyber
capabilities do not include a device or software that is solely intended to provide access to an
adversarial computer system for data exploitation. (AFI 51-402)
Cyberspace (n. or adj.)— A global domain within the information environment consisting of
the interdependent network of information technology infrastructures, including the Internet,
telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
(Joint Pub 1-02) NOTE: synonymous with cyber when used as an adjective.
Cyberspace Operations— The employment of cyber capabilities where the primary purpose is
to achieve military objectives or effects in or through cyberspace. (Joint Pub 3-0)
Cyberspace Superiority— The operational advantage in, through, and from cyberspace to
conduct operations at a given time and in a given domain without prohibitive interference.
(AFDD 3-12)
Cyberspace Support— Foundational, continuous, or responsive operations in order to ensure
information integrity and availability in, through, or from Air Force controlled infrastructure and
its interconnected analog and digital portion of the battle space. (AFDD 3-12)
Defensive Cyberspace Operations (DCO)— DCO direct and synchronize actions to detect,
analyze, counter, and mitigate cyber threats and vulnerabilities; outmaneuver adversaries taking
or about to take offensive actions; and otherwise protect critical missions that enable our freedom
of action in cyberspace. (USCYBERCOM Concept of Operations, v 1.0, 21 Sep 2010)
Global Information Grid (GIG)— The globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information
capabilities, associated processes and personnel for collecting, processing, storing,
disseminating, and managing information on demand to warfighters, policy makers, and support
personnel. The Global Information Grid includes owned and leased communications and
computing systems and services, software (including applications), data, security services, other
associated services, and National Security Systems. (Joint Pub 6-0)
Information Assurance (IA)— Measures that protect and defend information and information
systems by ensuring their availability, integrity, authentication, confidentiality, and non-
repudiation. This includes providing for restoration of information systems by incorporating
protection, detection, and reaction capabilities. (AFPD 33-2, Joint Pub 3-13)
Information Superiority— The operational advantage derived from the ability to collect,
process, and disseminate an uninterrupted flow of information while exploiting or denying an
adversary’s ability to do the same. (Joint Pub 3-13)
Offensive Cyberspace Operations (OCO)— The creation of various enabling and attack
effects in cyberspace, to meet or support national and combatant commanders’ objectives and
actively defend DoD or other information networks, as directed. (USCYBERCOM Concept of
Operations, v 1.0, 21 Sep 2010)
