BY ORDER OF THE                                                AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 90-2
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                               26 APRIL 2006

                                                                                        Command Policy

                                                                            INSPECTOR GENERAL--
                                                                          THE INSPECTION SYSTEM



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SAF/IGI (Lt Col John Hambel)                     Certified by: SAF/IG (Maj Gen Jeffrey Musfeldt)
Supersedes AFPD 90-2, 1 September 1999                                                       Pages: 2
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This Directive establishes policy for the Air Force Inspection System in accordance with DoDD 5106.1,
Title 10 U.S.C. 8020 and Title 32 U.S.C. 105 and applies to Air Force and Air National Guard military
and civilian personnel. Air Force commanders must continuously evaluate force readiness and organiza-
tional efficiency and effectiveness. The inspection system provides commanders with a credible, indepen-
dent assessment to measure the capability of assigned forces. Inspectors provide an objective benchmark
of best practices and crosstell lessons learned and innovative methods in executing the Air Force mission.
Any records resulting from implementation of this directive must be disposed of in accordance with AFI
33-322 Air Force Records Management Program. Use AF Form 847 for any suggested changes to this
publication and e-mail to saf.igi@pentagon.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This document is revised to include changes regarding the authorization for Major Command (MAJ-
COM) IGs to conduct inspections on gained Air National Guard units and clarifies the responsibilities of
the Air Force Inspection Agency and the Air Force Safety Center for Nuclear Surety Inspections (NSIs)
oversight.


1. Responsibilities
   1.1. The Secretary of the Air Force, Inspector General (SAF/IG) will:
       1.1.1. Assess the readiness, discipline, efficiency, and economy of the Air Force and the Air
       National Guard, and report findings to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Air Force Chief of
       Staff.
       1.1.2. Chair the Intelligence Oversight (IO) Panel. Members consist of SAF/IG, General Counsel
       (SAF/GC), and the Director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2). The IO
       Panel will meet biannually or when necessary as determined by the panel members.
2                                                                             AFPD90-2 26 APRIL 2006


       1.1.3. Authorize MAJCOM IGs to conduct Operational Readiness Inspections (ORI) and Compli-
       ance Inspections (CI) on gained Air National Guard (ANG) units.
    1.2. IG appointment
       1.2.1. MAJCOM commanders and the Chief, National Guard Bureau (CNGB) will appoint an
       Inspector General for their organization who is directly responsible to the commander for carrying
       out assigned responsibilities.
       1.2.2. Direct Reporting Units and Field Operating Agency commanders who do not appoint an IG
       must ensure IG duties and responsibilities are specified in the Host/Tenant Support Agreement.
    1.3. MAJCOM Commanders will:
       1.3.1. Establish inspection programs consistent with mission requirements to assess Air Force and
       ANG unit readiness, compliance with directives, and nuclear surety/safety (as applicable) within
       AFI 90-201 prescribed timelines and conduct other inspections required by law, as deemed neces-
       sary by the Commander, or as outlined in AFI 90-201 Inspector General Activities.
       1.3.2. Appoint a MAJCOM Gatekeeper responsible for ensuring the notification of evaluations by
       all Air Force and non-Air Force agencies, determining evaluation mandays for each MAJCOM
       installation, and tracking actual versus planned evaluation mandays, as outlined in AFI 90-201.
    1.4. Air Force Safety Center, Weapons Division (AFSC/SEW) will review NSI procedures, crite-
    ria, and evaluation frequency for publication in AFI 90-201.
    1.5. NGB will establish an IG function to liaise with Air Force and gaining MAJCOMs regarding
    inspection matters unique to the ANG.
    1.6. Air Force Inspection Agency (AFIA) will conduct inspections/assessments and management
    reviews as directed by the SAF/IG. AFIA in coordination with SAF/IGI provides oversight assess-
    ments to MAJCOM/CCs and The Inspector General (TIG) on the consistency of MAJCOM nuclear
    surety inspections as described in AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities. For NSIs, AFIA also con-
    ducts trend analysis, assesses the sufficiency of corrective actions to inspection findings, and provides
    finding status and metrics to personnel in the AF nuclear surety arena. Likewise, AFIA is the AF
    clearinghouse for MAJCOM responses to Defense Threat Reduction Agency Nuclear Weapon Tech-
    nical Inspection findings.
    1.7. See AFI 90-201 for additional specific responsibilities.

2. The inspection footprint on Air Force installations should be minimized commensurate with command
requirements. The use of sampling techniques, combined/multi-MAJCOM inspections, credit for unit
activity in conjunction with exercises and contingencies, and other efficient assessment measures are
encouraged.

3. This policy directive is the antecedent for implementation instructions contained in AFI 90-201,
Inspector General Activities. For glossary of applicable abbreviations and acronyms, refer to AFI 90-201.



                                                MICHAEL W. WYNNE
                                                Secretary of the Air Force
