BY ORDER OF THE                                          AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 63-1
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                         AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 20-1

                                                                                 3 JULY 2012

                                                                        Acquisition / Logistics

                                              INTEGRATED LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SAF/AQX                                                            Certified by: SAF/AQ,
                                                               (Lt Gen Janet C. Wolfenbarger)
Supersedes:   AFPD 20-1, 3 April 2009                                SAF/IE, (Debra K. Tune)
              AFPD 63-1, 3 April 2009                                                 Pages: 10
              AFPD 63-6, 22 April 1993
              AFPD 63-13, 23 May 2006


This Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) provides an Air Force acquisition and sustainment
Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM) framework for Air Force systems, subsystems, end
items, services, and activities (for the purpose of this publication referred to as programs
throughout this document). It applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel; members
of the Air Force Reserve; members of the Air National Guard; and other individuals or
organizations as required by binding agreement or obligation with the Department of the Air
Force. This AFPD implements Department of Defense Directives (DoDDs) 2040.3, End Use
Certificates (EUCs); 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel; 4275.5, Acquisition and
Management of Industrial Resources; 4400.1, Defense Production Act Programs; 5000.01, The
Defense Acquisition System; 5000.52, Defense Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Workforce
Education, Training, and Career Development Program; 3020.49, Orchestrating, Synchronizing,
and Integrating Program Management of Contingency Acquisition Planning and Its Operational
Execution; 4120.11, Standardization of Mobile Electric Power (MEP) Generating Sources;
5134.09, Missile Defense Agency (MDA); 8320.03, Unique Identification (UID) Standards for a
Net-Centric Department of Defense; and Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI), 4140.01,
Supply Chain Materiel Management Policy. This AFPD interfaces with and is consistent with
3150.1, Joint DoD-DOE Nuclear Weapon Life-Cycle Activities and AFPD 13-5, Air Force
Nuclear Enterprise. If there is any conflicting policy between this AFPD and applicable
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff issuances or Department of Defense (DoD) issuances, the
latter shall take precedence. AFPD 63-1; 20-1 provides the flexibility required for today’s Air
Force and must be used in conjunction with AFPD 10-6, Capabilities Based Planning and
 2                                                           AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012


Requirements Development, and AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process. This AFPD cannot
be supplemented. This multiple series publication will not be modified or rescinded without the
concurrence of both certifying officials. Send all recommendations for changes or comments to
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Acquisition Management Policy (SAF/AQXA) workflow
(safaqxa.workflow@pentagon.af.mil) or 1060 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-
1060, through appropriate channels using AF FORM 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, with a courtesy copy to Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Logistics
(SAF/IEL), 1665 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330-1665. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force         Records         Disposition         Schedule          (RDS)        located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm./ Guidance in accessing the AF RDS
can be obtained from your office Records Custodian, Functional Area Records Manager, or the
HAF Records Management Office, HAFRecords.Workflow@pentagon.af.mil. For nuclear
systems or related components, ensure the appropriate nuclear related regulations are applied.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This AFPD
consolidates publications and provides a life cycle integrated framework for acquisition and
sustainment.
1. Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM). ILCM is the seamless governance with
transparent processes that integrates all aspects of infrastructure, resource management, and
business systems necessary for successful development, acquisition, fielding, sustainment, and
disposal of systems, subsystems, end items, and services to satisfy validated warfighter
capability needs. An ILCM approach improves acquisition and sustainment of Air Force
capabilities by ensuring acquisition efficiency, ensuring robust technical planning, optimizing
operations and sustainment of fielded capabilities, minimizing the logistics footprint, and
reducing life cycle cost of the program.
     1.1. ILCM Applicability. ILCM shall be applied to Air Force acquisition and sustainment
     programs throughout the life cycle of the program in support of warfighter capability
     planning and validated operational requirements. “Program” includes: activities identified on
     the Acquisition Master List (AML), weapon systems designated in AFPD 10-9, Lead
     Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, other designated weapons
     and business systems in sustainment, and services.
     1.2. ILCM Governance. An ILCM Executive Forum shall provide governance for capability
     planning, development planning, acquisition, systems engineering, test, and logistics across
     Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and Major Commands (MAJCOM). This Executive Forum
     shall provide for corporate enterprise reviews, decisions, and agendas that balance and
     integrate critical performance with short-term and long-term trade-offs.
     1.3. ILCM Stakeholders. The ILCM community is comprised of multiple stakeholders
     including leadership, developers, acquirers, integrators, testers, users, and sustainers involved
     in the successful acquisition, fielding, and sustainment of systems, subsystems, end items,
     and services to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs. Acquisition organizations are
AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012                                                                   3


   responsible for the efficient execution of a program, but the ILCM community has authority
   by either statute or regulation over aspects of programmatic execution and are critical to
   ensuring successful execution of the program.
2. Roles and Responsibilities. ILCM stakeholder organizations have the responsibility for
implementing policies by developing guidance and procedures that address the life cycle of a
program to ensure all systems, activities, and projects supporting capability planning and
validated needs are conducted in accordance with the ILCM approach. Organizational roles and
responsibilities include:
   2.1. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). Executes all Service
   Acquisition Executive (SAE) (referred to in DoD policy as Component Acquisition
   Executive) and Senior Procurement Executive responsibilities and authorities outlined in
   statute and regulation. Responsible for all acquisition, contracting, and systems engineering
   policy, guidance, and oversight. Ensures development and maintenance of skills required for
   the acquisition workforce. Chairs the ILCM Executive Forum.
   2.2. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environment and Logistics
   (SAF/IE). Responsible for strategic oversight of life cycle product support and develops
   strategic level logistics, installations, and environmental policy. Provides guidance related to
   depot-level maintenance and workload and validates compliance with 10 USC §2464, Core
   Logistics Capabilities (Core) and §2466, Limitations on the Performance of Depot-level
   Maintenance of Materiel (50/50).
   2.3. Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics, Installations & Mission Support (AF/A4/7). Issues
   AF implementation guidance for logistics support capabilities to ensure weapon system
   readiness for the user. Responsible for development, training, and maintenance of skills
   required for the sustainment workforce.
   2.4. Director of Test and Evaluation (AF/TE). Provides guidance, direction and oversight
   for all matters pertaining to the formulation, review, and execution of Test and Evaluation
   (T&E) plans, policies, programs, and budgets. Manages the AF test infrastructure by
   ensuring adequate T&E facilities, resources, and expertise are available to support system life
   cycle T&E activities.
   2.5. Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Financial Management and Comptroller
   (SAF/FM). Responsible for directing and managing all comptroller and financial
   management functions, activities, and operations of the Air Force. Provides direction and
   guidance on: the preparation of Budget Estimates; financial aspects of the planning,
   programming, budgeting, and execution process; economic and business case analysis; and
   cost estimating and cost analysis. Responsible for allocation, expenditure, and collection of
   all funds administered by the Air Force.
   2.6. Chief of Warfighting Integration and Chief Information Officer (SAF/CIO A6).
   Responsible for ensuring compliance with Information Assurance, Certification and
   Accreditation, Information Support Plans, Clinger-Cohen Act, Records Management,
   Privacy, Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and Spectrum Supportability
   requirements. Responsible for networks and network-centric policies and concepts for the
   Air Force. Responsible for development and reporting of the Air Force Information
 4                                                        AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012


     Technology Budget. Responsible for developing enterprise level architecture for the Air
     Force.
     2.7. Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (AF/A2).
     Manages intelligence support to AF programs. Principal interface to the Intelligence
     Community to articulate AF acquisition requirements for intelligence production; to ensure
     alignment of requirements with intelligence architectures, products, and standards; and to
     resolve disagreements on intelligence content issues.
     2.8. Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Plans and Programs (AF/A8). Responsible for
     managing the development, compilation, and submission of the Air Force Program Objective
     Memorandum (POM) and for coordinating and defending the POM, Budget Estimate
     Submission (BES) and President’s Budget (PB) and all related documentation.
     2.9. Deputy Chief of Staff for Strategic Deterrence & Nuclear Integration (AF/A10).
     Responsible for providing presence and advocacy for nuclear enterprise-wide initiatives
     supporting Air Force nuclear weapon system requirements in the acquisition processes with
     respect to nuclear and global strike capabilities and survivability.
     2.10. Deputy Under Secretary of the AF for International Affairs (SAF/IA). Responsible for
     supporting Program Managers (PMs) in their preparation and execution of Foreign Military
     Sales (FMS). Manages the Foreign Comparative Testing (FCT) program to provide foreign
     technologies and systems that PMs can acquire to meet AF requirements.
     2.11. Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans, and Requirements (AF/A3/5).
     Responsible for oversight of Air Force operational capability planning and requirements
     development processes and procedures.
     2.12. Director of Business Transformation and Deputy Chief Management Officer
     (SAF/USM). Responsible for ensuring requirements for business systems and processes are
     as streamlined and efficient as practicable.
     2.13. Chief of Safety (AF/SE). Responsible for the formation of safety and nuclear surety
     policy, the establishment of aviation safety and mishap prevention programs, and guidance to
     include mishap reporting and an independent and rigorous investigation process.
     2.14. Implementing Commands (Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC)) and Air Force
     Space Command (AFSPC)). Support the Milestone Decision Authorities (MDA) and PMs
     by providing technical assistance, infrastructure, manpower, test capabilities, laboratory
     support, professional education, training and development, and management tools.
3. Acquisition and Sustainment Execution. Acquisition and sustainment execution within the
ILCM enterprise begins with initial identification of requirements, continues through
development, fielding, and sustainment, ending with disposal. Acquisition and sustainment
execution requires standard processes and business practices to initiate, govern, and/or regulate
actions within the ILCM enterprise, to include:
     3.1. Air Force acquisition programs utilizing investment funding to satisfy a validated need
     (i.e., Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) and procurement) are
     Acquisition Category (ACAT) programs or Technology Projects. ACAT III has no funding
     floor and encompasses all programs not included within ACAT I, IA, II, or identified as a
     Technology Project.
AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012                                                                 5


  3.2. An Air Force program shall only be executed in response to a validated capability need
  vetted through an approved requirements process.
  3.3. The Air Force shall promote the development, protection, and integration of technology
  throughout the life cycle that advances state of the art warfighter capabilities critical to
  continued superiority in air, space, and cyberspace.
  3.4. The Air Force shall participate in joint and international cooperative research,
  development, and programs that support the best interest of the United States and fulfill valid
  Air Force requirements.
  3.5. The Air Force shall emphasize conformance to national and international standards for
  safe access to global airspace, space, and cyberspace.
  3.6. The Air Force shall apply standard systems engineering processes and practices to
  ensure the integrity, mission assurance, operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness
  (OSS&E) of each system throughout the life cycle from concept development through
  disposal. The Air Force shall apply integrity programs to weapon systems.
  3.7. The Air Force shall ensure product support is a continuous and collaborative set of
  activities that establishes and maintains readiness and the operational capability of a system,
  subsystem, or end-item throughout its life cycle. Product support implementation shall
  validate and refine the system sustainment objectives and outcomes in preparation for
  sustainment execution.
  3.8. An Air Force program shall have a clear governance chain of authority. Dependent
  upon MDA delegation, all acquisition management responsibilities and authorities for ACAT
  programs flow directly from the Defense Acquisition Executive (DAE)/Service Acquisition
  Executive (SAE) to the Program Executive Officer (PEO) to the accountable Program
  Manager. Unless otherwise stated these delegations shall be assumed and documented by the
  MDA in an Acquisition Decision Memorandum (ADM).
  3.9. An Air Force program shall have an established MDA for program execution. The
  MDA is the DoDD 5000.01 designated individual with overall responsibility for a program.
  The MDA shall have the authority to approve entry of a program into the next phase of the
  life cycle framework, shall tailor the program to maximize efficient use of limited resources,
  shall certify milestone criteria for Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs), and shall
  be accountable for program cost, schedule, and performance including Congressional
  reporting. The MDA shall have authority over all matters impacting programmatic execution
  except when statutory or regulatory authority resides elsewhere for a specific requirement.
  3.10. An Air Force program shall have an established PM throughout the life cycle. The PM
  is defined in DoDD 5000.01 as the designated individual with the responsibility for and
  authority to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to
  meet the user’s operational needs. The PM shall be accountable to the MDA or equivalent
  authority for program cost, schedule, and performance.
  3.11. An Air Force program shall be tailored to streamline the acquisition and sustainment
  processes and documentation commensurate with current and projected risk. For ACAT ID
  and ACAT IAM programs, Air Force implementation guidance may be tailored to support
  Defense Acquisition Executive direction. The MDA shall not waive functional requirements
6                                                         AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012


    which reside outside MDA authority. Waiver processes for those requirements are
    incorporated into the functional guidance and may require approvals outside that of the MDA
    tailoring authority. Waivers are an expressed or written statement to relinquish or provide
    exceptions to specific statutory or regulatory requirements.
    3.12. The MDA shall authorize entry into the Defense Acquisition System at an appropriate
    point, consistent with phase-specific entrance criteria and statutory/regulatory requirements
    following completion of or in concert with a Materiel Development Decision (MDD).
    3.13. An Air Force program shall minimize resources, schedules, documentation, and
    coordination associated with program reviews and decisions. The office mandating a review
    or decision must have the authority and accountability for requested subject matter. All
    acquisition and sustainment execution requirements, processes, procedures, documents, or
    activities not required by statutes, executive orders, DoD issuances, Air Force publications,
    or previously approved through the programmatic chain of command, which require
    resources, must be fully justified in order to ensure added value to the mission. The MDA
    makes the final determination on all activities impacting programmatic execution.
    3.14. ILCM stakeholders shall advise program execution authorities and assist them with
    their responsibilities by providing objective inputs to the program. An ILCM stakeholder
    shall not exercise decision-making authority on programmatic matters unless specific
    statutory or regulatory responsibility and authority resides with the member.
    3.15. For an ACAT program, where there is clear conflict between approved courses of
    action and where DoD policy/guidance does not allow for tailoring of process, SAF/AQ or
    SAF/IE shall request waivers from the appropriate DoD office. Where the course of action,
    as approved and documented through the programmatic chain of command, conflicts with an
    AFPD, the PM shall submit a request for a waiver to the certifying authority for the
    publication, who will obtain Secretary of the Air Force approval for the waiver if warranted.
    Where the course of action, as approved and documented through the programmatic chain of
    command, conflicts with Air Force Departmental directive issuances other than AFPDs, the
    PM shall submit a notification via memorandum to the publication OPR for action. The OPR
    shall take appropriate action to either provide direction to comply with policy, obtain a
    waiver to requirements, or to initiate changes to publications as appropriate. Resolution of
    conflicts between Air Force issuances shall be resolved by the appropriate HAF functional.
    3.16. An Air Force program shall comply with statutes, executive orders, DoD issuances, AF
    publications, Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
    Supplement (DFARS), and Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
    (AFFARS).




                                            Michael B. Donley
                                            Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012                                                              7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 2040.3, End Use Certificates (EUCs), 14 November 1991
DoDD 3020.49, Orchestrating, Synchronizing, and Integrating Program Management of
Contingency Acquisition Planning and Its Operational Execution, 24 March 2009
DoDD 4120.11, Standardization of Mobile Electric Power (MEP) Generating Sources, 13 April
2004
DoDD 4151.18, Maintenance of Military Materiel, 31 March 2004
DoDD 4275.5, Acquisition and Management of Industrial Resources, 15 March 2005
DoDD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDD 5000.52, Defense Acquisition, Technology and Logistics Workforce Education, Training
and Career Development Program, 12 January 2005
DoDD 5134.09, Missile Defense Agency, 17 September, 2009
DoDD 8320.02, Unique Identification (UID) Standards for a Net-Centric Department of
Defense, 23 March 2007
DoDI 4140.01, Supply Chain Materiel Management Policy, 14 Dec 2011
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities Based Planning and Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFPD 10-9, Lead Command Designation and Responsibilities for Weapon Systems, 8 March
2007
AFPD 13-5, Air Force Nuclear Enterprise, 6 July 2011
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process, 22 July 1993
Adopted Forms
AF FORM 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
ADM—Acquisition Decision Memorandum
AFFARS—Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AML—Acquisition Master List
BES—Budget Estimate Submission
 8                                                   AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012


CIO—Chief Information Officer
DAE—Defense Acquisition Executive
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
FCT—Foreign Comparative Testing
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
ILCM—Integrated Life Cycle Management
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MDAP—Major Defense Acquisition Program
MDD—Materiel Development Decision
PB—President’s Budget
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PGM—Product Group Manager
PM—Program Manager
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAE—Service Acquisition Executive
SAF—Office of the Secretary of the Air Force
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
T&E—Test and Evaluation
USC—United States Code

Terms
Acquisition—the conceptualization, initiation, design, development, test, contracting,
production, deployment, and disposal of a directed and funded effort that provides a new,
improved, or continued materiel, weapon, information system, logistics support, or service
capability in response to an approved need.
Enterprise—the related activities performed for a common purpose including all activities,
whether performed in one or more functional or organizational units.
AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012                                                                   9


Integrated Life Cycle Management—the seamless governance, transparency, and integration
of all aspects of infrastructure, resource management, and business systems necessary for
successful development, acquisition, fielding, sustainment, and disposal of systems, subsystems,
end items, and services to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs.
Integrated Life Cycle Management Stakeholders—the organizations and personnel involved
with all aspects of infrastructure, resource management, and business systems necessary for
successful development, acquisition, fielding, sustainment, and disposal of systems, subsystems,
end items, and services to satisfy validated warfighter capability needs.
Life Cycle—the span of time associated with a system, subsystem, or end item that begins with
the conception and initial development of the requirement, continues through development,
acquisition, fielding, sustainment, until the time it is either consumed in use or disposed of as
being excess to all known materiel requirements.
Milestone Decision Authority (MDA)—the DoDD 5000.01 designated individual with overall
responsibility for a program. The MDA shall have the authority to approve entry of an
acquisition program into the next phase of the acquisition process and shall be accountable for
cost, schedule, and performance reporting to higher authority, including Congressional reporting.
Modification—a change to the form, fit, function, or interface of an in-service, configuration-
managed Air Force asset.
Product Support Manager—the individual responsible for managing the package of support
functions required to field and maintain the readiness and operational capability of major weapon
systems, subsystems, and components, including all functions related to weapon system
readiness, in support of the program manager’s life cycle management responsibilities.
Program—systems, subsystems, end items, services, or activities on the Air Force AML,
systems in sustainment, weapon systems designated in AFPD 10-9, or identified as Services
Category activities.
Program Executive Officer—the individual dedicated to executive management and
supervision of a portfolio of mission-related ACAT and selected programs. The PEO shall be
chartered by and is accountable to the SAE.
Program Manager—the DoDD 5000.01-designated individual with responsibility for and
authority to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to
meet the user’s operational needs. The PM for programs shall be accountable for credible cost,
schedule, performance, and materiel readiness. ACAT I and ACAT II PMs shall be approved by
the SAE and the PEO. Delegated ACAT II and III PMs shall be approved by the PEO.
Sustainment—the continuing materiel support which consists of the planning, programming,
and execution of a logistics support strategy for a system, subsystem, or major end item to
maintain operational capabilities from system fielding through disposal.
Systems Engineering—an interdisciplinary approach encompassing the entire technical effort to
evolve and verify an integrated and total life cycle balanced set of system, people, and process
solutions that satisfy customer needs. Systems engineering is the integrating mechanism across
the technical and analytical efforts related to the development, manufacturing, verification,
deployment, operations, support, and disposal of and user training for systems and their life cycle
 10                                               AFPD63-1; AFPD20-1 3 JULY 2012


processes. Systems engineering develops technical information to support the program
management decision-making process.
