BY ORDER OF THE SECRETARY                            AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 10-27
OF THE AIR FORCE
                                                                            16 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                     Operations

                                                                           CIVIL AIR PATROL



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AF/A3O-AM                                                            Certified by: AF/A3/5
                                                                          (Lt Gen Burton Field)
Supersedes: AFPD 10-27, 29 July 2005                                                    Pages: 6


This directive establishes Air Force policy concerning the Civil Air Patrol (CAP). This policy
directive implements 10 U.S.C. §§ 9441-9448. CAP is both a federally supported,
congressionally chartered non-profit corporation and a volunteer civilian auxiliary of the Air
Force. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) may use the services of CAP to fulfill the non-
combat programs and missions of the Air Force. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been extensively revised and needs to be reviewed in its entirety. Significant
changes reflect CAP’s new corporate governance structure and clarification for CAP’s status as
an auxiliary of the Air Force when performing designated Air Force-assigned missions.
Additionally, this directive delegates approval authority and assigns responsibilities to certain
Air Force agencies concerning CAP activities.
 2                                                             AFPD10-27 16 OCTOBER 2014


1. Overview.
1.1. CAP Purposes. Pursuant to 36 U.S.C. § 40302, the purposes of the Civil Air Patrol (CAP)
are as follows:
        1.1.1. To encourage and aid citizens of the United States in contributing their efforts,
        services, and resources in developing aviation and in maintaining air supremacy; and to
        encourage and develop by example the voluntary contribution of private citizens to the
        public welfare.
        1.1.2. To provide aviation education and training, especially to its senior and cadet
        members.
        1.1.3. To encourage and foster civil aviation in local communities.
        1.1.4. To provide an organization of private citizens with adequate facilities to assist in
        meeting local and national emergencies.
        1.1.5. To assist the Department of the Air Force in fulfilling its non-combat programs
        and missions.
2. CAP Mission Status. CAP may conduct its activities as either an auxiliary of the Air Force
or in its corporate status:
     2.1. Air Force Auxiliary. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 9442, CAP is an auxiliary of the Air Force
     when the services of CAP are used by any department or agency in any branch of the Federal
     Government. CAP may only support an agency or department of the Federal Government in
     its capacity as the Air Force Auxiliary.
        2.1.1. Use by the Air Force. The Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) may use the
        services of CAP to fulfill non-combat programs and missions of the Air Force. As an
        auxiliary of the Air Force, CAP support may include, but is not limited to, Air Force-
        assigned missions (AFAMs) in support of homeland security operations, consequence
        management, support to civilian law enforcement, training missions, search and rescue,
        disaster relief, cadet orientation flights and other civil and military support. Other CAP
        activities may be approved as AFAMs when they support Air Force non-combat
        programs and missions.
     2.2. Congressionally Chartered Nonprofit Corporation. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 9443, CAP
     Corporation may use federally provided resources to provide assistance requested by state
     and local governmental authorities and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to perform
     disaster relief missions and other emergency or non-emergency public purpose missions and
     activities. CAP may also use federally provided resources to perform certain missions that
     fulfill its corporate purposes as described in 36 U.S.C. § 40302.
3. Policy. It is Air Force policy that:
     3.1. Employment Considerations. As the civilian auxiliary of the Air Force, CAP
     participation in AFAMs is strictly voluntary. The SECAF, or his/her delegatee, will
     determine whether CAP assets will be employed All missions assigned to CAP by the Air
     Force will be reviewed for compliance with applicable law and regulation by the appropriate
     Air Force authority.
AFPD10-27 16 OCTOBER 2014                                                                        3


   3.2. Air Force Auxiliary Mission Approval Authority.          The Air Force authorizes and
   approves all CAP missions as the Air Force Auxiliary.
   3.3. Air Force Support for CAP. The Air Force may furnish equipment, supplies,
   appropriated funds, personnel, and other resources necessary to enable CAP to fulfill its Air
   Force-assigned missions. The specific forms of allowable Air Force support are set forth in
   10 U.S.C. § 9444.
   3.4. Air Force Regulation of CAP Corporate Activities. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. § 9448, the
   SECAF shall prescribe regulations for governing the conduct of the activities of CAP when it
   is performing its duties as the Air Force Auxiliary and when it is receiving support by the Air
   Force and Federal Agencies. Subject to approval by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary
   of the Air Force shall prescribe regulations and oversee corporate activities that are supported
   by appropriated funds, use assets procured with appropriated funds, or involve matters where
   CAP's activities could give rise to the appearance of Air Force endorsement of the activities
   or otherwise may be detrimental to the Federal Government.
   3.5. Cooperative Agreement between the CAP and the Air Force. The Air Force will use a
   Cooperative Agreement (CA), including a Statement of Work (SOW), to define the overall
   working relationships between the CAP and the Air Force, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §§ 9441-
   9448, and to facilitate the transfer of Federal resources to CAP. The CA shall be consistent
   with Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations (DoDGARs), will address
   programmatic requirements, and will outline the responsibilities of each organization. All
   CAP programs and missions supported by federal funds shall be addressed in the SOW. To
   the greatest extent possible, the terms of the CA will be read consistent with pertinent
   provisions of applicable Air Force Instructions. Conflicts between an Air Force Instruction
   and the CA will be resolved following receipt of legal review by a servicing Staff Judge
   Advocate.
   3.6. Liability. For purposes of the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA), CAP is deemed to be
   an instrumentality of the United States when carrying out, executing and/or providing direct
   support to AFAMs. When performing AFAM duties or providing direct support to an
   AFAM, the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA) covers CAP members (age 18
   and older). FTCA/FECA coverage does not extend to any CAP corporate activity. The Air
   Force may provide appropriated funds for paying the cost of liability insurance to cover CAP
   missions and activities carried out as a federally chartered non-profit corporation.
4. Responsibilities and Authorities. The SECAF hereby delegates and assigns the following
authority and responsibilities concerning CAP:
   4.1. The Assistant Secretary of the Air force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR),
   on behalf of the SECAF, is responsible for strategic guidance, policy direction, and oversight
   of all matters that pertain to the formulation and review of Air Force plans, policies,
   programs, and budgets affecting CAP.
   4.2. The Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Plans and Requirements (AF/A3/5), on behalf
   of the Secretary and the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, is responsible for overall execution
   of Air Force plans, policies, programs, agreements, and budgets affecting CAP, including
   assisting in policy development, developing and implementing instructions and regulations,
   resource advocacy, and Air Force support.
4                                                           AFPD10-27 16 OCTOBER 2014


    4.3. Air Education and Training Command (AETC) will serve as the MAJCOM level force
    provider of CAP to the appropriate Combatant Commander and will provide program
    advocacy. AETC staff will provide programmatic support for CAP. Air Force Installation
    Contracting Agency (AFICA)/KT is authorized to approve and take all other appropriate
    actions with respect to CAP’s Cooperative Agreement, consistent with statutes, program
    guidance, and/or Air Force directives. AFICA/KT will, in writing, appoint a Grants Officer
    from 338th Specialized Contracting Squadron and Administrative Grants Officer from 338th
    Specialized Contracting Squadron to execute the CA.
    4.4. Air University (AU) will serve as the Numbered Air Force (NAF) level force provider
    for CAP and will provide advocacy to AETC.
    4.5. Civil Air Patrol-United States Air Force (CAP-USAF) is responsible for day-to-day Air
    Force support, advice, liaison, and oversight of CAP programs, with emphasis on safety,
    security, and programmatic requirements. CAP-USAF personnel will be the primary
    functional interface between other federal agencies and CAP. The CAP-USAF/CC is the
    program manager for the purposes of the CAP CA and SOW.
    4.6. Board of Governors. The Board of Governors (BOG) of the Civil Air Patrol is the
    governing body of the CAP Corporation. The BOG is composed of eleven members, four of
    whom are appointed by the SECAF and three members who are jointly appointed by the
    SECAF and the CAP National Commander. The BOG is responsible for the effective,
    efficient and proper management of the Corporation, subject to requirements of law and
    Federal regulation, including such regulations as may be prescribed in Air Force Policy
    Directives and Instructions pertaining to CAP. Further description of the CAP Board of
    Governors is contained in AFI 10-2702, Board of Governors of the Civil Air Patrol.




                                           DEBORAH LEE JAMES
                                           Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD10-27 16 OCTOBER 2014                                                              5


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5, United States Code § 8141
10, United States Code §§ 9441 - 9448
36, United States Code §§ 40301 - 40307
32, Code of Federal Regulations, §§ 842.137 - 842.143
DoD 3210.6-R, Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations, 13 April 1998
DoDD 3210.6, Defense Grant and Agreement Regulatory System (DGARS), 17 December 2003
AFPD 10-8, Defense Support of Civil Authorities (DSCA), 15 February 2012
AFDD 1, Air Force Basic Doctrine, Organization, and Command, 14 October 2011
AFI 10-2701, Organization and Function of the Civil Air Patrol, 29 July 2005
AFI 10-2702, Board of Governors of the Civil Air Patrol, 27 February 2001
Joint Publication 3-0, Joint Operations, 11 August 2011
HAFMD 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs), 12
December 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFAM—Air Force Assigned Mission
AU—Air University
BOG—Board of Governors
CA—Cooperative Agreement
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CAP—USAF – Civil Air Patrol-United States Air Force
DoDGARs—Department of Defense Grant and Agreement Regulations
FECA—Federal Employee Compensation Act
FTCA—Federal Tort Claims Act
NAF—Numbered Air Force
 6                                  AFPD10-27 16 OCTOBER 2014


NGO—Non-governmental Organization
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SOW—Statement of Work
