BY ORDER OF THE                                                 AIR FORCE POLICY DIRECTIVE 38-4
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE                                                                   1 JUNE 1998

                                                                             Manpower and Organization

                                                             THE INNOVATIVE DEVELOPMENT
                                                       THROUGH EMPLOYEE AWARENESS (IDEA)
                                                                                PROGRAM


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the SAF/AAD WWW site at: http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.
If you lack access, contact your Publishing Distribution Office (PDO).


OPR: HQ USAF/XPMR                                                          Certified by: HQ USAF/XPM
       (Ms Kathryn Nealy)                                                (Brig Gen Larry W. Northington)
Supersedes AFPD 38-4, 12 March 1993.                                                             Pages: 6
                                                                                          Distribution: F

The Air Force Innovative Development through Employee Awareness (IDEA) Program encourages cre-
ative thinking and makes innovative ideas (especially those fostering continuous process improvement,
economies, and productivity) available to benefit the Air Force. The Air Force provides a customer-ori-
ented program that responds to individuals, groups, or teams with timely responses on the disposition of
their ideas. The following policies provide for collecting, evaluating, and recognizing submitters for their
ideas. This directive applies to all military and civilian Air Force personnel and members of the U.S. Air
Force Reserve and Air National Guard. It implements Department of Defense (DoD) Manual 1400.25-M,
DoD Civilian Personnel Manual, Subchapter 451, Awards, December 1996. Instructions implementing
this policy are outlined in AFI 38-401, Air Force Innovative Development Through Employee Awareness
(IDEA) Program.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes the name of the program and creates the acronym IDEA (title page); updates
responsibilities and authorities (paragraph 1.); and revises and redefines all metrics (Attachment 1).



1. Responsibilities and Authorities:
   1.1. The Air Force implements approved ideas and recognizes approved contributions with the appro-
   priate cash or noncash award.
   1.2. HQ USAF/XPMR develops policy and evaluates the IDEA Program.
   1.3. AFCQMI/MQDC develops and establishes the IDEA Program procedures.
   1.4. Commanders, at all levels, direct the IDEA Program within their organizations.
2                                                                             AFPD38-4 1 JUNE 1998

2. Terms Explained:
    2.1. Innovative Development through Employee Awareness (IDEA) Program. A customer-ori-
    ented program that allows for submission, evaluation, and cash or noncash recognition for approved
    ideas and also provides for timely responses to individuals, groups or teams on the disposition of
    ideas.
    2.2. Innovative Ideas. Ideas, inventions, patents, or scientific achievements.
    2.3. Evaluation Process. The procedure to approve or disapprove the idea.
    2.4. Approved Ideas. Ideas that management accepts with the intent to implement.
    2.5. Disposition of Ideas. The receipt, evaluation, and recognition of ideas.

3. Metrics. Attachment 1 displays sample metrics used to evaluate the program.



                                         F. WHITTEN PETERS
                                         Acting Secretary of the Air Force
AFPD38-4 1 JUNE 1998                                                                                    3

                                             Attachment 1
               MEASURING AND DISPLAYING COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY

A1.1. Compliance with the IDEA Program policy will be assessed by taking measurements in five areas:
Overall Processing Time, Participation Rate, Submission Rate, Approval Rate, and Rate of Return. The
metrics display trends relating to improvement goals. Data are displayed on a quarterly frequency. Sep-
arate improvement process ideas, scientific achievements, and patents/ inventions will be included in met-
rics only after approval.
   A1.1.1. Overall Processing Time. The time from date of submission through date of closure. For
   cash awards, closure is the date that award documentation is forwarded to the Finance Office for pay-
   ment (Figure A1.1.).
   A1.1.2. Participation Rate. The percentage of Air Force population submitting one or more ideas
   during the reporting period (Figure A1.2.). To arrive at the percentage, calculate the total number of
   unique social security numbers (SSN) submitted divided by the Air Force strength.
   A1.1.3. Submission Rate. The percentage of ideas submitted (Figure A1.3.). To arrive at the per-
   centage, calculate the total number of submissions divided by the Air Force strength.
   A1.1.4. Approval Rate. The percentage of ideas approved (Figure A1.4.). To arrive at the percent-
   age, divide the total number of submissions approved by the sum of the total number of eligible sub-
   missions received in reporting period, plus ideas carried over from previous reporting period, minus
   open submissions pending evaluations.
   A1.1.5. Rate of Return. The comparison of tangible savings to the total dollars awarded (Figure
   A1.5.). To compare, calculate the total dollar savings divided by the total award dollars paid.
4                                                        AFPD38-4 1 JUNE 1998

Figure A1.1. Sample Metric of Overall Processing Time.




Figure A1.2. Sample Metric of Participation Rate.
AFPD38-4 1 JUNE 1998                             5

Figure A1.3. Sample Metric of Submission Rate.




Figure A1.4. Sample Metric of Approval Rate.
6                                               AFPD38-4 1 JUNE 1998

Figure A1.5. Sample Metric of Rate of Return.
