BY ORDER OF THECOMMANDER                                       AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                  PAMPHLET 10-105
                                                                                      12 August 1998

                                                                                           Resources

                                                               AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                         RECRUITING BADGE


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the AFRC LAN InfoBase and Subordinate unit
InfoBases. If you lack access, go to the HQ AFRC WWW site at: http://www.wrbfs01.afrc.af.mil/scsi.


OPR: HQ AFRC/RSS                                                          Certified by: HQ AFRC/RS
       (SMSgt Judy M. Boehm-Ballance)                                         (Col David T. Richards)
Supersedes AFRES PAMPHLET 10-105, 16                                                        Pages: 7
           November 1994                             Distribution: F; X: HQ AFIS/IMP, and AUL/LSE
                                                                                          (CD Only)

This pamphlet describes the Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service badge and subdued recruit-
ing patch and provides instructions for their wear. It applies to Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting
Service activities only.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes all references from Headquarters Air Force Reserve (HQ AFRES) to Headquarters
Air Force Reserve Command (HQ AFRC). It adds the description, and wearing of the patch on the Battle
Dress Uniform (BDU).



1. Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service Badge. The badge is a distinctive and dignified
circular insignia made of metal, incorporating the color seal of the Air Force Reserve Command. It may
be modified with a gold rope and insert or gold wreath and insert depending on the position held while
assigned to Air Force Reserve Recruiting. Military personnel assigned to any Air Force Reserve Com-
mand Recruiting position wear one of the badges shown in Figure 1. through Figure 4. described below.
Civilians and other military personnel do not wear the badge.
   1.1. Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service Basic Badge . The basic recruiting badge,
   as shown in Figure 1. may be worn by all Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service personnel
   not authorized to wear one of the other badges described below.
2                                                                 AFRCPAM10-105 12 August 1998

Figure 1. Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service Basic Badge.




    1.2. Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting (AFRC/RS) Staff Badge. T h o s e
    individuals assigned to HQ AFRC/RS staff, 4, 10 and 22 Numbered Air Force (NAF), except as noted
    in paragraph 1.6., wear the basic recruiting badge and gold rope with dark blue insert (STAFF). Per-
    sonnel assigned as HQ AFRC/RS staff and NAF wear the badge as shown in Figure 2. for the period
    assigned to the HQ AFRC/RS staff and NAF.
    1.3. Senior Recruiter Badge . Those individuals assigned as Senior recruiters, except as noted in
    paragraph 1.6., wear the basic recruiting badge and gold rope with dark blue insert (SENIOR). Per-
    sonnel assigned as senior recruiters wear the badge shown in Figure 2. for the period assigned to a
    senior recruiter position.
    1.4. Assistant Senior Recruiter (ASR) Badge. Those individuals assigned as an Assistant Senior
    Recruiter. An ASR, except as noted in paragraph 1.6., wear the basic recruiting badge and gold rope
    with “light blue insert” (SENIOR). Personnel assigned as an ASR wear the badge shown in Figure 2.
    for the period assigned to an ASR position.
    1.5. Medical Recruiting Badge. Those individuals assigned as Health Professions (HP) Recruiters
    wear the basic recruiting badge and gold rope with dark blue insert (MEDICAL) except as noted in
    paragraph 1.6. Personnel assigned as HP recruiters wear the badge shown in Figure 2. for the period
    assigned to a HP recruiter position.
AFRCPAM10-105 12 August 1998                                                                         3

Figure 2. Staff Badge.




   1.6. Century Club Badge . There are three types of century club badges which may be worn by per-
   sonnel who have attained 100 or more accessions/points during a fiscal year. The badge is a basic
   recruiting badge and gold wreath shown in Figure 3. with one of the following inserts:
      1.6.1. Dark blue insert (100) for the first attainment of the century club.
      1.6.2. Dark blue insert (200) for the second attainment of the century club
      1.6.3. Dark blue insert (MASTER ) for the third or any additional attainment of the century club.
4                                                                AFRCPAM10-105 12 August 1998

Figure 3. Century Club Badge.




    1.7. Dual Century Club Badge. Century Club members who have attained positions as Staff, NAF,
    Senior, Assistant Senior Recruiter, or Health Professions recruiters wear the dual status badge as
    shown in Figure 4. for the duration of their assignment to these positions.
AFRCPAM10-105 12 August 1998                                                                          5

Figure 4. Dual Century Club Badge.




2. Air Force Reserve Command Subdued Recruiting Patch. The patch is a distinctive and dignified
circular insignia made from cloth incorporating the seal of the Air Force Reserve Command. It is part of
the BDU. Military personnel assigned to any Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting position wear the
patch shown in Figure 5. as part of the BDU. Personnel wear this patch for the period assigned to Air
Force Reserve Command Recruiting. Civilians and other military personnel do not wear the badge or
patch.
6                                                                  AFRCPAM10-105 12 August 1998

Figure 5. Subdued Recruiting Service Patch.




3. Wearing of the Badge and Patch. The Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service badge is
worn on all uniform combinations except the mess dress or adverse weather-type clothing. The badge is
not worn on clothing articles designed as undergarments. Attach the metal badge to the uniform by the
clasps provided; do not use a substitute such as a leather or plastic holder. The subdued patch will be
sewn on the BDUs.
    3.1. On uniforms other than BDUs, male personnel center the badge on right breast pocket below the
    flap.
    3.2. On uniforms other than BDUs, female personnel center the badge with the lower edge 1/2 inch
    above the name tags.
    3.3. On BDUs, male and female personnel center the subdued patch on the left breast pocket.
    3.4. Deteriorated, unserviceable, or altered badges and patches are not worn.

4. Request for Badges and Patches. NAF Flight Commanders and Senior Recruiters may request
badges or patches by submitting a letter to the HQ AFRC/RSS with the following information: Person’s
name and the type of badge or patch needed.
AFRCPAM10-105 12 August 1998                                                                          7

5. Source of Supply. HQ AFRC/RSS is the only activity authorized to requisition the badge or patch.



                                       DAVID R. SMITH, Maj Gen, USAF
                                       Commander
