BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 36-2204

                                                                           1 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                         AIR FORCE RESERVE SEASONING
                                                               TRAINING PROGRAM (STP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRC/A1KE                                                   Certified by: HQ AFRC/A1K
                                                                     (Col Connie C. Hutchinson)
                                                                                      Pages: 14


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-22, Air Force Military
Training, 22 March 2004, by assigning responsibilities and providing guidance and procedures
for managing the Air Force Reserve Seasoning Training Program (STP). This publication
applies to Air Force Reserve Command Units. This publication does not apply to the Air
National Guard. The following policy directives are utilized as references for this instruction:
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program; AFRCI 36-2102, Air Force Reserve Service
Commitment Date Program; AFRCI 36-2202, AFRC Reserve Financial Training and
Management; AFRCI 36-2203, Developing, Managing and Conducting Reserve Training; AFI
36-2254, Volume I and II, Reserve Personnel Participation, and Reserve Personnel Training,
AFRCI 41-104, Pregnancy of Air Force Reserve Personnel.                   Controlling authorities,
requirements or commitments set by statute, DoD issuances or Air Force instructions will take
precedence over this instruction. The purpose of this instruction is to define the Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) Seasoning Training Program and provide guidance on effectively
managing this program. Sections of this instruction will be used as an internal management tool
to assist the AFRC Numbered Air Forces, wing training offices, military personnel flights, wing
finance/resources advisors, unit commanders, and Readiness Management Group (RMG) for
Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) in administering the AFRC STP Program. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition                 Schedule                (RDS)                 located               at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
 2                                                          AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This AFRC instruction is applicable to
all AFRC units to include Geographically Separated Units (GSU), Direct Reporting Units
(DRU), and associate units.

1. Definition:
     1.1. The AFRC Seasoning Training Program (STP) is designed to build a ready force. The
     program allows recent 3-Skill Level (Enlisted) and Officer Initial Skills formal school
     graduates to voluntarily remain on Active Duty for Training (ADT) orders for the purpose of
     training via On-the-Job Training (OJT). Additionally, trainees awarded a 3-skill level due to
     MOS conversion, TPC or FTD attendance or approval of 3-skill level waiver may participate.
     For Space/Cyber/Air Operations Personnel refer to Chapter 5 for additional information
     concerning processing of requests and funding. For the purposes of STP, members are
     considered ―trained‖ once they have completed the mandatory core tasks required in their
     current duty position for upgrade to the 5-skill level or the comparable training/skill level for
     officer personnel. Trainees may only participate in the program for the maximum allowable
     days authorized for their AFSC. However, authorized days cannot exceed the maximum
     time allowed based on the members current training status code (B or F). The number of
     days allowed to participate is stipulated by each Air Force Reserve Command Functional
     Manager.           A     list   of     AFSCs/days        allowed    can      be    found       at
     https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-ED-
     RC-20-8&Filter=OO-ED-RC-20 . The number of STP days authorized for each AFSC will
     be validated annually. A training plan for each AFSC, with the minimum requirements IAW
     AFI 36-2201, must be provided to support all STP days requested. Any increases or
     decreases in STP days must be supported by an approved/validated training plan.
     1.2. Program Overview:
        1.2.1. The AFRC Seasoning Training Program is available to traditional reservists (TR)
        and Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) participating for pay and points and in
        good standing with the Air Force Reserve. STP is intended as a pipeline program for
        selected reserve members. This program will be used as a tool to recruit, train and retain
        members in the US Air Force Reserve. Funding for trainers is the responsibility of the
        unit and is not included in this program. Additionally, rental cars are not centrally funded
        via the STP. However, commanders may authorize using unit funds.
        1.2.2. STP is a training incentive program, not an entitlement. The purpose of this
        program is to provide a means to accelerate upgrade training. It will be offered each
        fiscal year provided funding and training capability exists.
        1.2.3. Typically, members participating in the Seasoning program will not be allowed to
        attend any schools while on seasoning orders. However, if the member is required to
        attend a formal school while participating in the Seasoning Program, the STP order is
        stopped and member is sent to school on a school tour order.                          Upon
        completion/termination of the school tour order, member may resume STP orders
        providing time is still available as defined in paragraph 1.1. , trainees on STP orders will
        not be allowed temporary duty (TDY) to attend any training or events unless solely for
        the purpose of completing core tasks required for skill level upgrade (i.e. contractors,
        civilian medical facilities, and other similar locations are authorized if core tasks
AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   3


     completion is the reason for the training). This training must have been identified in the
     member’s STP training plan submitted by the FAM and approved by A1KE during the
     annual review process. Note: Once deployed, trainees are considered fully qualified and
     will no longer receive central funding for STP. They must be removed from STP orders
     and placed on deployment orders. If training is required upon return, it will be unit
     funded.
     1.2.4. Members participating in STP using AFRC centrally funded dollars are to
     participate only in upgrade training; therefore duties such as cutting grass, cleaning
     hangars, or any other details not associated with upgrade training are prohibited.
     1.2.5. The Seasoning Training Program is voluntary and therefore members are not
     required to complete the entire number of days authorized. Participation is at the
     discretion of the member and the purpose of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
     is to establish the time frame of availability. The MOU is an agreement between the
     member, supervisor/trainer and the commander and must be signed by all parties prior to
     participation.           MOU       is      located   on     the     A1KE          CoP:
     https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/DOCMain.asp?Tab=0&FolderID=OO-ED-
     RC-20-8&Filter=OO-ED-RC-20 .
     1.2.6. Airmen who reside outside the commuting distance of the base assigned will not
     be authorized to perform more than 139 days at one location in a 12 month period while
     in per diem status.
     1.2.7. If the allowable number of STP days exceed 139, the STP order must reflect the
     entire tour length. In the event the airmen lives outside the commuting distance of the
     base assigned, travel entitlement will be paid as if PCS (PCS without Permanent Change
     of Assignment), and PCS entitlements would apply. If the airman cannot complete the
     entire tour, the order may be curtailed. If the tour is curtailed or authorized for less than
     139 days, only one tour will be centrally funded.
     1.2.8. For an effective training program, and to ensure member benefits and entitlements
     are not affected, no more than two breaks in training are authorized without AFRC/CV
     approval. Note: Active Guard Reserve (AGR), Air Reserve Technician (ART) and
     Participating Individual Ready Reserve (PIRR) personnel are NOT eligible to participate
     in the AFRC STP.
  1.3. Tracking:
     1.3.1. It is the responsibility of the Wing/Unit/Readiness Management Group to inform
     and advertise this program to their members.
     1.3.2. Members participating in STP will remain mobility assets for their units and are
     subject to recall and mobilization. If recalled or mobilized, member will be taken off
     STP immediately and will be considered minimally qualified; therefore not authorized to
     return to STP status.
     1.3.3. With the exception of Space/Cyber/Air Operations members, all STP tracking
     must be accomplished through the STP database. STP database may be accessed via the
     A1KE Community of Practice (CoP) in the Seasoning Training Program folder. This
     database is not linked to MilPDS. https://webapps.afrc.af.mil/A1/STP/default.asp
 4                                                        AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


        1.3.4. All enlisted participants will be in either Training Status Code (TSC) ―B‖,
        upgrade training for initial award of the 5-skill level (12 months) or ―F‖, upgrade training
        for award of a subsequent 5-skill level due to retraining (9 months). Note: Number of
        months, based on TSC, takes precedence over number of days. There are no waivers to
        this requirement.
        1.3.5. Enlisted member’s seasoning eligibility time starts the day they are entered into
        upgrade training (TSC B/F) regardless if the member is actively participating in
        seasoning. The date entered training should be the day after graduation from technical
        school or award of the skill level due to MOS Conversion, TPC or FTD attendance or
        approval of 3-skill level waiver.
Example: if member is entered in TSC B one month prior to being loaded in the STP database,
they will only have 11 months remaining to participate in this centrally funded program.
Example: If AFSC authorized 300 days, but member is a retrainee, member will be placed in
TSC F and therefore can only receive a maximum of 270 days (9 months). The additional 30
days would be at unit expense. If funding is required, it can be requested through finance
channels as a ―UFR‖ – unfunded requirement. AFSCs without a 5-skill level are required to
request a UFR for training.
        1.3.6. Non-Aircrew Officer initial skills training graduates are eligible for 9 months from
        their graduation date. They are authorized the number of days determined by the HQ
        Functional Manager.
        1.3.7. When a member exceeds the maximum allotted STP days, they will be withdrawn
        from the centrally funded program and additional training days will be at unit expense.
        1.3.8. Members awarded a 5-skill level while on STP orders will be withdrawn from
        STP. Any days paid under STP after award of the 5-skill level will be recouped by HQ
        AFRC/FM. The unit training manager/monitor is responsible for advising the unit FM of
        the withdrawal date (any delays in notification could potentially create a debt to the
        member) to allow processing a reconciliation for return of funds.
     1.4. Misuse:
        1.4.1. Misuse of STP funds will not be tolerated. Funding sent to the wing for a specific
        member for STP participation is expected to be used as such. Any other use will be
        considered inappropriate use of STP funds. These instances will be reported to
        AFRC/A1KE and the appropriate action will be taken.
        1.4.2. The wing training office is responsible for monitoring STP and reporting
        inappropriate use.
        1.4.3. Injuries occurring while on STP may require a Line of Duty (LOD) determination.
        If LOD is determined, trainees must be removed from STP orders and placed on unit
        special tour orders to avoid misuse of STP.
2. Eligibility:
     2.1. The AFRC Seasoning Training Program is available to traditional reservists (TR) and
     Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) participating for pay and points. Members
AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                       5


  requesting participation must meet the following eligibility criteria before being accepted
  into the Seasoning Training Program.
  2.2. Non-Prior Service (NPS) and prior services members graduating from a 3-skill level
  awarding formal training.
  2.3. Prior Service (PS) members who did not attend AETC Technical Training i.e., TPC,
  FTD, MOS conversion, have an approved 3-skill level waiver or an AFSC without a 3-level
  tech school.
  2.4. All Participants must: Be in good standing with the Air Force Reserve.
  2.5. Be medically cleared as able to participate in activities required for training. (for
  pregnancy, reference AFRCI 41-104).
  2.6. Be assigned to Duty Status Code ―00‖.
  2.7. Have 36 months retainability to retrain. (retrainees only)
  2.8. Possess a security clearance at the appropriate level to actively participate in training.
3. RESPONSIBILITIES:
  3.1. Member will:
     3.1.1. Be actively participating for pay and points and be in good standing through
     completion of the STP.
     3.1.2. In-process through Military Personnel Section (MPS) and unit after graduation
     from qualifying school/or awarded a 3- skill level via waiver, TPC, FTD, MOS
     conversion, etc. utilizing ―MPS Seasoning Training Program In-Processing Checklist’
     (contained in STP folder on AFRC/A1KE CoP). If TDY location for seasoning is the
     same as the member’s final course; member will remain at TDY location.
     3.1.3. Sign and date the ―Seasoning Training Program Memorandum of Understanding‖
     regarding STP guidelines, policies, procedures and participation (contained in STP folder
     on AFRC/A1KE CoP). Note: this is required regardless of training location (faxed copy
     acceptable).
     3.1.4. Be medically cleared to participate in training activities. If the member is no
     longer able to participate due to medical reasons (pregnancy, dental concerns, etc.), the
     STP tour/central funding will end.
     3.1.5. Ensure any break in training is authorized, in writing, by the unit commander,
     based upon initial request for STP (exceptions will be considered on an individual basis
     and approved through unit commander and HQ AFRC/A1KE).
     3.1.6. Bring copies of the following items with them to the training location no matter
     where the training occurs:
         3.1.6.1. Orders
         3.1.6.2. STP Memorandum of Understanding with all required signatures
         3.1.6.3. Training Records (if not using electronic databases such as AFTR or TBA)
         3.1.6.4. Training Plan with the accelerated milestones
6                                                       AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


       3.1.7. Attend Unit Training Assembly (UTA) at training location for the duration of STP.
       Dual compensation is not authorized.
       3.1.8. NOT return to home station, but be considered constructively present when TDY
       under STP to an active duty base that does not have a Reserve unit.
    3.2. Supervisor/Trainer will:
       3.2.1. Ensure appropriate training capability exists prior to member entering STP as
       indicated on MOU. If training capability becomes unavailable, STP is no longer
       authorized or funded, and issue must be immediately addressed through appropriate
       personnel and finance channels. Training capability is defined as having a trainer(s) and
       equipment available. Funding for ―trainers‖ is a unit responsibility. If a training
       capability does not exist on the base the member is assigned, a unit with a training
       capability nearest to the unit of assignment or nearest to the member’s primary residence
       (whichever is most cost effective) will be used. Selection of a TDY location solely for
       the convenience of the member is not authorized.
       3.2.2. Create and brief the Master Task Listing (MTL) and Master Training Plan (MTP)
       with accelerated milestones to member prior to STP participation.
       3.2.3. Track and monitor progression using the member’s training record, MTL, MTP
       and accelerated milestones.
       3.2.4. Identify location of seasoning (home station or a TDY location).
       3.2.5. Notify the unit/wing training manager and wing FM of any break in training prior
       to AF Form 973 being processed.
       3.2.6. Immediately notify unit/wing training manager and wing FM if member is injured
       in the line of duty or if the member is suspected of committing a Uniform Code of
       Military Justice (UCMJ) offense. Note: Breaks in STP could result in the loss of
       centrally funded tours. Tours may be curtailed at anytime due to lack of funds or for
       determination of program abuse.
    3.3. Military Personnel Section (MPS) will:
       3.3.1. In-process member utilizing STP Checklist (listing in STP folder on A1KE CoP)
       3.3.2. Brief member on benefits/entitlements/laws pertaining to STP (listing in STP
       folder on A1KE CoP). Note: Pay particular attention to length of tour to ensure
       PCS/TDY rules are considered. Breaks in tours are not authorized for the specific
       purpose of circumventing the PCS rules.
       3.3.3. Issue DD Form 214 to members on continuous tour for 90 days or longer.
       3.3.4. Update member’s Reserve Section Code and Duty Status Code.
       3.3.5. Review physical profile limitations.
       3.3.6. Verify Security Clearance status.
       3.3.7. Verify retainability requirements prior to member being placed on STP tour.
       3.3.8. Verify High Year Tenure (HYT) - retrainees only.
       3.3.9. Verify Active Duty Sanctuary - retrainees only.
AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  7


  3.4. Wing Training Manager (DPMT) and HQ Readiness Management Group (RMG) will:
     3.4.1. In-process utilizing STP Checklist (see STP folder on A1KE CoP).
     3.4.2. Verify AF Form 2096 (award of 3-skill level) has been processed (enlisted only).
     3.4.3. Process/initiate the AF Form 2096 to award the 3-Skill Level and enter the
     member into correct TSC (when UTM is not available).
     3.4.4. Brief the member on STP (when UTM is not available).
     3.4.5. Review member’s STP Memorandum of Understanding and validate eligibility
     using web-based data system. Note: If PAS code is incorrect, AFRC/A1KE must be
     contacted prior to input. Incorrect PAS code causes funds to be issued to the wrong
     OBAN.
     3.4.6. Ensure member accept or decline (in writing) the Memorandum of Understanding
     with their intentions and sign/date the document. If the member declines, provide a copy
     of the MOU to the UTM and update STP database accordingly.
     3.4.7. Receive copy of member’s orders and maintain on file IAW AFRIMS.
     3.4.8. Verify member is in Training Category Code MC (Mission/Mobility Qualification
     Training) (block 20 on the 938).
     3.4.9. NOT be responsible for tracking Space/Cyber/Air Operations members, enlisted or
     officer, through the STP database.
     3.4.10. Maintain a copy of all documents related to member’s STP tour.
     3.4.11. Ensure Career Development Course (CDC) for all members participating in STP
     is ordered (if UTM not available).
     3.4.12. Issue CDC to member and supervisor/trainer (if UTM is not available).
     3.4.13. Ensure training is being accomplished and documented.
     3.4.14. Ensure all records are maintained as required for staff assistance visits (SAVs)
     and Compliance Inspections (CIs).
     3.4.15. Update the STP database with start/stop dates and any breaks in training
     immediately upon written notification from the unit commander.
     3.4.16. Update MilPDS via AF Form 2096 action for Non-Technical School members
     when UTM is unavailable. Note: Members are not allowed to start participating in the
     Seasoning Training Program without orders in hand. Members must be in appropriate
     military status in the event of accident, injury, emergency, etc.
     3.4.17. Review the data base weekly to ensure accuracy.
     3.4.18. Enter members who decline participation into the STP data base immediately and
     close the record based on signed MOU. Additionally, records of members participating
     for a portion of the maximum time authorized by the functional manager must be closed
     upon completion of the tour. Records remaining open until expiration obligate funds and
     may prevent others from participating. Once the record is closed, SC (seasoning
     complete) will appear in the database. The database will only recognize records closed
8                                                       AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


       by the wing (SC) as completed. This information is necessary to ensure accurate STP
       data is briefed to senior leadership.
       3.4.19. Ensure STP data is correct in STP database and AROWS-R to include training
       category code ―MC‖. Accurate coding of personnel is crucial in maintaining valid
       funding requirements.
       3.4.20. Ensure the number of days of leave that will accrue (2.5 days per month) are
       added to the total days in AROWS-R. Member must use accrued leave while on the STP
       orders or sell it if eligible. Member can only take leave accrued (no advance leave) and
       will not break the STP tour to take leave.
       3.4.21. Notify A1KE to delete members from the STP database when access is no longer
       required. Access will be limited to those with a need to know.
    3.5. Training locations:
       3.5.1. Home Station:
           3.5.1.1. Unit of assignment personnel (example, senior ART or UTM) will:
           3.5.1.2. Have trainee report to Wing Training Office (DPMT) with signed STP
           Memorandum of Understanding.
           3.5.1.3. Forward a copy of the member’s approved STP orders to DPMT.
           3.5.1.4. Amend STP orders (AF Form 973) to terminate the tour or make other
           adjustments as may be appropriate if member is not progressing satisfactorily and
           notify DPMT and Finance (FM) immediately.
           3.5.1.5. Verify any STP Break-in-Training authorized by the member’s commander.
           Frequent breaks in STP may result in the discontinuation of central funding. Once
           STP funding has ended, additional training will be unit funded. Breaks in training to
           circumvent PCS requirement are not authorized and abuse could result in member
           indebtedness to the government.
           3.5.1.6. Immediately notify wing FM of each break in training. Wing FM will notify
           HQ FMAR for appropriate funding adjustments. Failure of proper notification may
           result in overpayments and the indebtedness of the member. For IMAs, notify RMG
           immediately.
           3.5.1.7. Contact TDY location (if applicable) and give member’s contact information
           and appropriate personnel records.
           3.5.1.8. Validate training capability (equipment/trainer) and capacity by verifying
           Master Training Plan, Master Task List, and accelerated milestones are available for a
           qualified Trainer/Certifier throughout the duration of the STP.
           3.5.1.9. Ensure accelerated milestones are established, followed, and briefed to the
           member along with expectations of the program.
           3.5.1.10. Validate member’s eligibility prior to entering STP.
           3.5.1.11. Establish training record for member.
           3.5.1.12. Monitor and document progress of member monthly.
AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 9


         3.5.1.13. Report STP progress on a monthly basis during Status of Training briefing.
     3.5.2. Temporary Duty (TDY) Location:
         3.5.2.1. Members will use TDY for training ONLY after verification that no local
         capability or capacity is available; not for member convenience. Coordination
         between unit of assignment and TDY location must occur to verify all items required
         for training are available prior to the member’s departure to the TDY location. TDY
         will not be authorized due to an arbitrary decision that TDY location has ―better‖
         training than that offered at home station. Members are not authorized to go into the
         AOR for training. Note: A1K liaison office personnel (located at Keesler AFB,
         Lackland AFB and Sheppard AFB) will not be responsible for coordination between
         units and TDY location.
         3.5.2.2. Validate training capability, equipment, and capacity by verifying a Master
         Training Plan, Master Task List and accelerated milestones are available for a
         qualified trainer/certifier throughout the duration of the STP.
         3.5.2.3. In-process the member as an augmentee to unit.
         3.5.2.4. Verify member has STP Memorandum of Understanding and orders.
         3.5.2.5. Develop a tracking system to monitor the member’s progress and report to
         home station.
         3.5.2.6. Maintain up-to-date emergency contact information on the member.
         3.5.2.7. Ensure member at their TDY location for seasoning will not return to home
         station for UTAs.
  3.6. Recruiting Service will:
     3.6.1. Ensure each member is briefed on the Seasoning Training Program opportunities.
  3.7. HQ AFRC/A1KE will:
     3.7.1. Be responsible for the initial identification of all members eligible for the STP
     program. This information is extracted from the Oracle Training Application (OTA)
     based on the eligibility parameters/timeframes.
     3.7.2. Update database weekly.
     3.7.3. Provide information on eligible members to include: member’s name, SSN, AFSC
     Awarding Course Number, Training Line Number (TLN), projected class graduation
     date, number of days (by AFSC) authorized by HQ AFRC functional managers, Control
     AFSC, Training Status Code B or F.
     3.7.4. Provide information concerning cancellations on all members in the database who
     are no longer eligible for the program, (i.e. cancellation of school quota, elimination
     during course, etc.). These cancellations will result in the termination of central funding
     by HQ AFRC/FMAR.
     3.7.5. Be responsible for the overall development/management of the STP database.
     3.7.6. Assign permissions and provide STP access to base training personnel.
     3.7.7. Ensure all updates in database are entered correctly.
10                                                    AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


     3.7.8. Troubleshoot STP database problems.
     3.7.9. Develop basic policy guidelines for the STP program.
     3.7.10. Ensure information regarding STP located on the A1KE CoP is up-to-date and
     this instruction is updated as appropriate.
     3.7.11. Consider the impact of STP system changes and actions on FMAR and BRS.
  3.8. Commanders will:
     3.8.1. Sign or designate an official to sign Memorandum of Understanding authorizing
     member to participate in STP.
     3.8.2. Receive monthly updates of the trainee’s STP progression from his/her unit
     training manager.
     3.8.3. Coordinate with the unit providing training whenever concerns exist.
     3.8.4. Not have waiver authority (i.e. number of days authorized, time in training based
     on TSC, use of STP funding, etc).
4. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROCESSES
  4.1. HQ AFRC/FM will:
     4.1.1. Process STP data from A1KE into the Budget Reporting System (BRS) database
     management system (FMAR).
     4.1.2. Ensure incoming data will contain records identifying STP tours to be funded as
     well as tour cancellations, changes in start dates, or other information needed to manage
     funding.
     4.1.3. Utilize PAS code to route the transaction from HQ to the proper wing (OBAN).
     Unit FM’s must ensure that their Organization Assignment Table (OAT) in BRS is
     maintained to reflect all assigned organizations and their associated full eight character
     PAS codes.
     4.1.4. Ensure the BRS database management system for STP is programmed to reject
     incoming transactions that are found to be in error such as duplicates, conflicting tour
     dates, errors in PAS codes, etc. BRS reports will show an audit trail to include
     cancellations.
     4.1.5. Immediately contact the STP POC for discussion and resolution should the system
     pass a transaction in error.
     4.1.6. BRS will automatically create funding transactions for funding document
     preparation based upon the content of the STP database. Note: STP dollars will be used
     for the purpose of OJT ONLY and cannot be utilized for other unit requirements, i.e.
     annual tour, ancillary training, exercises, etc. Any TDY for training of 140 consecutive
     days or more is paid as a Permanent Change of Station (PCS), and the applicable rules
     cannot be waived.
  4.2. BRS STP Web Based Reporting:
     4.2.1. FM OBAN (wing) level reports.
AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                11


        4.2.1.1. FMAR will provide unit level FM reports to show each tour passed to them
        for funding.
        4.2.1.2. FM reports will identify funding status of each tour as being either funded or
        submitted to BRS but not yet funded.
        4.2.1.3. Cancellations are also identified.
  4.3. Wing/Unit FM will:
     4.3.1. Receive STP funds and ensure allocation to the wing level PBAS ―STP‖ or ―PTP‖
     work center and related RCCC for travel if applicable. The Wing FM will also certify
     orders and assist the unit training manager with validation of STP orders and related
     coding.
     4.3.2. Brief members on Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JFTR) information.
5. SPACE/CYBER/AIR OPERATIONS PERSONNEL.
  5.1. For purposes of this AFRCI only, the term ―aircrew‖ will encompass all officer and
  enlisted flyers operating manned or unmanned aerial vehicles, pararescueman (PJ)/combat
  rescue officer (CRO), space/cyber operators, and aeromedical evacuation personnel.
     5.1.1. Progression Tour Tables (located on the HQ AFRC/A3TB CoP) lists the
     maximum number of days authorized. Units can reduce the number of days as necessary
     to accomplish required training; however, any additional days will be at unit expense.
     5.1.2. Changes to seasoning days will only be accomplished during the annual review.
     Request for changes will be forwarded through the respective AFRC functional manager
     or HQ AFRC/A3TB and must be approved by HQ AFRC/A3T, AFRC/FMA, and
     AFRC/A1KE.
  5.2. SEASONING.
     5.2.1. Seasoning days are a piece of the overall ―progression‖ tour. The progression tour
     outlines the training an aircrew member requires to become mission ready, and in
     addition to seasoning, includes initial qualification/requalification (as appropriate), and
     mission qualification training.
     5.2.2. Seasoning tours are not authorized for aircrew upgrading to unit level instructor,
     flight examiner, or flight lead status.
     5.2.3. Wings are authorized to season an aircrew member after reaching mission ready
     status. The intent of the seasoning program is to allow new aircrew members to gain
     experience with their duties and the unit mission.
     5.2.4. Commanders can tailor the tour to provide the most effective use of aircraft and
     unit mission capabilities.
     5.2.5. . Seasoning is not a requirement for the progression tour, but is highly
     recommended.
  5.3. Unit commanders will:
     5.3.1. Establish a coordination process between operations squadrons (or group level)
     training managers and base-level FM counterparts to submit names and training line
12                                                  AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


     numbers (TLN) for individuals participating in the seasoning portion of the Progression
     Tour.
     5.3.2. Submit to base-level finance office, the member’s name, grade, unit, start date,
     completion date, weapons system and class identifier (if TLN information is not
     available) Base-level finance office will coordinate with HQ AFRC/FMA for
     disbursement of appropriate funding.




                                         CHARLES E. STENNER, JR., Lieutenant General,
                                         USAFR
                                         Commander
AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                              13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program
AFI 36-2254, Volume I and II, Reserve Personnel Participation, and Reserve Personnel Training
AFRCI 36-2102, Air Force Reserve Service Commitment Date Program
AFRCI 36-2202, AFRC Reserve Financial Training and Management
AFRCI 36-2203, Developing, Managing and Conducting Reserve Training
AFRCI 41-104, Pregnancy of Air Force Reserve Personnel

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AGR—Active Guard Reserve
ART—Air Reserve Technician
BRS—Budget Reporting System
CoP—Community of Practice
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FTD—Field Training Detachment
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HYT—High Year Tenure
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
LOD—Line of Duty
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPS—Military Personnel Section
MTL—Master Task Listing
MTP—Master Training Plan
NPS—Non-Prior Service
OJT—On-The-Job-Training
PIRR—Participating Individual Ready Reserve
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PS—Prior Service
 14                              AFRCI36-2204 1 SEPTEMBER 2011


STP—Seasoning Training Program
TDY—Temporary Duty
TR—Traditional Reserve
TSC—Training Status Code
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
