BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                    INSTRUCTION 36-2602
                                                                                    10 SEPTEMBER 2007

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                              APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR
                                                        UNDERGRADUATE FLYING TRAINING AND
                                                                      AIR BATTLE MANAGER

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFRC/A1BB                                       Certified by: HQ AFRC/A1 (Mr. Steve L. Mann)
Supersedes AFRCI 36-2602, 19 July 2004                                                      Pages: 9

This instruction implements and extends Air Force Policy Directive 36-26, Total Force Development. It
explains how an individual may apply for undergraduate flying training leading to an aeronautical rating
and how applications are processed for individuals applying for pilot, combat systems officer, and air bat-
tle manager training through the Air Force Reserve. AFRCI 36-2602, Application Procedures For Under-
graduate Flying Training And Air Battle Manager, requires the maintenance of information protected by
the Privacy Act of 1974. The authorities to collect the prescribed records in this instruction are Title 10
U.S.C., Section 8013. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. Do not supplement this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision is substantially changed and must be completely reviewed. This revision includes appli-
cation procedures for Air Battle Manager and clarifies policy for waiver and exception to policy requests
for age and commissioned service.


1. Eligibility Criteria. Applicants who meet the following criteria are eligible for Undergraduate Flying
Training (UFT) and Air Battle Manager (ABM) consideration:
   1.1. Eligible for Officer Training School (OTS) as prescribed by AFI 36-2013, Officer Training
   School (OTS) and Airman Commissioning Programs.
   1.2. Meet all medical standards specified in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards, for
   pilot, combat systems officer (navigator), and air battle manager training. Pilot candidates must suc-
   cessfully complete Medical Flight Screening and Flying Class 1 (MFS/FC1) at Brooks City AFB TX
   and include copy of HQ AETC/SG certified physical in UFT application.
2                                                               AFRCI36-2602 10 SEPTEMBER 2007


    1.3. Must enter UFT/ABM before reaching 30 years of age.
    1.4. Commissioned officers must not exceed 5 years total federal commissioned service. Note: Age
    and commissioned service waiver consideration is given to applicants who can document that an Air
    Force administrative, counseling, or medical error occurred within the last 2 years that prevented the
    applicant from applying for UFT when otherwise eligible. See Attachment 2 for age and commis-
    sioned service waiver or exception to policy criteria and procedures. If the applicant meets this crite-
    rion, they must submit a complete copy of the UFT application with the request for an age or
    commissioned service waiver or exception to policy. All requests must be staffed through Air Force
    Reserve Command channels. Waivers are reviewed on an individual basis and, if approved, allow the
    applicant a one time opportunity to compete for UFT. Approval authority rests with CSAF.
    1.5. Attain minimum required Air Force Officer Qualifying Test (AFOQT) scores. Items 1, 2, and 3
    below apply to pilot and combat systems officer (navigator) applicants, only items 2 and 3 apply to air
    battle manager applicants. See AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System, for
    AFOQT procedures. For the purpose of this application, AFOQT scores do not expire. Requirements:
    1.6. Score in the 25th percentile or higher in the respective category (pilot or navigator technical)
    composite for which they are applying.
    1.7. The combined total score of the pilot and the navigator composites must be at least 50th percen-
    tile.
    1.8. At no time shall the pilot or navigator composite be less than the 10th percentile
    1.9. Complete Test of Basic Aviation Skills (TBAS), (pilot candidates only).
    1.10. The TBAS score combined with the pilot AFOQT score and private flying time produces the
    pilot candidate selection method (PCSM) score.

2. Ineligibility Factors. The following individuals are ineligible for UFT consideration:
    2.1. Persons permanently disqualified for aviation service at any time.
    2.2. Officers who have illegally, wrongfully, or improperly experimented with, used, possessed, sold,
    or transferred any narcotic substance, dangerous drug, intoxicating inhaled substance, or controlled
    substance as established by Title 21, U.S.C. Section 812 when supported by evidence.
    2.3. Applicants who have declined UFT after selection.
    2.4. Individuals eliminated from any flying training course conducted by or for the Armed Forces of
    the United States, with the following provisions:
    2.5. Those eliminated for military deficiency or self-initiated elimination (SIE) reasons.
    2.6. Individuals eliminated for reasons other than those mentioned above, unless specifically recom-
    mended for further pilot or navigator training at the time they were eliminated by AETC.

3. How To Apply. Applicants who are not unit assigned must schedule an appointment with the nearest
Reserve officer accessions recruiter. The Reserve officer accessions recruiter:
    3.1. Provides initial counseling on Reserve participation and UFT eligibility.
    3.2. Schedules the applicant for the AFOQT and obtains the results.
AFRCI36-2602 10 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                             3


   3.3. If test scores are disqualifying, advises the individual of the results and the eligibility date for
   retesting; refer to AFI 36-2605, Air Force Military Personnel Testing System.
   3.4. Schedules the applicant for the Test of Basic Aviation Skills (TBAS)
   3.5. Schedules an appointment for appropriate physical examination for the flying training desired as
   specified in AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards, then:
   3.6. Obtains the examination and schedules the applicant for Medical Flight Screening, Flying Class
   1 (MFS/FC1) appointment (pilot applicants) or submit to HQ AETC/SG for certification (combat sys-
   tems officer, nav and air battle manager). Certified physicals are returned to recruiting for inclusion in
   the UFT application.
   3.7. Assists the applicant in preparing forms from Table 1. (Checklist for Processing OTS/UFT/ABM
   Applicants) and forwards application to HQ AFRC/A1BB.

Table 1. Checklist for Processing OTS/UFT/ABM Applicants.
                                                                                           RULE
If applicant is:                                                                         1 2
                                                                                           3   4      5
A                A Civilian                                                              Y
B                A USAFR Officer/Active Duty Officer                                       Y
C                A USAFR Airman/Active Duty Airman                                           Y
D                An Interservice Officer Transfer                                              Y
E               An Interservice Enlisted Transfer                                                     Y
SUBMIT TWO COPIES OF THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS, ONLY SUBMIT ORIGINAL LETTERS OF
RECOMMENDATION, APPLICATION WILL NOT BE RETURNED TO THE MPF
F                AF Form 56, Application and Evaluation for Training                     X X X X      X
                 Leading to a Commission in the United States Air Force
G                College Transcripts with signed memorandum from MPF or RS certifying X    X X X      X
                 authenticity
H                Conditional Release (if applicable)                                           X      X
I                DD Form 785 (if applicable), Record of Disenrollment from Officers      X   X        X
                 Candidate-Type Training
J                 Flying Class I/IA/III –HQ AETC/SG Certified Physical Examination       X X X X      X
K                AF Form 2030, USAF Drug and Alcohol Abuse Certification                 X
L                AF Form 24, Application for Appointment as Reserves of the Air Force or X   X X      X
                 USAF Without Component
M                AF Form 215, Aircrew Training Candidate Data Summary                    X X X X      X
N                AF Form 1288, Application for Ready Reserve Assignment                  X X X X      X
O                Last Page of Civilian Flight Log Book                                   X X X X      X
P                DD FM 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (Prior  X X X X      X
                 Service Applicants)
Q                Private Pilot License                                                   X X X X      X
R                Security Clearance Information                                          X X X X      X
S                Statement Acknowledging Reserve Service Commitment                      X X X X      X
                 (See Attachment 3)
T                Pilot Candidate Selection Method (PCSM) Score. (SUPT Applicants Only) X   X X X      X
U                Air Force Officer Qualification Test (AFOQT) Scores                     X X X X      X
V                Wing/CC Letter of Recommendation                                        X X X X      X
4                                                               AFRCI36-2602 10 SEPTEMBER 2007


4. The Military Personnel Flight (MPF):
    4.1. Verifies unit-assigned members meet eligibility criteria for OTS and UFT.
    4.2. Assist member in completing forms from Table 1. (OTS/UFT checklist) and ensures application
    includes wing commander recommendation and HQ AETC/SG certified physical examination.
    4.3. Forwards the completed application to HQ AFRC/A1BB. Applications may be submitted
    throughout the year for consideration by the next scheduled UFT Selection Board.

5. HQ AFRC/A1BB:
    5.1. Convenes selection boards in March and September of each year and supplemental boards as
    requirements dictate. Applications are due not later than the last duty day in the month prior to the
    board.
    5.2. Announce board dates and any additional requirements for application submission.
    5.3. Ensures applications are complete and candidates meet all eligibility criteria.

6. Selection Board:
    6.1. Applicants compete for board selection based on the "whole-person" concept.
    6.2. Board members are charged to identify candidates with the strongest potential for becoming
    exceptional Air Force Reserve Officers and potential to successfully complete flying training.
    6.3. Selection Boards are composed of at least four voting members. HQ AFRC/CV selects the board
    president. Each NAF/CC provides a representative (rated major or above) to serve as board member.

7. Notifying Applicants Selected for UFT:
    7.1. HQ AFRC/A1BB notifies the NAF and Wing Commanders, Recruiting Services, and Military
    Personnel Flights of selections.
    7.2. Returns applications of individuals considered, but not selected, by the AFRC Selection Board to
    the MPF or officer accessions recruiter.
    7.3. Provides the MPF with HQ AFRC Form 0-16, Notification of Selection for Officer Training
    and Undergraduate Flight Training. Send information copies to:
    7.4. HQ ARPC/DPAA for appointment orders upon completion of OTS.
    7.5. NAF/A2A3 for informational purposes.
    7.6. HQ AFRC/A2A3 to forecast future UFT requirements.
    7.7. HQ AFRC/A1TF to project follow-on training requirements.

8. Upon Receipt Of Notification Of Selection And In Coordination With Recruiting, The MPF:
    8.1. Gains the individual via Military Personnel Data System (MILPDS).
    8.2. Ensures that request for Final Secret National Agency Check (NAC) is on file with Defense
    Investigative Service (DIS) before reporting to OTS.
AFRCI36-2602 10 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                          5


   8.3. Ensures active duty for training orders are published in two sets (one for enlisted and second as
   2Lt) and that the member is placed on continuous active duty for training until completion of UFT.
   8.4. Ensures that the member completes Reserve Service Commitment (RSC) Contract prior to
   departing for training.

9. Reconsidering Applicants. Applications may be resubmitted to future selection boards, provided the
applicant continues to meet all eligibility criteria.

10. Graduates:
   10.1. Graduates are awarded the aeronautical rating of pilot or navigator and returned to assigned unit
   for follow-on training.

11. UFT Eliminations:
   11.1. Officers eliminated from pilot training may be considered for combat systems officer (naviga-
   tor) training or Air Battle Manager if they are qualified and specifically recommended for further
   flight training by the eliminating authority.
   11.2. Unit commander must request reinstatement in writing and provide AF Form 1288, Application
   for Ready Reserve Assignment, to HQ AFRC/A1BB with new assignment information.
   11.3. Officers permanently disqualified from aviation service are either:
   11.4. Assigned to a non rated vacant position within their reserve unit or a reserve unit within com-
   muting distance until expiration of the individual’s Reserve service commitment.
   11.5. Transferred to Air Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC).
   11.6. Processed for discharge according to AFI 36-3209, Separation and Retirement Procedures for
   Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members.

12. Form Prescribed:
HQ AFRC Form 0-16, Notification of Selection for Officer Training and Undergraduate Flight Training.

13. Forms Adopted:
DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty
DD Form 785, Record of Disenrollment from Officers Candidate-Type Training
AF Form 24, Application for Appointment as Reserves of the Air Force or USAF Without Component
AF Form 56, Application and Evaluation for Training Leading to a Commission in the United States Air
Force
AF Form 215, Aircrew Training Candidate Summary
AF Form 1288, Application for Ready Reserve Assignment
6                                                         AFRCI36-2602 10 SEPTEMBER 2007


AF Form 2030, USAF Drug and Alcohol Abuse Certification



                                          JOHN A. BRADLEY, Lt General, USAF
                                          Commander
AFRCI36-2602 10 SEPTEMBER 2007                                   7


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AFOQT—Air Force Officer Qualifying Test
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
CSO—Combat Systems Officer
DIS—Defense Investigative Service
IFS—Initial Flight Screening
MILPDS—Personnel Data System
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
NAC—National Agency Check
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OTS—Officer Training School
PCSM—Pilot Candidate Method Score
UFT—Undergraduate Flying Training
SUPT—Specialized Undergraduate Pilot Training
TBAS—Test of Basic Aviation Skills
USAF—United States Air Force
8                                                               AFRCI36-2602 10 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                              Attachment 2

                    AGE OR COMMISSIONED SERVICE WAIVER REQUEST

A2.1. Include (in memo format): Appropriate letterhead; current address; and request for age or com-
missioned service waiver. (See AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications)

A2.2. Applying for an Age or Commissioned Service Waiver:
    A2.2.1. If you can document an Air Force administrative, counseling, or medical error that occurred
    within the last 2 years that prevented you from applying for UFT while otherwise eligible, submit a
    complete copy of the UFT application with request for age or commissioned service waiver through
    your immediate Squadron commander, Wing/CC, NAF/CC, to HQ AFRC/A1BB for processing to
    CSAF for final disposition. The disapproval authority within the chain of command is vested in the
    MAJCOM/CC or delegated authority. Disapproved packages will be returned to the NAF/CC.
    A2.2.2. Administrative error: Committed by an Air Force agency otherwise beyond your control.
    Examples of administrative errors include:
       A2.2.2.1. An application package was not properly screened by the MPF or recruiter and returned
       without action; MPF or recruiting mailed application to wrong address or failed to forward to HQ
       AFRC/A1BB for board consideration.
       A2.2.2.2. An incomplete or incorrect medical form.
    A2.2.3. Counseling error: An Air Force agency gave you incorrect information and you could not
    verify the information on your own. For example, you were told you could not apply for UFT when
    you actually met the eligibility criteria.
    A2.2.4. Medical error: An incorrect diagnosis of your medical condition prevented you from applying
    when you were otherwise eligible. For example, you were diagnosed as having a disqualifying condi-
    tion, but a review showed you were medically qualified. Attach original medical form and the medical
    authority’s supporting comments when you submit and age or commissioned service waiver request
    based on a medical error.
    A2.2.5. Exceptions to policy (ETP): Applicants that do not meet the above criteria may request an
    exception to policy through their MAJCOM chain of command as directed in
    A2.2.6. Age and commissioned service limits exists to protect the interests of the total rated force and
    should not be taken lightly. Exceptions to policy will normally be granted only in rare circumstances
    when a commander can document sustained, exceptional performance and deviation from policy is
    minor. Further, commanders must specifically and explicitly justify why supporting an ETP for an
    individual, considering the pool of fully qualified applicants, is in the best interest of the Air Force
    Reserve. Each ETP imposes potential increased risk to operational safety and effectiveness. Only the
    rare, truly exceptional individual should be endorsed and forwarded through the chain of command
    for ETP consideration.
    A2.2.7. Include names, dates, and specific details to document your case. Submit your age or com-
    missioned service waiver request with your entire UFT application package. All requests must include
    written justification from the Squadron, Wing, and Numbered Air Force Commander. Send requests
    to: HQ AFRC/A1BB, 155 Richard Ray Blvd. Robins AFB GA 31098-1635.
AFRCI36-2602 10 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                          9


                                             Attachment 3

                     STATEMENT OF RESERVE SERVICE COMMITMENT
If selected for officer training school or undergraduate flight training, I accept the appropriate Reserve
service commitment as specified in AFRCI 36-2102, Air Force Reserve Service Commitment Date Pro-
gram, dated 26 March 2004. This statement must be signed, dated by the applicant and witnessed by a
recruiting or military personnel official.
