BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
OF AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                      INSTRUCTION 10-404

                                                                                26 JUNE 2014

                                                                                   Operations

                                                                              UNIT RECALL


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.


OPR: HQ AFRC/A3OM                                                  Certified by: HQ FRC/A3O
                                                                       (Col Darrell G. Young)
                                                                                     Pages: 20
Supersedes:   AFRCI10-404, 18 May 2010


This instruction implements AFPD 10-4, Operations Planning: Air & Space Expeditionary
Force. 30 April 2009. It articulates AFRC procedural guidance for notifying and assembling
personnel under actual, alert and test conditions. AFI 10-208, Continuity of Operations (COOP),
15 Dec 2011, Program designates accountability actions. This instruction addresses information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain this information is
Title 10 United States Code, Section 8013. Following the guidance in AFI 33-332, The Air Force
Privacy and Civil Liberties Program, 5 June 2013, give a Privacy Act statement orally or in
writing to anyone from whom you are collecting personal information that will be put in a
system of records, regardless of how you collect or record the answers. The use of the
Installation Warning and Notification System (INWS) is mandatory for all military members at
all locations with AFRC personnel. Employees in civilian status (to include Emergency Essential
personnel) may voluntarily provide contact information through INWS, but cannot be mandated.
This instruction does not pertain to Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
1 March 2008, are maintained in accordance with this manual, and are disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes, comments, or questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) at Headquarters Air Force Reserve
Command Services (HQ AFRC/A3OM), 155 Richard Ray Blvd, Bldg 210, Robins AFB GA
31098-1635, using the Air Force (AF) IMT Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.
 2                                                                                                 AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authority to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this
publication is Title 10 United States Code, Section 8013, and Executive Order 9397. This
instruction is affected by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1974, as amended in 1995. The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the AF.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Each paragraph has
been revised to provide more detail.


        1.      General ...................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        3
        3.      Recall Rosters. .......................................................................................................        6
        4.      Notification System. ..............................................................................................            6
        5.      Personnel Recall Reporting Procedures. ................................................................                        8
        6.      Personnel Accountability. ......................................................................................               9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                10

Attachment 2—UNIT COMMUNICATIONS TEST/RECALL RESULTS FORMAT                                                                                   12

Attachment 3—HQ AFRC DIRECTORATE NOTIFICATION RESULTS (SAMPLE
             FORMAT)                                                                                                                          13

Attachment 4—SAMPLE RECALL ROSTER                                                                                                             14

Attachment 5—INWS CHECKLISTS/INSTRUCTIONS                                                                                                     15


1. General
     1.1. The ability of a commander to recall his or her unit members is one of the basic
     premises for a unit to mobilize and meet its wartime commitments, and disseminate
     information to unit members. To accomplish this, the commander must have a plan that
     ensures he or she will be able to contact and assemble all assigned personnel within any
     required response times. The response time could be as early as the time stipulated in the
     Designed Operational Capability (DOC) Statement for units which have a DOC statement.
     1.2. National emergencies or other contingencies require the capability to notify personnel or
     recall them to their place of duty. Notifications/recalls should be as covert as possible to deny
     a potential enemy useful information and to avoid public speculation or alarm. This
     instruction establishes the requirement for all AFRC organizations to produce recall rosters
     and develop processes to facilitate timely notification/recall of personnel by utilizing an
     Installation Notification and Warning System (INWS). Depending on the reason for a recall,
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                                                         3


   certain personnel may be excused as determined by specific governing directives or the
   senior officer in charge.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. HQ AFRC Command Center will:
       2.1.1. Initiate HQ AFRC directed communication tests and actual recalls via INWS
       message, telephone, Email message or other alternate means, then monitor wings/group’s
       reporting, and forward results to HQ AFRC/A1RR until HQ AFRC Contingency Action
       Team (CAT) is activated. The AFRC Command Center will notify all Wing Command
       Posts of a recall/accountability/test through the use of INWS.
       2.1.2. Initiate communication tests and actual recalls and accountability notifications for
       HQ AFRC assigned personnel, monitor Directorate reporting (during INWS outages),
       and forward results to HQ AFRC CAT. (See attachment 3 for format.)
       2.1.3. AFRC Command Center will make necessary notifications or contact necessary
       points-of-contact (POCs) until AFRC CAT is activated.
   2.2. HQ AFRC CAT will: Monitor, compile and report results of HQ AFRC directed
   communications tests or actual recalls at the direction of the commander, vice commander or
   other designated authority.
   2.3. Wing Commander will:
       2.3.1. Ensure each unit has a recall plan in place to meet wartime and peacetime recall
       requirements.
       2.3.2. Identify in writing a primary and alternate Wing Recall Program Manager and
       ensure those appointed are aware of responsibilities and reporting procedures.
       2.3.3. Ensure accurate and timely reporting of recall results.
       2.3.4. Ensure the plan includes accountability procedures to be used during a natural
       disaster or national emergency, IAW AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in
       Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National Emergencies, 21 Dec 2010. (e.g.,
       AFPAAS).
           2.3.4.1. Ensure personnel understand that INWS is a notification system, and no
           accountability takes place within INWS. All Accountability takes place in AFPAAS.
           2.3.4.2. Ensure installation Command Post or equivalents distribute Total Force
           Accountability (TFA) messages (e.g. WARNORD, EXORD, ENDEX) to all
           assigned, tenant and GSUs in accordance with established local procedures or
           agreements.
           2.3.4.3. Will ensure unit commanders are aware of their responsibilities as outlined
           in this instruction and that shelter-in-place or evacuation plans for installations have
           fully addressed the need to account for the categories of personnel described in AFI
           36-3803 as soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours after TFA is directed.
           2.3.4.4. Will ensure all assigned personnel are familiar with AFPAAS and their
           responsibility if displaced, to contact their leadership, keep them informed of their
           location, and account for family members.
4                                                                  AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


       2.3.5. Ensure the wing exercises and conducts a no-notice communications test at least
       once annually to demonstrate the ability to contact all assigned wing personnel.
       2.3.6. Program adequate funding in annual budget estimates to conduct at least one
       communications test each fiscal year.
       2.3.7. Ensure wing operating instruction for unit recall procedures is created.
       2.3.8. Enforce the use of an INWS System as the primary tool for emergency
       notifications and recalls.
       2.3.9. Assign the Wing/Unit Recall Monitors as INWS Program Managers.
    2.4. Group Commander will identify in writing a primary and alternate group program
    monitor.
    2.5. Unit Command Posts will:
       2.5.1. Function as the Commander’s representative for initiating and monitoring recall
       progression and accomplishing appropriate recall and/or communications test reporting.
       Command Post controllers will not be designated a key alerter for groups/squadrons,
       outside of CP personnel notifications.
       2.5.2. Ensure each controller is thoroughly trained on the INWS operations.
       2.5.3. Train all Program Managers on their responsibilities and system functionality on
       INWS alerts to include end user updates and after action reports.
       2.5.4. Create appropriate checklists (see attachment 5 for formats).
       2.5.5. Maintain a current recall roster for each assigned unit to include Geographical
       Separated Units (GSUs).
       2.5.6. Use the INWS system for wing recall and emergency notifications that require
       more than ten notifications.
       2.5.7. Upon initiation of an actual recall or mobilization/activation, submit reports in
       accordance with applicable guidance and procedures. Command Posts will forward
       results by email to HQ AFRC/A1RR Workflow until the AFRC CAT is activated.
       2.5.8. Conduct a Monthly Communication Check with a minimum of 10 personnel
       contacting 100% of those end users using both phone and e-mail. The purpose of this
       Communication Check is to maintain proficiency and assist in maintaining the database.
       Annotate results in CP daily events log and forward results to C4 Systems Manager at
       HQ AFRC/A3OM, using attachment 2.
       2.5.9. Conduct a monthly contact information validation every UTA for all wing
       personnel. Annotate results in CP daily events log and forward results to C4 Systems
       Manager at HQ AFRC/A3OM, using attachment 2.
    2.6. Unit Recall Program Monitors will:
       2.6.1. Ensure unit recall programs fall within the guidelines and intent of this instruction.
       2.6.2. Establish Key Alerters in your unit based on geographic area (for comm. outage)
       so that it is cost effective to recall personnel.
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                                                         5


     2.6.3. Establish a program to ensure newly assigned personnel enter their contact
     information in the INWS system either by Common Access Card (CaC) registration, or
     manually entered in the system.
     2.6.4. Develop a positive validation system for monthly verification of individual,
     address, and telephone data. Accurate information is essential for a current notification
     roster of all assigned personnel, as it is used to notify under alert, actual recall, and test
     conditions.
     2.6.5. Develop and maintain a specific degraded communications conditions (comm-out)
     recall or mobilization/activation plan so that messengers can be sent to members’ homes
     if they cannot be contacted by phone (Comm. Outage).
     2.6.6. Ensure recall procedures include provisions for recall notifications to be made by
     unit members. (Units may establish contacts with local law enforcement, civil defense,
     Civil Air Patrol (CAP), and other local agencies for assistance in notifying personnel;
     however, these sources should not be considered the primary means of notification.
     During an actual comm-out situation, other priorities would probably limit the support
     these agencies could provide.) Alternate recall plans should be flexible. For example, the
     comm-out condition may only affect the base and immediate surrounding area. In some
     cases, contact via messenger may not be practical (for example, members who reside out
     of state or long distances from base).
     2.6.7. Provide Command Post with a monthly update of recall rosters to include specific
     instructions for use of unit recall program and pyramid rosters NLT the 5 th duty day of
     each month, or as changes occur.
     2.6.8. Become qualified through training from a certified INWS administrator
     (Command Post personnel), then maintain the INWS database for their respective unit by
     validating unit data monthly in conjunction with monthly recall roster updates.
     2.6.9. Be responsible for the creation and maintenance of a comprehensive system to
     monitor and update personnel information in the INWS database.
     2.6.10. Be responsible for the training and education of all unit personnel (end users).
     2.6.11. Assign Operator/Administrator roles (limited or full administrative rights) based
     on local requirements.
     2.6.12. Report recall and communications test results to the Command Post with timely
     updates for proper reporting to higher headquarters.2.8. Unit Members will:
     2.7.1. Military members (including ARTs) are required to provide up to date contact
     information to unit recall program monitor, the Virtual Military Personnel Flight
     Application (vMPF) and INWS self-service application. Civilian members or contractors
     who wish to provide personal contact information should do so using the INWS self-
     service application. All members are responsible for the accuracy of their own contact
     information
     2.7.2. Provide the following mandatory information: name, address, and applicable
     phone numbers to include home, business, cellular, and email addresses. If home address
     is a post office box, maintain specific directions to the member’s home. Failure to do so
     can have an adverse effect on mobilization/activation of the unit.
 6                                                                AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


     2.8. Communications Focal Points will ensure each AFRC workstation is loaded with the
     current version and correct Virtual Private System (VPS) of the INWS/Alerts client software.
     For AFRC tenant Wings/units, updates to the INWS Alerts desktop client will have to be
     coordinated with the host base Comm Focal Point (CFP) and/or I-NOSC supporting the local
     base network.
     2.9. Air Reserve Personnel Center (ARPC) will perform the recall/accountability of IMAs.
3. Recall Rosters.
     3.1. Units will create a pyramid notification system (recall roster) that includes specific
     instructions for use, notification types and phraseology, and be formatted as shown in
     attachment 4, with information identified within paragraph 2.8.2. Units may use whatever
     software application they deem necessary to accomplish the format.
        3.1.1. Recall Pyramids. The pyramid recall system will utilize quality considerations
        such as: key alerters will have availability and access to communications necessary to
        make notifications; consider grouping all those who live in the same distant community.
        If home address is a post office box, maintain specific directions to the member’s home.
            3.1.1.1. Unit Pyramids will begin with the wing and will include all assigned groups
            and squadrons , i.e. every individual in the unit to include civilians, traditional
            reservists, Air Reserve Technicians, and Active Guard and Reserve personnel. Roster
            will be organized to allow hierarchy to contact lower echelons and direct them to
            initiate recall of their respective organizations.
     3.2. Recall rosters will:
        3.2.1. Be structured by organization and then by geographical location (when practical)
        and include specific instructions for use, notification phraseology, pyramids, and comply
        with format as shown in attachment 5.
        3.2.2. Specify alternate procedures in the event of the loss of primary communications.
        3.2.3. Comply with the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, Title 5, U.S.C., Section
        552a, as amended and AFI 33-332.
        3.2.4. Include procedures for reporting results of an actual or test notification to the
        recall program monitor for timely reporting. See paragraph 5 for reporting procedures.
        3.2.5. Consider operations security (OPSEC) in all actions.
        3.2.6. Recall rosters will identify personnel essential to the unit in the event a Type 2
        Essential Personnel Recall is initiated.
4. Notification System.
     4.1. The unit commander is responsible for contacting assigned personnel as follows. Recall
     should not stop until 100 percent notification is achieved.
     4.2. The Command Post will initiate unit recalls via INWS as the primary means with
     manual telephones being an alternate means. Unless absolutely essential to the mission, do
     not use radio, television, or newspapers to notify individuals of an alert to mobilize until
     DoD has provided detailed information to Congress and the public.
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                                                       7


  4.3. Upon direction from AFRC Public Affairs, the Wing Commander will use the news
  media to expedite recall. The unit public affairs office provides guidance and assistance
  concerning the release of this information.
  4.4. When notifying unit members, relay the message directly to the member. PIN validation
  will be utilized to ensure intended member received message, when INWS is used. Messages
  to co-workers, family members, answering machines, etc., do not constitute contact.
  4.5. Notification Types. The types of recalls/notifications listed below will be created in the
  INWS.
     4.5.1. TYPE 1: ALL PERSONNEL RECALL. All civilian and military personnel report
     to duty section by __________. Script: This is (name and organization) with a type one
     (All Personnel) recall. Pass this notification in accordance with your pyramid alert roster
     and report for duty by __________ hours to your normal duty station. If assigned to a
     UTC, bring your mobility bag.
     4.5.2. TYPE 2: ESSENTIAL PERSONNEL RECALL. Only military personnel will
     report to duty section by __________. Non-Essential personnel will report as otherwise
     directed. Script: This is (name and organization) with a type two (Essential Personnel
     Report) recall. Pass this notification in accordance with your alert pyramid roster and
     military report for duty by __________ hours to your normal duty station. If assigned to a
     UTC, bring your mobility bag.
     4.5.3. TYPE 3: COMMUNICATIONS-OUT RECALL. (Separate recall roster)
     Personnel will be contacted in person or by runner in cases where communication
     systems (phones, computer, etc) are unavailable/inoperational or not desired for
     operational reasons. Script: This is (name and organization) with a type Three (Comm-
     Out) recall. Pass this notification in accordance with your alert pyramid roster in person
     or by runner and then report for duty to your normal duty station. If assigned to a UTC,
     bring your mobility bag.
     4.5.4. TYPE 4: SELECTIVE RECALL. Only personnel identified by Wing or Unit CC,
     or a designated representative will be notified. Script: This is (name and organization)
     with a type four (Selective) recall. Pass this notification to identified personnel in
     accordance with your pyramid alert roster and report for duty by __________ hours to
     your normal duty station. If assigned to a UTC, bring your mobility bag.
     4.5.5. TYPE 5: TELEPHONE RECALL. All personnel will be notified but will not
     immediately report to their duty section or assembly area. Members will report at normal
     duty time. Script: This is (name and organization) with a type five (Telephone) recall.
     Pass this notification in accordance with your pyramid alert roster and report for duty at
     your normal time.
     4.5.6. TYPE 6: TELEPHONE STANDBY. All personnel will be notified but will not
     immediately report to their duty section or assembly area. Members will remain at home
     and be available for further instructions. Script: This is (name and organization) with a
     type six (Telephone Standby) notification. Pass this notification in accordance with your
     pyramid alert roster and remain on telephone standby for further instructions.
 8                                                                   AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


        4.5.7. TYPE 7: SEVERE WEATHER EVACUATION, DELAY or CANCELLATION
        NOTIFICATION. If time permits, all personnel will be notified. Script: This is (name
        and organization) with a type seven (Severe Weather Evacuation/Delay/Cancellation)
        notification. Based on CAT/BS directive.
        4.5.8. TYPE 8: FORCE PROTECTION CONDITION (FPCON) NOTIFICATION. All
        civilian and military personnel will be notified. Script: This is (name and organization)
        with a type eight (Force Protection change) notification. There has been a Force
        Protection Condition change. We are now in FPCON __________. Pass this notification
        in accordance with your pyramid alert roster.
        4.5.9. TYPE 9: ALERT NOTIFICATION. When authorized by the Secretary of the Air
        Force, affected reservists may be alerted for possible recall. Whenever possible, these
        members are given reasonable advance notice before they must report. The following
        alert phraseology is provided as a Script: “This is (grade, name, and duty assignment)
        with a type 9 (Alert) Notification. You are placed on alert for possible short-notice recall
        to active duty. This is not a notice to report. This alert is to allow time for you to arrange
        your personal and business affairs. You will remain in this alert status until recalled or
        notified of alert cancellation. Do you understand?”            Note the time at which each
        individual was notified and any problems encountered.
        4.5.10. TYPE 10. COMMUNICATIONS TEST. When directed by AFRC/CV, WG/CC
        or Unit Commander, all personnel will be notified. Script: ―This is (name and
        organization) with a type ten (communications test). Assembly is NOT required. Do you
        understand? Continue with any further instructions or guidance based on commander
        input. Note the time at which each individual was notified and any problems encountered.
        For Communication tests, non-participating members identified by Personnel Readiness
        Unit (PRU), members on leave, TDY, deployed will be considered contacted.
        4.5.11. TYPE 11 PERSONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY NOTIFICATION.                             When
        directed by AFRC/CC, WG/CC or Unit Commander, all personnel will be notified.
        Script: - An accountability event has been directed. If you are in the geographic area of
        interest of XXXXXXXXXXXX counties, then you must log into the AFPAAS site an
        account for yourself and DEERS enrolled dependents. This site can be reached through
        the Air Force Portal. If you do not have access to a computer and you are in the area of
        interest, call 1-800-435-9941 to perform accountability. Please note, responding to this
        alert will not perform any accountability actions.
5. Personnel Recall Reporting Procedures.
     5.1. Commanders, through their respective unit/group control centers (UCCs/GCCs), will
     report recall progress/results every 6 hours starting from reference time to their respective
     command post, until recall is complete. Recall is not complete until every member is
     contacted.
     5.2. Key Alerters will report to their respective unit recall program monitors or GCCs/UCCs.
     5.3. Group GCCs will report recall results of all assigned units to their respective Command
     Post NLT every 6 hours until recall is complete.
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                                                     9


   5.4. Squadron UCCs. UCCs will report recall results of all assigned personnel to their
   respective GCC NLT every 6 hours until recall is complete.
   5.5. Command Posts will report recall progress / results in accordance with attachment 2
   every 6 hours to AFRC Command Center and AFRC CAT until 100% notification.
6. Personnel Accountability.
   6.1. AFRC policy for personnel accountability and management responsibility is found in
   AFI 36-3803.




                                         DEREK P. RYDHOLM, Brig. Gen., USAFR
                                         Director of Air, Space and Information Operations
 10                                                             AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 6 November 2012.
AFI 10-402, USAF Mobilization Planning, 1 May 2012.
AFI 10-208, Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program, 15 Dec 2011.
AFMAN 10-401V2, Planning Formats and Guidance, 1 May 1998.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 673, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPAAS—Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System
CAT—Contingency Action team
CFP—Communications Focal Point
COOP—Continuity of Operations Program
C4—Command, Control, Comunications and Computers
I-NOSC—Integrated Network Operations and Security Centers
VPS—Virtual Private System

Terms
Activation—The ordering of units and individual members of the reserve components to active
duty under legislative authority granted to the President, Congress, or the Secretaries of the
Military Departments. Activation expands active duty forces through voluntary and
involuntary/mobilization authorities.
Alert—An emergency notification to warn personnel of an impending action which requires
increased readiness or mobilization.
Assembly—All personnel reporting for duty at their unit of assignment.
Communications Outage (Comm-Out)—Lost or degraded communications capability.
Communications Test—A test of the effectiveness of unit’s notification procedures. Assembly
is not required.
Contact—For notification purposes, contact is complete when a unit member is notified, in
person, of a communications test, alert or recall and acknowledges receipt and understanding.
Recall—Actual recall to personnel by competent authority.
Mobilization—The process by which the nation makes the transition from a normal state of
peacetime preparedness to a warfighting posture. It involves the assembly, organization, and
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                                                       11


application of the nation’s resources for national defense and it encompasses all activities
necessary to prepare systematically and selectively for war. A federal active duty status applying
specifically to Title 10 U.S.C. 12302 (Partial Mobilization) and Title 10 U.S.C. 12301(a)
(Full/Total Mobilization) in which an Airman is involuntarily called to active duty for the period
specified in the applicable statute.
TFA—Total Force Accountability
Unit—The lowest level of command that is subject to recall. All units, including NAFs, wings,
groups, squadrons, flights, detachments, operating locations, hospitals, clinics, etc., follow the
procedures in this instruction.
Unit Notification Procedures—Procedures for contacting personnel, including notification and
assembly.
12                                                                 AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 2
       UNIT COMMUNICATIONS TEST/RECALL RESULTS FORMAT


                               DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                  AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND




                                                                   DD MMM YYYY
     MEMORANDUM FOR XXXX XXXX

     FROM: ### AW Command Post
           222 Southeast Blvd
           XXXX AFB, XX 12345

     SUBJECT: ### AW Communications (TEST or RECALL) Results for (Month)

        1. Unit:
              a. ### AW
        2. DTG unit was notified of Test or Recall:
             a. 12/0945ZOCT2013
        3. Start Time:
               a. 12/0955ZOCT2013
        4. Passcode:
              a.
        5. UIC:
              a.
        6. Number Assigned:
             a. 1500
        7. Number contacted / Number Assembled:
             a. 980 / 350
        8. Percentage Contacted / Number Assembled:
              a. 65% / 23%

        9. Name and Contact information of Authentication POC:
             a. Mr John Doe, Unit/Offfice Symbol, DSN, Email Address
        10. Remarks: (commander’s comments, problems, limiting factors)




                                                      John Q. Doe, MSgt, USAF
                                                      XXX AW/CP Superintendent
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                       13


                                 Attachment 3
    HQ AFRC DIRECTORATE NOTIFICATION RESULTS (SAMPLE FORMAT)

1. DATE AND TIME NOTIFIED OF TEST OR RECALL (ZULU):

2. START DATE and TIME:

3. REPORT AS OF DATE and TIME:

4. DIRECTORATE DATA: (DIRECTORATE NAME)

TOTAL:(ASSIGNED) ______

CONTACTED: (NUMBER/PERCENT) _____ / _____

ASSEMBLED: (NUMBER/PERCENT) _____ / _____

5. REMARKS: (DIRECTOR’S COMMENTS)

6. NAME AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OF DIRECTORATE POC:
 14                                                             AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 4
                               SAMPLE RECALL ROSTER

Recall Rosters will be formatted in the following manner. Units may use whatever software
application they deem necessary to accomplish the format.



UNIT/OFFICE SYMBOL

As of: DD MON YYYY




This document may contain information which must be protected IAW AFI 33-332 and DOD
Reg 5400.11; Privacy Act of 1974 as Amended Applies, and is For Official Use Only (FOUO).
RECIPIENT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR SAFEGUARDING AND MAINTAINING THIS
PRODUCT IAW THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974, PL 93-579 AND AFT 12-35.
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                                                          15


                                             Attachment 5
                             INWS CHECKLISTS/INSTRUCTIONS

Creating a Distribution List:

In the Navigation bar, select Users and Groups, then select Distribution Lists.

Click the New button.

Select the type of distribution list to create:

A Static List consists of predefined (―hard-coded) user names. Populate the list by importing a
distribution list or by selecting existing INWS Alerts user names.

A Dynamic List consists of a variable set of users resulting from a query of standard and custom
attributes. This list is populated just before an alert is published, and therefore can change
between alerts.

Click the Continue button.

Type a name and description for the new list.

Determine who can update the distribution list after it is imported to INWS Alerts by selecting
one of the following:

End users and operators

Operators only

External sources such as an Active Directory. (Updates are performed using the import
distribution list feature.)

Click the Save button.

Click View/Edit Members to populate the new Distribution List

Creating a Scenario:

In the Navigation bar, select Studio, then Scenario Manager.

Click the New button.

Select the alert channel from the dropdown list for categorizing the new scenario.

Optionally select an existing scenario as a basis for the new scenario.

Edit the Scenario Details, Message Details, and Response Options.
 16                                                                 AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


Select the Available in home page Quick Publisher check box to display the new scenario on the
INWSAlerts home page.

Schedule the alert duration, for keeping the alert ―live and attempting delivery. Also specify the
length of time to keep the alert in the User Archive.

To create a recurring scenario, which issues repeated alarms based on a schedule, select the
Activate Recurrence check box.

Click the Next button.

Select the target groups, delivery devices and notification options.

Click the Next button.

Verify the new scenario information, then click the Save button.

Publishing a Scenario:

In the Navigation bar, click Publisher, then Alert Publisher.

Select an alert channel from the drop-down list.

Select a scenario.

Editing the message components as necessary.

Click the Next button and complete the targeting options.

Select the delivery devices used to send the alert.

Select the notification options that pertain to desktop and telephony alert notification delivery.

Click the Next button and review the confirmation page.

If ready to send the Alert, click the Publish Now button.

Update End User Information:

Log into Reserves network workstation with your CAC.

Ensure your workstation has the INWS Alerts client software installed; this is identified by the
“Purple Globe” in the Notification Area.

Right click on the purple globe and select “Access Self Service” from the list.

The Self Service module will open as a web page in Internet Explorer.
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                                                    17


Enter your information under the “Devices” and “My Info” tab. NOTE: If you use the mobile
phone as your primary (or only) phone number, enter this number into both the Home and
Mobile slots.

Save each page before moving to the next.

When finished close Internet Explorer

Monthly Communications Check:

Log into INWS Alerts Management System (https://alerts.afrc.af.mil/client)

In the Navigation bar select Publisher

Select Scenario Publisher.

Note: If a Communication Check scenario was not created, use the ―Create a Scenario‖
checklist to create one.

Choose “Tests” from the Show all Scenarios drop down list

Select to Edit & Publish the Communication Check scenario

“Set Alert Content and Schedule” complete according to the prompts below and select next.

HEADER: (Unit Designation) MONTHLY INWS TEST

BODY: In accordance with Air Force Reserve Command Instruction Ten Dash Four Zero Four,
this is the (UNIT) command post communications test. Any questions, contact the (UNIT)
command post at (CP DSN). Please acknowledge by selecting from the following options.

URL: Blank

RESPONSE: Acknowledge

START TIME: As soon as I click the ―Publish button (or set a predetermined time)

ALERT DURATION: 9 Hours

REMOVE AFTER: 1 Day

Select Next

TARGETING: (Note: Create a Monthly Comm Check group by using the Creating a Group
checklist.)

Choose ―Groups
 18                                                              AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


Select ―Select/Modify

Choose ―AFRC Monthly Comm Check

DELIVERY: Select ―Enforce Delivery As Defined Below & ―Medium

Prioritize as follows:

Desktop popup (default)

E-Mail Work

Phone Work

Phone Mobile

Configure Modification Options:

Desktop Delivery Options: Select Popup design, preview

Telephony Delivery Options:

Select Replay Message

Call Analysis

Leave Full Message

Contact Cycle:

Contact Cycle Delay: 00:10

Text Device Delay: 00:10

Contact Attempt Cycles: 2

Stop Contacting Recipient If:

Recipient Answered Phone

Recipient listened to entire message

Confirm Alert Details: Review the targeted users and preview the popup

If ready to send test, Select ―Publish Now!

Once the scenario is complete, log the percentage of personnel contacted in the events log and
print out a copy of the results.
AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014                                                                  19


Forward test results to AFRC/A3OM via e-mail.

Monthly Contact Information Validation:

Log into INWS Alerts Management System (https://alerts.afrc.af.mil/client)

In the Navigation bar, click ―Publisher

Select ―Alert Publisher

From ―Select Channel choose ―Recalls

From ―Select Scenario choose ―Contact Information Validation

Fill in Alert Content:

HEADER: (Unit Designation) MONTHLY CONTACT VALIDATION

BODY: In accordance with Air Force Reserve Command Instruction Ten Dash Four Zero Four,
this is the (UNIT) contact information validation. All wing personnel must access the ―Self
Service‖ module from the A F R C I W S Alerts, the purple globe, and update your contact
information. Any questions, contact the (UNIT) command post at (CP DSN).

URL: Blank

RESPONSE: Acknowledge

START TIME: As soon as I click the ―Publish‖ button (or set a predetermined time)

ALERT DURATION: 9 Hours

REMOVE AFTER: 1 Day

Select Next

TARGETING:

Select ―All – Target my Entire User Base and All Permitted Distribution Lists or

(Note: Create a Monthly Comm Check group by using the Creating a Group checklist.)

Choose ―Groups

Select ―Select/Modify

Choose ―Unit Contact Validation

DELIVERY: Select ―Enforce Delivery As Defined Below
 20                                                              AFRCI10-404 26 JUNE 2014


Prioritize as follows:

Desktop popup (default)

E-Mail Work

E-Mail Home

Configure Modification Options:

Desktop Delivery Options: Select Popup design, preview

Telephony Delivery Options:

Select Replay Message

Call Analysis

Leave Full Message

Contact Cycle:

Contact Cycle Delay: 00:10

Text Device Delay: 00:10

Contact Attempt Cycles: 2

Stop Contacting Recipient If:

Recipient Answered Phone

Recipient listened to entire message

Confirm Alert Details: Review the targeted users and preview the popup

If ready to send test, Select ―Publish Now!

Once the scenario is complete, log the percentage of personnel contacted in the events log and
print out a copy of the results.
