BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
OF AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                       INSTRUCTION 41-104

                                                                                15 APRIL 2013

                                                                                Health Services

                                                   PREGNANCY OF AIR FORCE RESERVE
                                                                       PERSONNEL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRC/SGP                                                   Certified by: HQ AFRC/SGP
                                                                           (LtCol Sheri Gladish)
Supersedes:   AFRCI41-104, 15 January 2006                                            Pages: 11


This instruction implements AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources. It establishes
procedures to carry out the policies of the Air Force Reserve Command in the management of
pregnant Reserve members. It assigns responsibilities, explains Reserve participation while
pregnant, and defines procedures for accepting pregnant active duty members and members in
inactive Reserve status into the active program. It also defines entitlements to military medical
care for pregnant Reserve members. This instruction applies to all unit assigned reservists,
Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMA) and those individuals requesting entry into the
Reserve program. Any reference to reservists within this instruction refers to both unit assigned
reservists and IMAs.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
changes rules governing curtailment of active duty orders of members at the 34th week of
pregnancy. Incorporates the use of AF Form 469 for management of pregnancy mobility
restrictions and duty limiting conditions.
1. Purpose.
1.1. Precaution. When pregnancy occurs, precautions should be taken to minimize risk factors
that might adversely affect an otherwise normal pregnancy. Potential exposure to toxic
chemicals, gases, ionizing radiation, hypoxia, etc., should be closely monitored. AFI 44-102,
Community Health Management, paragraph 4.13 describes appropriate measures for monitoring
pregnant members, with additional guidance provided in this instruction. Routine immunizations
(except the flu vaccine) should be discontinued during pregnancy. Vaccines are given only when
 2                                                               AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013


susceptibility and exposure are highly probable and the disease can be prevented. Since pregnant
reservists are not monitored on a continuing basis by a military obstetrician, the member, her
supervisor, commander, and medical personnel must be especially aware of the appropriate
procedures to follow.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Air Force Reserve Command Surgeon (HQ AFRC/SG). Establishes Reserve medical
     policy for the management of pregnant Air Force Reserve members.
     2.2. Air Force Reserve Aerospace Medicine Division (HQ AFRC/SGP). Implements policy
     and establishes procedures for the management of pregnant Air Force Reserve members.
     2.3. Wing Commander. Ensures all commanders, supervisors, and reservists assigned to
     the wing are educated and knowledgeable about their responsibilities in the management of
     pregnant Reserve members.
     2.4. Commanders and Supervisors. Commanders and supervisors are responsible for
     ensuring:
        2.4.1. Each female member within their unit is knowledgeable of their responsibilities
        during pregnancy.
     2.4.2. The supporting medical squadron is notified of a Reserve member’s pregnancy.
        2.4.3. The member is seen at the medical squadron.
        2.4.4. Pregnant members have been cleared by the medical unit before participating in
        any military duties.
        2.4.5. Workplace environment and activities do not exceed the duty limitations or
        physical restrictions set by medical personnel.
        2.4.6. Continued participation during inactive duty training (IDT) from the 34th week of
        pregnancy to term is discussed with the member.
     2.5. Flying Squadron Commanders. Determine if it is safe to allow pregnant aircrew
     members to continue flying during pregnancy in accordance with AFI 48-123, Medical
     Examinations and Standards. Flying waivers are possible for aircrew during the second
     trimester (13-24 weeks) and will be submitted to AFRC/SGPA through the electronic waiver
     system by the medical unit.
     2.6. Supporting Reserve Medical Unit/Active Duty Medical Squadron (RMU/ADMS).
     Educates wing personnel on their responsibilities in the management of pregnant Reserve
     members. Interviews pregnant reservists and educates them on their responsibilities when
     performing military duty. Place appropriate physical restrictions on pregnant reservists and,
     when necessary, prohibits Reserve participation for pay or points. Conducts evaluation of
     the member’s workplace as appropriate according to applicable directives. Follow guidance
     set forth in this instruction in the management of pregnant Reserve members.
     2.7. Flight Surgeon. Immediately places a pregnant aircrew member in duty not including
     flying (DNIF) status. If requested by the member, and there is no contradiction to flying
     safety or the members personal safety, requests a flying waiver according to AFI 48-123.
AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013                                                                        3


   (The request to continue flying duties during pregnancy is entirely voluntary and must be
   initiated by the pregnant aircrew member.)
   2.8. Member. Immediately notifies commander, supervisor, and supporting medical unit of
   pregnancy. Provides medical unit with all available civilian medical documentation relating
   to the pregnancy and any other documentation deemed necessary by appropriate medical
   personnel. Observes physical restrictions and duty limitations set by civilian obstetric care
   providers and appropriate military medical personnel. Aircrew members may voluntarily
   requests a waiver to continue flying duties according to AFI 48-123 and the AFRC
   supplement.
3. Participation.
   3.1. Restrictions. Most pregnancies are uncomplicated and ordinary physical activities
   require little or no restriction before delivery. However, a limited number of Air Force jobs
   involve activities requiring strength, agility and exposure beyond the capabilities of a
   pregnant member to do safely or effectively, such as climbing poles or ladders, crawling
   through aircraft passageways, or walking on aircraft wings during maintenance procedures.
   In such cases, it is extremely important that appropriate physical restrictions be indicated on
   AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report. Unless medically indicated, complete
   excusal from military duties is seldom indicated before the 34th week of pregnancy.
       3.1.1. Pregnant members may volunteer to participate during IDT from the 34th week of
       pregnancy to term, provided the member’s home is located within 50 miles of the IDT
       location and the decision to continue participation is supported by the member, unit
       commander/program manager, and the member’s personal obstetric care provider.
       3.1.2. Members residing within the continental United States (CONUS) are restricted to
       active duty (AD), mandatory tours or inactive duty training (IDT) participation in the 48
       contiguous states.
       3.1.3. Members who reside outside of the continental United States (OCONUS) are
       restricted to active duty and man-day tours OCONUS.
       3.1.4. Overseas deployments or training is prohibited. Because of the small number
       involved and sometimes limited training opportunity, members assigned in Alaska,
       Guam, or Hawaii may perform school tours within the CONUS when a requirement
       exists. Transoceanic deployment or training is specifically prohibited at any time during
       pregnancy and includes a prohibition on OCONUS aircrew duties.
4. Scheduling. A member will not be scheduled for AD or IDT until she obtains a letter from
her obstetric care provider documenting her expected date of delivery, possible or actual medical
complications, restrictions regarding physical activities, approval for travel, or any other factor
that the attending physician deems relevant to the care of the patient. Letters from obstetric care
providers and military medical officer evaluations must be accomplished within 30 days of any
AD when the tour of duty is to be conducted away from home station. A military medical officer
evaluates the member and approves/disapproves military participation on AF Form 469. A
military physician may excuse members from all military duties before the 34 th week of
pregnancy or limit military participation to home duty station only for those members who
experience complications of pregnancy or other medical problems.
 4                                                                 AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013


     4.1. Members may retrain or perform school tours if the Air Force specialty code (AFSC)
     physical requirements for the course of training are met, member is otherwise qualified, and
     the course can be completed before the 34th week of pregnancy and the military school
     allows pregnant member to attend. If this is not possible, schedule class or course start dates
     after delivery and when the member presents a letter from her obstetric care provider stating
     there are no restrictions to strenuous activities. Approval for retraining is not applicable to
     those members applying for retraining into a new aircrew AFSC since they cannot meet the
     initial qualifications and are not considered fully qualified for the new AFSC until member
     has been returned to full duty following delivery.
     4.2. Participation in AD tours within the CONUS but performed away from the home station
     is dependent on available medical facilities at the training site, physical condition of the
     member, and approval of the medical squadron physician. At collocated bases, an AD
     physician assigned to the host base facility may approve an active duty tour when a Reserve
     medical squadron physician is not available.
     4.3. In accordance with SAF/MR letter, 26 Jul 2012 members who have been determined to
     be pregnant prior to the start of an active duty tour are not to be placed on active duty orders
     that will take them beyond the 34th week of pregnancy. Reservists who become pregnant
     after starting a period of active duty may continue on active duty beyond the 34 th week of
     pregnancy and will not have active duty orders automatically curtailed.
5. Medical Evaluations.
     5.1. Military Evaluation. The pregnant member presents documentation from her private
     obstetric care provider to her supporting RMU every 60 days. The RMU physician examines
     the member and completes an AF Form 469. The RMU physician then refers the pregnant
     member to the RMU public health (PH) technician for a medical pregnancy interview and
     education. In the absence of a PH technician, the medical interview and education is
     accomplished by an Aerospace Medical Service Technician (4N0X1) or nurse corps officer
     in consultation with the servicing Bioenvironmental Engineering section.
     5.2. Pregnancy Interview. The interview includes the briefing statement at attachment 2 and
     the supervisor’s letter at attachment 3. The interviewer signs both documents and the
     member signs the briefing statement. File the original briefing statement in the member’s
     medical record and give a copy to the member. The letter to the supervisor is given to the
     member to pass on to her commander or supervisor.
        5.2.1. If the interview indicates that the pregnant member does not work in a potentially
        hazardous environment (for example, industrial workplace) the interviewer annotates the
        Standard Form 513, Medical Record-Consultation Sheet, and gives it, the briefing
        statement, and commander’s letter to the RMU physician. The physician reviews all
        information, documents appropriate comments on the SF 513, and gives the briefing
        statement and commander’s letter to the member if she is found medically qualified for
        continued participation.
        5.2.2. If the interview indicates that a potentially hazardous situation exists, the RMU
        Air Reserve Technician (ART) requests an evaluation of the pregnant member’s work
        area by the active duty PH office (for collocated units) or Aeromedical Medical Services
        Technician (4N0X1) or nurse corps officer in consultation with the servicing
AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013                                                                      5


      Bioenvironmental Engineer (for non-collocated units) and provides a copy of the AF
      Form 469, and SF Form 513. Use AFRC Form 20, Pregnancy Workplace Evaluation, to
      record the results of the work area evaluation.
   5.3. Non-collocated Bases. On non-collocated bases, the assigned bioenvironmental
   engineering or PH personnel conducts the required interview and workplace evaluation. The
   medical commander may also assign an aerospace medical service technician (4N0X1) or
   nurse corps officer to conduct the interview and workplace evaluation in consultation with
   servicing bioenvironmental engineering.
   5.4. Military Physician. Upon receipt of the completed package (AFRC Form 20, SF Form
   513, AF Form 469, briefing statement, and the member’s job description obtained from the
   member’s supervisor by the active duty PH office), the military physician documents any
   additional restrictions on the AF Form 469 and gives the member a copy of the briefing
   statement and the supervisor’ letter. The completed package is filed in the member’s medical
   record.
   5.5. Medical Squadron. Each medical unit sets up a suspense file to ensure pregnant
   members are adequately monitored and periodic progress reports from the member’s civilian
   health care provider are received. Periodic progress reports detailing any special medical
   problems, complications, restrictions, etc. are provided to the medical unit at least every 60
   days. Individuals who do not submit required progress reports should be restricted from
   Reserve participation.
   5.6. Profile Officer. The designated profile officer in the medical unit monitors all
   pregnancy profiles utilizing AF Form 469 IAW AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions.
      5.6.1. The estimated date of delivery and medical recommendations concerning specific
      physical restrictions are included on AF Form 469 under “Physical
      Limitations/Restrictions.” Administrative instructions and other comments from the
      military physician may be recorded in this section. The Mobility Restriction box will be
      checked
      5.6.2. Member should be verbally advised of all necessary restrictions and a note
      included in the medical record that the member was advised. Advise member to carry the
      AF Form 469 on their person when participating in Reserve training activities.
6. Return to Duty.
   6.1. Return to Duty. After delivery, the member may return to full duty once cleared by
   their obstetric care provider. The member will provide the medical unit with a statement
   from her civilian obstetric care provider indicating her current health and any physical
   restrictions. The military physician reviews the letter and determines if the member’s profile
   will be revised to what it previously was or if other action is appropriate. If the member had
   medical complications from her pregnancy, the member’s supporting RMU takes the
   appropriate action to determine the member’s medical qualifications for continued military
   duty according to AFI 48-123.
   6.2. Failure to Comply. The medical units will manage members who fail to return to the
   RMU 180 days after the date of delivery. They are referred to their commanders in writing
   IAW AFI 36-2254, V1, Para 1.6.2.
 6                                                                 AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013


        6.2.1. Revise the member’s AF Form 469 appropriately.
7. Fitness Programs.
7.1. Exemptions. Reference AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program. Pregnant women are temporarily
exempted from Air Force fitness assessments until 180 days after delivery. Pregnant reservists
should discuss their fitness program with their personal care provider.
8. Military Medical Care.
     8.1. Military Care. Pregnancy and complications of pregnancy are not considered to be a
     medical condition for the purposes of a Line of Duty determination.
     8.2. Should a member go into labor while on IDT, the provisions of AFH 41-114, Military
     Health Services system (MHSS) Matrix, paragraph 5.3.15 go into effect. The member is to be
     transferred to a civilian medical facility as soon as it is safe to do so, and member incurs any
     medical costs associated with delivery at the military medical treatment facility (MTF).
     8.3. Maternity care is not authorized past the period of AD or AD including IADT orders.
     Refer pregnant members to a private health care provider or facility after termination of
     orders.
     8.4. Pregnant members on extended active duty (EAD) who are discharged or relieved from
     EAD under honorable conditions are eligible for maternity care IAW AFI 41-114. Issuance
     or extension of orders for obtaining maternity or obstetrical care is prohibited.
     Activated/mobilized members will follow appropriate activation/mobilization guidance.
     Absent such guidance AFH 41-114 will apply.
9. Assignment Actions.
     9.1. Assignment to the Reserve Program. Pregnancy is considered a temporary condition
     and, therefore, is an exception to the general medical disqualification procedures. Although
     considered a limiting factor, pregnancy does not permanently alter a member’s medical
     qualification for worldwide duty and is not considered a disqualifying medical condition for
     continued military assignment. This is, of course contingent upon a member being otherwise
     medically qualified and who has no complications which would prevent satisfactory
     participation. Although the possible mobilization of a unit is of primary consideration,
     allowing a pregnant member to transfer immediately from active duty into the Reserve
     program serves to provide continuity of training. A pregnant member serving on active duty
     while pregnant is no less qualified to participate in the Reserve program.
     9.2. An active duty member going through an uncomplicated pregnancy who transfers to the
     Reserve program immediately upon discharge or separation, has a completed DD Form 2697,
     Record of Medical Assessment, showing the member is otherwise medically qualified for
     military duty, is eligible for entry into the Reserve program. This does not apply to those
     members who have a break in service and did not initiate enlistment processing prior to
     discharge or separation who do not meet other administrative requirements.
     9.3. Pregnant members desiring transfer from the inactive Reserve to active Reserve status
     should have a current letter from their private obstetric care provider documenting an
     uncomplicated pregnancy and showing that they meet other administrative requirements for
     transfer. The necessity for an accession or initial physical is determined by the periodicity of
     physical examinations as found in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards.
AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013                                                                          7


10. Aircrew Members. To prevent loss of trained resources, female active duty members
currently serving in an aircrew AFSC or other special occupation should not be considered
disqualified for entry into the Reserve program due to pregnancy. The assignment of pregnant
aircrew members must have the prior approval of the gaining flying squadron commander. This
does not apply to those members applying for retraining or initial entry into a new aircrew AFSC
since they cannot meet the initial qualification requirements for the flying position and are not
considered fully qualified.
11. Non-flying Retraining. Active duty members requesting retraining into a new AFSC in the
Reserve program must obtain prior approval from the gaining commander since pregnant
reservists cannot participate beyond the 34th week of pregnancy (unless they volunteer, live
within 50 miles of the IDT location and the member, the unit commander, and the obstetric care
provider support the decision to continue participation). In cases such as this it could be as long
as 6 weeks after the date of delivery before the member would be eligible to attend formal
training.
12. Appointment or Enlistment. Commission and enlistment physicals will not be
accomplished on pregnant applicants (except transfers from active duty with no break in service).
   12.1. Physicals may be accomplished after delivery when the individual presents a letter
   from her obstetric care provider stating there are no restrictions to strenuous physical activity.
   12.2. Enlistees will not be cleared for basic military training until after delivery and
   clearance from the individual’s private obstetric care provider stating there are no restrictions
   to strenuous physical activity.




                                              JOSEPH B. ANDERSON, Colonel, SG
                                              Command Surgeon
 8                                                            AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
SAF/MR Letter, 26 Jul 2012
AFI 10-203, Duty Limiting Conditions (25 Jun 2010)
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program (01 Jul 2010)
AFI 36-2910, Line of Duty (Misconduct) Determination (04 Oct 2002)
AFI 36-2254, Vol 1, Reserve Personnel Participation (26 May 2010)
AFI 44-102, Community Health Management (20 Jan 2012)
AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards (24 Sep 2009)
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources (15 Apr 1994)
AFI 41-210, Tricare Operations & Patient Administration Functions (6 Jun 2012)
AFRC Form 20, Pregnancy Workplace Evaluation, (01 May 1997)
Forms Prescribed
AFRC Form 20, Pregnancy Workplace Evaluation
Forms Adopted
AF847, Recommendation For Change Of Publication
AF469, Duty Limiting Condition Report
SF Form 513, Medical Record-Consultation Sheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—active duty Active Duty
ADMS—Active Duty Medical Squadron
ADSW—Active Duty Special Work
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ART—Air Reserve Technician
CONUS—Continental United States
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Ensemble
DAV—Duty Availability
DOA—Date of Availability
DNIF—Duties Not Including Flying
EAD—Extended Active Duty
HAWC—Health and Wellness Center
AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013       9


IADT—Inactive Duty Training
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
PH—Public Health
PT—Physical Training
RMU—Reserve Medical Unit
 10                                                              AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                                   BRIEFING STATEMENT

1. While pregnant, you may participate in a restricted status until your 34th week of pregnancy
or you may volunteer to participate in UTA status from the 34th week of pregnancy to term,
provided your home is located within 50 miles of the IDT location, you, the unit
commander/program manager, and obstetric care provider all support the decision for continued
participation.

2. A military physician may restrict you from Reserve participation at any time the physician
determines such action is appropriate.

3. You must bring in a letter from your obstetric care provider summarizing your current health,
physical restrictions and expected date of delivery.

4. A periodic medical progress report from your private physician will be required every 60 days
or more often if needed to determine continued fitness for military duties.

5. Military duty within CONUS performed away from home station must be cleared through this
medical unit by a military physician.

6. For military duty away from home station, a statement from your private physician,
accomplished within 30 days of departure, must be submitted through this medical unit to a
military physician for approval of travel.

7. The letter from your private physician must include potential or actual medical complications,
restrictions regarding physical activities, approval for travel, or any other facts deemed relevant
to your care.

8. Should you go into labor while on IDT, you will be transferred to a civilian medical facility as
soon as it is safe to do so, and you will incur any medical costs associated with delivery at the
medical treatment facility. Pregnancy is not considered to be a medical condition for the
purposes of a LOD determination.

9. After delivery and when cleared by your obstetric care provider you must come back to the
medical squadron for evaluation by a military physician to be cleared for return to military duty.


___________________________________                           ______________________
        Member’s signature                                              Date


___________________________________                           ______________________
        Medical Interviewer                                            Date
   AFRCI41-104 15 APRIL 2013                                                                        11


                                             Attachment 3
                             LETTER TO MEMBER’S SUPERVISOR

   1. Subject member may participate in a restricted status while pregnant (see attached AF Form
   469) unless restricted earlier by a military physician. She may participate until (enter date; her
   34th week of pregnancy) or volunteer to participate in UTA status until term provided her home
   is within 50 miles of the IDT location, the member, her commander/program manager, and
   obstetric care provider all support the decision for continued participation.

   2. Any duty away from home station will require a statement of the member’s current medical
   status from her private physician. This statement must be submitted 30 days prior to departure to
   the medical unit and travel approved by a military physician.

   3. After delivery, and when cleared by her obstetric care provider, the member must return to the
   medical unit for evaluation by a military physician and to be cleared for return to military duty.

   4. Subject member is deferred from the fitness program for a period of 180 days after the date of
   delivery.

   5. Member will not participate in mask confidence training.

   6. Wear of the CWDE will be dependent upon the ambient temperature until 20 weeks gestation
   age or until the CWDE no longer fits.

a. If the ambient temperature is below 70 Fahrenheit, full participation is allowed.
b. If the temperature is greater than 70 degrees Fahrenheit, only mask, hood, and helmet are worn.
   The flak vest is not worn or carried.

   7. After 20 weeks gestation, the member will demonstrate proficiency in donning the mask at
   the commencement of an exercise or training. After completing the proficiency demonstration,
   the member will carry the mask but is not required to use it. The helmet, flak, vest, web belt, and
   chemical protective suit will not be carried or worn.

   Note: Members who have been determined to be pregnant are not to be placed on active duty
   orders that will take them beyond the 34th week. For those who are on ADT or ADSW orders
   and subsequently become pregnant, they are not to be automatically released from active duty by
   the 34th week. Pregnancy is not considered to be a medical condition for the purpose of a LOD
   determination.


                                                        Medical Interviewer Signature
   Attachment
   AF Form 469
