BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                         INSTRUCTION 36-2301

                                                                               28 MARCH 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                  EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
                                                     MONTGOMERY GI BILL-SELECTED
                                                                          RESERVE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFGSC/A4MX                                                 Certified by: HQ AFRC/A1K
                                                                        (Mr. Earnest W. Sowell)
                                                                                      Pages: 23
Supersedes:   AFRCI36-2301, 2 April 2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-30, Military Entitlements, Department
of Defense (DoD) Instruction 1322.17, Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR). It
describes the Air Force Reserve Command’s (AFRC) Reserve GI Bill processes and directs
procedures for administering the Selected Reserve Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB-SR) and the
MGIB-SR Educational Assistance Allowance Increase for Critical Skills (MGIB-SR Kicker).
This instruction applies to the HQ AFRC staff, AFRC Numbered Air Force (NAF), and AFRC
units. . This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended
changes and questions about his publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Form 847s from the
field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised and must be completely reviewed. Grammar changes as well
as office symbols have been annotated. The intent and context remains the same for following;
The Selected Reserve (SR) Educational Assistance Program, MGIB-SR Educational Assistance
Allowance Increase for Critical Skills (MGIB-SR Kicker), Conversion Table for MGIB-SR
 2                                                                                        AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


Basic Benefit Eligibility Status Code removed. AFRC19, Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve
(MGIB-SR) Kicker contract has been newly revised.         Attachment 1-GLOSSARY OF
REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION.


        1.      The MGIB-SR Educational Assistance Program. ..................................................                              2
Table 1.        MGIB Personnel System Codes for AGRs. ...........................................................                           8
Table 2.        MGIB-SR Basic Benefit Eligibility Status Codes and Definitions for Unit
                Reservists/IMAs. ....................................................................................................       9
        2.      MGIB-SR Educational Assistance Allowance Increase for Critical Skills (MGIB-
                SR Kicker). ............................................................................................................   11
Table 3.        MGIB-SR Kicker eligibility codes and Definitions for Unit Reservists/IMAs. ....                                            18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             21


1. The MGIB-SR Educational Assistance Program. The MGIB-SR is used to encourage and
sustain membership in the Air Force Reserve ensuring a more educated work force. MGIB-SR
program managers conduct publicity campaigns to ensure widest dissemination of information
on the availability of the MGIB-SR and the MGIB-SR Kicker, via articles, updates, newcomer's
packets, conferences, web pages, or other information systems.
     1.1. Administration. The MGIB-SR is administered by the DVA and is subject to
     congressional guidance. A member is entitled to a maximum of 36 months of benefits in any
     one program or 48 months in a combination of two programs for full-time or equivalent
     study. Members are charged one full day of entitlement for each day of full-time benefits
     paid. For example, if a member is pursuing one-half time study the member will be charged
     one-half the monthly entitlement for benefits. The same holds true for three-quarters time
     and less than one-half time. MGIB-SR benefits are based on enrollment in a program of
     education approved by the VA for MGIB-SR participation.
     1.2. Base Training and Education Office Responsibilities. It is the Training office's
     responsibility to counsel reservists on their potential eligibility for Chapter 1606 benefits and
     issue the required forms within 30 days of enlistment, extension or reenlistment, and to
     ensure that all members who are eligible complete a (DD) Form 2384-1, for Chapter 1606
     benefits.
     1.3. Chapter 1606 Benefits. Educational assistance may be provided for the pursuit of any
     program of education that is approved by the Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA). To be
     eligible for educational assistance under the expanded benefits program (e.g., multiple
     baccalaureate degrees, flight training, vocational/technical training), enlistment, reenlistment,
     extension, or agreement to serve must be initiated on or after 1 October 1990. Educational
     assistance for programs of instruction beyond the baccalaureate level was authorized in
     Public Law 103-160, 30 November 1993. All Chapter 1606 benefits are paid directly to the
     member while in Selected Reserve status, and cease upon separation. (See paragraph 1.11
     for exceptions.) The amount paid is based on the number of credit hours the member is
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                      3


  currently enrolled. Current pay rates can be found at the Department of Veterans Affairs
  website, http://www.gibill.va.gov/resources/benefits_resources/rate_tables.html
  1.4. Eligibility. Chapter 1606 Entitlement and Public Law 98-525, Montgomery Veterans
  Educational Assistance Act of 1984, states members of the Selected Reserve who meet the
  following criteria, continue to participate satisfactorily, and have been issued a DD Form
  2384-1, Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE), are entitled to Title 10 U.S.C. Chapter 1606,
  educational assistance. Every Air Force Reserve member's record must be updated in the
  Personnel Data System (PDS) to reflect the most current eligibility data.
     1.4.1. Individuals must, on or after 1 July 1985, enlist, reenlist or extend an enlistment in
     the Selected Reserve for a period of not less than six years or, in the case of officers,
     agree to serve in the Selected Reserve for six years besides any other period of obligated
     service.
     1.4.2. Individuals must complete the requirements for award of a high school diploma or
     equivalency certificate before applying for MGIB-SR benefits.
     1.4.3. Enlisted individuals must complete Initial Active Duty Training (IADT).
     Individuals must complete the IADT requirements for mobilization prescribed by the
     Secretary.
     1.4.4. Individuals must not be receiving financial (scholarship) assistance as a member of
     the Senior Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program.
     1.4.5. Individuals must remain a participating member of the Selected Reserve to
     maintain eligibility for Chapter 1606 benefits. Member’s entitlement is forfeited when
     they cease to participate in the Selected Reserve. (See paragraph 1.12, Continuation of
     Benefits, for exceptions.)
  1.5. Chapter 30 “Two by Four” Program. Prior active duty service members, who originally
  enlisted under a “two by four” program, may be entitled to Chapter 30 MGIB benefits.
  Under this program, members must have served at least 2 years active duty after 1 July 1985,
  and subsequently enlisted in the Selected Reserve for at least 4 years. Members interested in
  the “two by four” program should be advised to seek DVA verification of eligibility under
  Title 38 U.S.C. Chapter 30.
  1.6. Concurrent Education Assistance. Any Selected Reserve member, who has established
  their eligibility in Chapter 1606 of the MGIB-SR program prior to 29 November 1989, will
  retain that eligibility should they, at any time, elect to perform an AGR tour. As an AGR, the
  member may also elect to enroll in the Chapter 30 MGIB program that provides the active
  duty forces educational benefits, provided they began their first active duty tour on or after
  29 November 1989. NOTE: Members who have previously been on active duty and
  declined to participate in the Chapter 30 program are not eligible for chapter 30 benefits
  when they go on an AGR tour on or after 29 November 1989. The same period of active
  duty cannot be used to establish eligibility under more than one VA program.
     1.6.1. Members who established eligibility for Chapter 1606 benefits before 29
     November 1989, and who enter active duty on an AGR tour, must elect whether that
     period of active service is to be used to establish eligibility under Chapter 30 or Chapter
4                                                              AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


       1606. Members may not participate in both programs simultaneously, but may receive a
       maximum of 48 months of combined benefits.
       1.6.2. Reserve members, who first became eligible for Chapter 1606 benefits after 29
       November 1989, must relinquish that eligibility should they elect to become an AGR.
       This means that a reservist who first became eligible for Chapter 1606 benefits after 29
       November 1989, and who then entered an AGR tour, would lose their eligibility to
       Chapter 1606 benefits. These members would then be eligible for Chapter 30 benefits
       only, if otherwise eligible (See paragraph 1.6).
    1.7. Bar to Duplication of Educational Assistance Benefits. A member cannot receive
    MGIB-SR basic and/or MGIB-SR Kicker benefits while concurrently receiving assistance in
    whole or in part from any other Federal source, as listed in Section 3681 of Title 38 U.S.C.,
    when the payment constitutes a duplication of benefits. In no case will an individual entitled
    to educational assistance under more than one program be allowed to receive assistance
    under two or more programs concurrently. Members are not allowed to use the Air Force
    Reserve Command Tuition Assistance Program and MGIB-SR for the same class.
    1.8. Department of Defense (DD) Form 2384-1. The DD Form 2384-1, shall be issued to
    each member of the Selected Reserve at the time a member entitled to educational assistance
    becomes eligible for the receipt of educational assistance, regardless of their intent to use the
    benefit. The form shall become a permanent part of the member’s official military record.
    The NOBE should be filed in the member’s Automated Records Management System
    (ARMS) at HQ ARPC. Mail NOBEs to HQ ARPC/DPQA, 18420 E. Silver Creek Street,
    Bldg 390, Buckley AFB CO 80011. Only one form shall be issued to each eligible member
    in their Selected Reserve career (see paragraph 1.8.3 for exception).
       1.8.1. Date of Basic Eligibility (block 1.e. of the NOBE) will be the date the member
       meets requirements for benefit eligibility. This date should not be later than the date the
       NOBE is issued and must be after completion of IADT (paragraph 1.1.3).
       1.8.2. The member will submit the NOBE to the DVA when requesting MGIB-SR
       benefits. Following personnel system update reporting eligibility of benefits, give the
       original NOBE to the member. Do not use future dates to show eligibility or termination
       when updating the member’s MGIB-SR record.
       1.8.3. A corrected copy of the NOBE may be issued to change an erroneous date of basic
       eligibility. The corrected DD Form 2384-1 shall be clearly marked “CORRECTED
       COPY”.
       1.8.4. Submit any suggested modifications to the DD Form 2384-1, NOBE, through HQ
       AFRC/A1KE to USAF/ REPP for coordination with other Selected Reserve components
       before review by the Office of the Secretary of Defense-Reserve Affairs (OSD-RA).
       1.8.5. Secure DD Forms 2384-1 at all times. Care must be taken to safeguard blank
       forms. Electronic generation of DD Form 2384-1 is authorized with the stipulation of
       controlled password protection. The wing commander appoints a commissioned officer,
       noncommissioned officer (Grade E-6 or above), or DOD civilian (GS-5 or above) to
       requisition, control, and issue the MGIB-SR forms. This individual may also be
       designated as the authenticating official. The appointed individuals shall ensure only one
       DD Form 2384-1 is issued to any Service member.
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                     5


     1.8.6. HQ ARPC/DPT (for IMA program) and FSS commanders (for Unit program) will
     semi-annually review the issuance of NOBEs to ensure compliance with procedures for
     safeguarding.
  1.9. Suspension. Entitlement to educational assistance is suspended for the following:
     1.9.1. On the date the member is granted an authorized period of non-availability by unit
     commander and transfers to the Individual Ready Reserve, the Inactive National Guard,
     or the SR of another Reserve component except as cited in paragraphs 1.12.1 and
     1.12.2. Suspensions shall apply to both MGIB-SR basic benefits and MGIB-SR Kicker
     payments. Authorized periods of absence will not exceed one 3 year period for a
     missionary obligation or one period not to exceed 1 year for all other circumstances.
     1.9.2. Failure to Participate Satisfactorily. Entitlement to MGIB-SR kicker benefits shall
     be suspended on the date a member fails to participate satisfactorily, as determined by the
     unit commander only. Failure to participate satisfactorily means failure to fulfill the
     contractual obligation or agreement as a member of the Ready Reserve, as defined in
     DODI 1215.18, "Reserve Component Member Participation Requirements," 11 January
     1996. The member shall be notified by the Reserve component of the reason for loss of
     entitlement and given an opportunity to respond before a final determination is made and
     a termination of entitlement is processed. If a member is found to have failed to
     participate satisfactorily, termination of entitlement shall be effective on the date of the
     suspension of entitlement.
     1.9.3. When a member receives financial assistance in the form of a Senior Reserve
     Officers Training Corps Scholarship under Section 2107 of Title 10 U.S.C.
  1.10. Expiration of Benefit Period. A member’s period of eligibility to receive educational
  assistance under Chapter 1606 shall expire:
     1.10.1. If there is a break in service; the benefit period expires at the end of a 10-year
     period (for those with an Eligibility Start Date prior to 30 Sep 92), and at the end of the
     14-year period (for those with an Eligibility Start Date of 1 Oct 92 or greater). NOTE:
     If the service member has no break in service during their Selected Reserve career, Title
     10 U.S.C. 16133(a) allows use of the MGIB-SR and MGIB-SR kicker until the date the
     person is separated from the Selected Reserve.
  1.11. Termination of Benefits. Entitlement to Chapter 1606 MGIB-SR benefits cease if:
     1.11.1. On the date the member is transferred from the Selected Reserve or discharged,
     whichever occurs first.
     1.11.2. A member is determined to have failed to participate satisfactorily in required
     training. Termination data will also be entered into the military personnel data system. If
     a member is found to have failed to participate satisfactorily, termination of entitlement
     shall be effective on the date of the suspension of entitlement. NOTE: A unit member is
     an unsatisfactory participant after the 9th unexcused absence.
     1.11.3. A member receives financial assistance from the Reserve Officers’ Training
     Corps (ROTC) Scholarship and fails to reaffiliate with the Selected Reserve within 1 year
     of the end of the ROTC scholarship.
  1.12. Continuation of Benefits:
6                                                              AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


       1.12.1. If a member is separated from the Selected Reserve due to a disability that did
       not result from willful misconduct, that member may retain eligibility for the Chapter
       1606 MGIB-SR until the end of the 14-year delimiting period from the member’s date of
       eligibility. The disability does not have to have been incurred in or aggravated by service
       in the Selected Reserve. However, the disability must have been incurred on or after the
       date on which the member became entitled to benefits under the program.
       1.12.2. If a member is separated from the Selected Reserve involuntarily, and is eligible
       for Reserve Transition Assistance Program (RTAP) benefits, that member may retain
       eligibility for Chapter 1606 MGIB-SR benefits until the end of the 14-year delimiting
       period from the member’s date of eligibility. NOTE: Members remain entitled to
       MGIB-SR benefits regardless of the number of times they reaffiliate and separate.
           1.12.2.1. If a member was recalled in support of contingencies issued under Sections
           12301(a), 12301(d), 12301(g), 12302, 12304 of Title 10 U.S.C., and previously
           eligible for 1606 benefits, they are entitled to additional time beyond the 14-year
           delimiting period. They are eligible for the time activated plus four months. This is
           handled by the DVA on a case-by-case basis. The military personnel data system will
           reflect that the member's delimiting period has expired. Leave this information as is
           in the personnel system.
       1.12.3. If member is enrolled in an educational institution when the period of eligibility
       expires, the benefit period will be extended as follows:
           1.12.3.1. If the member is enrolled in an institution operated regularly on a quarter or
           semester basis and the period of entitlement expires during a quarter or semester, the
           benefit period will be extended to the end of that quarter or semester.
           1.12.3.2. If the member is enrolled in an institution or program not operated regularly
           on a quarter or semester basis and the period of entitlement expires after a major
           portion of the course is completed, the benefit period is extended to the end of the
           course, or for 12 weeks, whichever is less. NOTE: Overpayment occurs when a
           member withdraws from a school/course without notifying the DVA and the
           school/course has already been paid for.
    1.13. Failure to Participate Satisfactorily in Required Training. Members of the Selected
    Reserve, who receive educational assistance under Chapter 1606, and whose educational
    assistance is terminated because they fail to participate satisfactorily in required training may
    be:
       1.13.1. Ordered to active duty involuntarily for up to two years or the period of obligated
       Selected Reserve service remaining under the member’s service agreement, whichever is
       less.
       1.13.2. Be required to refund to the United States an amount equal to the number of
       months of SR service the person has remaining under the MGIB-SR obligation, divided
       by the original number of obligated months required for MGIB-SR entitlement; and
       multiplied by the total amount of educational assistance provided to the member under
       Chapter 1606. The amount of the refund computed shall bear interest at the rate equal to
       the highest rate being paid by the United States on the day on which the refund is
       determined to be due for securities having maturities of 90 days or less and will accrue
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                       7


     from the day on which the member is first notified of the amount due to the United States
     as a refund under this instruction. Any such refund will not affect the SR period of
     obligation of the member. NOTE: Recoupment is the process of obtaining a refund of
     unearned benefits paid to Service members who were unsatisfactory participants or
     otherwise failed to participate satisfactorily before completing the 6-year Selected
     Reserve service obligation required to gain entitlement to educational assistance under
     Chapter 1606. The amount of the refund shall be equal to the product of:
         1.13.2.1. The number of months of obligated Selected Reserve service the person has
         remaining under the Selected Reserve service agreement entered into which resulted
         in the person’s entitlement for educational assistance, divided by the original number
         of months of such period of obligated service; and,
         1.13.2.2. The total amount of educational assistance provided to the member under
         this chapter, as increased by interest at the rate equal to the highest rate being paid by
         the U.S. Government on the day on which the refund is determined to be due for
         securities having maturities of 90 days or less, such interest to accrue from the day on
         which the member is first notified of the amount due to the U.S. Government as a
         refund.
     1.13.3. Granted a waiver of the requirement to serve on active duty, a waiver of the
     refund, or have the amount of refund reduced once the amount due the government is
     determined. Waiver authority may be delegated no lower than the head of the Reserve
     component, i.e., AF/RE and shall be based on a determination that failure to participate
     satisfactorily in required training was due to reasons beyond the control of the member.
     1.13.4. Recoupment Calculation Example. Service member enlists for 6 years on
     12/10/2002. To fulfill the 6 year obligation, service member had to serve in the Selected
     Reserve till 12/09/2008. The system reflects member left Selected Reserve and went to
     IRR on 11/19/2006. There are 24 unfulfilled contract months. Service member was paid
     $4,975 by the VA. Recoupment amount is the total benefit received multiplied against
     the unfulfilled service months (24/72 * 4975) = $1,658. NOTE: Recoupment of a
     benefit amount, as defined in paragraph 2.12.1, will not occur in the case of the death of
     the member
  1.14. Restoration of Eligibility. Eligibility for assistance is terminated when a member
  separates from the Selected Reserve. Members who separate for valid reasons, according to
  applicable military publications, following a period of satisfactory service, may regain
  eligibility for educational assistance, if reaffiliation with the Selected Reserve occurs within
  1 year (3 years if serving a missionary obligation) and member reenlist or extends for the
  period of time not actively participating immediately upon reaffiliation, (within 30 days) or
  in cases of members who have served on an AGR tour, returns to reserve status (without a
  break in service), and are otherwise eligible for educational assistance and have not received
  the maximum assistance available.
     1.14.1. When reaffiliation occurs, the member’s eligibility for benefits shall be adjusted
     by the amount previously awarded. The period of Selected Reserve service required of a
     member in such cases shall not be less than the difference between the previous period of
     satisfactory Selected Reserve service performed and six years. The Reserve component
 8                                                             AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


        shall report the original eligibility date listed on the DD Form 2384-1 from the member’s
        official military records.
        1.14.2. Only one voluntary release from the Selected Reserve is permitted during the
        eligibility period for recovering eligibility to educational assistance.
     1.15. Reporting Eligibility. Use the military personnel data system to report accurate data
     for MGIB-SR eligibility and termination. Data will be maintained on Selected Reserve
     members who are eligible/ineligible to receive educational assistance to include those
     members that have been determined to have failed to participate satisfactorily in required
     training (active duty and inactive duty training) and those who do not complete a 6-year
     obligation incurred for the use on MGIB-SR.
        1.15.1. Tables 1, 2, and 3 identify MGIB-SR Data Identification Number System (DINS)
        and eligibility codes.
        1.15.2. The DVA will notify the member when AFR data on Department of Defense files
        maintained at the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) do not show the member as
        eligible for benefits.
        1.15.3. The education and training office will check the unit member's computer record
        at base level, enter any data correction required in the military personnel data system, and
        promptly notify HQ AFRC/A1KE if a change is required. IMAs will contact HQ
        ARPC/DPAT regarding eligibility and changes.
            1.15.3.1. HQ AFRC/A1KE and HQ ARPC/DPTT verify the correct data and perform
            the changes as required using the DMDC system.

Table 1. MGIB Personnel System Codes for AGRs.
DIN EBZ           Chapter 30 Eligibility Code.
Code “1”          Ineligible.
Code “2”          Member has not executed a declination of enrollment.
Code “3”          Ineligible - Member received commission after 31 December 1976 from
                  ROTC/SVCAC
Code “4”          Member enrolled and on active duty for less than 3 years
Code “5”          Enrolled - Member on AD for a period of obligated service of 3 years or more
Code “6”          Ineligible - Member declined enrollment
Code “7’          Ineligible - Member does not meet minimum service requirements or discharge
                  not honorable
Code “8”          Ineligible - Member did not receive second diploma-certificate before completing
                  service requirements
Code “9”          Ineligible - Member declined previous enrollment
Code “A”          Eligible - Members initial period of obligated active service less than 3 years
Code “B”          Eligible - Members initial period of obligated active service 3 years or more
Code “C”          Eligible - Member completed 2 years active duty service and enlisted for 4 or
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                      9


                 more years
Code “D”         Eligible - Member completed 2 years active duty service and 4 years in Selected
                 Reserves
Code “K”         Member enrolled - VEAP eligible permit due involuntary separation
Code “L”         Member enrolled- Permitted under voluntary separation incentive
Code “M”         Member Enrolled - Permitted under special separation benefits
Code “Q”         Member declined enrollment in MGIB from VEAP

Table 2. MGIB-SR Basic Benefit Eligibility Status Codes and Definitions for Unit
Reservists/IMAs.
MGIB-SR Basic Benefit Eligibility Status Codes and Definitions
Code         Eligibility Status Definition
AA           No entitlement    Member has not executed a qualifying Selected Reserve contract
                               or service obligation after 30 June 1985
AB           No entitlement    Member executed a qualifying Selected Reserve contract or
                               service obligation after 30 June 1985 but has not completed
                               initial active duty for training (IADT)
AC           No entitlement    Member executed a qualifying Selected Reserve contract or
                               service obligation after 30 June 1985 and completed IADT, but
                               did not complete the requirements of a secondary school
                               diploma or equivalency certificate before execution of the
                               qualifying contract or service obligation, in the case of a prior
                               service member, or before completion of IADT, in the case of a
                               non-prior service member
AD           No entitlement    Member erroneously reported as eligible
                               No determination of an overpayment is required by the Veterans
                               Benefit Administration.
BA           Eligible          Member serving in an initial qualifying period of eligibility
BB           Eligibility       Member serving in a second or subsequent qualifying period of
             reinstated        eligibility
BE           Eligibility       Member separated from the Selected Reserve because of a
             retained          disability which was not the result of willful misconduct
BF           Eligibility       Member separated or transferred from the Selected Reserve
             retained          because of the inactivation or reduction in authorized strength of
                               the unit of assignment
                               Applicable only if the date of the separation or transfer was
                               during the period 1 October 1991 to 30 September 1999.
10                                              AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


CA   Eligibility   Member completed the requirements of a baccalaureate or
     suspended     equivalent degree
                   Obsolete value as of 1 July 1994. Applicable only to members
                   who executed a 6-year Selected Reserve contract or service
                   obligation prior to 1 October 1990; concurrently or subsequently
                   established basic benefit eligibility; subsequently completed the
                   requirements of a baccalaureate or equivalent degree; did not
                   execute a 6-year Selected Reserve contract or service obligation
                   on or after 1 October 1990; and did not serve in the Selected
                   Reserve on or after 1 July 1994. Value occurs on the DMDC
                   MGIB-SR Database but is not reported on the RCCPDS
                   submission to DMDC.
CB   Eligibility   Member transferred from the Selected Reserve to another
     suspended     Reserve Component Category for a period of authorized non-
                   availability for reasons other than to fulfill a religious
                   missionary obligation
                   To reinstate eligibility the member must re-affiliate with the
                   Selected Reserve within 1 year and, if eligibility was suspended
                   during the basic benefit obligated service period, commit to
                   completing the benefit obligated service.
CC   Eligibility   Member transferred from the Selected Reserve to another
     suspended     Reserve Component Category and/or Reserve Component for a
                   period of authorized non-availability to fulfill a religious
                   missionary obligation
                   To reinstate eligibility the member must re-affiliate with the
                   Selected Reserve within 3 years and, if eligibility was suspended
                   during the basic benefit obligated service period, commit to
                   completing the benefit obligated service.
CD   Eligibility   Member awaiting final determination of unsatisfactory
     suspended     participation
CF   Eligibility   Member entered on active duty or full-time tour as part of an
     suspended     Active Guard and Reserve Program (AGR).
                   Applicable only if the MGIB-SR Entitlement Begin Date was on
                   or after 29 November 1989. To reinstate eligibility the member
                   must re-affiliate with the Selected Reserve in a part-time status
                   within 1 year of release from active duty and, if eligibility was
                   suspended during the basic benefit obligated service period,
                   commit to completing the benefit obligated service.
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                       11


CG            Eligibility       Member in receipt of an ROTC scholarship
              suspended         To reinstate eligibility the member must re-affiliate with the
                                Selected Reserve within 1 year of the end of the ROTC
                                scholarship and, if eligibility was suspended during the basic
                                benefit obligated service period, commit to completing the
                                benefit obligated service.
DA            Eligibility       Member failed to re-affiliate within the required time limit
              terminated        following a period of authorized non-availability
                                Note: Member failed to re-affiliate with the Selected Reserve
                                within the required time limit.
DB            Eligibility       Member discharged from the Selected Reserve without being
              terminated        granted a period of authorized non-availability
                                A member may reinstate eligibility by re-affiliating with the
                                Selected Reserve within 1 year, and if eligibility was suspended
                                during the basic benefit obligated service period, he or she must
                                commit to completing the benefit obligated service.
DC            Eligibility       Member died
              terminated
DD            Eligibility       Member determined to be an unsatisfactory participant
              terminated
DE            Eligibility       Member not determined to be an unsatisfactory participant but
              terminated        otherwise failed to participate satisfactorily for 6 years in
                                required training in the Selected Reserve
DF            Eligibility       Obsolete value. I indicated that the 14-yrs had expired; however,
              terminated        the Services do not make that determination.

2. MGIB-SR Educational Assistance Allowance Increase for Critical Skills (MGIB-SR
Kicker). The MGIB-SR Kicker is a supplemental educational assistance benefit of up to $350
for each month that the Military Services may offer to encourage MGIB-SR eligible Service
members to fill critical specialties, skills, or units. Eligible Service members may elect to
receive the MGIB-SR Kicker payment as a supplement to either Chapter 1606 of Title 10 U.S.C.
or Chapter 30, of Title 38 U.S.C.
     2.1. Administration. A member who meets the criteria and enrolls in a DVA-approved
     course of study is eligible for educational assistance under Chapter 1606. Service members
     must apply to the DVA for payment of benefits. The member is responsible to send both DD
     Form 2384-1 and the AFRC Form 19 to the DVA.
        2.1.1. Educational assistance may be provided for the pursuit of any program of
        education that is an approved program of education under Title 38 U.S.C. To be entitled
        to educational assistance under the vocational and/or technical programs, the enlistment,
        reenlistment, extension, or agreement to serve must be executed on or after October 1,
        1990.
12                                                           AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


     2.1.2. Educational assistance is authorized for DVA-approved programs such as
     institutions of higher learning, both graduate (subject to availability of funds) and
     undergraduate programs, on-the-job training (OJT), apprenticeships, correspondence
     courses, independent study, tutorial assistance, cooperative programs, vocational training,
     and flight training.
     2.1.3. Benefits are paid for a maximum of 36 months based upon full-time enrollment.
     Benefits are also paid for three-quarter time, half-time, or at an applicably reduced rate,
     as determined by the Secretary of the DVA, for each month of less than half-time.
     2.1.4. The Secretary of the Air Force may offer the MGIB-SR Kicker to eligible
     members at the monthly rate of $100, $200, or $350. MGIB-SR kicker payments shall
     not exceed $350 each month.
     2.1.5. The Secretary of the Air Force determines the amount of the MGIB-SR Kicker
     additional monthly benefit for eligible members under constraints established by Section
     16131, and the Secretary of Defense. MGIB-SR Kicker benefits shall be paid for a
     maximum of 36 months based on full-time pursuit. Monthly benefits for less than full-
     time pursuit shall be adjusted like the MGIB-SR basic benefit, as determined by the
     Secretary of the DVA. Members of the SR who are eligible for the MGIB-SR Kicker
     under paragraph 2.3, and who are also eligible for educational assistance under Chapter
     30 and meet the eligibility criteria specified in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of Section
     16132 (a) (1) of Title 10 U.S.C. and who have received a DD 2384-1, may receive the
     MGIB-SR Kicker up to the maximum amount. The member must be receiving basic
     benefits under Chapter 1606 or Chapter 30 to receive MGIB-SR Kicker benefits.
     2.1.6. After completing 6 years in the SR, the member may transfer to another specialty,
     skill, unit, and/or Reserve component and retain eligibility for the MGIB-SR Kicker
     benefit. To retain eligibility, the member must be entitled to educational assistance under
     Chapter 1606 or Chapter 30 and not have exhausted the full-time equivalent of 36 months
     or eligibility window of MGIB-SR Kicker benefits.
  2.2. Base Training and Education Office Responsibilities. It is the Training office's
  responsibility to counsel reservists on their potential eligibility for MGIB-SR Kicker benefits
  and issue the Air Force Reserve Command Form 19, MGIB-SR Kicker Contract, within 30
  days of enlistment, extension or reenlistment.
  2.3. MGIB-SR Kicker Eligibility. Members of the SR who are eligible for MGIB-SR basic
  benefit, continue to participate satisfactorily, been issued a DD Form 2384-1, and meet the
  following criteria are eligible for the MGIB-SR Kicker:
     2.3.1. Enlist, reenlist, or extend their current enlistment to serve a period of not less than
     6 years on or after 1 June 2000 in the SR in a Reserve component currently offering the
     MGIB-SR Kicker.
     2.3.2. Qualify for and be assigned to a Chief of the Air Force Reserve-designated critical
     specialty, skill, or unit in the SR. The critical specialty list will be published annually.
     2.3.3. Be in receipt of benefits under Section 16132 of Title 10 U.S.C., or Sections 3011-
     3012 of Title 38 U.S.C. (Chapter 1606 or Chapter 30 MGIB basic benefit).
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                      13


  2.4. Chapter 30 “Two by Four” Program. Prior active duty members, who originally
  enlisted under a "two by four" program, may be entitled to Chapter 30 MGIB benefits.
  Under this program, members must have served at least 2 years active duty after 1 July 1985,
  and subsequently (without a break in service) enlisted in the Selected Reserve for at least 4
  years. To receive MGIB Kicker benefits, members must have served at least 2 years active
  duty after 1 July 1985 and subsequently (without a break in service) enlist in the Selected
  Reserve for at least 6 years. Members interested in the “two by four” program should be
  advised to seek DVA verification of eligibility under Title 38 U.S.C. Chapter 30.
  2.5. Concurrent Education Assistance. A member cannot receive MGIB-SR basic and/or
  MGIB-SR Kicker benefits while concurrently receiving assistance in whole or in part from
  any other Federal source, as listed in Section 3681 of Title 38 U.S.C., when the payment
  constitutes a duplication of benefits.
     2.5.1. A member cannot use the same period of service to establish entitlement under
     both Chapter 1606 and Chapter 30. Because of separate periods of service, a member
     may satisfy the entitlement criteria for both programs. A member cannot receive basic
     benefit payments from both Chapter 1606 and Chapter 30 programs for the same month
     of education. The maximum aggregate period for DVA-administered educational
     assistance under two or more provisions of law is 48 months (or its part-time equivalent).
     In those cases, members may exhaust their entitlement under one provision, and then
     continue receiving education assistance under another provision until the aggregate 48
     months of entitlement has been used.
     2.5.2. A prior active duty (AD) member qualified for an increase in educational
     allowance (such as the Army College Fund, the Navy College Fund, the Marine Corps
     college Fund, or the Coast Guard College Fund) under Section 3015 of Title 38 U.S.C.,
     shall receive increased benefits under both Title 38 U.S.C. and the MGIB-SR Kicker
     (under Chapter 1606 of Title 10 U.S.C.) simultaneously, if qualified.
  2.6. Bar to Duplication of Educational Assistance Benefits. In no case will an individual
  entitled to educational assistance under more than one program be allowed to receive
  assistance under two or more programs concurrently. Members are not allowed to use the
  Air Force Reserve Command Tuition Assistance Program and MGIB-SR for the same class.
  2.7. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Form 19. The AFRC Form 19, Montgomery GI
  Bill-Selected Reserve Kicker Contract, shall be issued to each member of the Selected
  Reserve at the time that a member is entitled to educational assistance and becomes eligible
  for the receipt of educational assistance. A copy of the form becomes a permanent part of the
  member's official military record and will be placed in the ARMS record at HQ ARPC. Only
  one form shall be issued to each eligible member. It is the training office's responsibility to
  counsel reservists on their potential eligibility for MGIB-SR Kicker benefits within 30 days
  of enlistment, extension, or reenlistment, and to ensure that all members who meet eligibility
  requirements completes an AFRC Form 19.
     2.7.1. Block 1.e. of the AFRC Form 19, MGIB-SR Kicker Obligated Service Begin Date
     is the kicker eligibility start date. It is the date the member meets eligibility requirements
     for the kicker.
14                                                         AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


     2.7.2. A corrected copy of the Kicker Contract may be issued to change an erroneous
     date of basic eligibility. This corrected AFRC Form 19 shall be clearly marked
     "CORRECTED COPY".
     2.7.3. The AFRC Form 19 is a source of information used by Government Agencies to
     validate veteran entitlement to educational assistance. As such, this form is vulnerable to
     fraudulent use. Since the AFRC Form 19 is sensitive, this form must be safeguarded at
     all times. The AFRC Form 19 must be stored, transmitted, and destroyed in a manner
     that shall prevent unauthorized use. A copy of the AFRC Form 19 shall become a
     permanent document in the individual's personnel records. Electronic generation of the
     AFRC Form 19 is authorized with the stipulation of controlled password protection.
     2.7.4. The wing or group commander appoints a commissioned officer,
     noncommissioned officer (Grade E-6 or above), or DOD civilian (GS-5 or above) to
     requisition, control, and issue the MGIB-SR forms. This individual may also be
     designated as the authenticating official. The appointed individuals shall ensure only one
     kicker contract is issued to any Service member.
  2.8. Suspension. Entitlement to educational assistance is suspended for the following:
     2.8.1. On the date the member is granted an authorized period of non-availability by unit
     commander and transfers to the Individual Ready Reserve, the Inactive National Guard,
     or the SR of another Reserve component except as cited in paragraphs 2.11.1 and
     2.11.2. Suspensions shall apply to both MGIB-SR basic benefits and MGIB-SR Kicker
     payments. Authorized periods of absence will not exceed one 3 year period for a
     missionary obligation or one period not to exceed 1 year for all other circumstances.
     2.8.2. When a member enters AD in an Active Guard or Reserve (AGR) or a Full-Time
     National Guard Duty (FTNGD) status. Those individuals are normally entitled to
     educational benefits under Chapter 30. Reserve members who are on an AGR tour are
     placed in a suspended status (Code CG) while on the AGR tour.
     2.8.3. On the date the member fails to participate satisfactorily, as defined in DoDI
     1215.18 "Reserve Component Member Participation Requirements.
     2.8.4. If the member remains in the SR in a non-Kicker position, only MGIB-SR Kicker
     payments are suspended. There shall be only one suspension of MGIB-SR Kicker
     payments, not to exceed 1 year, where the member has not completed the 6-year
     obligation period and remains in the SR. After completion of the 6-year obligation
     period, suspensions of the MGIB-SR Kicker shall be for periods of authorized non-
     availability granted in connection with the MGIB-SR basic entitlement only.
     2.8.5. Members receiving financial assistance in the form of a Senior Reserve Officers
     Training Corps Scholarship under Section 2107 of Title 10 U.S.C will receive MGIB-SR
     benefits, if otherwise eligible.
  2.9. Expiration of Benefit Period. A member’s period of eligibility to receive educational
  assistance under Chapter 1606 kicker shall expire:
     2.9.1. If there is a break in service; the benefit period expires at the end of a 10-year
     period (for those with an Eligibility Start Date prior to 30 Sep 92), and at the end of the
     14-year period (for those with an Eligibility Start Date of 1 Oct 92 or greater). NOTE:
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                    15


     If the service member has no break in service during their Selected Reserve career, Title
     10 U.S.C. 16133(a) allows use of the MGIB-SR and MGIB-SR kicker until the date the
     person is separated from the Selected Reserve.
  2.10. Termination of Benefits. Entitlement to educational assistance shall be terminated as
  follows:
     2.10.1. A final determination of failure to participate satisfactorily is made according to
     paragraph 2.12.
     2.10.2. A member fails to reaffiliate in the SR before the expiration of an authorized
     period of absence.
     2.10.3. A member fails to reenlist or extend to restore entitlement on reaffiliation,
     according to paragraph 2.13.1, before the expiration of an authorized period of absence.
     2.10.4. A member is discharged from the military service for reasons other than
     immediate reenlistment or one of the exceptions under paragraph 2.11.
     2.10.5. For the MGIB-SR Kicker, on the date the member voluntarily departs the
     position or unit for which he or she received MGIB-SR Kicker eligibility, if the member
     departs during the 6-year obligation period required for MGIB-SR Kicker eligibility.
     2.10.6. For the MGIB-SR Kicker, an eligible member fails to reaffiliate according to
     paragraph 2.13.3
  2.11. Continuation of Benefits. Entitlement may be continued or extended under Chapter
  1606 as follows:
     2.11.1. A member is separated from the SR because of a disability that was not the result
     of individual willful misconduct, and was incurred on or after the date that the member
     became entitled to educational assistance under this instruction. The member shall retain
     entitlement through the end of the 14-year period described in paragraph 2.9.
     2.11.2. A member is separated from the SR between 1 October 1991, and 30 September
     2001, or any future date established by law, because of the inactivation of the unit of
     assignment or because of a reduction in authorized strength, as determined by the
     Secretary concerned. The member shall retain entitlement through the original 14-year
     period described in paragraph 2.9.
     2.11.3. A member is prevented from pursuing a chosen program because of a physical or
     mental disability, which was not the result of individual willful misconduct. The member
     may apply for an extension of the 14-year period. To extend entitlement, the member
     must apply to the DVA within 1 year after either the last day of the 14-year period or the
     last day the individual was so prevented from pursuing such program, whichever is later.
     2.11.4. A member is enrolled in an educational institution and the period of entitlement
     expires under paragraph 2.9.2. The member shall be extended to the end of that quarter
     or semester. If the member is enrolled in an institution not operated regularly on a
     quarter or semester basis and the period of entitlement expires after a major portion of the
     course is completed, the benefit period shall be extended to the end of the course, or for
     12 weeks, whichever is the lesser period of extension.
16                                                          AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


     2.11.5. A member is ordered to AD under an order issued under Sections 12301(a),
     12301(d), 12301(g), 12302, or 12304 of Title 10 U.S.C. (reference (c)). The member's
     benefit period shall be extended for the period of AD plus 4 months. Those members
     shall not be considered separated from the SR during the period of activation. If the
     DVA finds an order to AD caused a member to discontinue a course pursuit, and the
     member fails to receive credit or training time toward completion of the approved
     educational objective, the benefits paid for such a course shall not be counted toward the
     authorized months of entitlement of the Service member.
     2.11.6. A member is precluded from filling the position for which he or she received
     MGIB-SR Kicker eligibility (reference paragraphs 2.11.1 and 2.11.2), or is otherwise
     involuntarily precluded from fulfilling his or her commitment. The member shall retain
     MGIB-SR Kicker eligibility. "Involuntary removal" includes reclassification of a
     position to noncritical, transfers to another position at the convenience of the
     Government, and promotions in the specialty or skill career progression path that
     provided MGIB-SR Kicker eligibility. The Secretary concerned shall adjudicate
     questions of "voluntary" versus "involuntary removal."
  2.12. Failure to Participate Satisfactorily. Entitlement to MGIB-SR kicker benefits shall be
  suspended on the date a member fails to participate satisfactorily, as determined by the unit
  commander only. Failure to participate satisfactorily means failure to fulfill the contractual
  obligation or agreement as a member of the Ready Reserve, as defined in DODI 1215.18.
  The member shall be notified by the Reserve component of the reason for loss of entitlement
  and given an opportunity to respond before a final determination is made and a termination
  of entitlement is processed. If a member is found to have failed to participate satisfactorily,
  termination of entitlement shall be effective on the date of the suspension of entitlement.
     2.12.1. A member who has failed to participate satisfactorily before completing the 6-
     year obligation incurred to qualify for MGIB-SR entitlement and who received
     educational assistance under Chapter 1606 of Title 10 U.S.C. shall be at the option of the
     Secretary concerned:
         2.12.1.1. Be ordered to AD for up to 2 years or the period of obligated service
         incurred under this instruction and remaining at the time of failure to participate
         satisfactorily, whichever is less.
         2.12.1.2. Be granted a waiver of the requirement to serve on AD, a waiver of the total
         refund, or a waiver of a portion of the total refund. Waiver authority may be
         delegated no lower than the head of the Reserve component concerned and shall be
         based on a determination that failure to participate satisfactorily in required training
         was due to reasons beyond the control of the member.
         2.12.1.3. Paragraph 2 12 also applies to recipients of MGIB-SR Kicker payments
         who have failed to participate satisfactorily before completing the obligation required
         for MGIB-SR Kicker eligibility. MGIB-SR Kicker payments are subject to
         recoupment whether received as a supplement to Chapter 30 or Chapter 1606 basic
         benefits. If the MGIB-SR basic and Kicker 6-year obligation start dates are different,
         the recoupment formula is applied separately to the MGIB-SR basic benefit and to the
         MGIB-SR Kicker payment to determine the total amount to refund. Delinquent
         repayment is subject to interest charges.
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                     17


         2.12.1.4. Recoupment Calculation Example. Service member enlists for 6 years on
         12/10/2002. To fulfill the 6 year obligation, service member had to serve in the
         Selected Reserve till 12/09/2008. The system reflects member left Selected Reserve
         and went to IRR on 11/19/2006. There are 24 unfulfilled contract months. Service
         member was paid $4,975 by the VA. Recoupment amount is the total benefit
         received multiplied against the unfulfilled service months (24/72 * 4975) = $1,658.
         NOTE: Recoupment of a benefit amount, as defined in paragraph 2.12.1, will not
         occur in the case of the death of the member
  2.13. Restoration of Benefits. Suspended entitlement to educational assistance shall be
  restored for the following:
     2.13.1. When the member reaffiliates in the SR before the expiration of an authorized
     period of non-availability, subject to the limitations described in paragraph 2.8.1, or
     within 1 year of release from AD in an AGR status, provided the member commits
     (within 30 days) to serve in the SR for a period that, with time already served for
     entitlement of the member to MGIB-SR benefits under this instruction, shall equal 6
     years.
     2.13.2. If the member is determined to have participated satisfactorily.
     2.13.3. When, during the 6-year SR obligation period that established eligibility for the
     MGIB-SR Kicker, a member returns to the same Reserve component in a critical
     specialty, skill, and/or critical unit for which the MGIB-SR Kicker was granted. If the
     member returns to a different specialty, skill, or unit than the MGIB-SR Kicker was
     originally granted, the specialty, skill, or unit must be on the list of currently designated
     critical specialties, skills, or units in the Reserve component that granted the MGIB-SR
     Kicker. The member must return within 1 year, unless granted an authorized period of
     nonavailability of 3 years for a missionary obligation, and the member must commit to
     serve in the critical specialty, skill, or unit for a period that, in combination with time
     already served in a critical specialty, skill, or unit that qualified the member for the
     MGIB-SR Kicker, shall equal 6 years. Eligibility for the MGIB-SR Kicker that is
     suspended after the 6-year SR obligation period shall be restored on reaffiliation in the
     SR in any position or unit of any Reserve component.
  2.14. Reporting Eligibility. The wing education and training office should use the personnel
  system to report accurate data for the MGIB-SR kicker entitlement, eligibility, and
  termination.
     2.14.1. The DVA notifies the member when AFR data on Department of Defense files
     maintained at DMDC does not show the member as eligible for benefits.
     2.14.2. The member is responsible to inform the education and training office of any
     notification from the DVA. The education and training office checks the member's
     computer record at base level, and enters any data correction required in the personnel
     data system. The education and training office then notifies HQ AFRC/A1KE for unit
     program changes and the IMAs should contact HQ ARPC/DPAT.
 18                                                        AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


Table 3. MGIB-SR Kicker eligibility codes and Definitions for Unit Reservists/IMAs.
      MGIB-SR Kicker Incentive Eligibility Status Codes
      Code   Eligibility       Definition
             Status
      AA     No entitlement Member has not executed a qualifying Selected Reserve
                               contract or service obligation after 30 June 1985.
                               This value will not be reported on the interim MGIB-SR
                               Kicker Incentive Submission, but will be reported on
                               RCCPDS.
      AB     No entitlement Member executed a qualifying Selected Reserve contract or
                               service obligation after 30 June 1985 but has not completed
                               initial active duty for training (IADT).
                               This value will not be reported on the interim MGIB-SR
                               Kicker Incentive Submission, but will be reported on
                               RCCPDS.
      AC     No entitlement Member executed a qualifying Selected Reserve contract or
                               service obligation after 30 June 1985 and completed IADT, but
                               did not complete the requirements of a secondary school
                               diploma or equivalency certificate before execution of the
                               qualifying contract or service obligation, in the case of a prior
                               Service member, or before completion of IADT, in the case of
                               a non-prior Service member.
                               This value will not be reported on the interim MGIB-SR
                               Kicker Incentive Submission, but will be reported on
                               RCCPDS.
      AD     No entitlement Member erroneously reported as eligible.
                               No determination of an overpayment is required by the
                               Veterans Benefit Administration.
      BA     Eligible          Member serving in an initial qualifying period of eligibility.
      BB     Eligibility       Member serving in a second or subsequent qualifying period
             reinstated        of eligibility.
      BC     Eligibility       Member serving in a non-qualifying Selected Reserve position
             conditionally     and/or unit following involuntary removal from a qualifying
             retained          position and/or unit.
      BD     Eligibility       Member serving in a Selected Reserve position and/or unit
             retained          following completion of the service obligation required for
                               initial benefit eligibility.
      BE     Eligibility       Member separated from the Selected Reserve because of a
             retained          disability that was not the result of willful misconduct.
      BF     Eligibility       Member separated or transferred from the Selected Reserve
             retained          because of the inactivation or reduction in authorized strength
                               of the unit of assignment.
                               Applicable only if the date of the separation or transfer was
                               during the period 1 October 1991 to 30 September 1999.
      CB     Eligibility       Member transferred from the Selected Reserve to another
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                            19


            suspended     Reserve Component Category for a period of authorized non-
                          availability for reasons other than to fulfill a religious
                          missionary obligation.
                          To reinstate eligibility, the member must re-affiliate with the
                          Selected Reserve within one year, and if eligibility was
                          suspended during the Kicker Incentive obligated service
                          period, he or she must commit to completing the benefit
                          obligated service in a qualifying position and/or unit in the
                          same Reserve Component as the initial designated position
                          and/or unit.
    CC                    Member transferred from the Selected Reserve to another
                          Reserve Component Category and/or Reserve Component for a
                          period of authorized non-availability to fulfill a religious
                          missionary obligation.
                          To reinstate eligibility the member must re-affiliate with the
                          Selected Reserve within three years, and if eligibility was
                          suspended during the Kicker Incentive obligated service
                          period, he or she must commit to completing the benefit
                          obligated service in a qualifying position and/or unit in the
                          same Reserve Component as the initial designated position
                          and/or unit.
    CD      Eligibility   Member awaiting final determination of unsatisfactory
            suspended     participation.
    CE      Eligibility   Member voluntarily departed from a qualifying Selected
            suspended     Reserve position and/or unit to serve in the same Reserve
                          Component in a non-qualifying Selected Reserve position
                          and/or unit during the Kicker Incentive obligated service
                          period.
                          To reinstate eligibility, the member must return within one
                          year to a qualifying Selected Reserve position and/or unit in
                          the same Reserve Component as the initial designated position
                          and/or unit and commit to completing the benefit obligated
                          service.
    CF      Eligibility   Member entered on active duty or full-time tour as part of an
            suspended     Active Guard and Reserve Program (AGR).
                          Applicable only if the MGIB-SR Entitlement Begin Date was
                          on or after 29 November 1989. To reinstate eligibility, the
                          member must re-affiliate with the Selected Reserve in a part-
                          time status within one year of release from active duty, and if
                          eligibility was suspended during the Kicker Incentive
                          obligated service period, he or she must commit to completing
                          the benefit obligated service in a qualifying position and/or
                          unit in the same Reserve Component as the initial designated
                          position and/or unit.
20                                                 AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


     CG   Eligibility   Member in receipt of an ROTC scholarship.
          suspended     To reinstate eligibility, the member must re-affiliate with the
                        Selected Reserve within one year of the end of the ROTC
                        scholarship, and if eligibility was suspended during the Kicker
                        Incentive obligated service period, he or she must commit to
                        completing the benefit obligated service in a qualifying
                        position and/or unit in the same Reserve Component as the
                        initial designated position and/or unit.
     DA   Eligibility   Member failed to re-affiliate within the required time limit
          terminated    following a period of authorized non-availability.
                        Note: Member failed to re-affiliate with a qualifying position
                        and/or unit.
     DB   Eligibility   Member discharged from the Selected Reserve without being
          terminated    granted a period of authorized non-availability.
                        To reinstate eligibility, the member must re-affiliate with the
                        Selected Reserve within one year, and if eligibility was
                        suspended during the Kicker Incentive obligated service
                        period, he or she must commit to completing the benefit
                        obligated service in a qualifying position and/or unit in the
                        same Reserve Component as the initial designated position
                        and/or unit.
     DC   Eligibility   Member died.
          terminated
     DD   Eligibility   Member determined to be an unsatisfactory participant.
          terminated
     DE   Eligibility   Member not determined to be an unsatisfactory participant but
          terminated    otherwise failed to participate satisfactorily for 6 years in
                        required training in the Selected Reserve.
     DF   Eligibility   Obsolete value. Indicates the 14-yrs had expired, however, the
          terminated    Services do not make that determination.




                                  JAMES F. JACKSON, Lt Gen, USAF
                                  Commander
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                       21


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Active Duty (AD)—Full-time duty in the active Military Service of the United States including
full-time training duty, annual training duty, and attendance, while in the active Military Service,
at a school designated as a Service school by law or by the Secretary of the Military Department
concerned. It does not include FTNGD.
Active Guard and Reserve (AGR) Status—AD performed by a member of the Reserve
components of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, or the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, or the
FTNGD performed by a member of the National Guard, under an order to AD or FTNGD for a
period of 180 consecutive days or more for organizing, administering, recruiting, instructing, or
training the Reserve components. Personnel performing such duty are included in the Full-Time
Support numbers for each Reserve component under the collective title of AGR. That includes
the Navy Training and Administration of Reserves, the Marine Corps Active Reserves, and the
Coast Guard Reserve Program Administrators.
Annual Training (AT)—The required active duty for training or field training performed each
year to satisfy the annual training requirements of the Selected Reserve that are established in
law and regulation. AT is normally performed during one consecutive period, but may be
performed in increments of one or more days.
Basic Eligibility—For receiving benefits, basic eligibility for award of educational assistance is
contingent on meeting the initial criteria outlined in this guide and continued satisfactory
participation in the Selected Reserve.
AFRC Form 19—Montgomery GI Bill-Selected Reserve (MGIB-SR) Kicker Contract." AFRC
Form 19 is issued to a Service member certifying entitlement to MGIB-SR Kicker benefits.
DD Form 2384-1—"Notice of Basic Eligibility (NOBE)." DD Form 2384-1 is issued to a
Service member certifying entitlement to MGIB-SR benefits.
Education Benefits Fund (EBF)—A fund administered by the Secretary of the Treasury and
used for the accumulation of funds to finance DoD education liabilities on an actuarially sound
basis. The Secretary of the Treasury transfers from the fund to the Secretary of DVA the
amounts necessary to enable the Secretary of DVA to make required payment for benefits under
Chapter 30 of Title 38 U.S.C. and for benefits under Chapter 1606 of Title 10 U.S.C. (references
(e) and (c)).
Equivalency Certificate—A credential awarded based on successful completion of any of the
following: General Education Degree (GED) certificate; high school diploma based on GED;
correspondence school; California High School Proficiency Examination; high school attendance
certificate; high school completion certificate; adult education certificate or diploma; or
"external" or competency-based diploma.
Established Charge—The charge for a course determined on the basis of the lowest extended
time payment plan offered by the institution and approved by the appropriate State-approving
agency; or, the actual charge to the member for the course; whichever is less.
 22                                                         AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013


Full-time Program of Education—At least 12 semester hours are needed to qualify as a full-
time program of education.
Three-Quarter-Time Program of Education—At least 9 semester hours are needed to qualify
as a three-quarter-time program of education.
Half-time Program of Education—At least 6 semester hours are needed to qualify as a half-
time program of education.
Less than Half Time—At least 3 but less than 5 semester hours are needed to qualify as a less
than half-time program of education.
Inactive Duty Training (IDT)—Authorized training performed by a member of a Selected
Reserve component on active duty, or active duty for training, and consisting of regularly
scheduled unit training periods, annual training programs, or equivalent training, and performed
by them in connection with the prescribed activities of the Selected Reserve component of which
they are a member.
Initial Active Duty for Training (IADT)—Basic military training and technical skill training
required for all enlisted accessions without prior military service.
MGIB—SR Educational Assistance Allowance Increase for Critical Skills (MGIB-SR Kicker)--
A supplemental educational incentive of up to $350 for each month that the Military Services
may offer to encourage MGIB-SR eligible members to fill critical specialties, skills, or units.
Eligible Service members elect to receive the MGIB-SR Kicker payment as a supplement to
either Chapter 1606 of Title 10 U.S.C. basic benefits or, if entitled, to Chapter 30 of Title 38
U.S.C. basic benefits.
Nonprior Service Accessions—Individuals without prior military service, who have not
completed IADT or its equivalent, who are appointed or enlisted directly into an Armed Force of
the United States.
Prior Service Accessions—Individuals who have previously served in an Armed Force of the
United States.
Reaffiliation—When a former SR member returns to the SR after an authorized period of
nonavailability.
Recoupment—The process of obtaining a refund of unearned benefits paid to a member who
has failed to participate satisfactorily before completing the 6-year SR Service obligation
required to gain entitlement to educational assistance under Chapter 1606 and/or before
completing the 6-year SR obligation required to be granted eligibility for the MGIB-SR Kicker
under Chapter 1606.
Refund—A portion of the educational benefits received by a member, and owed to the U.S.
Government, for failure to satisfactorily complete a SR Service obligation for receipt of
educational benefits under Chapter 1606. Refunds of basic benefits and MGIB-SR Kicker
payments under Chapter 1606 are computed separately since the 6-year SR obligation periods
may be different. Refunds are computed by multiplying the benefit received by the percent of
the 6-year SR Service obligation not completed. Refund amounts for basic benefits and MGIB-
SR Kicker payments are added together for the total amount of refund to be processed for
recoupment.
AFRCI36-2301 28 MARCH 2013                                                                        23


Suspension—-A period of time when MGIB-SR educational assistance temporarily ceases
pending a final determination of failing to participate satisfactorily, reaffiliation with the SR or,
for the MGIB-SR Kicker, return to a critical skill or unit for which the MGIB-SR Kicker was
granted.
Unsatisfactory Participation—-The following constitutes failure to participate satisfactorily:
a. The accumulation of a maximum of nine unexcused absences from scheduled IDT
assemblies within any 12—month period.
b.—The unexcused absence from AT or other required ADT in the Selected Reserve.
c.—Transfer from the Selected Reserve, or discharged, for misconduct, to include misconduct
for purely military offenses.
d. IMAs: Failure to meet requirements of Table 1.1 in AFMAN 36—8001 each FY.
Vocational—Technical Training--Consists of approved programs of instruction in the following:
a—. OJT and Apprenticeship training.
b.—Correspondence courses.
c.—Independent study.
d.—Cooperative study.
e. Flight training.

f. Other vocational and/or technical training at a non—college degree facility.
