BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                      MISSION DIRECTIVE 1124

                                                                             31 AUGUST 2011



                                                   ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF
                                                  HEADQUARTERS AIR FORCE RESERVE
                                                                       COMMAND

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRC/A1MP                                                   Certified by: HQ AFRC/DS
                                                               (Mr. William C. Redmond, SES)
Supersedes:   AFRCMD1124,                                                             Pages: 9
              12 August 2003


This mission directive prescribes the organization and functions of Headquarters Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC).

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)         Records       Disposition      Schedule       (RDS)        located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims/cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is significantly revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates
the Headquarters AFRC Mission Statement and updates the staff structure to the “A-staff”
structure.
1. AFRCMD 1124 Policy:
   1.1. This mission directive reflects the approved organization structure and functional
   descriptions for the headquarters.
 2                                                             AFRCMD1124 31 AUGUST 2011


     1.2. Reorganization will not be accomplished for the purpose of change, organizational
     enhancement, or enrichment of assigned personnel. Organizational changes must be based on
     valid mission requirements that can be substantiated by AFI 38-101 (Air Force
     Organization).
     1.3. Staff activities for which USAF has provided standard organization structure in AFI 38-
     101 or approved HQ USAF Program Action Directives (PADs) must be organized as
     prescribed. Deviations from the headquarters structure require HQ USAF/A1MO approval.
     Requests for deviation must contain the information specified in AFI 38-101, chapter 5.
     1.4. AFRC directors of staff and heads of special staff agencies are responsible for the actual
     organization and management of all elements of their respective staff agencies as authorized
     in this mission directive.
     1.5. The Directorate of Manpower, Personnel and Services, A1, is the office of primary
     responsibility on matters concerning the organization and functions within HQ AFRC.
2. Procedures:
     2.1. The organization of a staff agency into subordinate elements (for example, directorate,
     division, and branch) is based on both the number of personnel authorized and the level and
     scope of assigned functional responsibilities.
     2.2. Each directorate and head of special staff agency must ensure compliance with
     procedures.
        2.2.1. Maintain a simplified organization without unnecessary echelons of supervision.
        2.2.2. Eliminate organizational and functional fragmentation; for example, identical or
        similar Work performed by two or more activities within the unit.
        2.2.3. Continuously review functions within area of responsibility for essentiality to
        mission Requirements.
     2.3. Send requests for organizational and/or functional element changes to HQ AFRC/A1MP
     for evaluation, approval, and processing. As a minimum, the reorganization package must
     contain the items outlined below:
        2.3.1. Submit request to A1MP stating why the reorganization is necessary.
        2.3.2. Provide an excel spreadsheet with the proposed changes along with current and
        proposed organization charts.
        2.3.3. Include the proposed functional statement (in brief and concise language, present
        tense, restricted to major functions or programs of the activity) for each organizational
        element affected by the reorganization.
        2.3.4. Submit an AFRC Form106, Manpower Change Request (MCR), to A1MP.
        2.3.5. Include Request for Personnel Action (RPA) and position description/core
        document for all federal civilian employees (Title 5 and Air Reserve Technicians
        (ARTs)) where there is a new workload and/or grade impact.
     2.4. HQ AFRC/A1M will take action to staff requests requiring AFRC/CV approval.
3. Structure:
AFRCMD1124 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                     3


   3.1. HQ AFRC is organized under the directorate and special staff agency structure.
   Approved staff agencies with appropriate titles are identified herein.
   3.2. Organizational elements are preceded by office symbols. The office symbols identify
   the organizational element to which manpower authorizations are allocated and allow the
   approved organizational structure to be depicted in the unit manpower document.
4. Headquarters AFRC Mission. Direct Air Force Reserve efforts to ensure sustained combat
readiness and full-spectrum capability.
5. Organization by Directorate/Staff Office:
   5.1. CC AFRC COMMANDER. Exercises command of AFRC in fulfilling its mission as
   directed by Chief of Staff, United States Air Force.
   5.2. CV VICE COMMANDER. Serves as principal advisor to the commander in
   discharging the AFRC mission. In the absence of the commander, exercises command
   jurisdiction over and directs the activities of all units assigned to AFRC in consonance with
   the commander’s responsibility to the Chief of Staff, USAF. Briefs the commander on
   matters of importance that affect the AFRC, its mission, and its public image. Represents the
   commander at meetings and conferences with HQ USAF and other commands and agencies.
   Directs and coordinates activities of the headquarters staff, ensuring adherence to command
   policies and efficient compliance with instructions of the commander. Informs commander
   on all matters of importance affecting the command.
   5.3. CCC COMMAND CHIEF MASTER SERGEANT. Explains commander’s policies
   to AFRC enlisted force. Advises commander and vice commander of specific problems,
   concerns, and attitudes of enlisted force. Determines the quality of NCO leadership,
   management, and supervision. Evaluates Professional Military Education training facilities
   and advises commander of findings. Represents the commander as required at diverse
   functions and activities. Acts as MAJCOM functional for the command’s 8F, 9E and 9G
   personnel. Acts as liaison working issues between MAJCOM CC and the entire command.
   Acts as a direct conduit between the CMSAF and the MAJCOM. Evaluates the command’s
   approach to enlisted training, professional development, recognition and infrastructure.
   Establishes and monitors professional development of assigned CMSgts and CCMs; manages
   senior enlisted leader training (i.e. CCL, Keystone, etc.) and develops subordinate CCMs for
   future positions. Orients new CCMs within their command.
   5.4. DIRECTOR OF STAFF (DS). The Director of Staff is the commander’s primary
   interface with the staff for the daily operation and support of the Headquarters. HQ
   AFRC/DS manages and integrates all activities for the Headquarters in directing and
   supporting the Air Force’s second largest MAJCOM in completing its mission.
   5.5. A1      DIRECTORATE            OF      MANPOWER,             PERSONNEL           AND
   SERVICES. Develops, directs, and executes command manpower, personnel and services
   programs, plans, policies, and procedures pertaining to all military and civilian personnel
   assigned to AFRC in support of the command mission. Provides assistance to subordinate
   commanders in fulfilling their personnel management responsibilities through interpretation
   of policies and procedures. Manages AFRC personnel data and functional system
   requirements and oversees the AFR interests in the development and deployment of the Air
   Force Integrated Personnel and Pay System (AFIPPS). Executes management of the
4                                                           AFRCMD1124 31 AUGUST 2011


    SELRES End Strength Program and develops command guidance on Force Support
    Squadron (FSS) initiatives, Equal Opportunity, Personnel Support for Contingency
    Operations (PERSCO) management and training, Personnel Services Delivery
    Transformation (PSD-T), and Airman and Family Readiness. Provides guidance for the
    development and delivery of leadership education and professional development courses and
    tailored events to support and enhance AFRC effectiveness via the Professional Development
    Center (PDC). Provides force management and development policy recommendations,
    processes and procedures. Oversees command management of Air Reserve Technicians
    (ART) and assigned Colonels. Controls the allocation and utilization of all manpower
    authorizations including active and reserve military, IMA, civilian, and contract services to
    meet peacetime and wartime requirements. Directs the AFRC Management Engineering and
    Productivity programs. Ensures the most efficient and effective organization structure of
    AFRC headquarters and units within HQ USAF constraints. Develops policy, guidance, and
    career management of AGRs that provide full-time support in the administration,
    organization, recruitment, training, and support of the AFR. Responsible for command-level
    management, policy development, and oversight for 39 Reserve Prime Readiness in Base
    Services (RIBS) teams, 10 base-level Services operations, and the Force Support Combat
    Training site at Dobbins ARB. Has custodianship and financial management responsibility
    for AFRC non-appropriated funds. Directly impacts Reserve quality of life and wartime
    sustainment capability.
    5.6. A2 DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE AND
    RECONNAISSANCE (ISR). The AFRC/A2 ISR Directorate presents an Air Force Reserve
    Command ISR Force critical to the fight, fully mission capable, and integrated to execute the
    full spectrum of ISR operations in support of Air Force and Joint Combatant Commanders.
    AFRC/A2 executes management and oversight of MAJCOM ISR functions for the
    Command to include presentation of forces and mission execution. AFRC/A2 members,
    both unit and IMA, operate across all AF MAJCOMs/Agencies, COCOMs, and National
    Intelligence Agencies/Combat Support Agencies executing ISR missions. AFRC/A2 is the
    ISR Functional Area Manager (FAM) and senior intelligence officer (SIO) responsible for
    effectively organizing, training, equipping (OT&E), and maintaining readiness oversight of
    Air Force Reserve Command ISR forces.
       5.6.1. AFRC/A2 is the HQ AFRC lead for AFRC ISR programs, budgets, force
       development, and policy guidance, and ISR operations oversight. AFRC/A2 maintains
       oversight and coordination on all Military Intelligence Program (MIP) and National
       Intelligence Program (NIP) requirements, and ensures ISR-related lessons learned are
       captured via established systems and processes. AFRC/A2 analyzes and advocates
       command, directorate, and subordinate unit intelligence manpower, systems, facilities,
       and other resource issues and actions. AFRC/A2 promotes total force integration and
       interoperability of ISR forces and ensures required ISR support to AFRC units executing
       and supporting air, space, and cyber planning and operations.
       5.6.2. AFRC/A2 collects, analyzes and disseminates tailored intelligence in support of
       AFRC units, planners and leadership. In coordination with HAF/A2 and AF ISR
       Agency, establishes Production Requirement (PR) and Dissemination Management
       policy and validates unit and force level intelligence requirements IAW current DoD,
       Unified Command, and MAJCOM guidance.                AFRC/A2 maintains the AFRC
AFRCMD1124 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                     5


     Intelligence Oversight Program, and manages, executes, and maintains oversight of unit
     intelligence Staff Assistance Visit (SAV) and Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI)
     programs for AFRC units, in conjunction with the AFRC/IG. AFRC/A2 oversees ISR
     Enterprise Forces and associated dwell periods to ensure readiness for future missions.
     5.6.3. AFRC/A2 exercises overall management of Sensitive Compartmented Information
     (SCI) programs, to include facilities, billets, systems, training and communications for
     the Command in partnership with AFRC/A1, AFRC/A6, and AFRC/A7.
  5.7. A3    DIRECTORATE           OF       AIR,     SPACE,       AND       INFORMATION
  OPERATIONS. Develops command guidance on air, space and information operations;
  command and control; aircrew training; flight standards; requirements; crisis action team; air
  and space expeditionary force (AEF) and other deployments; airfield operations; weather;
  airspace management; counterdrug support; contingency operations and exercises for 74
  AFRC flying squadrons, with more than 1800 aircrews and 380 aircraft gained by 9 different
  major commands to fulfill AFRC commitments supporting national objectives.
  5.8. A4 DIRECTORATE OF LOGISTICS. Develops, directs, and executes plans,
  policies, programs and procedures to manage logistics for all Air Force Reserve Command
  units. This involves logistics plans, material management and distribution, aerial port and
  aircraft maintenance for major weapon systems, aircraft, and Reservists/civilians gained by
  active duty commands for Air and Space Expeditionary Force, peacetime, contingency or
  wartime support.
  5.9. A5A8 DIRECTORATE OF STRATEGIC PLANS, PROGRAMS AND
  REQUIREMENTS. Prepares War and Mobilization Plans to support COCOMs through
  contingency, wartime, and adaptive planning by managing Unit Type Codes (UTC),
  designing Operational Capability Statements, posturing AFRC forces through UTC Tempo
  Bands, and providing Reserve Functional Manpower Oversight. In addition, A5A8 provides
  Strategic and Capabilities-Based Planning through the development of AFRC Strategic
  Plans, input to AF Doctrine and QDR, and development of a Roles and Missions Assessment
  process that supports Total Force Integration. A5A8 validates requirements for command
  resources (people, money and equipment) using the AF automated database (ABIDES), and
  provides analysis to decision makers for resource allocation based on mission needs. A5A8
  implements Congressional, Presidential, SecDef, SECAF, CSAF, and Chief, Air Force
  Reserve guidance/initiatives that adjust resources in order to maximize capabilities. Finally,
  A5A8 facilitates the modernization of reserve forces by supporting NAF-led Combat
  Planning Councils, reviewing and validating requirements and preparing and executing a
  modernization list for all AFRC missions and equipment.
  5.10. A6 DIRECTORATE OF COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION. Provides
  command guidance for and the management of AFRC Information Technology (IT). A6 acts
  as the Chief Information Officer for AFRC and develops and executes plans, programs,
  policy, and procedures for all AFRC communications and information (C&I) functions.
  Provides 24-hour network management, reachback support, and defense operations for
  AFRC enterprise of 13 reserve host bases, geographically separated units, and HQ AFRC.
  Responsible for enterprise network support, software and license management, enterprise
  architecture, enterprise information management, IT requisition requirements and
  acquisition, telecommunications, multimedia services, information assurance, air traffic
6                                                              AFRCMD1124 31 AUGUST 2011


    control and landing system (ATCALS) equipment, personal wireless, and tactical
    communications for the command. Responsible for functional oversight of all AFR C&I
    personnel. Provides Officer and Enlisted AFSC functional management, career field
    management and oversight. Responsible for the organization, training and equipment of all
    AFRC Comm and Cyber units as well as the development and implementation of new
    missions.
    5.11. A7 DIRECTORATE OF INSTALLATIONS AND MISSION SUPPORT. Air
    Force Reserve Command lead for Expeditionary Combat Support, Installation Support, and
    in-garrison Mission Support Group mission areas. Generates, organizes, trains, and equips
    OPLAN tasked Agile Combat Support expeditionary forces. Provides and directs command
    civil engineer programs and resources affecting 10 primary and 56 tenant locations with a
    $7B plant replacement value, annual $120M military construction, $200M Facility
    Sustainment and Modernization and $250M operating budgets. Provides and directs
    expeditionary and in-garrison security forces. Directs and executes acquisition policy,
    programs, and resources affecting major command enterprise level and installation level
    acquisition strategies.
    5.12. A9 (CCO) DIRECTORATE OF ANALYSES, LESSONS LEARNED AND
    AFSO21. Provides executive level decision support through the application of formal
    analyses and lessons learned (A9), and also offers a wide-range of industry recognized
    problem solving tools and techniques for Process Improvement (AFSO21). Directly
    interfaces with SAF/USM, HAF/A9, and nine lead MAJCOMS as well as other agencies in
    order to promulgate efficiencies across the DoD, Air Force and AFR. Serves as the principle
    directorate within the AF Reserve for applying modeling, simulation and optimization
    techniques. CCO functional management responsibilities are delegated to the A9 Director
    who executes as a dual-hatted Directorate.
    5.13. FM FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COMPTROLLER. Provides the full
    spectrum of MAJCOM-level financial, comptroller plans, and budgetary services to all
    AFRC mission elements. Directs the actions of approximately 577 comptroller personnel
    supporting over 693 diverse reserve units. Formulates, justifies, and executes annual
    operations and maintenance programs exceeding $3 billion, reserve personnel funds
    exceeding $1.6 billion and other special appropriations exceeding $480 million for
    equipment and other specialized requirements to support readiness.
    5.14. HC CHAPLAIN. Advises the commander on religious, ethical, and quality of life
    issues. Supports, evaluates, and facilitates quality chaplain ministries at AFRC units through
    staff visits, quality assessments, policy guidance, reports, conferences, training opportunities,
    and crossfeed; manages functional manpower and personnel matters, education and
    professional development, and ensures force readiness.
    5.15. HO DIRECTORATE OF HISTORICAL SERVICES. Advises the commander and
    senior staff and develops and provides command guidance and policies to manage historical
    services for the Air Force Reserve Command. Provides classified and unclassified historical
    background information and data to support commanders and staffs at all levels.
    Functionally manages AFRC historians, ensuring readiness, histories completion, and force
    development and management, and deployment requirements. Responsible for collecting
    and managing the command’s archives; AFRC Heritage Hall; lineage and honors statements
AFRCMD1124 31 AUGUST 2011                                                                     7


  and emblems; National Museum of the United States Air Force loaned aerospace vehicles
  and historical artifacts; and AF Art program loaned art work. Educates command members,
  the Air Force, and the public at large on the history of the Air Force Reserve. Responsible
  for writing AFRC’s MAJCOM-level official history requirement.
  5.16. IG INSPECTOR GENERAL. Selectively manned to sustain the combat capability
  of AFRC through inspections of unit mission effectiveness and compliance with DoD and
  Air Force guidance. Directs Complaints and Inquiries programs. Formulates policies and
  procedures to conduct performance/compliance-based inspections to validate the readiness of
  44 major units and 76,000 personnel worldwide to support gaining major commands and
  combatant commanders.
  5.17. IP INFORMATION PROTECTION. Provides commanders with coordinated,
  effective and timely expert advice on protecting information. The Director of Information
  Protection is the principal advisor to the commander and as such formulates, articulates,
  implements and executes the commanders’ information protection programs. The IP staff
  inclusive of matrix IP functions and personnel conduct risk assessments, staff assistance
  visits and inspections of wing operations. The IP program provides for the protection of
  information; prevents unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and classified information;
  mitigates damage and severity of unauthorized disclosures; prevents or eliminates IP
  deficiencies; de-conflict processes; and resolves problems.
  5.18. JA JUDGE ADVOCATE. Provides candid and independent legal counsel to the
  commander and full spectrum legal services to the Command and the Warfighter.
  5.19. PA PUBLIC AFFAIRS. Conducts comprehensive, active Public Affairs programs at
  all levels of command to provide service members, the public, Congress, and media
  representatives timely, accurate, and authoritative information contributing to awareness and
  understanding of the AFRC mission and capabilities. Provides commander, staff, and AFRC
  units public affairs advice and support.
  5.20. SE SAFETY. Provides command guidance and management of flight, ground, and
  weapons mishap prevention programs for AFRC. Manages the command Risk Management
  (RM) program. Develops and executes programs, policies, and procedures to ensure AFRC
  implementation of the Air Force Mishap Prevention program. Provides functional oversight
  for all AFRC Safety personnel.
  5.21. RS RECRUITING SERVICE. Responsible for recruiting sufficient personnel to
  man AFRC to 100 percent of congressionally funded Selected Reserve end-strength
  requirements. Activities include enlisting, appointing, and assigning recruiting applicants to
  fill vacancies, projected vacancies and authorized overages for unit, Individual Mobilization
  Augmentee and Active Guard Reserve programs. Responsible for the operation, training,
  planning, personnel, budget, advertising, and resources support functions for over 400
  assigned personnel. AFRC Recruiting Service Commander also serves as director on
  AFRC/CC staff.
  5.22. SG SURGEON provides ready medical reservists and medically ready reservists.
  Conducts MAJCOM level policy development for administration, training and readiness for
  medical reserve programs and medical training requirements for Aero-medical Evacuation
  (AE) programs. Provides programming and oversight on medical/financial resources for 84
8                                                     AFRCMD1124 31 AUGUST 2011


    Reserve medical units and medical IMAs. Manages health service support and medical
    standards for 67,000 reservists. Interfaces with DOD, Air Staff and MAJCOM medical
    elements.




                                        CHARLES E. STENNER, Jr. Lt General, USAFR
                                        Commander
AFRCMD1124 31 AUGUST 2011                     9


                            Attachment 1
                    ORGANIZATION OF HQ AFRC
