BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                     INSTRUCTION 31-104
                                                                                             1 October 2000

                                                                                                     Security

                                                                          PHOENIX RAVEN PROGRAM



NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the HQ AFRC WWW site at: http://www.afrc.af.mil
and the AFRCEPL (CD-ROM) published monthly.


OPR: HQ AFRC/SFOF (CMSgt Scott Ritchie)                Certified by: HQ AFRC/SF (Col F. M. Mungavin)
                                                                                            Pages: 43
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Physical Security. It provides direction for the protection of
USAF aircraft, operated by AFRC crews transiting or operating out of designated high-risk locations,
through the use of properly certified AFRC PHOENIX RAVEN security teams.



1. The PHOENIX RAVEN Program:
   1.1. General. The PHOENIX RAVEN (PR) Program is an AMC program designed to ensure ade-
   quate protection is afforded for AMC aircraft transiting or operating out of airfields where security is
   unknown or deemed inadequate to counter local threats. HQ AFRC has agreed to adopt these philos-
   ophies and participate fully in this force protection initiative. The PR program is geared heavily
   toward tanker and airlift missions; however, with sufficient planning they may also deploy in support
   of other aircraft types. This instruction correlates with AMCI 31-104, Phoenix Raven Program,
   whenever possible. Refer to AMCI 31-104 for HQ AMC responsibilities.
   1.2. Concept of Operations. Teams of specially trained and equipped Security Forces personnel (nor-
   mally 2 - 4) will deploy as Mission Essential Ground Personnel (MEGP) on-board AFRC/AMC mis-
   sions designated by the AFRC or AMC Threat Working Group (TWG) as Raven required locations.
   The PR teams will prevent sabotage, pilferage, vandalism, and stowaway attempts by performing
   close-in aircraft security. They also advise aircrews on force protection measures, accomplish airfield
   assessments to document existing security measures and vulnerabilities, and assist in the performance
   of aircrew duties when not performing PR duties. The PR teams should be considered for all types of
   AFRC/AMC missions (Protection Level 1, 2, 3, and 4) including contingencies, exercises, or deploy-
   ments. PR teams are not used away from the aircraft for aircrew member protection details.
       1.2.1. Airlift and tanker aircraft transiting airfields at en route locations are designated as Protec-
       tion Level 3 resources by Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security
       Program. AFRC/AMC aircraft maintain Protection Level 3 or higher level of security when
       deployed. Resources designated Protection Level 3 are provided a level of security resulting in a
       reasonable degree of deterrence to espionage or hostile acts directed against them. Failing deter-
2                                                                        AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

       rence, the level of security must provide the ability to detect a hostile force and limit the damage
       done to the resource.

2. Mission Tasking Process:
    2.1. The AFRC TWG reviews missions which transit locations on the AMC Secure Launch Country,
    Monitor Country, and Phoenix Raven lists to ensure PR teams are attached as required. The TWG
    will also determine the need for PR teams at locations that are not on the AMC Phoenix Raven
    required listing after analyzing Area of Responsibility (AOR) specific threats. The AFRC TWG
    determines the minimum PR team size required to perform the mission based upon threats, mission
    duration, and ground times.
       2.1.1. Optimally, aircraft that remain overnight (RON) for multiple nights at Raven locations will
       have enough Ravens to operate in 12 hour shifts. The minimum size of a PR team at planned RON
       Raven locations is three. C-5 missions will have a three person team assigned regardless of RON
       plans. When AFRC crews fly AMC missions with active duty Ravens, the size of the PR team is
       determined by HQ AMC. When AFRC crews fly AFRC missions, the size of the PR team is
       determined by HQ AFRC.
       2.1.2. The AFRC TWG DOOM representative ensures the requirement for a PR team to accom-
       pany a mission is sent to the appropriate mission planner for inclusion in the remarks section of the
       Global Decision Support System (GDSS) Form 59 if not already annotated. The GDSS Form 59
       will also note the PR team size when more than two PR members are required.
    2.2. HQ AFRC/DOOM airframe managers routinely review mission setup sheets received from wing
    mission planners to compare to the AMC Phoenix Raven required listing. If the mission itinerary
    includes Raven required stops, the submitting mission planner and Numbered Air Force/Security
    Forces (NAF/SF) manager is notified immediately if the requirement is not already identified.
    2.3. NAF/SF managers routinely review HQ AMC/SF PR mission schedules to identify any sched-
    uled AFRC Raven required missions or AMC Raven required missions being flown by reserve wings
    in their NAF. NAF/SF managers then attempt to source reserve Ravens for the scheduled mission. If
    reserve Raven volunteers can’t be located, the NAF/SF managers will notify HQ AMC/SFO of the
    shortfall.
    2.4. Wing/Operations group mission planners routinely review itineraries when completing mission
    setup sheets to see if any International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) appears on the AMC
    Phoenix Raven required listing prior to sending them to HQ AFRC/DOOM. If a Raven required loca-
    tion is in the itinerary, the mission planner informs the wing TWG, aircraft commander (AC), and the
    Security Forces Squadron (SFS) commander of the PR requirement.
    2.5. If at an authorized PHOENIX RAVEN unit per paragraph 7, the SFS commander, senior unit
    ART, or Raven Program Manager (RPM) solicits PR qualified volunteers to complete the mission. If
    Ravens can not be generated organically, the unit will submit a mission shortfall request to their NAF/
    SF manager for mission support.
       2.5.1. If at a non-PHOENIX RAVEN unit per paragraph 7, the SFS commander or senior unit
       ART will ensure that their NAF/SF manager is aware of the mission requirement.
       2.5.2. If the NAF/SF manager cannot find certified Ravens for the mission within the command,
       they will submit a mission shortfall request to HQ AMC/SFO for mission support.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                                3

      2.5.3. If HQ AMC/SFO cannot find certified Ravens for the mission within AMC, they will
      notify the AFRC NAF/SF manager that reported the shortfall. The NAF/SF manager will then
      notify the AFRC TWG through HQ AFRC/SFO so the TWG can take further action concerning
      the mission.
      2.5.4. Phoenix Raven team leaders begin mission preparation and planning once they have been
      identified.

3. Force Protection Processes:
   3.1. Prior to departing for a mission, PR team members research the threats posed to aircraft opera-
   tions and existing force protection measures at each mission location. Refer to attachment 2 to aid in
   identifying sources of information.
      3.1.1. Prior to departure, the PR team leader, in conjunction with or after coordinating with unit
      Intelligence and Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) representatives, conducts a
      PR aircrew pre-deployment briefing in according to attachment 4. The briefing highlights poten-
      tial threats, force protection measures in place at all scheduled stops, measures to reduce suscepti-
      bility to terrorist and criminal attack, and lodging security. The PR team ensures crewmembers
      have Anti-Terrorism/Force Protection (AT/FP) Level I required copy of Antiterrorism Individ-
      ual Protective Measures pocket card OCJCS PC 5260.
   3.2. Arming of at least one PR team member is directed at the most advantageous point prior to
   departing on Raven required mission legs. Arm with a handgun concealed at all times to prevent iden-
   tifying armed crewmember. On U.S. bases, do not wear weapons off the flight line except to and from
   the armory and other facilities associated with aircrew activities. On non-U.S. bases, do not leave the
   aircraft with weapons. Load and unload weapons at approved clearing barrels, if available. If not
   available, make field expedient clearing barrel by lining the team gear box with ballistic body armor.
   To transfer loaded weapons to another crewmember, place the weapon on a flat surface. Do not use
   hand-to-hand transfer.
      3.2.1. At Raven required locations the PR team unpacks and loads long-guns for mission accom-
      plishment after all passengers have departed and the crew is ready to depart for crew rest. Load
      weapons at approved clearing barrel, if available, or using ballistic body armor as a field-expedi-
      ent clearing barrel.
      3.2.2. Prior to leaving Raven required locations, unload and repack long-guns during pre-flight
      activities before any passengers are boarded. At least one PR team member will remain armed
      with a concealed handgun for anti-hijack purposes until landing at next non-Raven required loca-
      tion.
   3.3. The PR team will provide 24 hour close-in security while aircraft are on the ground at Raven
   required locations
   3.4. At non-Raven required locations, the PR team provides close-in security for the aircraft until the
   PR team leader assesses security provided by the airfield security forces is adequate to protect the air-
   craft from local threats. If necessary, the PR team leader may depart the immediate vicinity of the air-
   craft to accomplish an assessment and security coordination. All aircrew members must remain in the
   immediate vicinity of the aircraft, unless official duties require otherwise, until security procedures
   are established for the mission by the PR team leader and approved by the AC. Aircrew members
4                                                                         AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

    must assist the PR team in observing approaches to the aircraft during any separations between the PR
    team leader and the other PR members.
    3.5. After making an initial assessment of security, the PR team leader, in consultation with the AC,
    coordinates the use of available resources, to include airfield security forces, and to enact security
    measures to mitigate threats posed to the aircraft. The level of protection for the aircraft must be
    equivalent to standards set by AFI 31-101 for Protection Level 3 resources. However, at some loca-
    tions exact duplication of set physical security standards may be impractical due to sociopolitical sen-
    sitivities or other factors. The PR team leader and AC must consider all factors before assessing
    tailored security as adequate.
    3.6. At locations where security is deemed adequate (other than Raven required locations), the AC
    may direct the PR team to assist the aircrew with their duties. The AC may also permit the PR team
    members to depart the immediate vicinity of the aircraft to perform a more in-depth airfield security
    survey or coordinate lodging security matters with host nation and embassy personnel.
       3.6.1. After completing security coordination and prior to entering crew rest, the PR team leader
       arranges to store all weapons and ammunition in a secure Department of Defense (DoD), U.S.
       Security Assistance (SA) Organization, NATO, or Embassy armory. If these facilities are not
       available, PR teams store weapons and ammunition aboard the aircraft in a locked compartment.
       If the aircraft does not have a suitable compartment, secure locked weapons and ammo containers
       to the airframe in a discreet location using a cable and padlock.
    3.7. At all Raven required locations and other locations where security is not adequate, two-person
    PR teams establish close-in security and remain with the aircraft at all times, unless otherwise directed
    by the AC. If the PR team is removed, and it is an AMC mission, the AC must inform the TACC of
    the decision to remove the PR team, and the justification for doing so through a mission reporting
    input at the earliest possible opportunity. The PR team leader will immediately inform AMC/SFO of
    the AC decision to remove them from the aircraft at DSN: 779-2950 / Commercial (618) 229-0638 or
    through the TACC at DSN: 779-1755 / Commercial (618) 229-1755 or 1-800-AIR-MOBL. If it is an
    AFRC mission, the AC will contact the AFRC Command Center at DSN: 497-0680 / Commercial
    (912) 327-0680 or 1-800-327-0680. If it is a Coronet Oak mission, the AC will contact the 612 Com-
    bat Operations Squadron / Joint Flight Monitoring Facility (612 COS/JFMF) at DSN: 483-5838 /
    Commercial (305) 293-5839/5838.
       3.7.1. Based upon the local threat, PR team size, and ground time, the PR team leader establishes
       a duty rotation. If four or more PR team members are available and local threats do not dictate
       using a team larger than two to implement close-in security, the team leader may establish a rota-
       tion to allow members to depart the airfield and billet with the aircrew. Three person PR teams
       implement work/rest cycles at the aircraft. If prudent, one PR member may provide close-in secu-
       rity while other team members sleep on board or in the immediate vicinity of the posted sentry.
       PR team members on two-person teams may separate for short periods of time to facilitate hygiene
       breaks at the aircraft, provided they maintain constant radio contact. Never post one Raven work-
       ing alone at the aircraft unless a second member is nearby within view at another aircraft that
       could not be parked beside the primary aircraft.
       3.7.2. PR teams take actions to protect assigned aircraft and aircrew personnel when at the aircraft
       to the greatest extent of their abilities.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                                   5

      3.7.3. PR team members are not required to perform duties that detract from their primary mis-
      sion of protecting the aircraft.
      3.7.4. The PR team leader or AC may direct PR team members to depart the aircraft and abandon
      close-in security when extreme weather conditions other than normal thunderstorms (hurricane,
      monsoon, etc) threaten their well being. If this occurs, the AC must immediately contact TACC,
      HQ AFRC Command Center, or 612 COS/JFMF to explain changes to the security status.
      Close-in security must return to the aircraft as soon as it is safe to do so.

4. Legal Considerations and Use of Force:
   4.1. A U.S. military aircraft is a sovereign instrument of the United States government. When cleared
   to over-fly or land in foreign territory, it is U.S. policy to assert that military aircraft are exempt from
   duties and taxation and immune from search, seizure, inspection (including customs and safety
   inspections), and other exercise of jurisdiction by the host nation. Aircraft commanders and PR team
   members may not authorize the search, seizure, inspection, or other exercise of jurisdiction by foreign
   authorities unless directed by the appropriate service headquarters or the local US Embassy.
      4.1.1. If foreign government or military officials attempt to force their way aboard U.S. aircraft,
      PR teams should not physically restrain them unless they attempt to harm DoD personnel or prop-
      erty. The PR team will contact the AC and local U.S. Embassy personnel immediately.
      4.1.2. If foreign nationals, who are not military or governmental officials, attempt to enter a U.S.
      aircraft without permission, PR team members may use appropriate physical force to resist. If this
      situation arises, PR team members will contact the AC and local U.S. Embassy personnel imme-
      diately.
   4.2. In general, whether inside or outside the aircraft, PR team members may use force according to
   AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, and CJCSI 3121.01, Standing Rules of
   Engagement for U.S. Forces to protect U.S. resources and personnel.
   4.3. Inside the aircraft, an area of U.S. sovereignty, PR team members may apprehend and prevent
   the escape of a person who has committed an offense. Outside the aircraft, PR team members may not
   seek to apprehend or prevent the escape of a foreign national. This is considered a local law enforce-
   ment function and the responsibility of the host nation. PR team members should seek the assistance
   of host nation personnel in order to apprehend or prevent the escape of a foreign national who has
   injured or threatened to injure U.S. personnel or equipment on the aircraft.
   4.4. PR team members must adhere to limitations relating to the wear of the uniform and arming
   restrictions outlined in the DoD 4500.54G, Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG),
   Status of Forces Agreements (SOFA), and Memorandums of Understanding. They will adhere to all
   restrictions concerning the wear of their handgun while transiting airfields in the CONUS and at all
   OCONUS locations to include the use of expanding hollow point bullets (EHPB).
      4.4.1. PR team members keep the weapons out of sight inside the aircraft even if the FCG allows
      them to be carried outside the aircraft. They should be placed near the hatches where they can be
      readily available should their use be warranted. If a staged operation is being conducted HQ
      AMC/SFO or HQ AFRC/SFO is the focal point to coordinate weapon permits with the embassy of
      the host nation.
          4.4.1.1. Given that the threat to Air Force assets can change quickly, there may be situations
6                                                                        AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

           specific to the current location (local rioting, bombings, etc.) that warrant the removal of the
           weapons from the aircraft at a deployed airfield. In situations other than an immediate hostile
           threat to the Air Force assets, the PR team leader will contact the embassy representative
           (DAO, RSO, etc.) for authorization to remove the weapons from the aircraft. For AMC mis-
           sions, the PR team leader will also contact the on-call Security Forces Threat Working Group
           representative by calling the Tanker Airlift Control Center (TACC) at DSN: 779-1755 / Com-
           mercial (618) 229-1755, or toll free: 1-800-AIR MOBL. For AFRC missions, the PR team
           leader contacts the AFRC Command Center at DSN: 497-0680 / Commercial (912) 327-0680
           or 1-800-327-0680. For Coronet Oak missions, the PR team leader will contact 612 COS/
           JFMF at DSN: 483-5838 / Commercial (305) 293-5839/5838.
    4.5. If a foreign national makes a request for political asylum or temporary refuge to a PR team mem-
    ber during sentry duty, the PR team member will not allow them entry to the interior of the aircraft.
    Refer all requests of this nature to the AC for resolution according to AFI 51-704, Handling Requests
    for Political Asylum and Temporary Refuge.
    4.6. Alcohol Consumption. General PR teams always adhere to AFI 31-207 Arming and Use of
    Force and guidance published by the responsible AOR.
       4.6.1. En Route. While transiting secure locations en route to the Raven required AO, light alco-
       hol consumption is authorized for PR teams. Discontinue any use of alcohol 8 hours prior to the
       aircraft commanders show-time. EXAMPLE: If a PR team is en route to a Raven required mis-
       sion in Azerbaijan and stops in England to RON, the PR team may consume alcohol while in
       England but not after arriving at the Raven required location in-country.
       4.6.2. Raven Required Locations. PR teams must be ready to respond to unforeseen itinerary
       changes or escalations in the local threat. Do not use alcohol at Raven required locations regard-
       less of duty status. Do not use alcohol when a RON takes place at non-Raven required locations
       in countries that have more than one location on the Raven required list.

5. Medical Force Protection Considerations:
    5.1. All PR team members are individually responsible for obtaining needed disease-prevention med-
    ications (such as malaria prophylaxis) and for complying with the schedule for taking medications
    issued. Additionally, all team members are responsible for returning to the medical squadron
    post-deployment for follow-up. PR team leaders must have a deliberate strategy to remind all team
    members to take their medications as prescribed while en route and, if needed, following return from
    the deployed location.
    5.2. If a PR team member experiences a sudden, severe illness at the deployed location or en route,
    which exceeds the capability of treatment by Self-Aid/Buddy-Care (SABC) or that provided by med-
    ical personnel that may be accompanying the mission, the AC will contact the appropriate control cen-
    ter and request assistance with the situation.

6. CORONET OAK. Coronet Oak is a steady state operation staged at Muniz ANGB, San Juan, Puerto
Rico that provides intra-theater airlift support to CINCSOUTCOM. During AFRC rotations, AFRC/SF
provides Phoenix Raven support to the Coronet Oak aircraft. Puerto Rico is not a Raven required loca-
tion, but is the staging area that Ravens operate from when not deployed further into the AOR at Raven
required locations. While deployed to Coronet Oak, all PR teams are under the operational and adminis-
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                       7

trative control of the 12th EAS Commander stationed at Muniz ANGB. AFRC PR teams will follow the
12th EAS Phoenix Raven Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) while deployed in support of Coronet Oak
and seek any necessary support through the 12 EAS chain of command. Coronet Oak aircraft supported
by PR teams are controlled by SOUTHAF through the 612 COS/JFMF and do not report to AFRC Com-
mand Center or AMC/TACC.

7. Organization, Training, and Equipment:
   7.1. Unit Equipped Organization. A corps of Phoenix Raven qualified SF members is maintained at
   the following AFRC bases and unit equipped wings to support the command PR program:

Table 1. Phoenix Raven Qualified SF Members at Unit-Equipped Organizations.
Unit                                                                          Number
94th Security Forces Squadron, Dobbins Air Reserve Base, GA                   6

302nd Security Forces Squadron, Peterson Air Force Base, CO                   6

433rd Security Forces Squadron, Kelly Air Force Base, TX                      6

434th Security Forces Squadron, Grissom Air Reserve Base, IN                  6

439th Security Forces Squadron, Westover Air Reserve Base, MA                 6

440th Security Forces Squadron, General Mitchell Air Reserve Station, WI      6

445th Security Forces Squadron, Wright Patterson Air Force Base, OH           8

482nd Security Forces Squadron, Homestead Air Reserve Station, FL             6

452nd Security Forces Squadron, March Air Reserve Base, CA                    8

459th Security Forces Squadron, Andrews Air Force Base, MD                    6

610th Security Forces Squadron, Carswell Air Reserve Station, TX              6

910th Security Forces Squadron, Youngstown Air Reserve Station, OH            6

911th Security Forces Squadron, Pittsburgh Air Reserve Station, PA            6

913th Security Forces Squadron, Willow Grove Air Reserve Station, PA          6

914th Security Forces Squadron, Niagara Falls Air Reserve Station, NY         6

934th Security Forces Squadron, Minn-St Paul Air Reserve Station, MN          6

   7.2. Associate Unit Organization. A corps of Phoenix Raven qualified SF members is maintained at
   the following associate wings to support the command PR program:
8                                                                          AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

Table 2. Phoenix Raven qualified SF Members at Associate Wings.
315th Security Forces Squadron, Charleston Air Force Base, SC                        6
349th Security Forces Squadron, Travis Air Force Base, CA                            6
446th Security Forces Squadron, McChord Air Force Base, OH                           6
512th Security Forces Squadron, Dover Air Force Base, DE                             6
514th Security Forces Squadron, McGuire Air Force Base, NJ                           6

8. AMC Phoenix Raven Qualification Course. SFS commanders designate enlisted unit members to
attend this course. Commissioned officers must be approved by HQ AFRC/SF to attend. The following
requirements must be met:
    8.1. Team leaders will be in the minimum grade of Staff Sergeant when possible. Do not delegate
    lower than SRA.
    8.2. Team members will be in minimum grade of Airman First Class and have 18 months time in ser-
    vice. Commanders may submit prior-service members who have more than 18 months time in a sister
    service if they believe the member has the proper maturity in the USAF system. Submit waiver
    requests in memo format to HQ AFRC/SFOT for review. If HQ AFRC/SFOT concurs, the request
    will be forwarded to HQ AMC/SFT for adjudication.
    8.3. Possess a medical profile that doesn’t preclude worldwide deployment.
    8.4. Have received no Article 15 action during the current term of enlistment.
    8.5. Have not been placed on the control roster or subject of an unfavorable information file.
    8.6. Received a minimum rating of 4 on last three Enlisted Performance Reports with no performance
    evaluation factor below a 3 in Section III of AF Form 910, Enlisted Performance Report (AB
    through TSgt).
    8.7. Must not be on the AF weight management program (WMP) or remedial fitness program.
    8.8. Possess at least 2 years retainability after completion of training.
    8.9. Possess or have completed requirements for an official passport.
    8.10. Successfully complete or are projected to complete an Operational Support Flying Duty Physi-
    cal, 9C.
    8.11. Possess a secret clearance or higher.
    8.12. Physical fitness requirements at the PHOENIX RAVEN Qualification Course are extremely
    demanding daily throughout the entire length of the course. Failure to properly condition for this
    course is a safety risk. SFS commanders must ensure that any member nominated for the PHOENIX
    RAVEN Qualification Course has completed and meets the requirements of the PHOENIX RAVEN
    Fitness Test, as outlined in attachment 3, before submitting the AF FM 101, Reserve Requirements
    for School Tours of Active Duty for Training, to the wing for processing. Another official Physical
    Training (PT) test will be conducted within 2 weeks prior to the class start date. Commanders and unit
    Air Reserve Technicians should re-schedule unit training assemblies (UTA) or allocate mandays to
    meet PT test requirements as closely as possible. The unit commander signs an official memorandum
    to the AFRC/SF that the candidate meets all physical fitness requirements of the AMC PRFT. Fax a
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                               9

   copy of the memo to DSN: 497-0103 just prior to sending the candidate to the course and have the
   candidate hand-carry the original to the AMWC.
   8.13. Members must graduate from the PHOENIX RAVEN Qualification Course conducted by the
   421st Ground Combat Readiness Squadron at the Air Mobility Warfare Center (AMWC) to be consid-
   ered certified to perform PR duties. PR members maintain their certification by completing all of the
   annual training requirements.
   8.14. AMC Air Mobility Warfare Center (AMWC). The OPR is the 421 GCRS/CC. See AMCI
   31-104, for AMWC responsibilities.

9. Annual Training Program. All certified PR members must complete annual training requirements
identified on AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS. The RAVEN
Program Manager (RPM) refers to the monthly training web site developed by HQ AMC, Directorate of
Security Forces (http://amc.scott.af.mil/sf/index.htm) to design the unit PR training program based upon
local duty schedules. The RPM may appoint any certified PR member to act as trainer for another PR jun-
ior in grade or with less experience. Monthly training requirements may be broken into more manageable
segments to fit reserve training availability. Training requirements must be accurately tracked, but do not
need to be reported to any higher headquarters on a monthly basis.

10. Annual Evaluation Program. PR personnel must successfully complete an annual evaluation con-
ducted by their RPM or deputy RPM to maintain certification. The commander may also authorize the
senior unit ART or Stan-Eval section to administer portions of the evaluation except items 10.4. and 10.5.
Members are considered certified for 1 year upon graduation from the PHOENIX RAVEN Qualification
Course. In order to complete successful recertification, the RPM ensures the member completes the fol-
lowing evaluation:
   10.1. Successfully completes the PRFT.
   10.2. Successfully completes a written test (provided by HQ AMC/SFX through HQ AFRC/SFO)
   with a minimum passing score of 80 percent.
   10.3. Successfully completes an oral exam conducted by the RPM (oral questions provided by HQ
   AMC/SFX through HQ AFRC/SFO).
   10.4. Successfully completes a practical evaluation. During this portion of the evaluation, the evalu-
   ated member acts as a close-in sentry for a deployed aircraft. The RPM devises a minimum of three
   scenarios in which persons posing as foreign nationals or aircrew members approach the sentry and
   test the member’s ability to apply the force continuum. One scenario must require the use of simu-
   lated deadly force. One scenario must require the member to demonstrate his or her ability to defend
   themselves and their aircraft against a perpetrator in a physical confrontation that requires less than
   deadly force, and one scenario must require the sentry to resolve the situation without using physical
   force.
   10.5. Successfully completing a check ride. During this portion of the evaluation the RPM or deputy
   accompanies the member on an actual PR mission. The member acts as the PR team leader and the
   RPM or deputy RPM evaluates the member’s ability to successfully apply their PR checklists, as out-
   lined in attachment 2, throughout the entire mission. The check ride may take place any time within 6
   months prior or 3 months after the member’s required recertification date. In the event the RPM can-
   not schedule a check ride because a mission is not available in the required time period, the RPM must
10                                                                           AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

     ensure the member successfully completes all other portions of the evaluation. The RPM certifies the
     member via the AF Form 797 and must include a letter in the member’s training record indicating a
     mission was not available for a check ride. Conduct check rides when missions become available and
     civilian work schedules allow. Annual check rides that are missed due to scheduling conflicts do not
     render the Raven uncertified. AMC/SF accepts requests for MPA mandays for one extra person for
     check rides when flying an AMC mission.
     10.6. Decertify PR team members who fail to meet minimum standards of knowledge and perfor-
     mance in any area of the evaluation. The RPM may administer a re-evaluation of any deficient area
     and may certify the evaluated member upon successfully completing the re-evaluation.
     10.7. The RPM documents the results of all phases of the annual evaluation for each Raven certified
     unit member. The RPM briefs the unit commander on the results of the evaluation. The RPM main-
     tains a copy of the annual evaluation documentation in each certified Raven members training record
     and one copy in the unit Raven program continuity book. The RPM, or appointed trainer, completes
     the member’s AF Form 797 to denote proficiency for all skills upon successfully completing the
     annual training program and annual evaluation
     10.8. Annual evaluation of the RPM is accomplished separate from the other PR members. The SFS
     commander must certify the RPM by accomplishing a memorandum outlining the overall compe-
     tency level of the RPM and continuity of the unit's program. This evaluation includes discussing pro-
     gram management with NAF/SF managers, HQ AFRC/SFO, and the PRFT test results. RPM must
     also complete at least one PR mission annually. Commander's evaluation of the RPM may include a
     check ride. AMC/SF accepts requests for MPA mandays for one extra person for this purpose when
     flying an AMC mission.
        10.8.1. The Director of Security Forces, HQ AMC, is the waiver authority for any of the above
        listed annual training requirements and standardized evaluation procedures. Decisions are based
        on operational mission requirements.
     10.9. Each authorized Raven unit maintains, as a minimum, or have access through associate hosts,
     for training:
        10.9.1. One complete padded expandable baton training suit
        10.9.2. Two foam type training batons
        10.9.3. One practice strike bag
        10.9.4. Each authorized Raven unit should maintain a certified expandable baton instructor or
        have access to an official expandable baton course locally for recertifications.

11. Decertification. SFS commanders should decertify members from performing PR duties when a
member demonstrates, through substandard duty performance or through involvement in incidents requir-
ing disciplinary action, that they do not possess the maturity or competence to function in the program.
Article 15 action, UIF, or Control roster actions will result in a minimum decertification of 1 year.
     11.1. SFS commanders notify HQ AFRC/SFO whenever a PR member is decertified and HQ AFRC/
     SFO immediately notifies HQ AMC/SFO. Actions surrounding the decertification and recertification
     are outlined in the notification. If the decertification is related to criminal or non-judicial punishment,
     send a follow up message when the administrative or legal process is completed. Depending on the
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                            11

   severity of the incident, the PR member may be removed from the Raven program and permanently
   decertified upon recommendation from AMC/SF or AFRC/SF.
   11.2. PR certified members from HQ AMC/SF and the 421 GCRS routinely accompany AMC PR
   missions to evaluate program effectiveness. Evaluating PR members is not the primary purpose of
   these missions, however, staff members may decertify any PR member from performing duties if they
   fail to demonstrate adherence to the training standards of the program throughout the observed mis-
   sion. If this occurs, the staff member provides a letter to HQ AFRC/SFO and the unit commander of
   the member explaining the reasons for decertification. PR certified members from HQ AFRC/SF staff
   may also accompany PR missions supported by reserve Ravens to evaluate program effectiveness,
   and similarly may decertify. The RPM may recertify the member to perform duties after successfully
   completing another evaluation according to this instruction.
   11.3. SFS commanders notify HQ AFRC/SFO whenever a PR member is decertified. Outline actions
   surrounding the decertification and recertification in the notification. HQ AFRC/SFO forwards the
   information to HQ AMC/SFO. If a PR member is decertified pending criminal/non-judicial punish-
   ment, HQ AFRC/SF reviews the circumstances. Depending upon the severity of the incident, the PR
   member may be removed from the Raven program and permanently decertified by HQ AFRC/SF,
   who in-turn notifies HQ AMC/SF.

12. The PHOENIX RAVEN Apprentice Program. SFS commanders identify potential candidates for
PR certification as PR apprentices (PRA). PRAs may accompany PR missions at the discretion of SFS
commanders and RPMs. PRAs must meet all personnel screening factors identified in paragraphs 8
through 8.11 and must meet the requirements identified in paragraph 10.1. PRAs may perform any PR
duties as long as they are supervised by a certified PR member. PRAs must comply as a PR member with
this instruction while performing PR duties. PR teams may not be comprised of one certified member and
one apprentice on duty alone at the aircraft. When missions are identified as requiring three PR members,
PRAs may satisfy the requirement as the third member. Any exceptions to these procedures must be
approved by HQ AFRC/SFO.

13. Equipment. Associate units coordinate with their host for mission essential team equipment. Unit
equipped units will acquire and maintain mission essential team equipment.
   13.1. PR team members maintain the following equipment ready for immediate deployment:
       13.1.1. Tactical weapon/equipment vest.
       13.1.2. Level IIIA body armor.
       13.1.3. Combat helmet.
       13.1.4. Flashlight.
       13.1.5. Canteens or backpack type hydration system.
       13.1.6. Pistol shoulder holster.
       13.1.7. Sleeping bag.
       13.1.8. Wet weather gear, and when necessary, cold weather gear.
       13.1.9. One 16 or 21 inch expandable baton.
12                                                                       AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

        13.1.10. Eight quarts of drinking water (unit IMPAC).
        13.1.11. Shot records, dog tags, and official passport.
        13.1.12. AF FM 523, USAF Authorization To Bear Firearms, full face photo type, indefinite
        expiration.
        13.1.13. Government credit card (sanitized)
        13.1.14. Security forces personnel wear the flight suit and flight cap while performing Phoenix
        Raven duties, according to AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
        The standard round PR shoulder patch awarded upon graduation from the PR qualification course
        is worn on the right shoulder. Apprentices may wear their home wing or flying squadron patch.
        The standard, black leather aircrew style name patch or the standard PR name patch may be worn.
        Wear of the PR flying scarf is optional. Each PR member is authorized four flight suits, one flight
        jacket, and two pairs of flight gloves. They are authorized to procure other aircrew type items
        (helmet bag, B-4 bags, headsets, etc.) that will assist them in performing their duties as mission
        essential ground personnel.
     13.2. PR team leaders ensure team members assemble the following Raven kit team equipment for
     each mission:
        13.2.1. One copy of the Phoenix Raven handbook.
        13.2.2. One copy of applicable AOR FCG.
        13.2.3. One copy of AMCI 31-104 and AFRCI 31-104.
        13.2.4. One copy CJCSI 3121.01 Standing Rules of Engagement (UNCLASSIFIED Enclosure
        A).
        13.2.5. One copy of JS guide 5260 Service Members Personal Protection Guide.
        13.2.6. One hand-held spotlight.
        13.2.7. One digital camera with extra disks.
        13.2.8. One PVS-7 series NVG per team member.
        13.2.9. One case Meal Ready to Eat (MRE) (minimum).
        13.2.10. One heavy gauge bicycle type anti-theft cable and compatible lock (for securing weap-
        ons to airframe if needed).
        13.2.11. Weapon maintenance supplies.
        13.2.12. Administrative supplies, including a supply of AF FM 1297 Temporary Issue Receipt.
        13.2.13. Chemical protective gear including canteen (when mission directed).
        13.2.14. One individual first aid kit per team member.
        13.2.15. One compass or data scope/range finder.
        13.2.16. One pair of binoculars.
        13.2.17. One INMARSAT telephone system (see paragraph 17.12.14 for usage rules).
        13.2.18. One lockable team kit equipment box.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                             13

      13.2.19. One M-16A2 rifle, GUU-14, or GAU-5 with PAQ-4 site mounted for each PR member
      (NOTE: rifle used should be sighted in for member’s use) with 210 rounds of ammunition.
      13.2.20. One M500 or M870 shotgun (modified version with collapsible stock preferred) for each
      two person team with 18 rounds of 00 buckshot ammunition per weapon.
      13.2.21. One M-9 Handgun with laser grip sights, with 30 rounds of ammunition per weapon
      (Hollow Point ammunition is standard unless operating in certain "war-zone" areas that would
      violate international law).
      13.2.22. One lockable and airworthy gun case.
 NOTE: HQ AFRC/SFX maintains a list of suggested sources for standardized equipment items. Also
see Allowance Standard 538.

14. Weapons. See Allowance Standard 538 for reserve Raven weapons authorizations.
   14.1. Associate units coordinate with their host for mission essential weapons.
   14.2. Unit equipped units order sufficient weapons per Allowance Standard 538. Unit equipped
   units, including on AFRC Installations, order separate rifles, handguns, and shotguns for the PR pro-
   gram.
      14.2.1. Unit equipped units fire the AFQC a second time using their PR required M16/GAU vari-
      ant rifle immediately after firing the AFQC with their Unit Type Code required mobility M16
      series rifle. Do not use PR required GAU for Specialized Rifle Course.
   14.3. Each authorized Raven unit will have a portable clearing barrel.
      14.3.1. Coordinate with aircrew to determine the best location on the airframe to place the clear-
      ing barrel for operational use.
          14.3.1.1. If portable clearing barrel is not available, use field expedient techniques per para-
          graph 3.2.

15. Ammunition. See AFCAT 21-209, Ground Munitions for reserve Raven ammunition authorizations.
   15.1. Use only properly authorized and allocated category “C” ammunition for operational PR mis-
   sions.
   15.2. Unit equipped units will maintain ball and EHPB category "C" 9mm ammunition.
   15.3. Associate units coordinate with their host for mission essential ammunition.
      15.3.1. HQ AFRC provides category "D" training ammunition allocations for associate units.

16. HQ AFRC Command Responsibilities:
   16.1. Threat Working Group (TWG). The OPR is DOI.
      16.1.1. The HQ AFRC/TWG reviews all AFRC flying missions to ensure HQ AMC Raven
      required procedures are followed. The TWG also conducts AOR specific assessments of AFRC
      missions to non-HQ AMC TWG Raven required locations to determine if PR teams need to be
      attached. Any Raven required missions with AFRC mission numbers are reported to the HQ
      AFRC Command Center for tracking purposes. The TWG normally meets weekly.
14                                                                        AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

        16.1.2. Because the AFRC/TWG does not meet daily, HQ AFRC/DOI may need to make inde-
        pendent Raven team requirement decisions when presented with short notice AFRC missions to
        high threat locations. DOI may also request unscheduled TWG meetings for this reason.
     16.2. Directorate of Operations (DOOM). Compares available mission setup sheets to the AMC
     Phoenix Raven required listing to ensure remarks indicating PR team requirements are included if
     needed for non-HQ AMC generated missions flown by reserve crews.
        16.2.1. If assisting field units with diplomatic clearance coordination, include notification that PR
        members will be on the aircraft when sending the official message requesting diplomatic clearance
        to the Defense Attache Office (DAO)/embassy of the country involved. This notification is not a
        personnel clearance request, but instead serves as an initial notice to the embassy to expect coor-
        dination requests from the aircraft commander or PR team members.
     16.3. Command Center (DOCC). When tracking AFRC mission aircraft, the command center makes
     note of which aircraft have PR teams on board. If contacted by an aircraft commander concerning
     relieving a PR team from the aircraft at Raven required locations or stranded PR teams on aircraft with
     hard-breaks, the command center will attempt to contact DOI and SFO as soon as possible to relay the
     information. NOTE: See AMCI 31-104 for HQ AMC/TACC responsibilities.
     16.4. Counter Drug Support (DOU). Contributes limited funding to HQ AFRC/SFX for headquarter
     support funds applied to counter drug related Raven required missions.
     16.5. Directorate of Security Forces (SFO). Provides command instruction, guidance, and policy
     regarding the AFRC Phoenix Raven program.
        16.5.1. Coordinates with HQ AFRC/SFX to provide specialized equipment to authorized Phoenix
        Raven units as identified in paragraphs 10.9.1. and 13.
        16.5.2. Distributes HQ AMC/SFXT approved evaluation and training products used to certify and
        train PR members in unit annual training and evaluation processes.
        16.5.3. Tracks command participation in the PR program each fiscal year.
        16.5.4. Ensures members nominated for the PHOENIX RAVEN Qualification Course are sched-
        uled for courses at the Air Mobility Warfare Center (AMWC) through coordination with HQ
        AFRC/SFOT and HQ AFRC/DPTF so sufficient numbers of certified PR members are available at
        authorized units as outlined in paragraph 7.
     16.6. Directorate of Services (SVXR). Implements command policies to ensure MREs are available
     for the AFRC Phoenix Raven program per paragraph 7.
     16.7. Directorate of Logistics (LGMW). Ensures authorized ammunition required to support the
     AFRC Phoenix Raven program is allocated per paragraph 7.
     16.8. Directorate of Financial Management (FMAPP). Ensures Phoenix Raven applicable Proce-
     dural Information Messages (PIM) and authorizations are distributed to reserve wings. Also distrib-
     utes authorizations to release wing funding for Phoenix Raven support provided by active duty Raven
     teams when appropriate.
        16.8.1. Funding.
            16.8.1.1. AMC Missions. Reserve Ravens supporting AMC missions (including Coronet
            Oak) submit AF FM 49, Application for MPA Man-Day Tour to HQ AMC/SFX for MPA
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                             15

          manday authorizations. Travel and per diem is according to appropriate PIM indicated on the
          AMC MPA manday authorization message.
          16.8.1.2. AFRC Missions. All HQ AFRC generated missions or unit generated counter drug
          support missions are funded with headquarters support funds approved by HQ AFRC/SF. SFS
          units participating in these missions submit a memorandum HQ AFRC/SFX containing the
          following information: mission number, inclusive mission dates, participants name/rank/ssn,
          statement that member will not exceed 179 RPA day rule. Other unit generated missions are
          funded by the local wing. Air War College missions are funded by the AWC.
          16.8.1.3. Active Duty Ravens. Active Duty Ravens that fly with reserve aircrews are funded
          by the reserve wing flying the mission. A funding authorization message along with the appli-
          cable PIM number will be provided to the flying unit responsible for funding the travel and per
          diem expenses associated with the active duty raven. Fund code 68 will always apply to the
          Raven missions.
   16.9. NAF/SF Manager. The OPRs are 604th RSG/SF (4th AF) and 622nd RSG/SF (22nd AF).
   NOTE: Although 10th AF contributes PR teams to the command program, they do not have aircraft
   that commonly participate in the program.
       16.9.1. Reviews the 30 day outlook schedule of known PR missions, supplied by HQ AMC/SFO,
       and extracts any missions being flown by crews from the applicable NAF. The NAF/SF manager
       then advertises the open missions to all certified Ravens within the applicable NAF first, and then
       the entire command until a PR team is sourced to the mission. If reserve Raven volunteers can not
       be located, the NAF/SF manager notifies HQ AMC/SFO of the shortfall. Also see paragraphs
       2.5.1 through 2.5.3.
       16.9.2. Serves as the primary interface between AFRC PR teams and HQ AMC/SF concerning
       operational mission related matters.
       16.9.3. Acts as liaison to resolve MPA authorization issues with HQ AMC/SF.
       16.9.4. Acts as liaison between HQ AMC/SF and HQ AFRC/FMAPP to coordinate travel and per
       diem reimbursement to active duty SF units providing PR support to non-associate AFRC air-
       crews. One extra active duty person for the purpose of conducting check rides will be approved.
       16.9.5. Acts as liaison between reserve SF units and HQ AFRC/SFX to coordinate manday reim-
       bursements for Raven teams supporting AFRC generated missions.

17. Wing Responsibilities:
   17.1. Wing Commander:
       17.1.1. May direct PR teams to accompany wing airlift and tanker missions at other than HQ
       AMC Raven required locations. Wing directed missions are funded locally.
       17.1.2. Ensures all wing organizations provide adequate support for the PR program.
   17.2. Wing TWGs. May recommend to wing commanders that PR teams accompany wing missions
   based upon mission risk analysis independent of the HQ AMC TWG or HQ AFRC TWG. If this rec-
   ommendation is acted upon, RPM must inform the appropriate NAF/SF Manager and HQ AFRC/SFO
   of the wing initiated PR tasking.
16                                                                          AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

     17.3. Wing Staff Judges Advocate. Ensures PR teams receive briefings to interpret Status Of Forces
     Agreement (SOFA), US Department of State Foreign Clearance Guide restrictions for mission loca-
     tions prior to mission initiation when requested.
     17.4. Operational Group Commander:
        17.4.1. Ensures PR team members receive access to AMC TWG risk analysis products from
        INTELINK-S prior to each mission when requested.
        17.4.2. Ensures Unit Intelligence briefs PR team members on any updated threat information for
        each mission location when requested.
        17.4.3. Ensures through tanker/airlift squadron current operations sections that PR team members
        are included on aircrew orders as MEGP for all missions identified or directed to be PR required.
        Coordinate with SFS for input.
        17.4.4. Ensures mission planners include notification that PR members will be on the aircraft
        when sending the official message requesting diplomatic clearance to the DAO/embassy of the
        country involved. This notification is not a personnel clearance request, but instead serves as an
        initial notice to the embassy to expect coordination requests from the aircraft commander or PR
        team members.
     17.5. Support Group Commander:
        17.5.1. Ensures Services squadron maintains a stock of 10 cases of MRE per year to support the
        Raven mission needs of the SFS.
        17.5.2. Ensures RPM are assisted in obtaining GDSS user accounts for mission preparation
        research.
        17.5.3. Ensures RPM are assisted in obtaining GCCS/SIPRNET accounts for mission preparation
        research. If it is not practical to certify hardware and facilities within the SFS, identify a worksta-
        tion within the wing for RPM joint use.
     17.6. Medical Unit Commander:
        17.6.1. Ensures that PR certified members receive Operational Support Flying Duty Physical, 9C.
            17.6.1.1. See AFI 48-123, Medical Examination and Standards, all-inclusive paragraphs
            A8.4. Local certification is authorized. Altitude chamber is not required.
        17.6.2. Ensures PR certified members who wear prescription glasses are provided aircrew style
        eyeglasses and prescription aircrew sunglasses.
        17.6.3. Ensures PR program MRE stocks are inspected as required by Public Health personnel.
        17.6.4. Ensures AOR specific medical threat information is provided and interpreted for PR
        teams upon request when qualified Public Health personnel are available.
     17.7. Wing Comptroller:
        17.7.1. Funds organically generated missions.
        17.7.2. Ensures travel and per diem fund cites, extracted from appropriate PIM, are provided to
        reserve SFS orderly room personnel for the purpose of preparing official travel orders for reserve
        Ravens flying AMC missions.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                          17

     17.7.3. Ensures all required wing fund cites are provided to support organic wing PR teams when
     the mission is generated by the organic wing.
     17.7.4. Ensures travel and per diem fund cites, coordinated with HQ AFRC/FMAPP and
     extracted from appropriate PIM, are provided to active duty SFS orderly room personnel for the
     purpose of preparing official travel orders for Raven support to local wing flying missions.
  17.8. AFOSI Detachment Commander. Ensures PR team members receive all relevant threat infor-
  mation and updates pertaining to mission locations prior to each mission upon request.
  17.9. Security Forces Squadron (SFS) Commander:
     17.9.1. The SFS Commander designates in writing a Raven Program Manager (RPM) and deputy
     RPM to serve as managers of the PR program. The RPM may or may not be the senior PR certi-
     fied member, but should be the Raven with the most availability. The PR program is an enlisted
     program. The RPMs are NCOs and must be PR certified. Do not designate lower than E-4. The
     RPMs in AFRC are still responsible for normal mobility or base police requirements within the
     squadron, however commanders must ensure the RPM is given the schedule flexibility to effec-
     tively accomplish their responsibilities.
        17.9.1.1. Ensures RPM receives an email account to facilitate inter-command coordination
        and internet mission preparation.
     17.9.2. Periodically reviews the unit PR program to ensure compliance with this instruction.
     Completes evaluations of the RPM.
        17.9.2.1. Ensures coordination with non-organic PR teams that are reporting in TDY to sup-
        port the local wing is completed. Support may include but is not limited to lodging, transpor-
        tation, armory storage, and providing weapons, ammo and equipment if possible and
        available.
     17.9.3. Nominates qualified unit members to participate in the PR program as outlined in para-
     graph 8. To the greatest extent possible, nominees for PR certification should come from the unit
     PR Apprentice program outlined in paragraph 12.
     17.9.4. Maintains required numbers of certified PR members as outlined in paragraph 7.
     17.9.5. Ensures operational PR equipment as outlined in paragraphs 10.9, 13, 14, and 15, is avail-
     able for all PR missions. Ensures semi-annual equipment inventories are conducted and properly
     documented. If command purchased equipment is lost, damaged, or destroyed, the SFS com-
     mander ensures the appropriate investigation and report of survey results are forwarded to HQ
     AFRC/SFO and SFX for review.
        17.9.5.1. Ensures required PR team and individual gear, both operational and training, is bud-
        geted for to include new acquisition, loss, and replacement due to normal wear.
     17.9.6. Ensures only certified PR members perform PR missions. Unit and wing senior members
     not certified as PR members may accompany missions to review the effectiveness of the squadron
     PR program if approved to do so by the SFS commander and mission commander. Fund these
     personnel locally. PRAs that accompany PR missions must comply with paragraph 12, unless a
     deviation is approved by HQ AFRC/SFO.
18                                                                        AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

        17.9.7. Ensures PR team members are released from normal duty no later than 24 hours prior to
        aircraft departure to conduct planning for scheduled missions.
        17.9.8. Commanders are encouraged to obtain training school slots for certified Ravens in the
        below listed courses contained in Education and Training Course Announcements to enhance the
        overall effectiveness of the unit PR program, http://hq2af.keesler.af.mil/etca.htm:
           17.9.8.1. Dynamics of International Terrorism.
           17.9.8.2. Cross Cultural Communication Course.
           17.9.8.3. Latin American Orientation Course.
           17.9.8.4. Middle East Orientation Course.
           17.9.8.5. Sub-Saharan Orientation Course.
           17.9.8.6. Russian, Central Europe, and Central Asia Orientation Course.
           17.9.8.7. Asian-Pacific Orientation Course.
           17.9.8.8. Cross Cultural Communication Course.
           17.9.8.9. USAF ATFP Level II Course.
     17.10. Aircraft Commander:
        17.10.1. Overall responsibility for force protection matters rests with the AC.
        17.10.2. Ensures PR team members attend mission briefings and are given the opportunity to
        brief all aircrew members on force protection matters.
        17.10.3. Ensures PR team is given a familiarization tour of aircraft to cover anti-hijack and stow-
        away issues and aircraft locking techniques, if requested.
        17.10.4. Coordinates force protection matters with PR team leaders and provides any assistance
        necessary to establish security for the aircraft according to paragraph 3.
        17.10.5. Ensures availability of necessary food, water, relief, and transportation for PR team
        members in the course of the mission.
        17.10.6. Coordinates lodging for PR team members not required for aircraft security according to
        paragraph 3.
        17.10.7. Ensures that under no circumstances will PR team members be relieved of their security
        responsibilities at locations identified as requiring PR support without the coordinating with
        TACC, HQ AFRC Command Center, or other specified control cell when OPCON does not
        belong to AFRC or AMC.
        17.10.8. If the aircraft breaks down and cannot be flown out of a Raven required location, the AC
        makes every attempt to leave one or two crew personnel behind to maintain daily contact with the
        PR team for safety reasons. If no crew members can stay, the AC notifies the AMEMBASY/DAO
        and notify them that the aircraft and PR team are there and arranges for a cell phone to be supplied
        when team is not equipped with INMARSAT. Also ensures food and water needs of the PR team
        are provided for. AC must notify HQ AFRC Command Center of the situation.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                        19

     17.10.9. Ensures PR procedures outlined in AMCI 11-208, Tanker/Airlift Operations, are fol-
     lowed by all assigned aircrew members.
     17.10.10. When multiple ships RON at Raven locations, attempts to have all aircraft parked
     together to maximize PR team effectiveness.
  17.11. Unit’s Raven Program Manager (RPM).
     17.11.1. Serves as the SFS commander’s manager of the squadron PHOENIX RAVEN program
     and the primary liaison with the HQ AFRC/SFO staff on PR matters.
     17.11.2. Conducts the PHOENIX RAVEN annual training and certification programs according
     to paragraphs 9 and 10.
     17.11.3. Conducts the squadron PRA program according to paragraph 12.
     17.11.4. Disseminates messages, products, instructions, and training materials pertaining to the
     PR program from the HQ AFRC/SFO staff to all squadron PR-certified personnel and squadron
     leadership.
     17.11.5. Schedules certified PR personnel to meet unit taskings for PR missions.
        17.11.5.1. Participates in PR missions to meet wing and command needs and maintain skills
        but not to preclude good unit PR program management.
     17.11.6. Provides assistance to PR team leaders in preparing for missions. Addresses wing and
     unit scheduling, equipment, and mission preparation conflicts that the PR team leader cannot
     resolve.
     17.11.7. Ensures PR members are current on all training and annual certification requirements
     prior to undertaking a PR mission.
     17.11.8. If necessary, publishes squadron supplements to this instruction and the PR procedural
     guide at attachment 2.
     17.11.9. Ensures completion of PR reports for all missions according to attachment 5 and sends
     them to HQ AMC/SFO and HQ AFRC/SFO within required timeframes.
     17.11.10. Maintains the following documents and publications:
     17.11.11. AMCI 31-104, PHOENIX RAVEN Program and AFRCI 31-104, PHOENIX RAVEN
     Program.
        17.11.11.1. AFI 11-2C-5Vol3, C-5 Operations Procedures, Chapter 7, Aircraft Security.
        17.11.11.2. AFI 11-2C-130Vol3, C-130 Operations Procedures, Chapter 7, Aircraft Security.
        17.11.11.3. AFI 11 -2C-141Vol3, C-141 Operations Procedures, Chapter 7, Aircraft Security.
        17.11.11.4. AFI 11-2KC-10Vol3, KC-10 Operations Procedures, Chapter 7, Aircraft Security.
        17.11.11.5. AFI 11-2KC-135Vol3, KC-135 Operations Procedures, Chapter 7, Aircraft Secu-
        rity.
        17.11.11.6. AMCI 11-208, Tanker/Airlift Operations, Chapter 11, Security Procedures.
     17.11.12. Encouraged to maintain the book KISS, BOW, OR SHAKE HANDS, latest edition for
     reference.
20                                                                        AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

           17.11.12.1. Encouraged to maintain the book GESTURES, latest edition for reference.
        17.11.13. A letter from the unit commander appointing the RPM and the Deputy RPM.
        17.11.14. An updated roster listing all PR certified personnel, their home and duty phone num-
        bers, passport information, clearance, SSN, restricted area badge number, date of birth and place
        of birth.
        17.11.15. Copy of AF Form 797 for all members.
        17.11.16. A certification letter for each evaluation conducted as outlined in paragraph 10.7.
        17.11.17. A copy of all official messages, newsletters, and training materials provided by HQ
        AFRC/SFO.
        17.11.18. An updated hard copy of DoD 4500.54G, Foreign Clearance Guide, complete set.
        17.11.19. A current copy of Department of State Publication 10287, Key Officers of Foreign Ser-
        vice Posts.
        17.11.20. Maintains location folders (classified appropriately) for each airfield transited during
        past supported missions. As a minimum, folders should contain the following:
           17.11.20.1. Any available risk assessment products for the location.
           17.11.20.2. Any available AFOSI vulnerability assessment for the location.
           17.11.20.3. Any available imagery of the location annotated with likely HQ AMC parking
           areas.
           17.11.20.4. Dispose of documents according to AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Sched-
           ule.
           17.11.20.5. With the assistance of the unit deployment manger (UDM), ensures PR members
           maintain valid official passport (passport maintained at the unit, not private residence) and
           current immunizations. Immunizations will be the same as SF mobility positions and those
           unique to aircrew members.
           17.11.20.6. Maintains 12 extra passport photos for each certified Raven at all times for quick
           VISA processing.
     17.12. PR Team Leader:
        17.12.1. Schedules team members for required briefings from AFOSI, unit Intelligence, and for
        the aircrew briefing prior to mission.
        17.12.2. Reviews all location folders maintained by the RPM with team members.
        17.12.3. Reviews DoD 4500.54G information for each mission location. If necessary, meets with
        an attorney from the Staff Judge Advocate’s office to obtain a legal interpretation of DoD
        4500.54G restrictions and to review applicable SOFAs for mission locations.
        17.12.4. After a thorough review of all available vulnerability, threat, and legal consideration
        information, develops a pre-deployment force protection plan for each location. This force pro-
        tection plan should cover contingency actions in the event of aircraft or aircrew attack, to include
        recall procedures and rally points.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                           21

     17.12.5. When possible, meets with the AC prior to mission initiation. Presents the force protec-
     tion plan for the mission and tailors it to accommodate operational considerations.
     17.12.6. Provides the briefing at attachment 4 prior to mission initiation. Coordinates with Intel-
     ligence and AFOSI to develop threat information. Ensures the information is not duplicated from
     other briefings and determines the briefing schedule.
     17.12.7. Inspects all team and personal equipment according to paragraph 13. Ensures all
     required equipment is available for the mission and functioning properly.
     17.12.8. Implements the PR guide at attachment 2 to ensure aircraft security throughout the entire
     mission according to paragraphs 3.3 through 3.7.
     17.12.9. Completes PR report according to attachment 5 and submits it to the RPM within seven
     calendar days of returning from a mission. Send report by email (NIPRNET) unless otherwise
     notified by AFRC/SFO. AGR/ART Ravens and Ravens on extended mandays complete report
     within 3 days.
     17.12.10. POCs for reports are HQ AFRC/SFO and HQ AMC/SFO. For email address informa-
     tion contact HQ AFRC/SFO at DSN 497-0106 and HQ AMC/SFO at DSN 779-0638.
     17.12.11. Ensures PR members comply with arming restrictions directed in this instruction.
     17.12.12. Ensures PR members are familiar with PR procedures/guidance maintained in AMCI
     11-208.
        17.12.12.1. Ensures PR members are familiar with applicable anti-hijack and stowaway pro-
        cedures in applicable 11 series instruction for the mission aircraft.
     17.12.13. Ensures that if any team member observes credible suspicious activity or surveillance at
     a transiting location, the activity will be immediately reported to the AC, host nation security
     forces, and embassy representative (RSO, DAO, etc.). This information will also be included in
     the PR trip report/airfield survey, but will be reported telephonically to the AFRC Command Cen-
     ter as soon as possible at DSN: 497-0680, Com (912) 327-0680. If on an AMC mission, also
     notify TACC at (618) 229-1755 or 1-800-AIR-MOBL. If on a Coronet Oak mission, notify 612
     COS/JFMF at DSN: 483-5838, Com (305) 293-5839/5838. In every case, always notify the
     AFRC Command Center after notifying responsible control center.
     17.12.14. Ensures INMARSAT Mini-M phone system is used for official use only.
        17.12.14.1. Completes a self-test of the system before leaving home station and after arriving
        at Raven required locations by successfully logging onto an ocean region satellite, do not place
        a telephone call.
            17.12.14.1.1. For Raven required RONs only, completes a communication check of the
            system after arriving at the Raven required location by logging onto an ocean region satel-
            lite and calling the responsible control cell. AFRC Command Center at (912) 327-0680 or
            1-800-327-0680, TACC (618) 229-1755 or 1-800-AIR-MOBL, Coronet Oak teams call
            612 COS/JFMF (305) 293-5839/5838.
            17.12.14.1.2. The standard communication check will be according to the following
            example: This is Raven team leader on mission QDN65P200043, ICAO - OMFJ, commu-
            nication check - how do you read me? This procedure should not take longer than 30 sec-
22                                                                       AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

                onds once a connection is made.
            17.12.14.2. Maintains a log of phone calls made during the mission and includes this informa-
            tion in the trip report. Log should show what phone number was called, who placed the call,
            date of the call, and the estimated duration of the call.
            17.12.14.3. Includes phone call information in specific mission trip reports.
     17.13. PR Team Members. Assist the PR team leader in the performance of all PR duties required by
     this instruction. Prepared to act as the team leader in the event the leader becomes unable to perform
     duties.



                                          JAMES E. SHERRARD III, Maj Gen, USAF
                                          Commander
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                         23

                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-1, Physical Security
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel
AFH 31-222, Use of Force Handbook
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel
AFI 51-704, Handling Requests for Political Asylum and Temporary Refuge
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
AMCI 11-208 Tanker/Airlift Operations
AFI 11 -2C-5Vol3, C-5 Operations Procedures
AFI 11 -2C130Vol3, C-130 Operations Procedures
AFI 11 -2C-141Vol3, C-141 Operations Procedures
AFI 11 -2KC-10Vol3, KC-10 Operations Procedures
AFI 11 -2KC-135Vol3, KC-135, KC-135 Operations Procedures
AFRC Phoenix Raven Web Site - https://wwwmil.afrc.af.mil/hq/sf/phoenix_raven.htm
AMCI 31-401 PHOENIX RAVEN Program
DoD 4500.54G, Department of Defense Foreign Clearance Guide
Department of State Publication 10287, Key Officers in Foreign Service Posts
CJCSI 3121.01, Standing Rules of Engagement for U.S. Forces
JS Guide 5260, Service Member’s Personal Protection Guide

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC—Aircraft Commander
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AFPD—Air Force Policy DirectiveAFPD
AFQC—Air Force Qualification Course
AFRCI—Air Force Reserve Command Instruction
AGR—Active Guard and Reserve
AMC—Air Mobility Command
24                                                    AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

AMCI—Air Mobility Command Instruction
AMEMBASSY—American Embassy
AMWC—Air Mobility Warfare Center
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Area of Operations
AOR—Area of Operational Responsibility
ART—Air Reserve Technician
AT—Anti-Terrorism
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CONUS—Continental United States
COS—Combat Operations Squadron
DAO—Defense Attaché Office
DoD—Department of Defense
DSN—Defense Switched Network
ECP—Entry Control Point
EMAIL—Electronic Mail
FP—Force Protection
FCG—Foreign Clearance Guide
GCCS—Global Command and Control System
GCRS—Ground Combat Readiness Squadron
GDSS—Global Decision Support System
ICAO—International Civi\\
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OCJCS—Office Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff
OCONUS—Outside Continental United States
OPCON—Operational Control
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIM—Procedural Information Message
PR—Phoenix Raven
PRA—Phoenix Raven Apprentice
PRFT—Phoenix Raven Fitness Test
RON—Remain Over Night
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                         25

RPG—Rocket Propelled Grenade
RPM—Raven Program Manager
RSO—Regional Security Officer
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SF—Security Forces
SFO—Security Forces Operations
SFOF—Security Forces Operations Force Protection
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SOFA— Status of Forces Agreement
SRC—Specialized Rifle course
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
TWG—Threat Working Group
USDAO—United States Defense Attaché Office
26                                                                   AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

                                           Attachment 2

                          PHOENIX RAVEN PROCEDURAL GUIDE

Table A2.1. Pre-Deployment Guide.
Task Completed                                  Task to be Performed
                                     (Use this guide to aid as a tool to aid in the
                              pre-deployment phase of a PHOENIX RAVEN tasking)
                 Receive notification of Raven Mission. Determine if Raven personnel are avail-
                 able from civilian employment for dates indicated.
                 Process funding requirements per paragraph 16.8.1.
                 If an AMC mission, prepare AF Form 49, Request for MPA Mandays. Ensure you
                 add all required travel days and prep times. Complete section I-III. Include sen-
                 tence “Phoenix Raven support for mission xxxxxxxxxxx” in blk III. When com-
                 pleted, fax form to AMC SFO at DSN: 779-8645 for manday authorization and
                 pay and allowance fund cites.
                 Upon approval of the manday request, AMC SFO will send an official message
                 that will contain pay and allowance fund cites for orders preparations. Under nor-
                 mal circumstances, this process takes 7-10 days. It can be accomplished in 3-4
                 days for urgent missions. Follow instructions on the message for travel and per
                 diem procedures.
                 If performing mission with Ravens from outside your unit, contact them for link up
                 and equipment coordination, etc.
                 If determined that Raven personnel are required to travel via commercial Air, con-
                 tact base travel agency or SATO for flight arrangements.
                 Contact assigned contract air carrier to coordinate transporting weapons and
                 ammo. Tell them who you are, what you will have with you and ask them what
                 they want you to do to meet their requirements.
                 Prepare orders as directed in wing procedures. Include statements: “variations in
                 itinerary are authorized”, “Level I and AOR specific training received date”,
                 “excess baggage authorized”. Check the FCG to see if there are any AOR required
                 statements. Current per diem rates can be obtained via the AFRC Phoenix Raven
                 web site.
                 In letter format, prepare the Mission Essential Ground Personnel (MEGP) letter
                 and send to the squadron that is flying the mission, verify receipt.
                 Call-up mission number on GDSS and print the AF Form 59 (Planned Flight
                 Schedule). If you do not have GDSS, contact your current operations section and
                 ask them to print you one.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                           27

              Using the "Location Indicators Manual", decode the ICAO locations. Convert the
              time schedule on the AF Form 59 from Zulu to Local Times. Take into account
              that local times depend on the location of the aircraft for that particular day. You
              can decode ICAO’s via the world wide web also
              found on the AFRC Phoenix Raven web site.
              Check the latest AMC Raven Required list to identify all Raven required locations
              on the itinerary.
              As a minimum, collect open source intelligence from the "essentials" list Posted on
              the AFRC Phoenix Raven web site.NOTE: When available, get medical intelli-
              gence from medical squadron personnel instead of CDC web site.
              If the CDC web site indicates special medications recommended, coordinate with
              your medical unit ASAP to have them interpret the situation and if needed provide
              medication.
              Read and research sections II and III of the applicable FCG. Always check for
              passport and visa requirements, uniform restrictions, photography restrictions,
              weapons restrictions, medical warnings and any required verbiage for your orders.
              Also note AMEMBASSY and DAO telephone numbers. See FCG on AFRC
              Phoenix Raven web site essentials.
              If you have access to the SIPERNET, as a minimum research INTELLINK-S.
              Make an appointment with AFOSI or unit Intelligence for a ground intelligence
              update for the required locations. They may have information that you did not find
              during your personal research.
              Complete pre-mission check of all required equipment and pack it in proper con-
              tainers. Conduct INMARSAT pre-departure com check per paragraph 17.12.14.
              Coordinate with armory personnel for weapons pick-up time.
              Pick up orders and commercial airline tickets if needed.
              Prepare Aircrew pre-departure briefing.
              Assemble at designated location for aircrew briefing
              Before leaving your base for the mission, contact the Security Forces Operations
              Center, Lackland AFB TX, and notify them that you will be out on a Raven mis-
              sion, the dates of the mission, and location if they request.
              DSN: 473-0960/0961/0962. Commercial: (210) 671-0960/0961/0962.
28                                                                    AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

Table A2.2. En Route Location Arrival Guide. .
Task Completed                                  Task to be Performed
                                   (Implement this guide upon arrival at all stops
                                        during a PHOENIX RAVEN mission)
                 Conduct a security assessment to determine if host-provided security is adequate
                 (at all non-DoD/NATO airfields).
                 Brief the results of your security assessment to the AC
                 If security is deemed adequate:
                 Coordinate additional physical security enhancements/aids (lighting, ropes and
                 stanchions, and patrol coverage/responses).
                 Coordinate weapon and ammunition storage with the nearest U.S. facility or
                 installation, or host nation armory. If these facilities are not available, weapons
                 may be stored aboard the aircraft in a locked container secured to airframe.
                 Secure all doors and hatches and seal the main crew entrance door.
                 At Raven required locations or if security is deemed inadequate at non-Raven
                 required locations then:
                 Post PHOENIX RAVEN members as close-in sentries.
                 Load weapons according to established directives and by using available safety
                 measures such as portable clearing barrels or field expedient methods.
                 Coordinate additional physical security enhancement/aids (lighting, ropes and
                 stanchions, and patrol coverage/response).
                 Prior frequency approval from your MAJCOM radio frequency monitor is required
                 before any radios can be used. If RON is necessary, complete INMARSAT tele-
                 phone communication check with AFRC Command Center at (912) 327-0680 or
                 1-800-327-0608 or if Coronet Oak 612 COS/JFMF at (305) 293-5839/5838.
                 Obtain emergency lodging contact numbers for the AC and crew. If RON is not
                 necessary complete system "self test" only.
                 Establish a posting schedule and coordinate transportation to/from lodging loca-
                 tions for post relief, as necessary.
                 Obtain any special entry control instructions from the AC.

Table A2.3. En Route Location Departure Guide.
Task Completed                                 Task to be Performed
                             ( Implement this guide upon departure from RON stop
                                 locations during a PHOENIX RAVEN mission.)
                 If PR team was not posted at the aircraft:
                 Remove weapons from storage location if not stored aboard the aircraft.
                 Conduct a complete search of the aircraft exterior for stowaways, explosive
                 devises, and/or signs of tampering. Conduct search based on airframe stowaway
                 check training provided by aircrew.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                            29

              Conduct a search of the aircraft interior for stowaways, explosive devices, and/or
              signs of tampering. Conduct search based on airframe stowaway check training
              provided by aircrew.
              Assist the crew as necessary.
              Once airborne, record any pertinent notes for inclusion in the PR trip report.
              If a PR team was posted then:
              Conduct a search of the aircraft exterior for stowaways, explosive devices, and/or
              signs of tampering, prior to the aircrew arriving. Conduct search based on air-
              frame stowaway check training provided by aircrew.
              Brief the AC on all significant events that occurred during the crew rest period.
              Retrieve any radios issued to the host nation for emergency communications pur-
              poses.
              Unload/clear weapons according to established directives in a safe manner using
              portable clearing barrels or field expedient methods prior to returning them to their
              shipping container per paragraph 3.2.
              Once airborne, record any pertinent notes for inclusion in the PR trip report.
30                                                                    AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

                                            Attachment 3

                                PHOENIX RAVEN FITNESS TEST

A3.1. PHOENIX RAVEN Members. All PR members and candidates must take the PHOENIX
RAVEN Fitness Test (PRFT) regardless of their age. The PRFT is a three-event physical performance
evaluation used to assess muscular endurance and cardio respiratory fitness. Performance on the PRFT is
strongly linked to the member’s ability to do fitness-related tasks and efficiently work long hours.

A3.2. Commanders Responsibility. Commanders are responsible for ensuring their PHOENIX
RAVEN members are physically fit. The PRFT is administered prior to a candidate’s nomination to
attend the PHOENIX RAVEN Certification Course, then annually as part of the PR recurring certification
and training program, and 6 months after annual certification for proficiency. Table A3.1 outlines the
minimum fitness level for all PHOENIX RAVEN members.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                               31

Table A3.1. PHOENIX RAVEN Fitness Test Standards.
                                                 PUSH-UPS
Age Group
17-21     22-26            27-31         32-36        37-41         42-46         47-51         52+
Male
52        50               48            43           42            36            32            26
Female
28        26               24            22          18             17            13            12
                                                 SIT-UPS
Age Group
17-21     22-26            27-31         32-36        37-41         42-46         47-51         52+
Male
62        57               52            48           43            39            37            36
Female
60        55               50            45        40               37            34            32
                                              2-MILE RUN
Age Group
17-21     22-26            27-31         32-36        37-41         42-46         47-51         52+
Male
14:54     15:36            16:18         17:00        17:42         18:06         18:36         19:00
Female
17:54     18:36            20:00         21:36        22:36         23:00         23:30         24:00

A3.3. Administering the PRFT. The PRFT must be administered properly and to standard in order to
accurately evaluate a member’s physical fitness and to be fair to all members. Individuals are not autho-
rized to administer the PRFT to themselves for the purpose of attendance at the PHOENIX RAVEN Cer-
tification Course or annual recurring certification and training evaluations.
   A3.3.1. The RPM at the test site must have this attachment on hand. The supervisor of each event
   must have the event instructions and a means to record the results of each member’s test. Two stop
   watches are needed for each event test. Members should wear appropriate clothing for physical train-
   ing such as shorts, T-shirts, socks, and running shoes. Anything that gives a member an unfair advan-
   tage is prohibited during the PRFT. Items such as elastic bandages will be removed unless prescribed
   by medical personnel. The only exceptions are gloves that may be worn in cold weather.
   A3.3.2. The test site should be fairly flat and free of debris. It should have a soft, flat, dry area for
   performing push-ups and sit-ups. A flat 2-mile running course, with a solid surface and no more than
   a three-percent grade. A quarter-mile running track may be used to conduct PRFT.
32                                                                         AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

     A3.3.3. The test sequence is push-ups, sit-ups, and 2-mile run. The order of events cannot be
     changed. Members should be allowed no less than 10 minutes, but no more than 20 minutes, to
     recover between events.
     A3.3.4. Read the following instructions prior to administering the evaluations.
        A3.3.4.1. Push-ups. “The push-up event measures the endurance of the chest, shoulder, and tri-
        ceps muscles. On the command “get set,” assume the front leaning rest position by placing your
        hands where they are comfortable for you. Your feet may be together or up to 12 inches apart.
        Your body should form a straight line from your shoulders to your ankles. On the command ‘‘go,”
        begin the push-up by bending your elbows and lowering your entire body as a single unit until
        your upper arms are at least parallel to the ground. Then, return to the starting position by raising
        your entire body until your arms are fully extended. Your body must remain rigid in a generally
        straight line and move as a unit while performing each repetition. If you fail to keep your body
        generally straight, to lower your whole body until your upper arms are at least parallel to the
        ground, or to extend your arms completely, that repetition will not count and the scorer will repeat
        the number of the last correctly completed repetition. If you fail to perform the first ten push-ups
        correctly, the scorer will tell you to go to your knees and explain to you what your mistakes were.
        You will then be sent to the end of the line to be re-tested. After the first ten push-ups have been
        performed and counted, no restarts are allowed. The test will continue, and any incorrectly per-
        formed push-ups will not be counted. An altered front leaning rest position is the only authorized
        rest position. That is you may sag in the middle or flex your back. When flexing your back, you
        may bend your knees, but not to such an extent that you are supporting most of your body weight
        with your legs. If this occurs, your performance will be terminated. You must return to, and pause
        in, the correct starting position before continuing. If you rest on the ground or raise either hand or
        foot from the ground, your performance will be terminated. You may reposition your hands and/
        or feet during the event as long as they remain in contact with the ground at all times. You will
        have 2 minutes in which to do as many push-ups as you can. Watch this demonstration.” (The
        exercise is then demonstrated.) “Do you have any questions?”
        A3.3.4.2. Sit-ups. “The sit-up event measures the endurance of the abdominal and hip-flexor
        muscles. On the command “get set,” assume the starting position by lying on your back with your
        knees bent at a 90-degree angle. Your feet may be together or up to 12 inches apart. Another per-
        son will hold your ankles with the hands only. No other method of bracing or holding the feet is
        authorized. The heel is the only part of your foot that must stay in contact with the ground. Your
        fingers must be interlocked behind your head and the backs of your hands must touch the ground.
        Your arms and elbows need not touch the ground. On the command “go,” begin raising your
        upper body forward to, or beyond, the vertical position. The vertical position means that the base
        of your neck is above the base of your spine. After you have reached or surpassed the vertical
        position, lower your body until the bottom of your shoulder blades touch the ground. Your head,
        hands, arms or elbows do not have to touch the ground. At the end of each repetition, the scorer
        will state the number of sit-ups you have correctly completed. A repetition will not be counted if
        you fail to reach the vertical position, fail to keep your fingers interlocked behind your head, arch
        or bow your back and raise your buttocks off the ground to raise your upper body, or let your knees
        exceed a 90-degree angle. If a repetition does not count, the scorer will repeat the number of your
        last correctly performed sit-up. The up position is the only authorized rest position. If you stop
        and rest in the down position, the event will be terminated. As long as you make a continuous
        physical effort to sit up, the event will not be terminated. You may not use your hands or any other
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                               33

     means to pull or push yourself up to the rest position or to hold yourself in the rest position. If you
     do so your performance will be terminated. You will have 2 minutes to perform as many sit-ups
     as you can. Watch this demonstration.” (The exercise is then demonstrated.) “Do you have any
     questions?”
     A3.3.4.3. Two-mile run. “The two mile run is used to assess your aerobic fitness and your leg
     muscles’ endurance. You must complete the run without any physical help. At the start, all mem-
     bers will line up behind the starting line. On the command “go,” the clock will start. You will
     begin running at your own pace. To run the required two miles, you must complete (describe the
     number of laps, start and finish points, and course layout). You are being tested on your ability to
     complete the 2-mile course in the shortest time possible. Although walking is authorized, it is
     strongly discouraged. If you are physically helped in any way (for example, pulled, pushed,
     picked up, and/or carried) or leave the designated running course for any reason, you will be dis-
     qualified. (Another member may pace a member during the 2-mile run.) As long as there is no
     physical contact with the paced member and it does not physically hinder other members taking
     the test. Cheering or calling out the elapsed time is also permitted. After finishing the run, go to
     the cool-down and stretching area. Do not stay near the scorers or the finish line as it may inter-
     fere with the testing. Do you have any questions?”
34                                                                          AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

                                                Attachment 4

                    PHOENIX RAVEN AIRCREW PRE-DEPARTURE BRIEFING

A4.1. Situation. Provide the current situation at the airfields and their surrounding areas for each en
route stop that may effect security of the aircraft or personnel, that is, political, economic, cultural,
anti-American sentiments, etc.
     A4.1.1. Threats: Any known threats to resources or personnel.
        A4.1.1.1. Terrorist: Current threat level and any known groups, how they operate, how they are
        armed, etc.
        A4.1.1.2. Military: Any known military threats to the U.S.
        A4.1.1.3. Criminal: Current criminal threat level, any known specific activity (car jacking, mur-
        der, rape, theft, etc.) and locations.
        A4.1.1.4. Foreign Intelligence: Any known threat from foreign intelligence services operating in
        the area that may target U.S. personnel for information.
     A4.1.2. Friendly Forces: List all known U.S., allied nation, and host nation forces that will be operat-
     ing on or near the airfield.
        A4.1.2.1. U.S.: List all known U.S. military forces, location, unit’s designation, and how to con-
        tact. Additionally, provide the Regional Security Officer’s name, location, and phone number.
        A4.1.2.2. Allied Nation: List any allied nation military forces, location, and how to contact.
        A4.1.2.3. Host Nation: List all information on host nation forces.
            A4.1.2.3.1. Airfield Security: How many, how they operate, arming, communications, and
            how to contact.
            A4.1.2.3.2. Local Police: How they operate, locations, how to contact.
            A4.1.2.3.3. Host Nation Military: Types of units, how many, locations, disposition, how to
            contact.

A4.2. Mission. Provide a clear and concise mission statement for the upcoming mission.

A4.3. Execution. State where, when, and how you are going to accomplish your mission.
     A4.3.1. Concept of Operations: State how you are going to complete your mission at all en route
     stops. Include security to be provided and any additional activities to be accomplished, that is, airfield
     survey, etc.
     A4.3.2. Foreign Clearance Guide: State any pertinent DoD 4500.54G requirements for each en route
     stop (weapons restrictions, photo restrictions, passport, and visa requirements, uniform wear restric-
     tions, etc.).
     A4.3.3. Rules of Engagement: Outline rules of engagement and use of force rules for each en route
     stop.
     A4.3.4. In-place Force Protection Measures.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                             35

       A4.3.4.1. Aircraft parking area lighting.
       A4.3.4.2. Airfield fencing.
       A4.3.4.3. Alarm systems/closed circuit television (CCTV).
       A4.3.4.4. Entry procedures/circulation control.
       A4.3.4.5. Other.
   A4.3.5. AMC TWG Force Protection (FP) Recommendations: State any recommendations made by
   the AFRC TWG or AMC TWG concerning FP issues (lodging, security, personal security measures,
   etc.).
   A4.3.6. RAVEN Force Protection Recommendations: State any further recommendations/advice you
   may have concerning force protection issues (lodging locations, routes to and from the airfield, dress,
   mode of ground transportation, etc.).

A4.4. Service and Support: State how you will be armed and equipped and any other pertinent services
(feeding, lodging and transportation) to be provided/required for the RAVEN team.

A4.5. Command and Signal:
   A4.5.1. RAVEN Team Chain of Command.
   A4.5.2. Call Signs.
   A4.5.3. Known Operating Frequencies.
   A4.5.4. Key Phone Numbers: Refer to the PR Handbook produced by the 421 GCRS for a listing of
   commonly used phone numbers for PR members.
36                                                                    AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

                                            Attachment 5

                     SAMPLE PHOENIX RAVEN TRIP REPORT FORMAT
MEMORANDUM FOR UNIT/CC
                        HQ AFRC/SF
                        HQ AMC/SF
                        IN TURN
FROM: (Name of PR Team Leader and Members)
SUBJECT: PHOENIX RAVEN Trip Report
1. PURPOSE: (Give a brief description of the purpose of the mission and trip number.)
2. TRAVELERS: (Identify the PR team by rank, full name, and Raven number.)
3. ITINERARY: (List locations visited and inclusive dates.)
4. MISSION SYNOPSIS: (Brief)
5. AIRCREW DATA: (Mission number/Aircraft commander/Tasked flying unit)
6. SECURIY SUPPORT PROVIDED: (Provide information for each stop of the PR mission)
7. FOREIGN CLEARANCE GUIDE REQUIREMENTS: (Do not include weapon restrictions)
8. THREAT ASSESSMENT:
9. WEATHER:
10. SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
11. WHAT NOT TO BRING:
12. OFF LIMIT AREAS/RESTRICTIONS:
13. AVAILABLE RESOURCES:
14. LESSONS LEARNED:
15. INMARSAT: (If INMARSAT phone calls are made, include length of call, from where to where, the
purpose, and the Raven who placed the call).
16. INFORMATION FOR FUTURE MISSIONS: (Any other miscellaneous information of value)
(NAME OF TEAM LEADER)
TEAM LEADER, Raven Number
Attachment(s): (Include sketches, maps and photographs of locations visited.) NOTE: Any digital photos
or sketches used to support trip reports must be labeled to show context to the report.


AIRFIELD SURVEY FOR
City or Airport Name, Country
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                                  37

NOTE: The essential elements of information (EEI) found in attachment 6 are used to write the airfield
survey. All elements must be considered. If one doesn’t apply to your trip, enter N/A and include the fol-
lowing statement at the end of your survey, “all EEI elements were considered with non-applicable ele-
ments omitted intentionally.
1. General Description: (Description of the local region, cultures, FCG restrictions on weapons and
photography, primary language spoken, location of this airport, etc.)
2. Contacts: (Names, contact numbers, and e-mail address of Embassy/Host Nation representatives, also
include any AMC Stage Manager’s information)
3. Security Data:
3.1. Fencing: (Description of height and type of fencing, any known gaps or holes, name/position of
whoever provides additional information about the condition of the fencing, does it cover the entire air-
field, any visible flightline fencing, etc.)
3.2. Other Physical Barriers and Security Aids: (Are there barriers leading to the ramp, is the ramp
fenced separately from the airfield, are close-in security guards provided by host nation, who do you con-
tact to request additional security support/measures, etc.)
3.3. Security Forces: (Need specific information about the type of uniforms, badge system used, K-9
teams, working schedules, are they civilian contract or military guards, are contract guards U.S. citizens,
etc.)
3.4. Force Level: (Specific number of personnel observed, who provided additional information con-
cerning the force strength, etc.)
3.5. Patrol: (Mounted, walking, K-9 augmented, etc. and how often were they observed patrolling).
3.6. Force Equipment/Weapons: (Best description of weapons observed to include if they are loaded/
unloaded).
3.7. Fixed Guard Positions: (Locations [note them on the sketches/drawings], were they manned, are
the personnel armed, etc.)
3.8. Entry Control: (Locations, were they manned, hours of operation, are they located at the airfield
entrance or on the flightline, is a badge system used for entry/exit, how are these personnel armed, types
of uniforms, are they host nation military or contract security, etc.).
3.9. Lighting: (Locations, type of lighting, is portable lighting available, do the lights work, does the
lighting sufficiently illuminate the parking area, and if embassy personnel provide information about
lighting--so state it).
3.10. Aircraft Parking: (Locations, is it military or civilian ramp, who controls security to this area, are
you parked with other aircraft, what type of other aircraft are present, any special aircraft parking restric-
tions, general impression of this area).
3.11. Local Lodging: (Obtain information from the aircrew or embassy personnel to include the specific
names of hotels and their approximate distance from the airfield, include any known security measures
like guards, cameras, positive entry control, etc.)
3.12. Route Security: (Describe who provided aircrew transportation, describe type of vehicles used,
identify any known choke points or problem areas along the route, also include the location of any known
38                                                                        AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

safe havens like police departments, ID aircrew members [name, contact number, unit of assignment] who
provide information for later contact, etc.)
3.13. Personnel Threat: (Elaborate on what threats exist at this location to include criminal, terrorist, or
military threats, elaborate on any incidents that should be noted).
3.14. Physical Location: (Identify any vulnerabilities like tall grass around parking area, large ravines
near the apron, etc.)
4. Additional Comments: (Items of interest to include observations of the security forces, support
received from the embassy/host nation, describe any incidents that occurred in detail, provide any positive
feedback about support received from other agencies, highlight any surveillance or large groups observ-
ing your operations, etc.).
NOTE: Any digital photos or sketches used to support surveys must be labeled to show context to the
survey.
TEAM LEADER SIGNATURE BLOCK
Team Leader / RAVEN XXX
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                              39

                                              Attachment 6

   HEADQUARTERS AIR MOBILITY COMMAND’S FORCE PROTECTION ESSENTIAL
                     ELE-MENTS OF INFORMATION

A6.1. Airfield Survey. When conducting an airfield survey, use the following questions to complete
your report. Your report will be in paragraph format. Those items identified by an asterisk (*) are consid-
ered critical information to be included in your report.
   A6.1.1. Airfield Name/Location: ____________________ ICAO__________ Date: __________
       A6.1.1.1. Fencing/Walls:
           A6.1.1.1.1. *Is the airfield perimeter completely fenced or walled (type, height, condition,
           gaps, holes, etc.)?
           A6.1.1.1.2. *Is the flight line/ramp fenced? Describe (type, height, condition, gaps, holes,
           etc.).
           A6.1.1.1.3. Are there clear zones on each side of the fence/wall?
           A6.1.1.1.4. Is the airfield perimeter or flightline area posted “No Trespassing” or “No Admit-
           tance”?
   A6.1.2. Other Physical Barriers:
       A6.1.2.1. List different types, locations and numbers of barriers used on the perimeter, and on/
       near the flightline/ramp.
       A6.1.2.2. Is the airfield or aircraft parking areas under CCTV?
   A6.1.3. Security Force Level:
       A6.1.3.1. *How many guards are typically on duty during the day and night?
       A6.1.3.2. *Are these guards host military units? Police or security police? Or contract personnel?
       A6.1.3.3. To what extent and for how long can this force be augmented by in-place/nearby per-
       sonnel?
       A6.1.3.4. What is shift duration and shift change procedures/times?
       A6.1.3.5. What local customs might result in decreased security (for example, national holidays,
       traditional daily rest periods, etc.)?
   A6.1.4. Security Personnel:
       A6.1.4.1. Are personnel well trained and professional? (Does this vary by position; are the super-
       visory personnel better trained or more motivated?)
       A6.1.4.2. What factors make individual members or groups susceptible to blackmail/bribery (for
       example, low pay, irregular pay, mistreatment by senior leadership etc.)?
       A6.1.4.3. *What is the predominant language/dialect spoken by security forces (also indicate
       what percentage speak English, if applicable)?
       A6.1.4.4. *To what degree are they willing to work with U.S./Allied personnel?
40                                                                        AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

        A6.1.4.5. *Are security forces willing/able to provide increased security for U.S./Allied mis-
        sions? If so, how are such arrangements made? Through DAO office?
     A6.1.5. Patrols:
        A6.1.5.1. *Is the perimeter and/or flightline controlled by armed guards?
        A6.1.5.2. *Frequency and regularity of patrols. (Are the patrols conducted on a predictable
        schedule or are they conducted randomly by the airport security force? If not on a regular sched-
        ule, is the variance purposeful [that is, a security measure])?
        A6.1.5.3. *Is patrol made on foot, animals, or vehicles?
        A6.1.5.4. How many people are on each patrol?
        A6.1.5.5. Do patrols use military working dogs?
     A6.1.6. Security Equipment:
        A6.1.6.1. *What types of weapons are carried by guards?
        A6.1.6.2. What additional weapons are available (what weapons can be used, if needed; what
        weapons are used on vehicles, at entry points, guard towers, etc.)?
        A6.1.6.3. *What forms of communications gear do the security personnel use?
     A6.1.7. Watch Towers/Fixed Guard Positions:
        A6.1.7.1. Number, location, and description (ground level guard shack, elevated tower, fixed
        fighting positions/bunkers, etc.).
        A6.1.7.2. Number of guards at each location.
     A6.1.8. Quick Reaction/Counterterrorist Units.
        A6.1.8.1. *Does such a force exist?
        A6.1.8.2. *Is it on or near the airport?
        A6.1.8.3. *What is its reaction time?
        A6.1.8.4. *How large a force is it?
        A6.1.8.5. To what degree is responsibility delegated in crisis situations.
        A6.1.8.6. How is the forced trained and equipped?
        A6.1.8.7. Does it have higher morale than the regular guard force?
        A6.1.8.8. Has it successfully conducted operations in the past?
     A6.1.9. Entry Control Points:
        A6.1.9.1. *Is entry controlled to the installation and flightline/ramp?
        A6.1.9.2. *Number, location and description of ECPs at the perimeter and flight line/ramp areas.
        A6.1.9.3. *Are gates locked if unmanned?
        A6.1.9.4. *Number of guards at each entry point (military/civilian, airport police, day/night).
        A6.1.9.5. Are X-Ray machines and/or metal detectors used at any of the entry points?
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                                             41

       A6.1.9.6. If entry is controlled, what form of personal identification is required for individuals
       and vehicles?
       A6.1.9.7. *Are private vehicles allowed? If so, what method of registration is required?
       A6.1.9.8. Are all persons in a vehicle required to show identification?
       A6.1.9.9. What are visitor control procedures (for example, procedures for visitor approval, iden-
       tification of same)?
       A6.1.9.10. What are visitor escort procedures?
       A6.1.9.11. To what degree are vehicles, personnel, and their possessions searched?
       A6.1.9.12. *Do any of the above procedures vary at night (for example, all personnel must show
       identification at night when entering the installation, etc.)?
   A6.1.10. Lighting:
       A6.1.10.1. *Is entire boundary, flightline, and parking ramp lighted at night?
       A6.1.10.2. Are additional fixed spotlights located at watchtowers/entry points?
       A6.1.10.3. Are mobile mounted/towable spotlights available?
   A6.1.11. Parking:
       A6.1.11.1. *Are U.S. government aircraft parked in special locations? *If so, are additional
       guards posted?
       A6.1.11.2. Is the area clearly marked as a restricted area?
       A6.1.11.3. *Are U.S. personnel authorized to have weapons on the flightline/ramp?
       A6.1.11.4. Are weapons storage facilities available to transient crews?

A6.2. Lodging: Use when HQ AMC aircraft must remain over night at foreign airfields.
   A6.2.1. Does the American Embassy (AMEMBASSY) provide lodging in its compound? If lodging
   is unavailable at the compound, does AMEMBASSY/DAO maintain a list of hotels that meet mini-
   mum security requirements?
   A6.2.2. If AMEMBASSY maintains a standing list of recommended hotels, request the following
   information on each, if available:
       A6.2.2.1. Basic description (design, height, towers, interior/exterior entrances, number of rooms).
       A6.2.2.2. General layout (parking areas, fencing, lighting, proximity to highways/major roads).
       A6.2.2.3. Number of elevators/stairways (internal/external), building entrances/exits, vehicle
       entrances/exits.
       A6.2.2.4. Are U.S. personnel lodged in the same areas of the hotel or are they separated?
       A6.2.2.5. How is the crew transported to and from the hotel?
       A6.2.2.6. Are metal detectors/x-ray machines used at hotel entrances?
       A6.2.2.7. Are security forces available to escort crews transiting to/from airport?
42                                                                          AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000

A6.3. Off Installation Route Security. Use when HQ AMC aircraft must remain over night at foreign
airfields.
     A6.3.1. Distance from airport to hotel.
     A6.3.2. Number of different routes from airport to hotel.
     A6.3.3. Route description.
     A6.3.4. Choke points on route (to include excessive traffic lights, congestion).
     A6.3.5. Number of lanes each way.
     A6.3.6. One-way streets?
     A6.3.7. Number and location of safe houses (that is, police stations) along route.
     A6.3.8. Does host nation regularly patrol these routes?
     A6.3.9. Any bridges, overpasses or tunnels along the route?

A6.4. Personnel Threat:
     A6.4.1. Are dissidents known to operate in the area of the airport?
     A6.4.2. Identify these groups by name with leaders, if known.
     A6.4.3. Are dissidents known to possess stand-off weapons (SAMS, RPG, mortar, etc. [specific type
     and any known modification]).
     A6.4.4. Are these groups known to possess communications monitoring equipment (identify type and
     capability if known)?
     A6.4.5. Are these groups known to have anti-U.S. sentiments?
     A6.4.6. What past incidents have occurred which targeting of U.S. personnel, equipment, or facilities
     occurred?
     A6.4.7. Do hostile elements have any specific times/dates when they are historically active?
     A6.4.8. Do they have the support of the local populace?

A6.5. Physical Location:
     A6.5.1. What natural/manmade obstacles are in the vicinity of the airport (for example, power lines,
     tall buildings, etc.)?
     A6.5.2. Identify areas surrounding flight line parking that could be used by hostile elements to
     covertly conduct surveillance airport operations and to launch attacks.
     A6.5.3. How suitable is the surrounding terrain and vegetation for a stand-off attack? Does this vary
     seasonally?

A6.6. Maps. Please include maps or a sketch locating security information (aircraft parking areas, fenc-
ing, lighting, ECPs, etc.). Digital photos of all items are requested, if capability exists, (label any digital
photos included.
AFRCI31-104 1 October 2000                                                          43

A6.7. Reporting Procedure . When complete, send your report to HQ AMC/SFOX and HQ AFRC/
SFOF via e-mail to the OPR per paragraph 17.12.10.
