BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                        INSTRUCTION 36-2003

                                                                                 1 JULY 2014

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                     AIR FORCE RESERVE ADVERTISING
                                                                          PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.ePublishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFRC/RSAA                                              Certified by: HQ AFRC/RS CC
                                                                        (Maj Jimmy L. Tyson)
Supersedes:   AFRCI36-2003, 7 May 2007                                              Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel. It explains the Air Force Reserve Advertising Program. Do not supplement
this instruction. It applies to individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review, certify,
approve, disseminate and/or use official Air Force publications and forms, including the Air
Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG), except where noted otherwise. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is the revision of AFRCI 36-2003, 7 May 2007. This revision contains substantial changes
and must be reviewed in its entirety. Added section providing guidance on the command Get 1
Now peer referral program.
1. Concept. Advertising helps Air Force Reserve recruiters meet production goals by
generating leads, stimulating office traffic, and by creating public awareness of Air Force
Reserve programs.
2. Mission:
 2                                                                 AFRCI36-2003 1 JULY 2014


     2.1. AFRCRS/RSAA is the Air Force Reserve executive agent for creating, producing,
     distributing, and implementing advertising products and services necessary to support Air
     Force Reserve personnel procurement programs. In addition, they are responsible for
     generating leads for recruiters sufficient to meet command manning requirements and
     creating awareness and branding of the Air Force Reserve.
3. Advertising and Promotion Planning:
     3.1. The Advertising Branch (AFRCRS/RSAA) plans and manages the national advertising
     program to maintain Air Force Reserve awareness in the market place and encourage action
     by prospects. Advertising and promotion products and services are developed to support all
     reserve recruiting programs.
     3.2. Three-Year Advertising Plan. The three-year advertising plan provides detailed
     promotional strategies for the upcoming three years. This advertising/marketing plan
     promotes the Air Force Reserve as a high-tech military organization in support of Air Force
     Reserve Command (AFRC) strategic and long-range plans. This plan is designed to be
     specific in defining creative projects and promotional direction for near-term project work
     and yet flexible to meet AFRC’s changing environment. It serves as a base from which to
     design and implement future promotional campaigns. The three-year advertising plan is
     centrally administered at AFRCRS/RSAA.
     3.3. Local Advertising Strategy. Flight chiefs, in coordination with their local wing public
     affairs office, should develop an annual local advertising strategy. This plan should include,
     but not limited to, local events, civic leader and educator tours, center of   influence
     (COI), employer support day, etc. In addition, flight chiefs should develop a plan to initiate
     local advertising programs using targeted advertising funds provided by RSAA. All targeted
     recruiting activity requests will be forwarded to AFRCRS/RSAA for evaluation and
     approval. RSAA will provide Recruiting Managers with reports showing all recruiting
     activities by operating location to include media plan and insertions, HQ and local events,
     Public Service Announcements (PSA) airings and media values.
     3.4. Prohibited Advertising: Use of Air Force Reserve advertising to promote a business is
     prohibited. In addition, the procurement and use of locally produced collateral material of
     any sort is prohibited without approval of AFRCRS/RSAA.
4. Media Utilized:
     4.1. Media Types. The types of media utilized by RSAA to promote the Air Force Reserve
     include but are not limited to television, radio, print, promotional, public service
     announcements, interactive and internet. All promotional media will be accomplished either
     by or with direct approval from RSAA. The use of unapproved media is not authorized.
5. The Logo:
     5.1. Logo use. The Air Force Reserve Command logo is recognized as one of the most
     important tools at work to identify and promote the Air Force Reserve, its people, and
     mission. The logo proudly invokes a look and feel intended to promote and empower the
     public image of the Air Force Reserve – high tech, futuristic and dedicated. The Air Force
     Trademark      and      Licensing,    www.trademark.af.mil/symbol/displaying/index.asp;
     establishes guidelines for the use and application of the logo, key lines and color standards.
AFRCI36-2003 1 JULY 2014                                                                         3


   It is to be considered the final word whenever the logo is employed in print, video, specialty
   and interactive applications.
6. Direct Mail Program:
   6.1. Planning and Management. AFRCRS/RSAA plans and manages this program.
   6.2. Direct Mail. Direct mail provides the recruiter with leads, using products that are
   distributed through the United States Postal Service.
      6.2.1. National Direct Mail. AFRCRS/RSAA conducts national direct mail campaigns
      when funds are available and when production needs require it.
      6.2.2. Local Direct Mail. The recruiter sends local direct mail to generate leads. This is
      the only type of lead generation direct mail authorized at the local level. Recruiters obtain
      mailing lists for sending out local direct mail (DMDC, IRR, ASVAB, etc.) through
      appropriate sources. The recruiting manager is authorized maximum flexibility in
      determining local direct mail operation.
   6.3. Direct Mail Materials. AFRCRS/RSAA produces direct mail materials. Sample direct
   mail letters are found in AFRISS-R and available for download through the Recruiter
   Dashboard (RDB). The use or development of other direct mail materials is prohibited unless
   materials are reviewed and approved for use by AFRCRS/RSAA.
7. Collateral Materials Program:
   7.1. Collateral Materials. Collateral materials include brochures, fact folders, direct mail
   products, posters, and promotional items.
      7.1.1. Requisition and Distribution. Most collateral materials are distributed through the
      St. Louis warehouse using Recruiter Account Numbers (RAN) through drop shipments or
      requisition distribution. Submit requests for collateral materials via Air Force Reserve
      Recruiting Catalog to AFRCRS/RSAA. To request a RAN, contact AFRCRS/RSAA.
      Notify FRCRS/RSAA of any change of address for your assigned RANs to ensure
      continued timely delivery of materials. An advertising program website is available for
      requisition of items currently available from the warehouse. Upon receipt of shipment,
      recruiting managers acknowledge receipt of collateral materials by emailing a copy of the
      shipping Distribution Voucher, to FRCRS/RSAA. The Shipment Distribution Voucher
              is annotated with the date of receipt. Recruiting managers report shipment
      discrepancies to AFRCRS/RSAA.
      7.1.2. Promotional items are for prospective applicants and influencers. Recruiting
      managers locally manage the distribution of promotional items. Dated materials (desk
      calendars and pocket calendars, etc.) are distributed prior to the beginning of the calendar
      year for which produced. Promotional items are classified into three levels as follows:
          7.1.2.1. Level 1 – to be used at large venues such as air shows and job fairs.
          Examples of Level 1 items are: stadium cups, pencils, stick pens, bags, lanyards
          105and squeeze lights.
          7.1.2.2. Level 2 – to be used in a more controlled manner. To be distributed to
          individuals who express a sincere interest in joining. Examples of Level 2 items are
          multi-pack trading cards, mugs, and premium pens.
 4                                                                  AFRCI36-2003 1 JULY 2014


            7.1.2.3. Level 3 – tightly monitored and used for new accessions. Examples of Level
            3 items are t-shirts, ball caps.
8. Air Force Reserve Website:
     8.1. Official Website. AFReserve.com is the only official authorized Air Force Reserve
     Recruiting website. The creation and use of unauthorized websites for the purpose of
     recruiting are prohibited without the approval of AFRCRS/RSAA.
9. Public Service Radio, Television, and Outdoor:
     9.1. Public Service Announcements (PSAs). Public service is free broadcasting air time
     donated by television and radio stations to promote causes that stations consider beneficial to
     their communities. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) require stations to
     show they operate in the public interest. Most stations air PSAs as the most       convenient
     methods to meet this requirement. Outdoor companies also donate billboard space for posting
     billboards as public service announcements on a space available basis.
     9.2. Responsibilities:
        9.2.1. HQ AFRC/RSAA:
            9.2.1.1. Produces/distributes PSAs for radio stations and television networks,
            stations, cable outlets.
            9.2.1.2. Produces/distributes billboards to outdoor companies for PSA posting.
            9.2.1.3. Provides online updates of PSA program including dates, locations and
            media value.
            9.2.1.4. Liaison with national broadcasting organizations and attends conventions.
        9.2.2. Flight Chiefs:
            9.2.2.1. Ensures at a minimum an annual visit is made to television/radio stations and
            outdoor companies who have been identified on the completed activity report as
            airing PSA spots and posting outdoor PSA billboards to recognize their
            support/continued support. These visits must be documented in the AFRC approved
            lead retrieval system under Influencers, organizations, media tab.
            9.2.2.2. Identifies additional influential television/radio stations to AFRCRS/RSAA
            for inclusion in the database system used to accomplish the completed activity report
            for future mailings.
10. Publicity Programs:
     10.1. Reserve Recruiter Publication. HQ AFRC/RSAA publishes a reserve recruiting news
     publication to provide an internal information and management tool recognizing
     accomplishments of reserve recruiting personnel and other interest stories. OLs/squadrons
     should submit articles that publicize stories and photographs of newsworthy events within
     their area of recruiting responsibility.
     10.2. Hometown News Release Program. The local wing public affairs office will
        provide recruiting service personnel the opportunity to complete DD Form 2266,
AFRCI36-2003 1 JULY 2014                                                                        5


   Hometown News Release Information, for individual newsworthy accomplishments
   according to AFI 35-103, Air Force Reserve Public Affairs Program, Chapter 2.
   10.3. Authority to Release Information. The Flight Chief/recruiters must obtain guidance
   and clearance from AFRCRS/PA or your local wing public affairs officer before releasing
   information.
   10.4. Freedom of Information. If information is requested or implied to be under the
   Freedom of Information Act, immediately forward requests to your local wing information
   management office in order to be processed within the time limit required by law.
11. Community Relations:
   11.1. Civilian Events. Air Force Reserve participation in civilian events builds positive Air
   Force Reserve awareness and supports recruiters in their local communities.
   11.2. Air Force/Air Force Reserve Resources. Air Force/Air Force Reserve resources
   available include bands and wing aircraft that are suitable for orientation flights. AFI 35-110
   governs the band program. Requests for bands will be submitted directly to AFRCRS/RSAA
   at-least two months prior to proposed event via email. Contact your wing public affairs
   officer for orientation flight guidance and approval procedures. NOTE: Do not invite
   proposed civic leaders or other influencers or confirm an orientation flight prior to wing
   public affairs and command approval.
   11.3. Participation at Base Open Houses, Air Shows and Special Events. AFRCRS/RSAA
   develops and implements an aggressive event and air show program. When events and/or air
   shows are scheduled for an OL, the Flight Chief must be actively involved with
   AFRCRS/RSAA in the planning and execution of the event. In cases where there is not a
   AFRCRS/RSAA scheduled air show but there is one in the OL zone, it is the Flight Chief’s
   (or designated representative) responsibility to be involved in the planning and execution of
   an Air Force Reserve presence at these events.
   11.4. Public Speeches. Recruiters are encouraged to look for speaking opportunities within
   their zones. They should speak to influential civilian groups at every opportunity to introduce
   and maintain Air Force Reserve awareness. Contact your wing public affairs office for
   assistance or guidance on scheduling speaking engagements, to obtain suggested speaking
   venues, or to request speakers with specific messages or subjects.
   11.5. Local Tours. Tours of local area Air Force Reserve units, during unit training
   assemblies (UTAs), afford potential applicants an opportunity to see the Air Force Reserve in
   action. Recruiters should coordinate local tours with units and the wing public affairs office.
12. Get1Now Program:
   12.1. Purpose. The purpose of the AFRC Recruiting Service Get 1 Now program is to
   allow reservists and civilians assigned to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) the
   opportunities to provide names of qualified individuals that may have an interest in joining
   the Air Force Reserve to Recruiting Service for processing. Upon a referral joining, the
   reservist or civilian that referred the individual is eligible for an award.
   12.2. Eligibility.  Participating reservists and civilians assigned to Air Force Reserve
   Command are eligible to participate in the Get 1 Now program. EXCEPTIONS: Military
   and civilian personnel and their family members (including family members that are
6                                                                 AFRCI36-2003 1 JULY 2014


    participating Air Force reservists) assigned to Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting
    Service (AFRCRS) or employed by advertising agency of record for AFRCRS.
    12.3. Program Enrollment Process.
       12.3.1. The advertising agency of record will automatically create a Get 1 Now account
       for all Reservists in the month following accession into the Air Force Reserve. The
       advertising agency will provide a unique user ID and password, welcome letter, program
       rules, and login instructions.
       12.3.2. Reservists also have the option of creating their own account via
       www.Get1Now.us.
       12.3.3. All manually entered registrations will be forwarded from the advertising agency
       to AFRC/RSAA for verification of eligibility.
    12.4. Program Rules.
       12.4.1. There is no limit to the number of referrals that can be submitted, but they must
       be submitted through the Get 1 Now system to qualify for an award.
       12.4.2. Referrals must result in an accession in the Get 1 Now program to qualify for an
       accession award; one accession equals one award.
       12.4.3. Referrals that are already processing with an Air Force Reserve recruiter prior to
       submission via the Get 1 Now program are not eligible to be counted as a Get 1 Now
       referral or accession, and no awards will be issued.
       12.4.4. Accession Awards for the year are calculated from 1 October through 30
       September to qualify for the Get 1 Now awards/levels for that particular year.
       12.4.5. Eligible participates may not self nominate.
    12.5. RSAA Responsibility.
       12.5.1. RSAA will maintain program management responsibility to ensure the
       operational integrity of this program. (Attachment 1)
       12.5.2. RSAA will validate manual enrollments in Get 1 Now system by cross-checking
       with information contained in the Air Force Recruiting Information Support System-
       Reserve (AFRISS-R) or current lead tracking system. If enrollment cannot be validated
       electronically, RSAA will contact individual to validate account enrollment eligibility
       and take appropriate action.
       12.5.3. RSAA will be notified by advertising agency of any suspicious account activity
       or the submission of more than three lead referrals in a month by any reservist for lead
       validation.
       12.5.4. RSAA will be notified of any referral that turns into an accession for validation.
    12.6. Recruiter Responsibilities.
       12.6.1. Recruiters are required to brief the Get 1 Now program during but not limited to
       Wing/CC, commander’s call, newcomer’s briefings, unit visits, enlistments, etc.
AFRCI36-2003 1 JULY 2014                                                                      7


     12.6.2. When loading Get 1 Now leads into AFRISS-R it is the recruiter’s responsibility
     to ensure all reservist information is loaded, as well as document via time/date stamp
     remark, “this lead is a Get 1 Now lead referred by Rank, First Name, Last Name”.
     12.6.3. Recruiting personnel will not assign referral credit to anyone that did not provide
     referral information prior to processing with an Air Force Reserve recruiter or accept
     gifts or awards that were awarded to reservist through the Get 1 Now program, NO
     EXCEPTIONS.
     12.6.4. Recruiting personnel will immediately report fraud or suspicious program
     activity to AFRC/RSIG.
  12.7. Program Participant Responsibilities.
     12.7.1. Log into individual account in the Get 1 Now (www.get1now.us) system and
     provide all required lead information.
     12.7.2. Will not provide names as leads of individuals they know are already working
     with an Air Force Reserve recruiter.
     12.7.3. May not obtain any names for referrals from an Air Force Reserve recruiter at
     any time for any reason.
     12.7.4. May not claim for referral credit any names received while working in support of
     an Air Force Reserve recruiting event (air show, career fair, school visit, etc.)
  12.8. Awards.
     12.8.1. The awards structure allows for multiple awards for multiple referrals that access
             into the Air Force Reserve.
     12.8.2. The maximum award value for any single award item will not exceed $49.99
     USD.
     12.8.3. Program participants may not receive more than four awards in a single fiscal
     year.
     12.8.4. All accessions are subject to eligibility verification by RSAA prior to award
     being issued.




                                          CHRISTOPHER F. NICK, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, Recruiting Service
 8                                                          AFRCI36-2003 1 JULY 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel, 23 December 2008
AFI 35-103, Public Affairs Travel, 26 January 2010
AFI 35-110, U.S. Air Force Band Program, 22 January 2010
Adopted Forms
DD Form 2266, Hometown News Release Information
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRISS-R—Air Force Recruiting Information Support System-Reserve
AFRC/RS—Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service
ASVAB—Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery
COI—Center of Influence
DMDC—Defense Manpower Data Center
FCC—Federal Communication Commission
IRR—Inactive Ready Reserve
OL—Operating Location
PA—Public Affairs
PSA—Public Service Announcement
RAN—Recruiter Account Number
RDB—Recruiter Dashboard
RSIG—Recruiting Service Inspector General
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
AFRCI36-2003 1 JULY 2014                             9


                                 Attachment 2
                           GET 1 NOW (G1N) PROCESS

Figure A2.1. GET 1 NOW (G1N) PROCESS.
