BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                   INSTRUCTION 36-2201
                                                                                      26 OCTOBER 2006

                                                                                                Personnel

                                                                         DEVELOPING MANAGING
                                                                       AND CONDUCTING RESERVE
                                                                            RECRUITER TRAINING

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                       e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFRCRS/RSOT                                         Certified by: AFRCRS/RSO (Major Mike Farr)
Supersedes AFRCI36-2201, 10 July 2003                                                    Pages: 12

This instruction implements AFPD 36-22, Military Training, 22 March 2004, by assigning responsibili-
ties and providing guidance and procedures for developing, managing, and conducting Air Force Reserve
recruiter training. It applies to all Air Force Reserve Command Recruiters. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123
(will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This supplement is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision includes
verbiage changes for clarification of responsibilities at all echelons. OPR’s identified on the 5 day task
requirement. JQS certifications will not be permitted by intra OL personnel. Initial qualification training
minimum be 9 months and recruiters must at the time of certification meet or exceed their assigned goal.
Fourth quarter training meeting added as a requirement. AF Form 623 will no longer be maintained on
certified E-8 and E-9 senior recruiters.
2                                                                   AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006


                                                 Chapter 1

                       ON-THE-JOB TRAINING (OJT) RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. AFRC RS/RSOT Education and Training Manager:
    1.1.1. Develops, maintains, provides, monitors, participates, evaluates, and assists all categories of
    Reserve Recruiter training within squadron.
    1.1.2. Oversees recruiter training issues, to include but not limited to:
       1.1.2.1. Maintains a master training plan; schedules all recruiter classes; prepares and distributes
       suggested training topics for Workshops and Training Meetings.
       1.1.2.2. Develops, publishes, and reviews Job Qualification Standard (JQS) 8R000, training mate-
       rial, handouts, and training aids to ensure conformance with job requirements and Air Force
       Reserve assignment, enlistment, and appointment criteria.
       1.1.2.3. Provides training assistance to requesting Reserve Recruiting Flights (RRF).
       1.1.2.4. Monitors training processes for compliance.
       1.1.2.5. Participates in meetings listed in Table 2.1. Training Sessions
    1.1.3. Serves as the liaison and consultant for Air Force Recruiting School Reserve Recruiter Course
    to ensure the curriculum remains current.
    1.1.4. Serves as the liaison with Department of Defense (DOD), AF and commercial agencies aggres-
    sively researching the latest training concepts and tools for employment within reserve recruiting.
    1.1.5. Provides the Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service Commander (AFRCRS/CC)
    with an assessment of the Reserve Recruiting Squadron training, evaluation, inspection programs and
    processes as follows:
       1.1.5.1. Assist with field Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) as directed or necessary.
       1.1.5.2. Conducts field training assistance visits and training oversight as requested or necessary.
       1.1.5.3. Maintains training status report for Senior Leadership as required.

1.2. Reserve Recruiting Flights:
    1.2.1. Maintains, provides, monitors, participates, plans, evaluates and assists all categories of
    Reserve recruiter training within respective Flights.
    1.2.2. Oversees recruiter training issues, to include but not limited to:
       1.2.2.1. Schedules and coordinates attendance for all national level workshops and training within
       respective Flights.
       1.2.2.2. Prepares and distributes suggested training topics for workshops and training meetings
       within respective Flights.
       1.2.2.3. Recommends selectees to RSOT and coordinates attendees for all supplemental training
       courses.
AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006                                                                               3


      1.2.2.4. Conducts, approves and/or assigns trainers, for initial, supplemental, and recertification
      training for all recruiters within the Flight.
      1.2.2.5. Ensures initial/supplemental qualification training is started within 45 days of assignment
      for new recruiters assigned to their respective Flight.
      1.2.2.6. Ensures recruiters in initial qualification and supplemental training complete training
      within 12 months of start date. Ensures certification is accomplished within 60 days of training
      completion date.
      1.2.2.7. Conducts, approves and/or assigns trainers/certifiers in writing for newly assigned Senior
      Recruiters in training within 45 days upon reporting to duty station. Names of all certifiers must be
      listed on the Flight Recruiting metrics and forwarded to AFRCRS/RSOT.
      1.2.2.8. Appoints assigned/designated Lead Recruiters in writing.
      1.2.2.9. Appoints assigned/designated certifying officials in writing. Certifying official will not
      be from within the operating location.
      1.2.2.10. Ensures all trainers within respective Flight have completed the Air Force Train the
      Trainer Course prior to conducting any training.
      1.2.2.11. Conducts and documents training as directed by AFRCRS/CC.
   1.2.3. Provides AFRCRS/CC with an assessment of RRF training, evaluation, inspection programs
   and processes as follows:
      1.2.3.1. Conducts field SAV’s as directed or necessary. Forwards staff assistance visits (SAV)
      reports to RSOT NLT fifteen working days of SAV completion.
      1.2.3.2. Conducts field training assistance visits and training oversight as requested or necessary.
      1.2.3.3. Maintains training status report for senior leadership as required and forwards to RSOT
      on the first duty day of each month.

1.3. Senior Recruiters and Assistant Senior Recruiters:
   1.3.1. Maintains, provides, monitors, participates, plans, evaluates and assists all categories of reserve
   recruiter training within respective operating location (OL).
   1.3.2. Oversees recruiter training issues, to include but not limited to:
      1.3.2.1. Conducts and/or assigns trainers for initial, supplemental, and recertification training on
      all recruiters within respective OL.
      1.3.2.2. Performs quarterly training/coaching visits with each recruiter assigned to OLs. Excep-
      tions will be coordinated through the respective Reserve Recruiting Flight and approved by AFR-
      CRS/RSOT. Documents and ensures documentation of all training provided is placed in the
      trainees AF Form 623, On-the-Job Training Record or binder.
      1.3.2.3. Ensures initial 5 day tasking checklists/orientation is conducted on newly assigned
      recruiters, and forwards completed checklist to RRF.
      1.3.2.4. Requests training related assistance as needed from RRF.
      1.3.2.5. Conducts and documents training as directed by RRF and AFRCRS.
4                                                                   AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006


       1.3.2.6. Ensures recruiters are aware of their responsibility and accountability for maintaining
       proficiency.
       1.3.2.7. Conducts monthly/quarterly training meetings and documents training provided for all
       assigned recruiters in the AF Form 623, On-the-Job Training Record. See Table 2.1., for Training
       Meeting and Workshop frequency.
       1.3.2.8. Maintains training status report on OL for Senior Leadership and forwards the report to
       RRF monthly or as requested.
       1.3.2.9. Ensures all trainers within respective OL have completed the Air Force Train the trainer
       Course prior to conducting any training.

1.4. Lead Recruiter:
    1.4.1. Provides, monitors, conducts, plans and evaluates training for assigned trainees in initial, sup-
    plemental, and recertification training within respective OL as directed.
    1.4.2. Oversees recruiter training issues, to include but not limited to:
       1.4.2.1. Performs training/coaching visits to all assigned trainees as necessary. Documents all
       training provided in the trainees’ training record or binder.
       1.4.2.2. Requests training related assistance as needed from the Senior Recruiter.
       1.4.2.3. Conducts and documents training as directed by Senior Recruiter, RRF and AFRCRS.
       1.4.2.4. Ensure recruiters are aware of their responsibility and accountability for maintaining pro-
       ficiency.

1.5. Recruiter:
    1.5.1. Trainees accept and perform training assignments to the best of their ability.
    1.5.2. Trainees must request clarification on any tasks items they do not fully understand.
    1.5.3. Trainees must become proficient on critical task items before certification is documented on
    the JQS 8R000.
    1.5.4. Trainees must aggressively pursue governing directives, JQS technical references and training
    aids to enhance their training program and job knowledge.
AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006                                                                               5


                                                Chapter 2

                    TRAINING AND DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS

2.1. Phases of training:
   2.1.1. Performance Standard: Recruiters are trained and qualified using “go/no go” standard. “Go”
   means the trainee can perform the tasks without assistance and meets local demands for accuracy,
   timeliness and correct performance of all tasks. Recruiters are considered trained when the certifica-
   tion official removes them from a formal phase of training and the recruiter is certified/recertified as
   proficient. (Reference: AFI 36-2201, V3, Air Force Training Program, paragraph 7.7.)
   2.1.2. Trainers may sign off non-core and non-critical tasks by initialing the trainer’s column as third
   party certification is not required for non-core and non-critical tasks. (All JQS task items must be
   signed off with a pencil in accordance with AFI 36-2201, V3)
   2.1.3. Initial Qualification Training: Trainees receive Initial Qualification Training (IQT) upon their
   initial assignment to a duty position as an Air Force Reserve recruiter.
   2.1.4. Supplemental Training: Trainees receive supplemental training upon assignment to a duty posi-
   tion of higher responsibility (i.e., In Service Recruiter, Lead Recruiter, Officer Accessions Recruiter,
   Health Professions Recruiter, and Senior Recruiter, etc.).
   2.1.5. Initial Qualification and Supplemental Training:
       2.1.5.1. The trainer must provide an AFRCRS/RSOT standardized training plan to the trainee that
       outlines specific monthly objectives upon entry into training.
       2.1.5.2. The Senior Recruiter or Lead Recruiter enters the trainee into IQT within 45 days upon
       reporting to a duty station.
       2.1.5.3. Training will be conducted for a minimum of 9 months and a maximum of 12 months for
       initial qualification training. Supplemental (i.e.; Lead, ISR, HP, OA, Prior AD/ANG recruiter,
       etc.) training will be conducted for a minimum of 6 months and a maximum of 12 months. Certi-
       fication will be completed within 60 days of training completion date.
       2.1.5.4. All recruiters in initial qualification and supplemental training must demonstrate the abil-
       ity to meet or exceed their assigned goal before being granted certification as a qualified recruiter.
       If this requirement is not met within 12 months, the recruiter can only be certified in special cir-
       cumstances (i.e. the AFRCRS/CC may approve certification without achieving this requirement).
       In these cases, the RRF will forward a request through AFRCRS/RSOT to the AFRCRS/CC for
       approval or disapproval. If certification is not warranted, an extension may be requested. The
       Senior Recruiter must request an extension in training to the RRF/CC for approval or disapproval.
       All extensions must be listed on the RRF metrics and forwarded to AFRCRS/RSOT.
       2.1.5.5. Trainers must conduct monthly trainee progress reports. Training that is satisfactory or
       unsatisfactory will be documented on the AF Form 623a, On-the-Job Training Record – Con-
       tinuation Sheet, or plain bond paper and retained in Tab C of AF Form 623. As a minimum,
       include statements regarding the trainee’s strengths and weaknesses. If appropriate, include pro-
       posed solutions to training deficiencies. Both the trainee and the trainer must sign the completed
       trainee progress report.
6                                                                     AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006


       2.1.5.6. Trainer provides detailed documentation of realistic and meaningful training within the
       trainee’s environment.
       2.1.5.7. A certifying official, designated in writing by the RRF, conducts certification of each crit-
       ical JQS 8R000 task item.
       2.1.5.8. If certification is warranted, the certification official certifies the trainee as proficient/cer-
       tified on the JQS 8R000 task items. The certification official completes the JQS 8R000 certifica-
       tion block with date and initials, along with an AF Form 623a with trainee and certifier signatures,
       stating “I certify SSgt__________ (add name of recruiter) is proficient in all JQS task items and
       certified as an 8R000. SSgt_______ (add name of recruiter) is removed from IQT.”
       2.1.5.9. If the certifying official determines a trainee will not be certified during initial qualifica-
       tion and/or supplemental training (does not apply to a Senior Recruiter in training), the certifying
       official notifies the Senior Recruiter and RRF immediately. The Senior Recruiter submits a copy
       of the trainees training records to the RRF to conduct an in depth evaluation. This evaluation must
       determine whether the training received was appropriate, if the trainee should be continued in
       training, or if the trainee should be considered for tour curtailment. If the RRF believes that tour
       curtailment is warranted they must forward the training records and recommendation to AFRCRS/
       RSOT for review. Final authority for a recommended tour curtailment is the AFRCRS/CC.
       2.1.5.10. If the certifying official determines a Senior Recruiter in training will not be certified as
       a Senior Recruiter, the certifying official notifies the RRF immediately. The certifying official
       submits a copy of the Senior Recruiter training records to the RRF to conduct an in depth evalua-
       tion. This evaluation must determine whether the training received was appropriate, if the Senior
       Recruiter should remain in training, or if the Senior Recruiter should be considered for placement
       in another position or tour curtailment. If the RRF believes that tour curtailment is warranted they
       must forward the training records and recommendation to AFRCRS/RSOT for review. If the RRF
       believes placement into another position is warranted they must request authority from the AFR-
       CRS/CC. Final authority for tour curtailment is the AFRCRS/CC.
    2.1.6. Proficiency Training:
       2.1.6.1. Proficiency training is provided on an ongoing basis to ensure all recruiters are informed
       of changes as they occur. This training increases recruiters’ knowledge and skill.
       2.1.6.2. Recruiters are always in this phase upon completion of initial qualification, supplemental,
       or recertification training.
       2.1.6.3. Document training on AF Form 623a and maintain in Tab A of AF Form 623.
       2.1.6.4. Consider training meetings and workshops listed in Table 2.1., as part of proficiency
       training. Maintain this documentation in Tab B of AF Form 623.
       2.1.6.5. One-on-one training is the major part of the proficiency training process.
       2.1.6.6. Training focuses on, but is not limited to, sales, current criteria, assignment, enlistment,
       and appointment procedures.
    2.1.7. Recertification Training:
       2.1.7.1. Recertification training is required when a previously certified recruiter falls below
       acceptable standards of job proficiency on any JQS 8R000 task items. The following individuals
AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006                                                                                   7


       may decertify a previously certified recruiter: Senior Recruiter, RRF members, or the designated
       AFRCRS/Staff. When a previously certified recruiter is decertified, a trainer must be assigned in
       writing by the Senior Recruiter or RRF. The RRF must report the decertification and assigned
       trainer on the RRF Metrics.
       2.1.7.2. The RRF/CC formally enters a senior recruiter into recertification training.
       2.1.7.3. Recertification training must not exceed 90 days. Recertification will be completed
       within 60 days of training completion.
       2.1.7.4. The supervisor must notify the recruiter/senior recruiter by formal letter that they are
       being placed into recertification training. This letter clearly explains and documents the reasons
       for this placement. The decertified task items must be reviewed with the trainee immediately upon
       decertification. The trainer annotates the AF Form 623a or plain bond paper to record the effective
       date of placement and all training provided. The trainer and the trainee must sign each docu-
       mented training session.
       2.1.7.5. The trainer provides the recruiter with an outline of the recertification training timeline
       and identifies specific objectives to be met. The trainer and trainee acknowledge the plan with
       respective signatures on AF Form 623a. A copy is maintained in Tab C of the AF Form 623.
       2.1.7.6. The trainer conducts evaluations at 15-day intervals to evaluate the recruiter’s progress.
       These evaluations are documented on AF Form 623a or plain bond paper, and placed in Tab C of
       the AF Form 623. The trainer and the trainee must sign each evaluation.
       2.1.7.7. If the trainer/certifying official determines a trainee will not be recertified, the trainer/cer-
       tifying official ensures the Senior Recruiter and RRF are notified immediately. The Senior
       Recruiter submits a copy of the trainees training records and supporting documentation to the RRF
       to conduct an in depth evaluation. This evaluation must determine whether the training received
       was appropriate, if the trainee should be continued in training, or if the trainee should be consid-
       ered for tour curtailment. If the RRF believes that tour curtailment is warranted, they must forward
       the training records and recommendation to AFRCRS/RSOT for review. Final authority for a rec-
       ommended tour curtailment is the AFRCRS/CC. If recertification is warranted, the certification
       official certifies the recruiter as proficient/certified on the JQS 8R000 task items.

2.2. Geographically Reassigned Recruiter:
   2.2.1. Using JQS 8R000, the certification official evaluates a geographically reassigned recruiter
   within 45 days of arrival at the duty station. If found proficient, document the evaluation and results
   on AF Form 623a, TAB C and sign as proficient. If the recruiter was found to be deficient, decertify
   the appropriate task items and enter into recertification training.
   2.2.2. Newly appointed or transferred senior recruiters review AF Forms 623 for assigned recruiters
   within 60 days of arrival on station. The senior recruiter completes an AF Form 623a, stating “On this
   day ___________, (Date accomplished), I have reviewed _________(add name of recruiter)’s train-
   ing records and have recertified he or she is proficient in all 8R000 JQS task item.”

2.3. Training Meetings and Workshops: . Table 2.1. lists requirements for training meetings and work-
shops. All meetings and workshops must be held on government installations when practical, or where
suitable facilities are available within OL territory.
8                                                                    AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006


Table 2.1. Training Sessions.
Rule      When Conducting                which is        and held               then it will be attended by
1         OL Training Session            Mandatory       Quarterly              all assigned recruiters
                                                                                (notes 1,3, and 4)
2         Flights Training Session                       Every 6 months, or All assigned recruiters
                                                         as required        (notes 1,2,3)

NOTES:
  1. AFRCRS Staff, RRF representatives may attend, as required.
    2. Restricted to Senior Recruiter only, unless approval by AFRCRS/CC.
    3. This requirement can be met by attending a National Workshop, Deployment for Training (DFT),
       or for Senior Recruiters, a AFRCRS Senior Recruiter Workshop.
    4. First quarter training meetings are not mandatory, however, second thru fourth quarter meetings
       are required. Exceptions to this requirement are determined by the AFRCRS/CC.

2.4. Initial Entries to Assign/Certify JQS 8R000 Task Items:
    2.4.1. The trainer enters the recruiter’s full name on the JQS 8R000.
    2.4.2. The trainer enters the date training began in the space provided. If recruiters are taken off qual-
    ification training due to extenuating circumstances, adjust the date training started on the JQS 8R000
    and include an explanation on AF Form 623a.
    2.4.3. Upon completion of each task item, the trainer enters the date completed in the space provided.
    2.4.4. The trainee initials in the space provided when the task items are completed.
    2.4.5. The certification official initials in the appropriate space when the task items are certified.

2.5. Additional Task Items Entered on AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/
Command JQS: The senior recruiter may expand or add locally assigned task items using a separate AF
Form 797, (see AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, concerning JQS documentation).

2.6. Publication of Revised JQS 8R000:
    2.6.1. An 8R000 previously certified as a line recruiter should be recertified on the new revised JQS
    if they are found to be proficient. Enter the current date in the completion date block; trainee and cer-
    tification official initial the appropriate blocks found on the JQS; the certification official and the
    trainee sign the following entry on AF Form 623a: “Re-accomplished JQS 8R000 on _____ (date
    re-accomplished). Individual was previously proficient as an 8R000 on _________ (date and previ-
    ously certified.)” A trainer need not initial in this case.
    2.6.2. For personnel currently in initial or supplemental qualification training, transcribe documenta-
    tion from the previous JQS 8R000 to the new revised JQS 8R000 and make the following signed entry
    on AF Form 623a: “Re-accomplished JQS 8R000 on ______(date).”
AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006                                                                                 9


   2.6.3. Personnel previously certified in a supplemental JQS 8R000 job series and not currently hold-
   ing the position will not be recertified until they return to that series. Make the following signed
   entries AF Form 623a: “________(Recruiter name) was previously certified as Senior, In-Service or
   Health Profession Recruiter on _____(date).” Recertification will take place upon reentry into a like
   position.
   2.6.4. If a previously certified recruiter in any 8R000 job series is found to be deficient in one or more
   task items, or the individual is currently in recertification training, the following must be done:
       2.6.4.1. Certification official initiates a new JQS 8R000 and enters date training actually began
       for the appropriate task items in the start date block.
       2.6.4.2. Trainer continues to provide or initiate required training in the deficient areas.
       2.6.4.3. In either instance, the certification official makes the following signed entry on AF Form
       623a: “Initiated new JQS 8R000 on _______ (date). Individual was previously proficient as
       8R000 on _______ (date).”
   2.6.5. Remove all previous editions of the recruiter JQS 8R000 from the training record after accom-
   plishment of one of the above actions. The removed JQS is given to the respective recruiter.
   2.6.6. Trainers for initial/supplemental JQS task items are the only individuals identified on the
   trainer/trainee identification page. Do not remove any previous pages. All identification pages should
   be maintained in the AF Form 623.
   2.6.7. Upon completion of Senior Recruiter Supplemental Training, the requirement for maintaining
   the AF Form 623 on E-8 and E-9 “senior recruiters only” is no longer required by RRF. Training
   records will be given to and maintained by the certified senior recruiter unless otherwise directed by
   the AFCFM.

2.7. Task Decertification and Recertification. When a recruiter falls below acceptable standards of job
proficiency in any task items, the following procedures apply:
   2.7.1. Enter the date of the decertification in all applicable blocks under the task or tasks that are to be
   reopened.
   2.7.2. Enter the appropriate documentation, with signatures, on an AF Form 623a, validating the rea-
   son for the decertification and the proposed training to be provided to recertify the recruiter as profi-
   cient.
   2.7.3. In the Training Completion Date/Trainer Initials block, enter the date when acceptable stan-
   dards are reached. Trainee initials are entered when this is completed. Recertification Date/Certifier
   Initials is the date the certification official recertifies the recruiter.

2.8. AF Form 623. AF Form 623 is organized Tab A through F, respectively. Items under each tab are
filed chronologically, with the most recent date on top. All entries on documents contained in or on the
AF Form 623, to include the CFEPT, AFJQS, AF Form 797, AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification
and Recurring Training, AF Form 803, and any additional documents as determined by local require-
ments, will be documented in pencil. Entries on forms that are not subject to change, such as the front
cover of the AF Form 623, signatures and AF Form 623a entries may be made in black, blue, or
blue-black ink. However, if these publications/forms make up an automated training documentation pack-
age, pencil entries are not required.
10                                                                   AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006


     2.8.1. Tab A - AF Form 623a documenting proficiency one-on-one training.
     2.8.2. Tab B - AF Forms 623a documenting training meetings.
     2.8.3. Tab C - Contains recertification, initial/supplemental qualification training entrance letters,
     evaluations, all documented training during initial/supplemental training, and extension/removal let-
     ters.
     2.8.4. Tab D - Contains current and all previous trainer/trainee identification pages.
     2.8.5. Tab E - Current version of JQS 8R000.
     2.8.6. Tab F - Miscellaneous documentation, to include AF Forms 1098, Special Task Certification
     and Recurring Training and ancillary training records.

2.9. Use of AF Form 623:
     2.9.1. This form is used in the recruiter training process as a method of preserving all pertinent infor-
     mation required to manage each recruiter’s level of proficiency. Documentation more than 5 years
     old, other than initial/supplemental qualification training entries or recertification documentation,
     should be removed and given to the recruiter, if no longer serving a training purpose.
     2.9.2. The primary purpose of this form is to maintain training documentation. Documenting produc-
     tion alone is prohibited unless it directly relates to other JQS 8R000 task requirements. Through this
     documentation, the trainer and certification official ensure each recruiter is provided proper training.
     Documentation reflects recruiter’s abilities, both positive and negative, and illustrates growth and
     development as a member of Air Force Reserve Recruiting.
     2.9.3. Proper documentation is essential and critical. Be specific. Take all aspects of the recruiter’s
     progress into consideration when making evaluations. Answer the WHO, WHAT, WHEN, WHERE,
     WHY, and HOW while indicating the type of training provided.
     2.9.4. Do not include information pertaining to Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) infractions
     or military personnel actions relating to anything other than specific performance of recruiting duties
     and training provided.
     2.9.5. Maintain AF Forms 623 according to AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, and this instruction.
     2.9.6. When a recruiter is transferred, the senior recruiter, within 5 days of departure, prepares an AF
     Form 330, Records Transmittal/Request, and forwards the recruiter’s AF Form 623 to the gaining
     supervisor. If transferred to a AFRCRS/Staff position, the AF Forms 330 and 623 are forwarded to the
     gaining supervisor.
     2.9.7. Recruiters should be given their AF Form 623, upon termination or retirement.
     2.9.8. Documents that must be included within the AF Form 623 are identified in AFI 36-2201, Vol-
     ume 3, and this instruction.

2.10. Re-accomplishing Unusable AF Forms 623:
     2.10.1. Do not re-accomplish an AF Form 623 for the sole purpose of transferring information to a
     new form. If it is necessary to re-accomplish a mutilated, dirty or illegible AF Form 623, the trainer/
     certification official transfers all pertinent information to the new form.
AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006                                                                              11


   2.10.2. Under no circumstances will an AF Form 623 be cut up and parts of pages glued, stapled,
   taped, or inserted into another AF Form 623.

2.11. Assignment of JQS 8R000 Task Items:
   2.11.1. Each task item identified on the JQS 8R000 is used in training each recruiter. Initially, the task
   items are assigned according to the training plan and the trainee’s demonstrated abilities.
   2.11.2. The certification official certifies critical task items essential to the accomplishment of
   day-to-day recruiting functions before recruiters are removed from qualification training.
   2.11.3. Tasks that are not marked as critical tasks may be certified by the trainer. The trainer will ini-
   tial in the trainer block on the JQS. (Reference paragraph 2.1.2.)
   2.11.4. Senior recruiters may assign, train and institute certification of any task items found on any
   supplemental JQS 8R000 area to enhance a recruiter’s knowledge and experience base. However, no
   recruiter is certified as proficient in any supplemental JQS 8R000 job classification unless physically
   assigned to that position.

2.12. Forms Adopted – AF Form 1098 Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, AF Form 623
On-the-Job Training Record



                                                JOHN D. BRADLEY, Lt General, USAF
                                                Commander
12                                                                   AFRCI36-2201 26 OCTOBER 2006


                                               Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-22, Military Training
AFI 36-2201, Volume 3, Air Force Training Program

Terms
Certification Official—Individual who determines a trainee’s proficiency in JQS task items.
Certification officials must have completed the Train-the-Trainer/Certifier Course.
Decertification—When certified recruiters fall below acceptable standards of job proficiency in any JQS
task item. Recruiters are decertified in that task item.
Go/No-Go Standard—Recruiters are capable and competent to accomplish tasks correctly in terms of
procedures, timeliness, and performance; or neither capable nor competent to perform these tasks.
Job Qualification Standard—A list of tasks individuals are required to perform in their current job.
Lists contain day-to-day tasks, contingency, and AFMAN 36-2108, Airman Classification, mandatory
requirements.
Master JQS 8R000—The master JQS 8R000 is the foundation for recruiter training. It is used to train
individuals who are newly assigned to recruiting duty upon graduation from the Air Force Reserve
Recruiter Course and also to train specialized supplemental recruiter job categories. Prior recruiters of any
military component must also be certified as proficient on JQS 8R000.
Proficiency Level—Level of skill attained by individuals. Under the go/no-go standard, this level is
obtained when individuals are certified by the certification official as proficient.
Proficiency Training—A continuing training program to increase the knowledge and skills of recruiters.
Qualification Training—Actual hands on task performance training designed to qualify recruiters for a
specific duty position.
Recertification Training—Recertification training is conducted to recertify recruiters who have been
decertified in JQS task items.
Senior Recruiter—A general term that refers to the health profession, line and assistant senior recruiters,
as a group.
Lead Recruiter—Assists the Senior Recruiter with training and coaching.
Task—A part of a job that has a specific beginning and end that can be defined, observed, and measured.
Trainer—Individuals who assist the trainee in the development of skills and knowledge. The senior
recruiter may appoint another recruiter to actually provide the training. To appoint a recruiter as a trainer,
a written notification will be given to the trainer with a copy going to the trainee. The senior recruiter will
keep a copy of the notification on file as long as the recruiter acts as the appointed trainer. The trainer
must be certified/proficient on the tasks they are training, and must have completed the Train-the-Trainer/
Certifier Course.
