BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                             AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                                      INSTRUCTION 36-2858

                                                                                                         9 SEPTEMBER 2013
                                                                                           Certified Current on 12 August 2014
                                                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                                   AFRC MEDICAL SERVICE AWARDS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFRC/SGF                                                                                      Certified by: HQ AFRC/SGS
                                                                                                              (LtCol Bryan Winter)
                                                                                                                         Pages: 22




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations,
30 Jul 2012. It establishes the guidance for Air Force Reserve Command Medical Awards to
include all medical and aeromedical evacuation units, individuals and Individual Mobilization
Augmentees. These awards identify and recognize outstanding achievements and services of
units and Reserve members of the Air Force Medical Service. The instruction describes award
eligibility criteria and nomination, selection and presentation procedures. Unit Commanders,
Group Commanders, Colonels and Chiefs are not eligible for awards, unless otherwise
specified within the specific award attachment.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes the initial call date from HQ AFRC/SG to 1 August; the suspense date to
HQ AFRC/SG to 1 Nov; and the nomination period to fiscal year. This interim change adjusts
the phrasing of the instruction to clarify the award format on the AF Form 1206, award eligibility
and the criteria for specific awards. It also deletes some awards -- the attachments will need to
be reviewed in their entirety.


Section A—AFRC Medical Awards Program                                                                                                        2
       1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   2
 2                                                                                   AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


        2.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       2

Section B—Nomination, Selection, and Presentation of Awards                                                                                    3
        3.      Nominations. ..........................................................................................................       3
        4.      Selection. ................................................................................................................    5
        5.      Release. ..................................................................................................................    5
        6.      Presentation and Recognition. ...............................................................................                  5

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 7

Attachment 2—SAMPLE NOMINATION COVER LETTER                                                                                                   10

Attachment 3—SAMPLE LIST OF NOMINEES                                                                                                          11

Attachment 4—NOMINATION FOR AWARD – INDIVIDUAL                                                                                                12

Attachment 5—NOMINATION FOR AWARD -- UNIT                                                                                                     13

Attachment 6—INDIVIDUAL AWARDS                                                                                                                14

Attachment 7—UNIT AWARDS                                                                                                                      20


Section A—AFRC Medical Awards Program

1. Purpose. The Air Force Reserve Command Medical Awards Program (AFRCMAP):
     1.1. Recognizes individuals and units whose outstanding actions improve the delivery of
     health care and contribute to expeditionary medical operations for our Air Force Reserve
     personnel worldwide.
     1.2. Acknowledges sustained superior job performance, innovative operations and
     exceptional teamwork.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command, Command Surgeon (HQ AFRC/SG):
        2.1.1. Oversees policy, advocates for the efficient management of, and is the selection
        authority for the AFRCMAP.
        2.1.2. Assigns Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for the AFRCMAP:
             2.1.2.1. AFRCMAP OPR forwards the request for individual and unit award
             nominations to the selection boards.
             2.1.2.2. AFRCMAP OPR convenes selection boards for the awards as directed by
             HQ AFRC/SG.
             2.1.2.3. AFRCMAP OPR prepares annual announcement of winners for all Medical
             Awards and coordinates with AFRC/CC for signature and release.
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               3


          2.1.2.4. AFRCMAP OPR prepares letters for each winner and coordinates with
          AFRC/CC for signature and release.
          2.1.2.5. AFRCMAP OPR prepares award plaque for each winner and forwards to the
          Wing Commander.

Section B—Nomination, Selection, and Presentation of Awards

3. Nominations.
   3.1. HQ AFRC/SG solicits award nominees by means of email message distributed to Unit
   Commanders and Unit Senior Air Reserve Technicians (ARTs) on or about 1 August of each
   year.
   3.2. The eligibility period for the AFRCMAP is based on the fiscal year, and Nomination
   period covers eligibility period until results are officially released. Therefore, award
   nominations should include accomplishments from 1 October through 30 September.
      3.2.1. Individual nominees should have current and passing fitness scores throughout the
      entire nomination period.
      3.2.2. Nominees should have Professional Military Education (PME) commensurate with
      their rank.
      3.2.3. Nominees WILL NOT have an Unfavorable Information File (UIF) or any quality
      force issues during nomination period.
      3.2.4. For enlisted personnel, nominees should not have been accepted for a
      commissioning program for the entire nomination period.
      3.2.5. Contractors are ineligible for AFRC Medical Awards.
   3.3. Nomination packages will include the following:
      3.3.1. Both individual and unit written nominations must be submitted on the AF Form
      1206, using the most current version found at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil. The AF
      Form 1206 will be prepared in bullet format, one side, single spaced and will be
      submitted for each individual or unit nominated unless otherwise noted.        Packages
      should be in standard bullet format with a maximum of 20 lines of content related text,
      not less than 12 point font. Complete the form with information as required: name of the
      award, category (if applicable), award period, individual’s name, rank,
      MAJCOM/FOA/DRU, duty AFSC and duty title, nominee’s telephone, unit of
      assignment, and unit complete mailing address, name and rank of unit commander and
      corresponding phone numbers. (See attachment 4 and 5)
      3.3.2. A single letter listing all individual nominees and units signed by the Wing
      Commander or equivalent acknowledging each applicant from their organization
      (attachment 2). The letter should include an attachment listing all nominees being
      submitted for any award and will include the nominees’ full names and ranks (attachment
      3, Figure 1 and Figure 2).
4                                                        AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


           3.3.2.1. Nominees are eligible for rank-specific awards if the nominee’s rank
           matched the rank specified for at least six months of the award period, unless
           otherwise specified within the specific award attachment.
           3.3.2.2. Individuals who are assigned to another unit during the nomination period
           should be submitted for awards by the unit to which they are/were assigned at the
           time of nomination. Accomplishments from a previous base are acceptable for
           individual awards in these cases. Individuals should not be submitted for individual
           awards by a deployed unit; however deployed units may forward the member’s
           information to the unit of assignment for submission and coordination.
    3.4. Written bullet format for individual and unit nominations will meet the criteria outlined
    in attachment 4 and attachment 5 unless otherwise specified within the award-specific
    attachment.
       3.4.1. Individual nominations must include specific facts that clearly distinguish the
       nominee from his or her peers citing examples that occurred during the specified
       nomination period. There should be no additional text on the heading lines (attachment
       4). Nomination packages must include the following headings unless otherwise specified
       in the individual award description:
           3.4.1.1. Leadership       and     Job     Performance        (75    points/15     lines
           maximum): Describe significant leadership accomplishments and how well the
           member performed assigned primary and additional duties. Define the scope and level
           of responsibilities and the impact on the mission and unit. Include any new initiatives
           or techniques developed by the member that positively impacted the unit and/or the
           mission during the award period. Reference to quarterly or annual awards may also be
           included in this section.
           3.4.1.2. Significant Self-Improvement and Base/Community Involvement (25
           points/5 lines maximum): Show how the member developed or improved skills
           related to primary duties, e.g., achievements in professional societies or associations,
           off-duty education related to primary duties, formal training, Career Development
           Course enrollment or completion, on-the-job training, certifications, etc. Include
           completion of any Developmental Education (DE) as well as awards earned during
           in-residence attendance. Include any off-duty education not directly related to
           primary duties, e.g., class, course, degree enrollment and/or completion and grade
           point average. Cite any other relevant training or activity that significantly enhanced
           the member’s value as a military member during the nomination period. Also define
           the scope and impact of the member’s positive leadership and involvement in both the
           military and civilian communities. Include leadership, membership or participation in
           unit advisory councils, professional military organizations, associations, and events,
           e.g., President of Company Grade Officer’s Council, President of Top Three, unit
           dining-out committee, member of Air Force Association, Sunday School teacher, and
           so on.
           3.4.1.3. Acronym List: Any acronym or similar legends should be identified and
           spelled out on the front side of the AF Form 1206 below the content related bullets
           under the heading: ACRONYM LIST. Acronyms are listed in alphabetical order.
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                    5


       3.4.2. Unit nomination packages should include a list of all unit members for archival
       reference purposes at the Reserve Medical Unit (RMU) and MAJCOM level (attachment
       3, Figure F2). This reference list is especially important when ensuring the validity of
       unit member participation within OPRs and EPRs for example. Unit nomination packages
       must address the following unless otherwise specified in the team award description:
       3.4.3. Unit Accomplishments (100 points/20 lines maximum): List the unit’s actual or
       expected accomplishments (attachment 5). If expected results were not achieved, unit’s
       efforts to redefine the goal should be included. Describe any/all efforts employed by the
       unit to identify and meet community and customer needs and desires. Also illustrate any
       other unit accomplishments that demonstrate integration and collegiality, and significant
       contribution to increase mission effectiveness, e.g., any AFSO21 initiatives.
          3.4.3.1. Acronym List: Any acronym or similar legends should be identified and
          spelled out on the front side of AF Form 1206 below the content related bullets under
          the heading: ACRONYM LIST. Acronyms are listed in alphabetical order.
4. Selection.
   4.1. Wing Commanders approve and sign award nominations for each award category
   submitted. RMUs will forward the original nomination packages to HQ AFRC/SG no later
   than 1 November.
   4.2. Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) will be nominated by their active duty
   supervisor. The Medical Director, Squadron Commander, Chief of Directorate (2-letter) or
   higher will approve and sign the award nomination for each category submitted for each
   IMA.
   4.3. AFRCMAP OPR designates an award selection committee of not less than three
   individuals to select award winners. The panel will include at least one HQ AFRC/A3TM
   designated member. HQ AFRC/SG provides selectees’ names to AFRC/CC for final
   approval/signature/release.
   4.4. Individual members may be nominated for only one individual AFRC-level award in
   any given nomination period. Individual/Unit AFRC level award winners cannot re-compete
   in that same award category the following year (e.g., in consecutive years.). They may,
   however compete in the second year following receipt of their individual award.
       4.4.1. In the interest of fairness, individuals are limited to winning a specific AFRC level
       award to no more than twice in a career. Individuals may, however, apply and/or compete
       for other AF level awards without this particular restriction.
       4.4.2. Because unit members turn over on a regular basis, a unit that wins at the AFRC
       level may re-compete for the same award, without restriction.
5. Release.
   5.1. AFRCMAP OPR prepares annual announcement of winners for all Medical Awards and
   coordinates with AFRC/CC for signature and release not later than 31 December.
   5.2. AFRCMAP OPR prepares letters for each winner and coordinates with AFRC/CC for
   signature and release not later than 31 December.
6. Presentation and Recognition.
6                                                      AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


    6.1. AFRC level individual award winners will receive a letter of recognition signed by the
    Commander, Air Force Reserve Command, as well as a letter from the HQ Air Force
    Reserve Command, Command Surgeon.
    6.2. The AFRC level award winning unit Commander will receive a letter signed by the
    Commander, Air Force Reserve Command, as well as a letter signed by the HQ Air Force
    Reserve Command, Command Surgeon.
    6.3. MAJCOM individual or unit award winners will be nominated for an Air Force Medical
    Service (AFMS) level award, if applicable.
    6.4. AFRC level individual award winners and each unit of an AFRC level unit award
    winner will receive a command plaque with the Air Force Reserve Command crest or similar
    item with the name of the award, recipient and period of the award listed on it.




                                            JOSEPH B. ANDERSON, Colonel, USAF
                                            Command Surgeon
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                       7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program, 30 Jul 2012
DoDI 1348.33, Military Awards Program, 1 July 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award (use most current IMT version)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AE—Aeromedical Evacuation
AES—Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMS—Air Force Medical Service
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRCMAP—Air Force Reserve Command Medical Awards Program
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
AF/SG—Air Force Surgeon General
AGR—Active Guard and Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
ART—Air Reserve Technician
ATCH—Attachment
CAPT—Captain
CFS—Command Flight Surgeon
CGO—Company Grade Officer
CMSGT—Chief Master Sergeant
COL—Colonel
DE—Developmental Education
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
 8                                               AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


DOR—Date of Rank
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
FOA—Field Operating Agency
FGO—Field Grade Officer
FS—Flight Surgeon
FY—Fiscal Year
HAWC—Health and Wellness Center
HQ AFRC/CC—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Commander
HQ AFRC/SG—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Surgeon
HQ AFRC/A3TM—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Aeromedical Evacuation
Branch
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
HQ USAF/SG—Headquarters United States Air Force Surgeon General
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
LT COL—Lieutenant Colonel
MA—Mobilization Assistant
MAJ—Major
MAJCOM—Major Command
MC—Medical Corps
MSC—Medical Service Corps
MSGT—Master Sergeant
NC—Nurse Corps
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
NLT—No later than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPR—Officer Performance Report
PME—Professional Military Education
RMU—Reserve Medical Unit
SG—Surgeon General
SMSGT—Senior Master Sergeant
SNCO—Senior Noncommissioned Officer
SRA—Senior Airman
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013        9


SSGT—Staff Sergeant
TSGT—Technical Sergeant
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
USAF—United States Air Force
2LT—Second Lieutenant
1LT—First Lieutenant
41AX—Health Services Administrator
 10                                                       AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 2
                         SAMPLE NOMINATION COVER LETTER

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
XXXth Airlift Wing
(Base Name) Air Force Base, (State)


       (DATE)



MEMORANDUM FOR (MAJCOM/SG)

FROM: ASTS/CC (specific unit designation)

SUBJECT: Nomination for FY20XX AFRC Annual Awards

I certify the annual award nominees listed on the attachment meet all eligibility criteria and
nomination guidelines IAW AFRCI 36-XXXX.




  //SIGNED//
  I. M. PROUD, Lt Col, USAFR, MC, FS
  Commander
Attachment:
List of Award Nominees
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                         11


                                     Attachment 3
                           SAMPLE LIST OF NOMINEES

Figure A3.1. Sample List of Nominees for Individual Awards.

         ATCH #     AWARD                                      NAME/RANK
                    Outstanding Reserve Company Grade Officer Ia M. Better, Capt
                    assigned to a Reserve Ground Medical Unit


                    Outstanding Airman assigned to a Reserve   Better Still, Maj
                    Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron
                     Outstanding Air Reserve Technician (ART) Ia M. D-Best, Lt Col
                     NCO assigned to a Reserve Ground Medical
                     Medical Unit

Figure A3.2. Sample List of Nominees for Unit Awards.

         ATCH #     AWARD                                      NAME/RANK
                    Outstanding Reserve Medical Unit           Ia M. Better, Capt
                    Outstanding Reserve Aeromedical            Better Still, Maj
                    Evacuation (AE) Squadron

                    Outstanding Reserve Aerospace Medicine     Ia M. D-Best, Lt Col
                    Squadron/Flight
 12                                               AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                   Attachment 4
                   NOMINATION FOR AWARD – INDIVIDUAL

Figure A4.1. Sample AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award–Individual.
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                    13


                                   Attachment 5
                       NOMINATION FOR AWARD -- UNIT

Figure A5.1. Sample AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award – Unit.
 14                                                      AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 6
                                 INDIVIDUAL AWARDS

A6.1. Outstanding Company Grade Officer assigned to a Reserve Ground Medical Unit.
   A6.1.1. Description.    This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of a Reserve officer.
   A6.1.2. Qualifying for Reserve Officer Awards. Officer nominees must meet the following
   criteria:
      A6.1.2.1. Must have served in the grade during nine months of the award period.
      A6.1.2.2. Individuals may be in the grade of 2Lt through Captain.
      A6.1.2.3. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
      rank for more than nine months during the eligibility period.
      A6.1.2.4. Selecting Award Winners.      Each Ground Medical Unit may submit one
      nomination in this category annually.
A6.2. Outstanding Field Grade Officer assigned to a Reserve Ground Medical Unit.
   A6.2.1. Description.    This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of a Reserve officer.
   A6.2.2. Qualifying for Reserve Officer Awards. Officer nominees must meet the following
   criteria:
      A6.2.2.1. Must have served in the grade during nine months of the award period.
      A6.2.2.2. Individuals may be in the grade of Major through Lt Col.
      A6.2.2.3. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
      rank for more than nine months during the eligibility period.
      A6.2.2.4. Selecting Award Winners.      Each Ground Medical Unit may submit one
      nomination in this category annually.
A6.3. Outstanding Airman assigned to a Reserve Ground Medical Unit.
   A6.3.1. Description.   This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of an Enlisted Corps member in the grade of Airman
   through Senior Airman.
   A6.3.2. Qualifying for Airmen Awards. Enlisted nominees must meet the following criteria:
      A6.3.2.1. Hold the AFSC for at least six months.
      A6.3.2.2. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
      rank for more than six months during the eligibility period. Nominees having exactly six
      months time in grade, in two ranks, will be submitted in the higher category.
      A6.3.2.3. Selecting Award Winners.      Each Ground Medical Unit may submit one
      nomination in this category annually.
A6.4. Outstanding Noncommissioned Officer assigned to a Reserve Ground Medical Unit.
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               15


   A6.4.1. Description.   This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of an Enlisted Corps member in the grade range
   between SSgt through TSgt.
   A6.4.2. Qualifying for NCO Awards. Enlisted nominees must meet the following criteria:
       A6.4.2.1. Hold the AFSC for at least six months.
       A6.4.2.2. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
       rank for more than six months during the eligibility period. Nominees having exactly six
       months time in grade, in two ranks, will be submitted in the higher category.
       A6.4.2.3. Selecting Award Winners.      Each Ground Medical Unit may submit one
       nomination in this category annually.
A6.5. Outstanding Senior Noncommissioned Officer assigned to a Reserve Ground
Medical Unit.
   A6.5.1. Description.    This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of Enlisted Corps member in the grade range between
   MSgt through SMSgt.
   A6.5.2. Qualifying for SNCO Awards. Enlisted nominees must meet the following criteria:
       A6.5.2.1. Hold the AFSC for at least six months.
       A6.5.2.2. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
       rank for more than six months during the eligibility period. Nominees having exactly six
       months time in grade, in two ranks, will be submitted in the higher category.
       A6.5.2.3. Selecting Award Winners.      Each Ground Medical Unit may submit one
       nomination in this category annually.
A6.6. Outstanding Company Grade Officer assigned to a Reserve Aeromedical Evacuation
Squadron.
   A6.6.1. Description.    This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of a Reserve officer.
   A6.6.2. Qualifying for Reserve Officer Awards. Officer nominees must meet the following
   criteria:
       A6.6.2.1. Must have served in the grade during nine months of the award period.
       A6.6.2.2. Individuals may be in the grade of 2Lt through Captain.
       A6.6.2.3. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
       rank for more than nine months during the eligibility period.
       A6.6.2.4. Selecting Award Winners. Each Aeromedical Evacuation Unit may submit
       one nomination in this category annually.
A6.7. Outstanding Field Grade Officer assigned to a Reserve Aeromedical Evacuation
Squadron
A6.7.1. Description. This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual performance of
duty and achievement of reserve officers in the grade range between Major through Lt Col.
 16                                                       AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


   A6.7.2. Qualifying for Reserve Officer Awards. Officer nominees must meet the following
   criteria:
       A6.7.2.1. Must have served in the grade during nine months of the award period.
       A6.7.2.2. Individuals may be in the grade of Major through Lt Col.
       A6.7.2.3. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
       rank for more than nine months during the eligibility period.
       A6.7.2.4. Selecting Award Winners. Each Aeromedical Evacuation Unit may submit
       one nomination in this category annually.
A6.8. Outstanding Airman assigned to a Reserve Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron.
   A6.8.1. Description.   This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of enlisted corps members in the grade of Airman
   through Senior Airman.
   A6.8.2. Qualifying for Airmen Awards. Enlisted nominees must meet the following criteria:
       A6.8.2.1. Hold the AFSC for at least six months.
       A6.8.2.2. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
       rank for more than six months during the eligibility period. Nominees having exactly six
       months time in grade, in two ranks, will be submitted in the higher category.
       A6.8.2.3. Selecting Award Winners. Each Aeromedical Evacuation Unit may submit
       one nomination in this category annually.
A6.9. Outstanding NCO assigned to a Reserve Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron.
   A6.9.1. Description.    This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of enlisted corps members in the grade range between
   SSgt through TSgt
   A6.9.2. Qualifying for NCO Awards. Enlisted nominees must meet the following criteria:
       A6.9.2.1. Hold the AFSC for at least six months.
       A6.9.2.2. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
       rank for more than six months during the eligibility period. Nominees having exactly six
       months time in grade, in two ranks, will be submitted in the higher category.
       A6.9.2.3. Selecting Award Winners. Each Aeromedical Evacuation Unit may submit
       one nomination in this category annually.
A6.10. Outstanding SNCO assigned to a Reserve Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron.
A6.10.1. Description. This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual performance
of duty and achievement of enlisted corps members in the grade range between MSgt through
SMSgt

   A6.10.2. Qualifying for SNCO Awards. Enlisted nominees must meet the following criteria:
       A6.10.2.1. Hold the AFSC for at least six months.
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               17


      A6.10.2.2. Must have, at a minimum, a CCAF degree.
      A6.10.2.3. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
      rank for more than six months during the eligibility period. Nominees having exactly six
      months time in grade, in two ranks, will be submitted in the higher category.
      A6.10.2.4. Selecting Award Winners. Each Aeromedical Evacuation Unit may submit
      one nomination in this category annually.
A6.11. Outstanding Air Reserve Technician (ART) Officer of the Year.
   A6.11.1. Description.    This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of an ART Officer.
   A6.11.2. Qualifying for Officer ART Award. Officer nominees must meet the following
   criteria:
      A6.11.2.1. Hold the AFSC/position for at least nine months.
      A6.11.2.2. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
      rank for more than nine months during the eligibility period.
      A6.11.2.3. Selecting Award Winners. Each Ground Medical or Aeromedical Evacuation
      Unit may submit one nomination in this category annually.
A6.12. Outstanding Air Reserve Technician (ART) NCO of the Year.
   A6.12.1. Description.   This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of an enlisted ART in the grade range between SSgt
   through SMSgt.
   A6.12.2. Qualifying for NCO Award. Enlisted nominees must meet the following criteria:
      A6.12.2.1. Hold the AFSC for at least six months.
      A6.12.2.2. MSgts and SMSgts must have a CCAF degree.
      A6.12.2.3. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
      rank for more than six months during the eligibility period. Nominees having exactly six
      months time in grade, in two ranks, will be submitted in the higher category.
      A6.12.2.4. Selecting Award Winners. Each Ground Medical or Aeromedical Evacuation
      Unit may submit one nomination in this category annually.
A6.13. Outstanding Air Reserve Technician (ART) Airman of the Year.
   A6.13.1. Description.   This award recognizes and rewards outstanding individual
   performance of duty and achievement of enlisted ART in the grade range between Airman
   and Senior Airman.
   A6.13.2. Qualifying for Airmen Award. Enlisted nominees must meet the following criteria:
      A6.13.2.1. Hold the AFSC for at least six months.
      A6.13.2.2. Nominees will compete in the award category for which they have held their
      rank for more than six months during the eligibility period. Nominees having exactly six
      months time in grade, in two ranks, will be submitted in the higher category.
 18                                                     AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


       A6.13.2.3. Selecting Award Winners. Each Ground Medical or Aeromedical Evacuation
       Unit may submit one nomination in this category annually.
A6.14. Administrative Excellence Award.
   A6.14.1. Description. This award was established in honor of Brigadier General Donald B.
   Wagner, former Chief of the Air Force Medical Service Corps, to recognize MSC officers
   from either the Air Force Reserve Command or the Air National Guard who make
   outstanding administrative contributions to the AF Medical Service.
   A6.14.2. Qualifying for Award. This award alternates annually between the Air National
   Guard and the Air Force Reserve Command. The Air National Guard will present award to
   ANG member during odd years and the Air Force Reserve Command will award to AFRC
   member during even years. Nominees must meet the following:
       A6.14.2.1. Possess an AFSC 41AX (Health Services Administrator).
       A6.14.2.2. Be assigned to a Category A, B, AGR or ART position in the USAFR.
       A6.14.2.3. Have held such assignments within the two years before the nomination date.
       A6.14.2.4. Provided outstanding administrative support to the AF Medical Service over a
       sustained period of time.
A6.15. Nursing Leadership Excellence Award. This award is a singular lifetime leadership
award for cumulative career accomplishments (covers nominee’s entire career; not just the fiscal
year). Nomination packages will contain a nomination letter by Chief Nurse and/or Squadron
Commander.
   A6.15.1. Description: This award is established in honor of Brigadier General Beverley
   Lindsey, former Mobilization Augmentee to the Air Force Assistant Surgeon General,
   Nursing Services. It rewards and recognizes outstanding individual achievements and
   contributions to both the Air Force Reserve Command and Nurse Corps.
   A6.15.2. Qualifying for the Award. Nominees must meet the following:
   A6.15.3. Be Lt Col or Col in the NC assigned to a Category A, B, AGR, ART or other
   extended tour position.
   A6.15.4. Perform at an exceptionally meritorious level in providing nursing leadership and
   clinical support to the Air Force Reserve Command throughout their nursing career.
A6.16. Mentorship Excellence Award.
   A6.16.1. Description. This award was established in honor of Major General Linda A.
   Hemminger (retired); former Mobilization Assistance (MA) to the Assistant Surgeon
   Gerneral, Nursing Services and MA to the Joint Staff Surgeon and Deputy Joint Staff
   Surgeon; and most recently MA to the Air Force Deputy Surgeon General. It recognizes and
   rewards outstanding mentorship achievements and contributions by officer or enlisted
   personnel of the Air Force Reserve Command in Medical Services.
   A6.16.2. Qualifying for the Award. Nominees must meet the following criteria:
       A6.16.2.1. Be an Air Force Reserve Command officer in the rank of Captain or Major or
       an Air Force Reserve Command enlisted technician in the rank of Technical Sergeant or
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            19


     Master Sergeant as of 15 December of the nomination year and assigned as; a Category A
     participating Traditional Reservist, an Individual Mobilization Augmentee, Air Reserve
     Technician or Active Guard Reserve member.
     A6.16.2.2. Perform at an exceptionally meritorious level in providing mentorship,
     tutorage and guidance to the Air Force Reserve Command throughout their career.
     A6.16.2.3. Display sustained high standards of professionalism and mentorship resulting
     in significant enhancement in AFRC personnel and programs.
 20                                                       AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 7
                                         UNIT AWARDS

A7.1. Outstanding Aeromedical Evacuation (AE) Squadron. All Reserve Aeromedical
Evacuation Squadrons are eligible.
   A7.1.1. Description. This award recognizes the outstanding Air Force Reserve Aeromedical
   Evacuation Squadron of the year.
   A7.1.2. Qualifying for Award. This award applies to all Air Force Reserve AE squadrons
   that have made significant contributions and accomplishments related to the following:
         A7.1.2.1. Excellence in mission support.
         A7.1.2.2. Stellar customer service.
         A7.1.2.3. Meets or exceeds AF/AFRC training goals (MRDSS, IMR etc).
         A7.1.2.4. Must not have scored a “Marginal” or “Unsatisfactory” on initial (re-
         inspections not eligible for consideration) most recent Health Services Inspection (HSI),
         Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI) or Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI).
         A7.1.2.5. Strong leadership involvement and support of unit mission.
A7.2. Outstanding Ground Medical Unit with a Physical Exam Package.
   A7.2.1. Description. This award recognizes the outstanding Air Force Reserve Medical Unit
   of the year.
   A7.2.2. Qualifying for Award. This award applies to all Air Force Reserve Ground Medical
   Units that have made significant contributions and accomplishments related to the following:
         A7.2.2.1. Excellence in mission support.
         A7.2.2.2. Stellar customer service.
         A7.2.2.3. Meets or exceeds AF/AFRC training goals (MRDSS, IMR etc).
         A7.2.2.4. Must not have scored a “Marginal” or “Unsatisfactory” on initial (re-
         inspections not eligible for consideration) most recent Health Services Inspection (HSI),
         Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI) or Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI).
         A7.2.2.5. Strong leadership involvement and support of unit mission.
A7.3. Outstanding Ground Medical Unit without a Physical Exam Package.
      A7.3.1. Excellence in mission support.
   A7.3.2. Stellar customer service.
   A7.3.3. Meets or exceeds AF/AFRC training goals (MRDSS, IMR etc).
   A7.3.4. Must not have scored a “Marginal” or “Unsatisfactory” on initial (re-inspections not
   eligible for consideration) most recent Health Services Inspection (HSI), Unit Compliance
   Inspection (UCI) or Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI).
   A7.3.5. Strong leadership involvement and support of unit mission.
AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                             21


A7.4. Lt General George E. Schafer Trophy.
   A7.4.1. Description. This award was established by the Medical Air Reserve Forces
   Management in honor of Lieutenant General George E. Schafer, former Air Force Surgeon
   General. The purpose is to recognize the outstanding AFRC and ANG medical units.
   A7.4.2. Qualifying for Award. AFRC and ANG medical units will be considered for this
   award. This award alternates annually between the ANG and the AFRC. The ANG will
   present the award to the winning ANG medical unit during odd years and AFRC will present
   the award to the winning AFRC medical unit during even years.
   A7.4.3. Selecting Award Winners. The winner of the Outstanding Medical Unit (Reserve
   Ground Medical or AE unit) of the Year award will be nominated for the Lt General George
   E. Schafer Trophy. NOTE: The winner of this award will be selected from the winners of
   either the RMU with a PE mission, RMU without a PE mission, or AE unit.
A7.5. AFRC Base Level Drug Demand Reduction Program.
   A7.5.1. Award Title: Outstanding Air Force Reserve Command Base-Level Drug Demand
   Reduction Program Award (Large Size; Medium Size; and Small Size)
       A7.5.1.1. Responsible Agency. HQ AFRC/SGPD; WG/CCs; Medical Unit/CCs
       A7.5.1.2. Purpose. Beginning for Fiscal Year 2007, the award is given to recognize
       base-level medical units making significant contributions to the Air Force Reserve
       Command (AFRC) Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP).
   A7.5.2. Description. Two categories of awards:
       A7.5.2.1. A command plaque or trophy with the AFRC crest or similar item with the
       name of the award, recipient unit name, and period of the award – large size, medium
       size, and small size.
       A7.5.2.2. Certificates of Recognition will be given to units meeting the 1% or below
       untestable specimen rate, that meet or exceed the designated random drug testing
       percentage of assigned strength, and that provide documented evidence of
       accomplishments from annual substance abuse education and prevention
       initiative/event/venue.
   A7.5.3. Eligibility. Any base-level medical unit actively participating in the AFRC DDRP.
   A command plaque or trophy will be given to three units based on unit population size. The
   population size criteria are: large – 2000 or more; medium – 801-1999; and small – 800 or
   less.
   A7.5.4. Frequency of Award and Period Covered. Annually and period covers the previous
   fiscal year (1 October – 30 September).
A7.5.5. Method of Presentation. HQ AFRC/SG or designated representative presents the award
at an appropriate ceremony.

A7.5.6. Source of Evaluation. Criteria in paragraph A2.1.8.

A7.5.7. Related Directives. None.
 22                                                      AFRCI36-2858 9 SEPTEMBER 2013


A7.5.8. Criteria. Consideration will be based on total performance for the preceding fiscal year
using the following criteria:

       A7.5.8.1. Specific Accomplishments. Information will clearly reflect specific
       accomplishments for the year covered by the nomination. Emphasize significant facts
       (achievements and accomplishments), continuous improvement efforts, and tangible
       results (metrics).
       A7.5.8.2. Non-Testable Specimen Rate. Wing/Medical Unit non-testable drug testing
       specimen rate will be under 1% or less of collected specimens forwarded and tested by
       the Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory.
       A7.5.8.3. Annual Percentage Tested. Wing/Medical Unit will meet or exceed designated
       random drug testing percentage of assigned strength tested annually.
       A7.5.8.4. Education and Prevention. Wing/Medical Unit will provide documented
       evidence of accomplishments regarding the annual requirement for a substance abuse
       education and prevention initiative/venue/event. Documentation will include the name of
       the initiative, numbers reached, target audience, and the message(s) provided to the
       audience (based on positive drug test demographics, i.e., age, rank, choice of drug,
       etc.).A7.21.9. Nominating Procedures. Each RMU/CC may nominate their DDR Office
       for an award in their respective size category (small; medium; large) and submit the
       nomination package to HQ AFRC/SG annually.
   A7.5.9. Both Wing/Medical Unit Commanders will make nominations for the award.
       A7.5.9.1. Prepare nomination using the headings in paragraph A7.5.8.1, A7.5.8.2,
       A7.5.8.3, and A7.5.8.4 listed above. Nomination should not exceed two pages.
           A7.5.9.1.1. A cover letter with the Wing/Medical Unit Commander’s endorsements
           of the nomination is required.
   A7.5.10. How Recipient is Determined. HQ AFRC/SG designates an award selection
   committee of not less than three individuals to review nomination packages and select award
   winners. The selection committee will consist of Drug Demand Reduction Program
   Managers from Air Force major commands other than AFRC.
       A7.5.10.1. The committee will select a winner from the nomination packages received
       and forward their results to HQ AFRC/SG for action.
       A7.5.10.2. HQ AFRC/SG will have final approval authority for committee selections.
