BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                         INSTRUCTION 36-803

                                                                           6 JANUARY 2012
                                                                               940TH WING
                                                                                 Supplement
                                                                             6 MARCH 2014

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                AIR RESERVE TECHNICIAN TIME AND
                                             ATTENDANCE PROCEDURES AND AUDITS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ AFRC/A1CE                                                  Certified by: HQ AFRC/A1
                                                                    (Col Michael J. McCully)
Supersedes:   AFRCI36-803, 28 October 2009                                          Pages: 41
                                          (940WG)
OPR: 940 WG/CCE                                                    Certified by: 940 WG/CCE
                                                                           (Major Paul Smith)
                                                                                      Pages:4


This instruction implements AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements by establishing
guidelines that implement Time and Attendance procedures and audits for Air Reserve
Technicians. It applies to all Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units, functions, and
activities. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and are disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) on
the Air Force Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) at HQ AFRC/A1CE, 155 Richard Ray Blvd, Robins AFB, GA 31098-
1635, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

(940WG) The OPR for this supplement is 940 WG/CCE. This supplement implements and
extends the guidance of Air Force Reserve Command Instruction (AFRCI) 36-803, Air Reserve
Technician Time and Attendance Procedures and Audits. It applies to all civilian and Air
 2                                                                    AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


Reserve Technician (ART) employees assigned to the 940th Wing (WG), Beale AFB, CA and all
Geographically Separated Units (GSUs) that report to the 940WG. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This publication
clarifies use of RMPs, paragraph 4.1.1.5; deletes reference to AFMAN 36-8001 and adds AFI
36-2254 volumes 1 and 2, replaces the term LWOP-US with Absent-US, clarifies compensatory
time for travel guidance, paragraph 11.1, adds the use of sick leave when in military status,
paragraphs 12.1, 17.2.2, and 17.3.7, clarifies premium pay restrictions while in military status,
paragraph 12.6.1, clarifies the 22-day leave entitlements, paragraph 12.5.1, clarifies the use of
military leave, paragraphs 12.2 and 17.3.1, clarifies duty status for alert missions paragraph
4.4.1.6., provides instructions for documenting time zone changes paragraph 8.3. adds para 6.1.2
concerning work schedule changes, revises guidance on DCPS codes OS and on paragraph
16.2.12, refines the AFRC Form 4 requirements, paragraph 4.3.3, adds paragraph 13.3, night
differential for WG employees, and removes the prohibition to use time off awards when
performing military duty, paragraph 12.1.

       1.     Scope of Applicability. ..........................................................................................          3
       1.     (940WG) Scope of Applicability. ..........................................................................                  3
       2.     Terms and Definitions. ..........................................................................................           3
       3.     Duty Status Definitions. .........................................................................................          4
       4.     Changes in Duty Status. .........................................................................................           5
       5.     Duty Status Overseas. ............................................................................................          7
       6.     Changes in Civilian Tour of Duty. .........................................................................                 8
       7.     Lunch Periods. .......................................................................................................      9
       8.     Long Distance Flights. ...........................................................................................         10
       9.     Pre-Mission Crew Rest. .........................................................................................           10
       10.    Constructive Credit hours. .....................................................................................           12
       11.    Time Spent Traveling and Standby/On-Call Status. ..............................................                            12
       12.    Leave Status. ..........................................................................................................   13
       13.    Night Differential Entitlement for Air Crew Members. ........................................                              18
       14.    Time and Attendance and Premium Pay Audit Procedures. ..................................                                   19
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                                                                       3


       15.    Employee Timecard Folder Requirements. ...........................................................                        19
       16.    Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................   20
       17.    Military Duty Affecting Timecards. ......................................................................                 23
       18.    Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product. ............................................................                      24
       19.    Work Schedules. ....................................................................................................      25
       20.    Excused Absences. .................................................................................................       27

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          28

Attachment 2—TIME AND ATTENDANCE PROGRAM CHECKLIST                                                                                      31

Attachment 3—PREMIUM PAY AUDIT TOOL/PROCEDURES FOR UNIT USE                                                                             36

Attachment 4—AF FORM 938 CERTIFICATION FROM HOME OF RECORD                                                                              38

Attachment 5—AF FORM 938 CERTIFICATION FOR IN PLACE CONVERSIONS                                                                         39

Attachment 6—AF FORM 938 CERTIFICATION WHEN STARTING MILITARY
             TRAVEL OTHER THAN HOR                                                                                                      40

Attachment 7—AF FORM 938 CERTIFICATION WHEN RELEASED IN PLACE                                                                           41


1. Scope of Applicability. This instruction applies Air Force Reserve Command policy to Air
Reserve Technicians (ARTs) Title 5 and 10, United States Code.
1. (940WG)Scope of Applicability. Waivers to this supplement will be documented and kept
on file with the OPR for this instruction, and in member’s six-part Time and Attendance folder.
2. Terms and Definitions. The following terms and definitions are used in this instruction.
   2.1. Administrative Workweek. The Air Force administrative workweek begins at 0001
   Sunday and ends at 2400 on the next following Saturday. The calendar day on which a shift
   begins is considered the day of duty for that day even though the day of duty extends into the
   next calendar day or into the following administrative workweek, reference paragraph 6.3 for
   exceptions.
   2.2. Alternative Work Schedules (AWS). Work schedules made up of flexible or compressed
   schedules. See paragraph 19 for guidance on alternative work schedules. Organization and
   tenant commanders establish, by written order, the daily hours for beginning and ending
   work and the basic 40-hour tour of duty including AWS. As a minimum, the written order
   should include schedules authorized and who may use them, along with the starting and
   ending times for work schedules.
   2.3. Alternative Workplace Arrangements (AWA). Working under a flexi-place/telework
   arrangement, either at home or other approved location(s), such as a telecommuting center.
   2.4. Basic Workweek. The days and hours of an administrative workweek which make up a
   full-time employee's regularly scheduled 40-hour workweek.
 4                                                 AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


     2.5. Compressed Schedule. Compressed schedule means for a full-time employee, an 80-
     hour biweekly basic work requirement which is scheduled in less than 10 workdays. In the
     case of a part-time employee, it is a biweekly basic work requirement of less than 80 hours
     which is scheduled for less than 10 workdays.
     2.6. First 40-Hours. An AWS which allows for the first 40 hours of duty performed within a
     period of no more than six days of the administrative workweek to be established as the basic
     workweek when it is impractical to prescribe core hours or a regular schedule of definite
     hours of duty each workday.
     2.7. Flexible Schedule. A Flexible schedule has a portion of the work day during which the
     employee has the option to select and vary starting and stopping times within established
     limits set by installation level approving officials for AWS.
     2.8. Holiday Work. Work performed on a legal holiday or the day observed as a holiday.
     2.9. In-Lieu-Of Day. An in-lieu-of day is a holiday in which employees are given time off on
     a day other than the date which the holiday actually falls on.
     2.10. Part Time. In some circumstances it is not possible to obtain or use an employee's
     services for the full 40-hour workweek. Part time tours of duty may be authorized when
     service on a regular, repetitive basis is required at least one day during each administrative
     workweek, however, additional service may be required during the remainder of the
     administrative workweek.
     2.11. Regular Tour of Duty. The regular tour of duty for Air Force employees is five 8-hour
     days, Monday through Friday.
     2.12. Special Tour of Duty for Educational Purposes. A special tour of duty of no less than
     40 hours in an administrative workweek which may be established by supervisors to permit
     employees to take courses at nearby educational institutions.
     2.13. Uncommon Tour of Duty. Any 40-hour basic workweek scheduled to include Saturday
     and or Sunday, for four workdays or less but not more than six days of the administrative
     workweek. An uncommon tour of duty may be established when necessary for efficient
     operations or when the cost of operations can thus be reduced without imposing undue
     hardship on employees.
3. Duty Status Definitions.
     3.1. Inactive Duty for Training (IDT). There are five types of IDT for which eligible
     members may be paid:
        3.1.1. Training Period (TP) - a period of training, duty, or instruction that a member
        performs as an individual (includes Additional Ground Training Periods (AGTP)).
        3.1.2. Unit Training Assembly (UTA) - a planned period of training duty, instruction, or
        alert performed by a Category A unit.
        3.1.3. Equivalent Training (ET) - a training period performed in place of a regularly
        scheduled UTA or TP missed, due to a member’s personal emergency.
        3.1.4. Additional Flying Training Periods (AFTP) - a training period that may be
        authorized for members who must fly frequently.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                               5


      3.1.5. Readiness Management Period (RMP) - a planned period that is used to
      accomplish readiness/training requirements that are a minimum of 4 hours in duration.
   3.2. Active Duty for Training (ADT) - a tour of active duty for reserve training under orders
   which provides for automatic reversion to non-active duty status when the specific period of
   active duty is completed. It includes annual training (AT), special tours of active duty for
   training and school tour (ADT), and active duty for operational support (ADOS), which are
   funded from the Reserve Personnel Appropriations (RPA) account. Also included are
   temporary tours of active duty support for active force missions, which are funded from the
   Military Personnel Appropriation (MPA) account.
   3.3. Travel and Per Diem: Use the JTR and JFTR, as applicable for all specific guidance
      3.3.1. Travel in civilian pay and per diem status solely to perform military duty is
      forbidden as is traveling in military status to perform civilian duty. However, travel in
      civilian status to perform civilian duty in conjunction with IDT or ADT is acceptable.
      For example it is allowed for a member who is TDY in civilian status to perform an IDT
      while TDY and convert back to civilian status when the IDT is completed.
      3.3.2. Travel and per diem may not be paid for travel to IDT except under limited
      circumstances involving duty away from home station. Reimbursement is limited to that
      authorized by the JTR.
4. Changes in Duty Status.
   4.1. All periods of military duty must be scheduled in advance, meet normal Reserve
   participation requirements, and be annotated on official orders. Conversion of duty status
   must be approved by an authority no lower than the orders certifying official. Except as
   provided below, the duty status in which an ART departs home station will continue until
   they return.
      4.1.1. If one or more IDT periods are scheduled while on Temporary Duty (TDY):
          4.1.1.1. Member will convert to IDT and back at times specified on the AF Form(s)
          40/40a, Authorization for Inactive Duty Training/Authorization for Individual
          Inactive Duty Training or other scheduling documents.
          4.1.1.2. If periods of civilian duty are scheduled in conjunction with IDT flight
          training, ensure that either the preflight or post flight duties are accomplished in IDT
          status and that the status matches with the status on the AFTO Form 781, Arms
          Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document. Both preflight and post flight duties may be
          accomplished in IDT status but one or the other must be in IDT status. In-flight duty
          status conversions to or from IDT status are permitted IAW scheduling documents
          (AF IMT 40A, AF Form 3956, AF IMT 938, etc…).
          4.1.1.3. Crew rest may not be accomplished in IDT status.
          4.1.1.4. An IDT period may be completed on the same day as civilian duty provided
          a regularly scheduled civilian workday is completed or constructed using annual
          leave, military leave, accrued compensatory time off, accrued compensatory time off
          for travel, Absent-US, or accrued credit hours.
6                                                AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


           4.1.1.5. RMPs may be performed by a military technician before or after civilian
           duty hours, on an SDO (Scheduled Day Off) or weekend (if not part of the members
           normal work schedule). However RMPs may not be performed by a military
           technician while in a leave status from their civilian position. The number of RMPs
           performed in a FY by any member shall not exceed the limitations prescribed in AFI
           36-2254, Volume 1 and no more than one RMP shall be performed by an individual
           in one calendar day.
    4.2. If one or more active duty periods are scheduled while TDY:
       4.2.1. All conversions from civilian status to active duty or from active duty to civilian
       status will occur IAW orders/scheduling documents.
       4.2.2. In-flight duty status conversions to or from active duty status are permitted IAW
       orders/scheduling documents. Complete appropriate Aircrew/Mission Flight Data
       Document, IAW applicable Air Force and local directives. Include separate lines to
       record the flying time accomplished in each duty status.
    4.3. Conversion Procedures. Orders are completed according to current guidance.
       4.3.1. Conversion to active duty or civilian status will be in accordance with orders
       published.
       4.3.2. Include in the orders a remark to indicate when IDT is authorized in conjunction
       with civilian TDY and identify the dates and times of conversion. For example,
       “Member will convert to IDT status on 12 September at 0800, revert to civilian status at
       1700 on 12 September, convert to IDT status at 0800 on 13 September, and convert to
       civilian status at 1700 on 13 September.”
       4.3.3. An AFRC Form 4, Work Hours Report, will be completed during civilian duty
       involving flying duties, away from home station to include pre and post flight duties. An
       AF Form 3956/AFRC Form 82, Report of Inactive Duty Training performance –
       AGTP/AFTP (USAFR), or other form as appropriate, will accompany the AFRC Form 4
       if military duty was performed. The form will be turned in to the individual’s timekeeper
       at the completion of the mission.
    4.4. Duty Status for Air Reserve Technicians.
       4.4.1. ARTs may perform duty either at home station or away from home station in
       either military or civilian status except as stated below:
           4.4.1.1. Attendance at formal schools:     IAW AFI 36-2254, Volume 2, Reserve
           Personnel Training.
           4.4.1.2. Exercises: Military Status; however, unit commanders may authorize
           civilian status for exercises at home station that do not involve other Air Force or
           AFRC units or other military components.
           4.4.1.3. Airborne support or directed mission: Active duty outside CONUS unless
           the unit commander determines civilian status is authorized.
           4.4.1.4. Flights into hostile area flights or imminent danger zones: Active duty
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                                   7


          4.4.1.5. Participation in military duties such as promotion or discharge boards:
          Active duty
          4.4.1.6. Alert Missions: All alert requirements will be performed in Title 10 military
          status. The member will convert to military status when assuming the alert
          requirement and will not be released from military status until the alert requirement is
          complete. Members will not perform alert duty in Title 5 status. For example, a
          member assuming the alert at 0700 on the first day and released at 0700 the following
          day will be in military status for the complete 24 hours (0700-0700).
5. Duty Status Overseas.
   5.1. Before sending ARTs overseas in civilian status, commanders will ensure ARTs are
   briefed on legal ramifications, requirements, and proper immigration procedures for all
   countries that might be transited.
      5.1.1. ARTs may be in civilian status in all foreign areas NOT designated as active duty
      only by AFRC/CV or the wing commander, or as hostile fire/imminent danger areas by
      the Department of Defense (DoD), Air Force, or AMC/TACC. ARTs may convert from
      civilian to active duty status while in transatlantic or transpacific flight at scheduled times
      on orders.
      5.1.2. ARTs will convert to active duty status at 0001 hours local on the calendar day of
      departure from the last ground location prior to entering the foreign area designated as
      hostile fire/imminent danger/active duty only. Local time means the time at the last
      ground location prior to departure into the hostile fire/imminent danger/active duty only
      zone. ARTs will remain in active duty status until all of the following conditions are
      met–the active duty mission is terminated and on the ground, the individual is outside of
      hostile fire/imminent danger/active duty only designated foreign area, and the time is
      2400 hours based on the time zone in which the active duty began. At no time can an
      ART enter a hostile fire/imminent danger area in any status other than active duty
      military.
   5.2. Duty Status While Engaged in Training
      5.2.1. The duty status of ARTs while engaged in training is dependent upon the
      relationship of the training to the civilian position. If the training is solely required by the
      military duties or obligations of the employee’s military reserve position or military
      assignment and is not required by the civilian position or the required civilian duties, the
      employee must be in an appropriate leave status from the civilian position to attend that
      military training during the civilian workday.
          5.2.1.1. Small arms training and chemical defense training (more commonly known
          as chemical warfare training) are two training situations that best represent this
          policy: Participating in small arms training during the civilian workday is appropriate
          for security police, flight engineers, boom operators, aircraft loadmasters or other
          crew members required by the civilian position to be qualified to carry small arms. In
          the case of the aircrew members, these employees perform the duties of sky marshals
          and are responsible for protecting the aircraft.
              5.2.1.1.1. Chemical defense training must be related to the civilian position
 8                                                 AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


                (included in the position description) and/or required to qualify for the civilian
                position (included in the qualification standard) before it is appropriate to grant
                official civilian employee time/excused absence for this training.
            5.2.1.2. Several important legal benefits, entitlements, protections, immunities and
            disqualifications will depend on maintaining a very clear, obvious, and accurate
            delineation between military status and civilian employee status, including benefits
            under Office of Worker’s Compensation Programs (OWCP) and those that flow from
            military Line of Duty (LOD) determinations. Especially because those benefit
            determinations can affect not only the employee/reservist, but also his or her family
            members, it is critical that commanders and members maintain accurate records
            demonstrating very clearly the periods when the ART is in military status and the
            periods when the ART is in civilian employee status.
6. Changes in Civilian Tour of Duty.
     6.1. Members will request and supervisors may approve work schedules or work hours. All
     schedules will be requested and approved in writing IAW guidance established by
     paragraph 2.2 of this publication. As a minimum, identify type of work schedule, duty
     hours, lunch periods, scheduled days off for compressed schedules and effective dates. All
     ARTs will use the electronic AFRC Form 270, AFRC Timecard Worksheet, to document
     time and attendance. HQ AFRC/A1CE is responsible for the administration of the AFRC
     Timecard worksheet. Timecard functionality will not be altered for any reason without prior
     written approval from HQ AFRC/A1CE. All military duty will be annotated on worksheet.
     Civilian schedules will not be changed solely to perform military duty except as stated in
     paragraph 6.2 below.
     6.1. (940WG) In addition to the standard 8-hour day 40-hours a week and 80-hours
     biweekly schedule, Wing mission requirements allow supervisors to offer civilian employees
     the option of one of two Alternate Work Schedules (AWS): (1) the 5/4-9 Compressed Work
     Schedule (CWS) or (2) the Flexible Work Schedule (FWS). Each employee will discuss
     with their supervisor the type of work schedule suitable for their work environment. The
     current, approved work schedule will be maintained in each employee’s Timecard Folder.
     Offices, shops or sections that have only one full-time employee are not normally eligible for
     the alternate work schedules and require Group Commander approval. There is no authority
     to establish hybrid work schedules borrowing from the authority of flexible work schedules
     and the authority for compressed work schedules to provide unique benefits for employees or
     agencies.
        6.1.1. In order for the timecard to function correctly timecards will not have pen/ink
        annotations except in the “remarks” section. The original and any corrected timecards
        along with supporting documentation and DCPS Master History Reports will be
        maintained in the member’s timecard folders.
        6.1.2. When an employee covered by a CWS program is assigned to a temporary duty
        station using another work schedule--either traditional or AWS--management may allow
        the employee to continue to use the schedule used at his or her permanent work site (if
        suitable) or require the employee to change the schedule to conform to operations at the
        temporary work site.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                              9


   6.2. The requirement that a one-week notice be given to non-exempt employees before a
   change in tour of duty is waived under the circumstances below. Notify employees of such
   changes as far in advance as possible. In any situation, notify the employee before reporting
   for duty on the day of the proposed change. Use of this authority is limited to that necessary
   for essential operations as determined by appropriate authority.
      6.2.1. Aircrew on missions of more than one day’s duration.
      6.2.2. Aircrew and ground support to meet special or essential unscheduled flying
      missions.
      6.2.3. Aircrew and ground support performing active weather reconnaissance or rescue
      missions.
   6.3. If a full workday cannot be performed by midnight, the calendar day on which a shift
   begins is considered the day of duty for documentation purposes even though the work
   schedule extends into the next calendar day. If a full workday can be performed by midnight,
   management has the option of starting the next workday at 0001 or extending the workday
   and compensating the employee with overtime/compensatory time off for the additional work
   hours.
7. Lunch Periods.
   7.1. The lunch period must be at least 30 minutes in length and is to be observed during the
   midday time frame. For example, on a workday of 0730-1600, lunch should be taken
   between the hours of 1100-1300. It is inappropriate to schedule and take a lunch period at
   the beginning or end of the civilian workday. Employees who are subject to a maxiflex work
   schedule (paragraph 19.3.3) that allows for some workdays with fewer than 6 hours in a day,
   may not be required to observe a lunch period on workdays with fewer than the 6 hours
   (subject to local determination and bargaining unit agreements). Lunch periods must be
   entered on the timecard even during periods of leave in order to document the entire duty
   day.
   7.2. There are two situations where compensable on-the-job meals are authorized.
      7.2.1. When more than one 8-hour shift is in operation during a 24-hour period and an
      overlapping of shifts to permit time off for lunch is not feasible, an on-the-job lunch
      period of 20 minutes or less may be authorized and included in the regular tour of duty.
      7.2.2. When lunch is consumed in a long duration flight or long distance flight, an on-
      the-job lunch period not to exceed 20 minutes is permitted as long as the flight is
      performed in civilian status. The requirement to take a lunch period cannot be waived on
      the basis of an aircrew member flying an AFTP. A 20-minute on-the-job lunch period is
      authorized for aircrew members for any long duration flight performed in civilian status
      regardless of the distance flown or the need for an over-night stay at another location.
          7.2.2.1. Long Duration Flights. Long duration flights are defined as those flights
          performed in civilian status where the flight briefing, flight time, and post mission
          duties equal or exceed 80 percent of aircrew member's regularly scheduled civilian
          duty day or when the period between the initial aircrew briefing time and completion
          of post flight duties completely overlaps the normally schedule mid day lunch period
 10                                              AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


          by 1 hour or more. This places the employee well beyond the midday timeframe
          when the lunch period is taken.
      7.2.3. This policy does not apply to active duty military flights, AFTPs, AGTPs, or short
      civilian training flights that occur during the midday timeframe. On such instances the
      lunch timeframe must be identified. In addition, the 20-minute on-the-job lunch period is
      only authorized for long duration flights in those instances where it is not possible for the
      employee to take a meal break on the ground, whether it is during the flight briefing, post
      mission duty period, or delays such as weather. In those instances where lunch is
      consumed in flight appropriate justification is documented on the AFRC Form 270 in the
      remarks section and the AFRC Form 4, Air Reserve Technician Aircrew Work Hours
      Record, or other appropriate form such as the AFTO Form 781.
8. Long Distance Flights.
   8.1. Long distance flights are defined only as situations in which an air crew member’s flight
   departs his/her home station, arrives at another duty station and remains overnight at the
   remote duty station.
   8.2. Tours of duty and attendance reporting of air crew members on long distance flights are
   as follows: The ART aircrew member’s work will begin at the directed reporting time for
   preflight/preplanning duties based on the proposed takeoff time, and will end upon
   completion of post flight duties and excusal from duty.
   8.3. Changes that occur by crossing the International Date Line are to be ignored for the
   purpose of documenting travel time. Duty times while TDY will be recorded on the AFRC
   Form 270 (timecard) using a 24-hour basis in the hours of the time zone of the TDY location
   in order to calculate night differential and premium pay. If changes in duty status occur
   during the tour, the AFRC Form 4 must be completed and will be reviewed and certified by
   the aircraft commander. Home station and TDY location dates and times will be used on the
   AFRC Form 4.
9. Pre-Mission Crew Rest.
   9.1. To the maximum extent possible, civilian aircrew duty days should be scheduled or
   adjusted to coincide with the flying schedule. Normally the flying schedule is published well
   in advance to allow for work schedule changes with at least a one week notice which negates
   the use of administrative leave for crew rest. When situations arise and aircrews are required
   to remain in crew rest past their scheduled workday reporting time or enter crew rest during
   the civilian workday, the following options apply:
      9.1.1. If an employee has already reported to work and is then placed into crew rest
      before the end of their regularly scheduled day they may be granted admin leave “LN”
      for the remainder of their regularly scheduled day. When they report back to work before
      midnight then the time between report and midnight is premium pay or credit time and
      the next duty day starts at midnight. Enter a comment in the remarks section of the
      AFRC Form 270 that includes the phrase “required crew rest.” For example: A
      crewmember reported to work at their normal scheduled time of 0700, at 1000 they are
      released for crew rest to be alerted at 2200 to report to work at 2300 the same day. The
      AFRC Form 270 would reflect 0700-1000 “RG”, 1000-1530 (with an appropriate meal
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                           11


     period) as “LN”, 2300-2400 as “CE”, “CD”, “OU”. The next duty day would begin at
     0001.
        9.1.1.1. It is not appropriate to use admin leave “LN” for times when crew rest
        requirements are known in advance and overtime, compensatory time or credit hours
        will be earned as a result.
     9.1.2. If an employee is required to remain in crew rest past their scheduled workday
     reporting time, they may be granted admin leave “LN” from the normal start of their
     work day until reporting for duty but only when unforeseen circumstances (IAW
     paragraph 9.1.3.) occur which would jeopardize mission accomplishment if “LN” is not
     granted. Enter a comment in the remarks section of the AFRC Form 270 that includes
     the phrase “required crew rest.” There are two occasions when this may be appropriate.
        9.1.2.1. LN may be granted when the crewmember performed aircrew duties the day
        prior, and due to unforeseen circumstances, is subsequently scheduled to perform
        aircrew duties, to include Supervisor of Flying, the next day and cannot report to
        work at the regularly scheduled report time due to crew rest limitations. In this case,
        LN may be granted from the normal workday reporting time to the first time that the
        employee may report with crew rest. For example, a crewmember is accomplishing
        flight duties until 2330 and unforeseen circumstances require that crewmember to
        accomplish flight duties the next day. The crewmember has a normal civilian
        workday from 0700-1530. The AFRC Form 270 would reflect 0700-1130 “LN” and
        1130-1530 “RG”. Any additional hours required for mission accomplishment in
        civilian status may be logged as credit time or compensatory time, as appropriate.
        9.1.2.2. LN may be granted when the crewmember performed aircrew duties the day
        prior, and due to unforeseen circumstances, is subsequently scheduled to perform
        aircrew duties, to include Supervisor of Flying, the next day and cannot report to
        work at the regularly scheduled report time due to Flight Duty Period (FDP)
        limitations. In this case, LN may be granted from the normal workday reporting time
        to the first time that the employee may report with sufficient FDP available to cover
        mission requirements. For example, a crewmember is accomplishing flight duties
        until 2000 and unforeseen circumstances require that crewmember to accomplish
        flight duties the next day. While the crewmember could report at 0800 with crew
        rest, the mission requires aircrew duties (mission preparation, briefing, flying, de-
        briefing) from 1200-2400 and the crewmember is limited to a 12-hour FDP by AFI.
        Since FDP includes civilian and military duty hours, the crewmember may be granted
        LN from normal reporting time until the first time that the crewmember can report
        with sufficient FDP for the mission. The crewmember has a normal civilian workday
        from 0700-1530. The AFRC Form 270 would reflect 0700-1200 “LN” and 1200-
        1530 “RG”. Any additional hours required for mission accomplishment in civilian
        status may be logged as credit time or compensatory time, as appropriate.
     9.1.3. Unforeseen circumstances are those where the planned schedule cannot be
     executed and mission accomplishment requires a crewmember to alter their schedule and
     depart duty location early or arrive after normal start time to comply with crew rest or
     Flight Duty Period. Normally, unforeseen circumstances are those which occur within 24
     hours prior to the scheduled mission. When circumstances can be rectified within an
 12                                               AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


      acceptable time frame (outside 24 hours or within local bargaining unit agreements) the
      civilian crew duty day should be adjusted to accommodate mission accomplishment.
   9.2. If the flight/flight duty for which the employee is in a crew rest status will be performed
   in civilian status, then no leave is to be charged.
      9.2.1. If the flight/flight duty for which the employee is in a crew rest status will be
      performed in military status, then the employee will either take annual leave, Absent-US,
      accrued compensatory time off, accrued credit hours, or adjust his/her duty day to
      accommodate the crew rest requirement.
10. Constructive Credit hours.
   10.1. When temporary duty (TDY) occurs on a scheduled workday, and through no fault of
   the employee, an employee starts work, but less than 8 hours of work are performed, the
   employee is credited with 8 hours total duty. (EXAMPLE: Employee reports as directed at
   0600, takes off at 0800, lands at 1200, performs post flight duties, and is excused at 1300;
   that individual is credited with 7 hours of work and 1 hour of constructive credit (annotate
   AFRC Form 4, to reflect the number of hours actually worked and the number of hours of
   excusal from duty (constructive credit hours)) on that day. Use constructive credit hours
   when computing regular hours but not when computing overtime hours. Regardless of the
   reason and irrespective of whether within the employee’s control, if employees (for example,
   aircrew members) do not report for work they are placed in the appropriate leave category or
   have their workweek rescheduled. Constructive credit hours may not be granted if there is no
   work to be performed at the TDY location and it is known prior to the start of the employee’s
   civilian workday. In addition, constructive credit hours may not be granted at home station.
      10.1.1. The following options are to be considered when the granting of constructive
      credit might be appropriate:
          10.1.1.1. Send the aircrew in active duty military status. The issues of taking leave,
          use of constructive credit, loss of per diem, and earning overtime/comp time are then
          nonexistent.
          10.1.1.2. Have the employee report to work each day. If there is insufficient work
          for a full 8 hours, the granting of constructive credit may be appropriate. In those rare
          cases where it is known in advance that work will not be available, this option is not
          appropriate.
          10.1.1.3. Reschedule the workweek so that scheduled days off fall on “down days”,
          where possible, to minimize the possible use of leave.
          10.1.1.4. Send the aircrew home, keeping only the minimum number of crew
          members required to remain with the aircraft at the TDY location. This decision is
          made on the basis of commercial or available military air versus the cost of travel pay
          and paying employees when no work will be performed.
          10.1.1.5. Charge the employee leave on down days. Since the decision on whether or
          not an aircrew member will have to work is usually made on a daily basis, this should
          not be a recurring scenario.
11. Time Spent Traveling and Standby/On-Call Status.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                             13


   11.1. Compensatory Time Off for Travel. Compensatory time off for travel may be earned
   by ARTs traveling in civilian status to perform duty in civilian status for time spent in a
   travel status away from the employee’s official duty station when such time is not otherwise
   compensable. This compensatory time off provision applies to all employees, except Senior
   Executive Service employees. Travel hours will be recorded in the originating station time
   zone. ARTs may not earn travel comp time when traveling to perform military duty.
   11.1. (940WG) Compensatory Time Off for Travel: All compensatory Time Off for Travel
   Requests will be reviewed and approved by the employee’s supervisor. This documentation
   will be maintained in the employee’s Timecard Folder with the appropriate pay periods.
   11.2. Travel Time as Hours of Work for non-exempt employees under the Fair Labor
   Standards Act. Time spent traveling is considered hours worked if the travel occurs during
   regular working hours, or during hours on non-work days that correspond to regular working
   hours or if the employee is required to perform work while traveling. Employees traveling
   outside hours mentioned above may earn compensatory time off for travel. Travel hours will
   be recorded in the originating station time zone.
   11.3. Hours of Work for Standby or in an On-Call Status
      11.3.1. An employee will be considered on duty and time spent on standby shall be
      considered hours of work if:
          11.3.1.1. For work-related reasons, the employee is restricted by official order to a
          designated post of duty and is assigned to be in a state of readiness to perform work
          with limitations on the employee's activities so substantial that the employee cannot
          use the time effectively for his or her own purposes. A finding that an employee's
          activities are substantially limited may not be based on the fact that an employee is
          subject to restrictions necessary to ensure that the employee will be able to perform
          his or her duties and responsibilities, such as restrictions on alcohol consumption or
          use of certain medications.
      11.3.2. An employee will be considered off duty and time spent in an on-call status shall
      not be considered hours of work if:
          11.3.2.1. The employee is allowed to leave a telephone number or to carry an
          electronic-device for the purpose of being contacted, even though the employee is
          required to remain within a reasonable call-back radius; or
          11.3.2.2. The employee is allowed to make arrangements such that any work which
          may arise during the on-call period will be performed by another person.
12. Leave Status.
   12.1. An ART must be off duty or in an appropriate leave status from the civil service
   position when he or she is in a military point–gaining activity. Military leave, annual leave,
   accrued credit hours, accrued compensatory time off, accrued compensatory time for travel,
   time off award or Absent-US may be used when performing military duty that overlaps with
   the civilian workday. Employees on a traditional fixed work schedule may not change that
   schedule just to avoid taking leave or to allow the use of military leave for the performance
   of military duty. Employees on a flexible work schedule or compressed work schedule that
   allows for changes in the tour of duty may change their schedule within limits of the
14                                              AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


  schedule’s rules to avoid taking leave for the performance of military duty. For example, a
  member on a Gliding schedule with a flexible starting band of 0630-0900 may alter their
  starting time within that band to avoid taking leave. Members on compressed work
  schedules may request a change in their scheduled day off (if allowed by local policy). All
  leave absences from the civilian duty are to be documented with an approved OPM 71 or
  other appropriate form. Use of sick leave to perform military duty is prohibited. Exception:
  ARTs may use sick leave only if the military orders are published specifically for a reason
  that is otherwise appropriate for sick leave e.g. to receive medical care or for a medical
  appointment as documented on the AF Form 938, block 11. The AFRC Form 270
  documents leave taken and is not considered an appropriate form to request/approve leave.
  Requests for leave must reflect the type of leave along with the date and time leave is to be
  charged.
  12.2. Traditional 15-day military leave can be used/charged only for periods of a civilian
  workday when active or inactive military duty overlaps with the civilian work schedule, or
  when performing consecutive days of active duty (see para 12.3 below). A brief description
  of the main rules for charging military leave follows:
     12.2.1. Employee requesting military leave for active duty or inactive duty training will
     be charged only the amount of military leave necessary to cover the period of military
     duty or period of training and necessary travel. Since military leave can only be charged
     in hour increments any fractions of an hour must be charged to other appropriate leave;
     military leave may not be used for an entire civilian workday if the member starts
     military duty after the beginning of the civilian duty day or is released from military
     duty/travel before the end of the civilian workday.
  12.3. Consecutive day rule: A full day of annual leave, military leave, accrued
  compensatory time off, compensatory time off for travel, accrued credit hours, or   Absent-
  US must be charged for civilian workdays on which consecutive days of active duty pay are
  earned (whether the consecutive days of active duty are covered on a single order or a series
  of orders) unless one or more of the following exceptions apply:
     12.3.1. If on the first day of active duty, the member is not required to report for military
     duty until after the civilian duty day ends, no leave is charged for that first day of active
     duty. If the member is required to report for military duty on the first day of the period of
     active duty before the end of the civilian duty day, leave must be charged to cover the
     period of overlap with the civilian duty day.
     12.3.2. If the member is completely released from active duty on the last of the
     consecutive days of active duty prior to the start of the civilian duty day, no leave is
     charged for the last day of active duty. If the member is released from active duty on the
     last day after the start of the civilian duty day, leave must be charged to cover the period
     of overlap with the civilian duty day.
     12.3.3. When an employee terminates a period of active duty no later than 2400 hours on
     one calendar day and a need arises on the next calendar day to call that member back to
     active duty, no leave will be required for the next calendar day if all of the following
     apply:
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                               15


         12.3.3.1. The member had been completely released from active duty on the previous
         day,
         12.3.3.2. The military need did not arise or become apparent until after the first
         active duty period ended and the employee is under civilian control, and
         12.3.3.3. No other person is available to serve the second period of active duty.
     12.3.4. Multiple orders authorizing consecutive days of active duty must be approved at
     the Group Commander level or higher. Appropriate documentation certifying this
     approval must be maintained and available for review.
  12.4. Intervening non-workday rule: No military leave will be charged for civilian non-
  workdays (weekends, holidays, scheduled days off). Employees who choose to use or
  intermingle other appropriate forms of leave to perform military duty, i.e., annual leave,
  Absent-US, accrued compensatory time off, accrued compensatory time off for travel or
  accrued credit hours, for the entire length of their active duty (whether it is covered by one
  set of orders or several), will not be charged military leave for intervening non-workdays that
  occur during that tour or consecutive tours.
  12.5. Twenty-Two (22) Day Military Leave. There are two conditions when an ART is
  authorized 22 days of military leave; in support of civil authorities in the protection of life
  and property and those who perform full-time military service as a result of a call or order to
  active duty in support of a contingency operation.
     12.5.1. Although the DCPS code “LL” (Law Enforcement) may be used it is
     recommended that “KG” (Absent-US) be used until the member returns to duty in order
     to avoid any DFAS complications. When using this type of military leave, the ART
     receives all military pay and allowances (excluding travel, transportation, and per diem
     allowances) and any civilian pay that exceeds that amount. A DFAS remedy ticket will
     apply leave to the days leave is required and adjust civilian pay records for any funds due
     to the employee. This action must be processed through the local FM representative.
     12.5.2. Employees may use Absent-US intermittently with annual leave, military leave,
     compensatory time off, or credit time earned. An SF 50 should be used to document an
     employee’s use of Absent-US for duty with the uniformed services of one day or longer.
     There is no AFRC requirement to process return-to-duty actions for each period of paid
     leave. Note: When Absent-US “KG” is entered into DCPS the balance of credit and
     compensatory time will be paid to the employee.
  12.6. Forty-Four (44) Day Military Leave. ARTs are authorized 44 additional workdays of
  military leave in a calendar year. There are conditions placed on the use of this leave that is
  addressed below. Timekeepers should use the administrative leave code (LN) to record use of
  this category of military leave and supervisors must monitor the number of hours used during
  the calendar year and ensure the maximum number of hours are not exceeded.
     12.6.1. Military leave under this section can only be used to perform “active duty
     without military pay” for participation in combat and non-combat operations outside the
     United States, its territories and possessions. It is appropriate to use this leave on the day
     of deployment from home station, any intervening stops within the United States, its
     territories and possessions, and the day of return to home station as long as the ultimate
16                                             AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


     destination on the military orders is an overseas location and any intermediate
     destinations/stops are part of the continuing mission. In addition, UAS crews conducting
     operations OCONUS from locations physically located CONUS are authorized to use this
     type of leave. ARTs receive their basic civilian pay, to include premium pay for
     regularly scheduled overtime work that would have been earned during the period
     covered by this leave, and points toward Reserve retirement while in this duty status.
     Regularly scheduled overtime work means overtime work that is part of the employee’s
     regularly scheduled administrative workweek. Within AFRC this is usually only
     applicable to firefighters and law enforcement personnel. It does not apply to additional
     hours of work performed while TDY, callback overtime, or additional hours of work
     performed due to long distance flights. This is irregular or occasional work. Overtime
     pay, compensatory time or credit hours may not be earned for performing work beyond
     the regular civilian work schedule while on “AD without pay” since the employee is
     performing this work in military status. Military leave under this section can be
     intermingled with traditional military leave, annual leave, leave-without pay (Absent-
     US), earned compensatory time, and credit hours.
     12.6.2. This military leave category is available on a calendar year basis and leftover
     balances cannot be carried over to the next calendar year. The 44 days are converted into
     hours and charged on the same basis that annual leave is charged. ARTs who work 80-
     hour pay periods (including flexible and compressed work schedules) are entitled to a
     maximum of 352 hours. This category of military leave is charged for civilian workdays
     only. This means that if an ART chooses to use only this category of leave for a military
     tour of duty that includes weekends/holidays/scheduled days off (SDO), there would be
     no civilian pay received for those days. In order for an ART to receive any pay for a
     civilian non workday, a change to “active duty with pay” status is required. This requires
     use of a separate AF Form 938 for each period of conversion. Changes to civilian duty
     status on workdays during the same military tour are also authorized, if appropriate, and
     require the use of a DD Form 1610. Use of this military leave is at the employee’s
     discretion.
     12.6.3. Use of this category of military leave is not appropriate in Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto
     Rico, or Guam unless the ultimate destination on the military orders is an overseas
     location and one of these locations is an intermediate stop that is part of the continuing
     mission. Use of this category of military leave is appropriate for Panama at all times,
     since it is no longer considered a US possession.
     12.6.4. Since the employee is on “active duty without military pay,” all jurisdictional
     issues are covered by the military system; i.e., the employee is covered under the UCMJ,
     injury compensation is covered under line-of-duty procedures, reimbursement for travel,
     per diem, and lodging are computed based on military entitlements, etc. Certain military
     entitlements such as Family Separation Pay and Hazardous Duty Pay will not apply due
     to the fact they are only applicable when member is on a “military pay status”.
  12.7. Payment of Military Leave While on Extended Active Duty (EAD). Federal
  employees who are also reservists, to include ARTs, and who serve on an extended active
  duty tour that spans 2 or more fiscal years, may accrue and be paid for 15 days of military
  leave at the beginning of each year. Timekeepers should reflect paid and unpaid military
  leave used, as appropriate, on the timecard and in the civilian pay system. Employees are not
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                            17


  required to apply the new allotment of military leave that accrues on 1 October to their
  current tour, but may choose to do so or use it later in the second fiscal year.
  12.8. Physical Fitness Program. All civilian employees to include Air Reserve Technicians
  who are not on a limited time appointment at less than 1 year are authorized time to
  participate in a physical fitness program while in an official duty status. Physical fitness
  activities will be limited to cardio-vascular activities such as walking, jogging, weight
  training and structured exercises such as aerobics and spinning. The local commander has
  the final decision on which activities meet the intent of the program. Participation by the
  employee is strictly voluntary.
     12.8.1. A maximum of 3 hours per week may be used for physical fitness activities. The
     times must be used in blocks of 1.5 hours or less. Only one block of time may be used
     per day and unused time from other weeks may not be banked. The 3 hours per week is
     total time away from the job and includes any travel time, changing clothes and
     showering. The physical fitness periods cannot be combined with authorized breaks, but
     may be used in conjunction with the lunch period. Member must be present for duty prior
     to or after the physical fitness period.
     12.8.2. Participation in the program must be approved by the first level supervisor and it
     is contingent upon no adverse mission impact. Specific times for participating in the
     program will be approved by the supervisor in advance. First level supervisors have the
     authority to disallow participation due to mission requirements and/or vary the times the
     employee may participate. Participation privileges may be revoked if any abuse is
     identified and disciplinary action may be taken.
     12.8.3. A request must be submitted by the employee to the first level supervisor
     accompanied by a doctor’s statement certifying physical fitness activities are permitted
     and identifying any limiting conditions such as “running not permitted at this time”. The
     certification does not need to state why running is not permitted. Release of the
     information is granted by the employee to his/her immediate supervisor by passing the
     certification memorandum to the supervisor. This certification can be signed by either
     the employee’s primary health care provider or the unit Reserve physician.
     12.8.3. (940WG) The Physical Fitness Agreement request form with Doctors’
     Statement will be on file with their supervisors. Any fitness restrictions identified on a
     member’s Air Force (AF) Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report, will require an
     updated doctor’s statement which may preclude the member from participating in the
     physical fitness program until the limitations expire.
     12.8.4. Fitness activities must be performed on base or in base facilities. Base facilities
     will be available to employees in line with local installation policies. Exception: For
     those organizations where the worksite is located off-base, the installation commander
     may approve a facility that would reduce travel time, is a suitable exercise site and is
     identified as an official work location for injury compensation reasons. For those
     organizations whose facilities are limited or undergoing renovation, an alternate site must
     be approved by the installation commander and designated as an official worksite.
     12.8.5. Fitness documents are maintained by the supervisor.
 18                                               AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


      12.8.6. Employees normally do not earn overtime, compensatory time off or credit hours
      on days they are use fitness leave.
      12.8.7. Fitness policies may vary from installation to installation based on local
      implementation and labor agreements.
13. Night Differential Entitlement for Air Crew Members.
   13.1. AFI 36-807 mandates organization and tenant commanders to establish daily hours for
   beginning and ending work. For aircrew members, the tour of duty and daily hours of work
   are governed by and charged each day based on the directed reporting for duty time. The
   crew member’s work will begin at the directed reporting time for preflight/preplanning duties
   based on the proposed takeoff time and will end upon completion of post-flight duties and
   excusal from duty. Work scheduled in accordance with this paragraph becomes the crew
   member’s regularly scheduled tour of duty.
   13.2. When regularly scheduled work is performed between the hours of 1800 and 0600,
   night differential pay is appropriate for GS employees. Night differential pay is payable in
   addition to premium pay for regularly scheduled overtime.
      13.2.1. Night differential pay is authorized for work performed by GS employee between
      1800-0600 except for irregular or occasional overtime work. Unless the employee's
      regularly scheduled daily tour of duty falls within the above hours, hours of work
      between 1800-0600 are considered to be irregular or occasional overtime work, and no
      entitlement to night differential pay exists.
          13.2.1.1. If the GS employee's daily tour of duty is temporarily changed (as
          documented on a work schedule change request form) and falls between 1800-0600,
          night differential is authorized for the established workday. Any hours of work
          beyond the basic workday are considered to be irregular or occasional overtime and
          night differential is not authorized for those hours.
          13.2.1.2. If the GS employee's regularly scheduled daily tour of duty includes hours
          of work performed between 1800-0600, and those hours of work also include
          regularly scheduled overtime, then night differential is authorized for both the basic
          workday and the overtime hours worked between 1800-0600.
          13.2.1.3. If the employee works their regular daily tour of duty, and then performs
          additional work all additional hours are considered to be irregular or occasional
          overtime and night differential is not authorized for those hours.
   13.3. Night Differential is paid to FWS (WG) employees when the majority of regularly
   scheduled non-overtime hours fall between the hours of 1500-0800.
      13.3.1. FWS employees receive night differential for the entire shift when the majority
      of hours fall within the specified periods.
      13.3.2. When temporarily assigned to a day shift or night shift with a lower night shift
      differential, the employee continues to receive the regular rate. An employee temporarily
      assigned to a night shift is paid night differential. Employees temporarily assigned to a
      night shift with a higher differential will only receive the higher differential if a majority
      of the employee’s regularly scheduled non-overtime work falls within the hours having
      the higher differential.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                              19


14. Time and Attendance and Premium Pay Audit Procedures.
   14.1. General. Commanders will appoint Numbered Air Force (NAF), Wing and
   independent Group Time and Attendance (T&A) points of contact (POC). HQ AFRC
   Directorates will also appoint Time and Attendance POCs. Appointments will be designated
   by appointment letter; a primary and alternate POC are required. The T&A POC is
   responsible for maintaining a master listing of all ARTs assigned to the unit, providing time
   and attendance training to the workforce, establishing a time and attendance audit team and
   provides training to same, notifying auditors when to conduct audits and self timecard folder
   audits, and will prepare documentation and reports required to keep the commander
   informed.
   14.2. Audit Timelines. Audits will be conducted quarterly (January, April, July, and
   October) of each calendar year. The audits will include at least 25% of the assigned ARTs,
   with a goal of auditing all ART’s timecards at least once during the year. The audits will be
   conducted by someone other than the timekeeper/supervisor of the affected employee.
   Special audits may be performed at the commander’s request. NAF, Wing and Group
   Commanders are responsible for subordinate units.
   14.3. Audits. NAF, Wing and Group audits will be used to meet the requirement by higher
   headquarters that timecard folders be audited at least once per year by someone other than
   the assigned timekeeper. The T&A point of contact will notify auditors selected to participate
   in each audit and will request specific timecard folders to be audited during the audit. Audits
   will be conducted using checklists in attachment 2. The audit results will be reported to the
   commanders. The T&A POC will ensure all discrepancies are corrected by the responsible
   timekeeper. Discrepancies will be corrected and timecard corrections will be updated in the
   Defense Civilian Pay System (DCPS), when required. Documentation stating an audit was
   completed (and/or properly completed audit checklists) must be filed in the timecard folders.
   14.4. HQ AFRC/Inspector General (IG) Unit Compliance Inspections (UCI) process. The
   UCI process will include audits of both ART and traditional civilian employees (premium
   pay only) in three areas with three separate error ratings written for IG reports. Lack of
   documentation in the timecard folder will cause an error to be identified.
      14.4.1. Dual Compensation (ARTs) error ratings are assessed as follows: Comply when
      the error rate is 1% or less, comply with comment when the error rate is between 1.1 to
      3% and non-comply when the error rate is more than 3%.
      14.4.2. Inappropriate Leave/Duty Status (ARTs) error ratings are assessed as follows:
      Comply when the error rate is 2% or less, comply with comment when the error rate is
      between 2.1 to 4% and non-comply with the error rate is more than 4%.
      14.4.3. Premium Pay for Overtime/Compensatory time work (ARTs and Civilian
      employees) error ratings are assessed as follows: Comply when the error rate is 5% or
      less, comply with comment when the error rate is between 5.1 to 10% and non-comply
      when the error rate is more than 10%.
15. Employee Timecard Folder Requirements.
   15.1. General Timecard Folder Information:
 20                                              AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


       15.1.1. Employee current year timecards and supporting documentation will be filed in a
       six-part folder (or a binder with 6 tabs is an acceptable substitute). Previous years’
       documentation may be removed from six part folder for filing. All documentation must
       be available for audits for six years.
       15.1.2. Each employee will have a separate timecard folder and only the employee name
       (no social security number) will be on the outside of the folder.
       15.1.3. Each timecard will have all supporting documentation (military documents, AF
       IMT 428 leave requests, court leave documentation, DD Forms 1610, DCPS Master Time
       History Printout, etc.) filed with the appropriate pay period.
       15.1.4. Timecards will be filed in pay period order and then separated into quarters.
       Each quarter will be a separate section of the six-part folder (see folder contents below).
       The completed quarterly audit checklist will be filed on the top of each section.
   15.2. Folder Contents
   15.2. (940WG) Folder Contents: Air Force (AF) Form 270, AFRC Timecard Worksheet
   will be filed on the top of each pay period packet for consistency and ease in auditing.
       15.2.1. Section One: Approved Work Schedule Change request and Authorization for
       20-Minute in-Place (Paid) Lunch memorandum, when required for normal work schedule
       (occasional memos should be attached to appropriate timecard).
       15.2.2. Section Two: Miscellaneous information
       15.2.3. Section Three: Timecards (PP 22-27) – Quarter 4
       15.2.4. Section Four: Timecards (PP 15-21) – Quarter 3
       15.2.5. Section Five: Timecards (PP 8-14) – Quarter 2
       15.2.6. Section Six: Timecards (PP 1-7) – Quarter 1
16. Responsibilities:
   16.1. T&A POC:
       16.1.1. Will appoint auditors to the audit team, auditors will participate in at least one
       quarterly audit per year.
       16.1.2. Submits quarterly requests for the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product on
       all ARTs. This military report is a log of all military duty performed during the audit
       period derived from the Point Credit Accounting and Reporting System (PCARS). See
       paragraph 18 for further guidance.
       16.1.3. Distributes the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product to auditors performing
       audits. Ensures audits are performed quarterly on all identified timecard folders. A
       minimum of 25% of the ART workforce will be audited each quarter. All records will be
       audited at least once every year.
       16.1.3. (940WG) The wing quarterly audit is performed during the month following the
       end of the pay period quarter. Audits are usually scheduled during the last week of the
       month to facilitate an effective unit internal audit program. The Wing Time and
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                           21


     Attendance POC will prescribe what forms/checklists are used to maximize the
     effectiveness of the wing quarterly audits.
     16.1.4. Maintains the quarterly audit results and corrective actions taken for
     discrepancies noted during audits until the next Unit Compliance Inspection (UCI).
  16.2. Supervisors and/or Timekeepers:
     16.2.1. Ensure a six-part timecard folder (chapter 15) is maintained for each civilian and
     ART assigned, and all timecards are certified by the supervisor or designated
     representative. Timecards should be filed by quarter in separate parts of the folder with
     the quarterly audit documentation on top.
     16.2.2. Conduct a self audit of assigned timecard folders using the Timecard Folder
     Audit Checklist (attachment 2) and ensure 100% compliance with all directives.
     Additional information to assist in auditing AF IMT 428s, Request for Overtime, Holiday
     Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time, military duty affecting timecards, and
     understanding the military pay calendar is provided in paragraphs16 and 17,
     respectively.
     16.2.3. Provide written notification to the T&A POC when self audits are completed
     including discrepancies corrected and updated in DCPS, when required.
     16.2.4. Ensure a Work Schedule Change Request is completed, approved, updated in
     DCPS and filed in each assigned timecard folder. All approved work schedule change
     requests must be kept in the timecard folder to support duty hours/tours of duty on
     timecards filed in the folder.
     16.2.5. Ensure a memorandum signed by the supervisor is filed in the timecard folder
     when an employee is authorized a “20-minute in-place (paid) lunch.” For occasional
     periods a comment in the remarks section of the AFRC Form 270 will suffice in place of
     a memorandum. For flying personnel the AFRC Form 4 or other appropriate form must
     also be annotated.
     16.2.6. Ensure the time card shows the credit/compensatory/overtime hours that were
     earned and/or hours of absence when leave was taken. NOTE: All requests/approvals for
     absences submitted must be attached to the timecard even if the employee signed the
     timecard (paragraph 12).
     16.2.7. Ensure timecards with administrative leave or excused absence (LN or LV) have
     entries in the remark section of the timecard justifying the leave. Physical fitness leave
     periods have the mandatory information recorded in the “remarks” section of the
     timecard. Mandatory information includes: activity type/activity location.
     16.2.8. Ensure the AF IMT 428 is corrected to match the dates and number of hours
     overtime and/or compensatory time that was actually earned as recorded on the timecard.
     When actual hours worked are less than requested on the AF IMT 428, you may
     accomplish “Pen-and-ink” corrections to the form. The corrections should be done in a
     manner that the original information can be seen. Ensure pen-and-ink changes to the
     "TOTAL" hours match actual hours worked. In instances where more hours were worked
     than requested a new AF IMT 428 will have to be accomplished to cover the additional
     hours. The approving official for authorizing overtime work, whether it is compensated
22                                             AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


     by paid overtime or compensatory time off, will be the group commander or higher.
     Authorization must be received prior to accomplishing the work or no later than one
     business day after, in emergency situations. It is Command policy that GS-12 and above
     and NSPS equivalent employees should not normally receive premium pay for overtime
     work unless circumstances dictate otherwise. If the AF IMT 428 will carry over to
     different pay period(s) a copy must be attached to all affected timecards.   NOTE: If
     the overtime/compensatory (OT/COMP) were requested/approved but not needed, the
     428 may be destroyed. NOTE: The AF IMT 428 is the official source document for entry
     of overtime/compensatory time in DCPS and must be certified by FM or resource
     advisor.
     16.2.8. (940WG) Group commanders are the delegated approving officials for
     authorizing overtime or compensatory time for their group’s employees. The Air Force
     (AF) IMT 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time,
     must be authorized and approved through 940 WG/FM prior to the start of the overtime
     and/or compensatory time. In emergency situations or when signatures cannot be
     obtained verbal approval may be granted and the form completed after the work is
     performed. The form will be annotated with the date the verbal approval was obtained.
     16.2.9. Ensures that certified copies of all AF IMT 40A, Record of Individual Inactive
     Duty Training; AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active
     Duty Tour; DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DOD
     Personnel; AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and
     Compensatory Time; Additional Flying Training Period (AFTP) certifications, AFRC
     Form 4, Work Hours Reported ; and any other documents necessary for audit purposes
     are filed with the affected timecards in the timecard folders located in each work center.
     16.2.10. Ensures all AF IMT 40As have the employee’s civilian duty hours and
     timekeeper’s initials recorded in the Remarks Section. Ensures appropriate leave was
     taken and recorded on the timecard if military duty was performed during civilian duty
     hours.
     16.2.11. Ensures all AF Form 938s; blocks 36-44 are filled out completely and that the
     timekeeper’s signature is recorded in block 45. Ensures appropriate leave was taken and
     recorded on the timecard when military duty overlapped civilian duty hours. Examples
     showing proper certification of AF Form 938 are in attachments 3, 4, 5 and, 6.
     16.2.12. Ensures the correct overtime code is used on the timecard for overtime worked.
     Scheduled overtime (OS) code is used when the scheduled date on the AF IMT 428 is
     before the start of the administrative workweek the overtime is to be worked.
     Unscheduled overtime (OU) code is used when the scheduled date on the AF IMT 428 is
     after the start of the administrative workweek the overtime is to be worked.
     16.2.13. Ensures the correct leave without pay (LWOP) code is used when the employee
     is performing military duty that overlaps the employee’s civilian duty hours. If
     employees choose to use Absent-US instead of military leave, annual leave,
     compensatory time or credit hours when performing military duty that overlaps their
     civilian duty hours, ABSENT-US code (KG) must be used regardless of length of time.
     Contact local servicing Civilian Personnel Office for RPA guidance when ABSENT-US
     is taken.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                             23


      16.2.14. Ensures DCPS Master Time History Printouts or Time and Attendance
      Accepted Report are printed after each pay period processes; quality checks the printout
      against the timecard to ensure they match; initials/signs the printout if correct; attaches
      printout to timecard and files in timecard folder. If printout does not match timecard,
      annotates corrections on printout then makes corrections in DCPS and or timecard;
      initials printout and attaches to timecard to be filed in timecard folder. If changes were
      required in DCPS, a new DCPS Master Time History Printout must be
      printed/initialed/signed/attached to timecard to show changes were entered/processed by
      DCPS. DCPS Master Time History Printouts are required for audit purposes.
      16.2.15. Ensures certified copies of AFTPs, AF IMT 40As and AF Form 938s are sent to
      Civilian Pay office when military leave (LM) was used.
      16.2.16. Employees are responsible for requesting and coordinating leave with their
      supervisor, informing the timekeeper of exceptions to normal duty hours, and supplying
      the timekeeper with appropriate documentation to support exceptions (AF IMT 428,
      OPM 71, AF Form 938 etc…)
17. Military Duty Affecting Timecards.
   17.1. Dual Compensation Errors.
      17.1.1. Must be in a civilian leave status during civilian duty hours when on
      active/inactive duty or in military travel status. Sample violations: No leave charged for
      AFTPs performed 1200-1600, AF Form 938 reflects military travel starts at 0730 but no
      leave taken at all or not taken until later in day.
      17.1.2. Leave must be charged for second and subsequent days when on consecutive
      days of active duty (whether covered by one order or several sets of orders) unless
      covered by one of approved exceptions (See paragraph 12.3.) Sample violations: On
      active duty Saturday-Thursday, must take leave for Mon-Wed (if released from AD prior
      to start of civilian duty day on Thurs) or Mon-Thurs (if released from AD later in the day
      on Thursday).
      17.1.3. ARTs entitled to additional 44 days of leave when performing active duty
      without pay OCONUS, territories, possessions. Should reflect this leave as admin leave
      (LN). Error occurs when orders do not reflect “active duty without pay” and/or member
      receives active duty pay for these days.
   17.2. Inappropriate Leave/Duty Status Errors.
      17.2.1. Individual uses military leave but is neither in a military duty status (active or
      inactive duty) nor in a travel status to perform such military duties.
      17.2.2. ART performs military duty (active or inactive duty) and uses sick leave to cover
      that period of military duty. ARTs may use any other category of leave such as annual
      leave, military leave, Absent-US, compensatory time off, compensatory time off for
      travel or credit hours. ARTs may use sick leave only if the military orders are
      specifically published for a reason that is otherwise appropriate for sick leave e.g. to
      receive medical care or for a medical appointment.
      17.2.3. Employee or supervisor changes civilian duty hours/civilian work schedule
      beyond what is allowed according to AWS plan or negotiated agreement in order to allow
 24                                              AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


      employee to take more leave or avoid taking leave to perform military duty. Sample
      violation: AWS plan/contract requires core hours starting 0900, supervisors/employees
      required to give one week notice of changes -- violation occurs when work schedule
      changed with less than one week notice and no leave was taken starting at 0900 (core
      hours).
      17.2.4. Employee is required to take leave for crew rest when crew rest is required due to
      flights in military status. Error occurs when no leave taken for crew rest. Sample
      violation: Member flies AFTPs 1800-2200 on Mon and Tues, must be in crew rest/on
      leave on Tues until 1000.
      17.2.5. The employee has no annual leave, accrued comp time, or accrued credit hours so
      he/she uses military leave to cover part of the civilian duty day when no military duty or
      travel is being performed. Sample violation: Active duty starts at 1000 and employee uses
      military leave starting at 0700. Since the employee cannot use military leave from 0700
      to 1000, he/she must use some other category of leave (annual, LWOP, Absent-US,
      accrued credit or comp). If he/she has no paid leave left, Absent-US (LWOP) is the only
      choice.
   17.3. Appropriate types of leave for military duty:
      17.3.1. Military Leave (LM) can only be used to cover periods of military duty/travel
      that overlap the employee’s civilian duty hours or when required to cover consecutive
      days of active duty IAW para 12.3 of this publication and can only be taken in 1 hour
      increments. NOTE: Military leave must be rounded down to the nearest hour; cannot be
      rounded up (i.e., military duty overlapped civilian duty hours for 2.5 hours which would
      allow military leave to be used for 2 hours and a half-hour must be another type of
      appropriate leave.)
      17.3.2. Annual Leave (LA)
      17.3.3. Compensatory Time (CT)
      17.3.4. Credit Hours (CN)
      17.3.5. Compensatory Time for Travel (CF)
      17.3.6. Leave Without Pay (Absent-US) - (KG). If employees elects to use Absent-US
      instead of the other types of leave described above when performing military duty that
      overlaps their civilian duty hours, the Absent-US code (KG) must be used.
      17.3.7. Sick Leave (LS). Military orders must specify a reason that is otherwise
      appropriate for sick leave e.g. to receive medical care or for a medical appointment.
18. Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product.
   18.1. The time and attendance audit product is derived from the Point Credit Accounting and
   Reporting System. The Military Personnel Flights have access to the system.
      18.1.1. Code 7 will appear on the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product for a Unit
      Training Assembly (UTA) completed.
      18.1.2. If a rescheduled UTA was completed, a certified copy of AF IMT 40A must be
      filed with the affected timecard in the timecard folder and the corresponding dates should
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                            25


      be on the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product coded as 7. If a certified copy of an
      AF IMT 40A is filed with the affected timecard and the corresponding dates are not on
      the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product, annotate the audit worksheet and advise the
      wing T&A POC to notify the, member, supervisor and Military Pay Office.
   18.2. If code 6 appears on the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product, a certified copy of
   the employee’s AFTP certification with corresponding dates must be filed with the affected
   timecard in the timecard folder. If an AFTP certification is filed with the affected timecard
   and the corresponding dates are not on the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product, notify
   the Military Pay Office.
   18.3. If code 1-4 appears on the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product, a certified copy of
   the AF Form 938 with corresponding dates must be filed with the affected timecard in the
   timecard folder. If an AF Form 938 is filed with the affected timecard and the corresponding
   dates are not on the Unit Time and Attendance Audit Product, notify the Military Pay Office.
   18.4. If documents are missing from the employee timecard folder, notify the supervisor/
   employee. The supervisor/employee must provide a copy of all missing documents.
19. Work Schedules.
   19.1. Tour of duty comprises all hours and days for which flexible and core hours have been
   designated. The tour of duty defines the limits within which an employee must complete his
   or her basic work requirement.
   19.1. (940WG) The allowable work band for Monday through Friday:
      19.1.1. (Added-940WG) Day Shift: 0600-1730
      19.1.2. (Added-940WG) Swing Shift: 1230-2400
      19.1.3. (Added-940WG) Supervisors may authorize earlier or later start and finish
      times to support the aircraft flying schedule.
      19.1.4. (Added-940WG) The wing’s core hours are 0900-1100 and 1300-1430 (1530-
      2100 for Swing Shift) Tuesday through Thursday. Core hours are not applicable to a
      Scheduled Day Off (SDO). Flex hours are any hours in excess of the scheduled duty day
      and outside of the wing core hours.
   19.2. Credit hours are hours of work in excess of an employee’s basic work requirement and
   may be worked only by employees covered by flexible work schedules. Employees
   volunteer or agree to earn credit hours. All credit hours earned and used must be requested
   by the employee in lieu of earning compensatory time off or overtime pay. A full time
   employee may carry over up to 24 credit hours from one biweekly pay period to a subsequent
   pay period. Excess hours that are not used by the end of the pay period will be forfeited.
   Credit hours cannot be used before they are earned. Credit hours are distinguished from
   overtime hours in that they need not be ordered and approved in writing but must be
   approved in advance by management.
   19.2. (940WG) A maximum of 8 credit hours may be earned on Sundays or Holidays.
   19.3. Flexible work schedules consist of:
26                                              AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


     19.3.1. Flexitour Schedule: Full time basic work requirement consists of 8 hour days, 40
     hour workweek and 80 hours in a biweekly pay period. The daily tour of duty is
     established with flexible hours surrounding core hours, which include a standard meal
     period. Once selected, the hours are fixed until the agency provides an opportunity to
     select a different starting and stopping times. Employees may not work basic hours prior
     to or after the established daily tour. Employees must account for missed core hours with
     leave, credit hours or compensatory time off. Overtime work is work in excess of 8 hours
     in a day or 40 hours in a work week, ordered in advance by management. Employees
     select arrival and departure times, subject to management approval. This results in a
     fixed schedule until the next selection period as determined by management
     19.3.1. (940WG) Flexitour Schedule (DCPS AWS Code 1): Employees have fixed
     arrival and departure times, subject to supervisory approval, resulting in a fixed schedule.
     19.3.2. Gliding Schedule: Full time basic work requirement consists of 8 hour days, 40
     hour workweek and 80 hours in a biweekly pay period. The daily tour of duty is
     established with flexible hours surrounding core hours, which include a standard meal
     period. Employees may not work basic hours prior to or after the established daily tour.
     Gliding schedules provide for flexible time bands at the start and end of the workday and
     may also allow for flexible hours at midday (during the lunch break). Employees must
     work during core hours or use leave, credit hours or compensatory time off. Employees
     may vary arrival and departure times on a daily basis during the established flexible
     hours.
     19.3.2. (940WG) Gliding Schedule (DCPS AWS Code 2): Employees have flexible
     arrival and departure times within the wing’s allowable work band and core hours.
     19.3.3. Maxiflex Schedule: Full time basic work requirement consists of 80 hours in a
     biweekly pay period. Maxiflex schedules provide for flexible time bands at the start and
     end of the workday and may also allow for flexible hours at midday (during the lunch
     break). Maxiflex schedules may be set up with or without core hours. When core hours
     are used employees must work during core hours or use leave, credit hours or
     compensatory time off. Employees may vary arrival and departure times on a daily basis
     during the established flexible hours. However, the schedule may be set without core
     hours thus providing maximum flexibility for employees. Employees may work less than
     10 days biweekly when core hours are not set on one or more workdays.
        19.3.3.1. (Added-940WG) Maxiflex Schedule (DCPS AWS Code 5):                   The
        employee may work less than 5 days per week and/or less than 10 days during the
        biweekly pay period. The maximum workday length is nine (9) hours of duty; hours
        worked in excess on any day will be credit, compensatory time or overtime. Under
        this option employees may vary daily arrival and departure times between the wing’s
        “flex” hours in 15 minute increments. Core days are Tuesday, Wednesday and
        Thursday. During core days and core hours, all employees are required to be present
        for work, on their SDO or in a leave status if absent.
     19.3.4. Compressed Scheduled: Full time work requirement consist of 80 hours in a
     biweekly pay period in less than 10 days. The number of hours each day must be
     scheduled. Credit hours are not earned while working this type of schedule.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                              27


       19.3.4. (940WG) Compressed Schedule (DCPS AWS Code 6): The tour of duty for
       employees under CWS program is defined as a fixed schedule as approved by the
       supervisor. The CWS 5/4-9 Plan consists of eight 9-hour days, one 8-hour day and one
       SDO for a total of 80 hours in a bi-weekly pay period. The SDO must be specified and
       approved on the Work Schedule or Work Schedule Change Request. Any variations
       must be approved in writing by the Wing Senior ART/Wing Commander. The SDO may
       be varied on a case-by-case basis to meet mission requirements with documentation to
       reflect the applicable pay periods and supervisor approval.
20. Excused Absences. Excused Absences are instances when employees are absent from their
normal assignments to perform acts or services officially sanctioned by management. During
this time employees remain under management control. Excused absences are not authorized for
non-duty periods or for the purpose of accomplishing military requirements or military training,
e.g. haircuts, chemical defense training etc. All excused absences will be IAW with AFI 36-815.
   20.1. Employees returning from Active Duty in support of the Global War on Terrorism may
   be authorized an excused absence of 5 working days. In order to receive the excused absence
   employees must have spent at least 42 consecutive days on active duty. The absence must be
   the first 5 days back in civilian status and may run concurrent with military “terminal leave.”
   Employees are only eligible for 1 excused absence in a 12 month period. A new 12 month
   period begins after the use of the previous absence.




                                            CHARLES E. STENNER, JR., Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Commander

                                            (940WG)

                                            KEVIN G. CAVANAGH, Col, USAFR
                                            Commander
 28                                             AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
(Added-940WG) AFRCI 36-803, Air Reserve Technician Time and Attendance Procedures and
Audits, 6 Jan 2012
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observation, 21 Jun 1999
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 Sep 2002
AFI 36-2254, Volume 1, Reserve Personnel Participation, 26 May 2010
AFI 36-2254, Volume 2, Reserve Personnel Training, 9 Jun 2010
AFPD 65-2, Management Control Program, 28 Aug 2006
Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation (DOD 7000.14-R), Volume 8,
Chapter 2, Time and Attendance and Chapter 5, Leave, 3 Jul 2009
Forms Prescribed
AFRC Form 270, AFRC Timecard Worksheet
Forms Adopted
AF IMT 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time;
AF IMT 40A, Record of Individual Inactive Duty Training
AF Form 3956/AFRC Form 82, Report of Inactive duty Training Performance-AGTP/AFTP
(USAFR)
AF Form 938, Request and Authorization for Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour
DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DOD Personnel
OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved Absence
SF 50, Notification of Personnel Action
(Added-940WG) Adopted Forms
(Added-940WG) AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report
(Added-940WG) AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
(Added-940WG) AF IMT 270, AFRC Timecard Worksheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                              29


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
(Added-940WG) AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTP—Additional Flying Training Period
ART—Air Reserve Technician
(Added-940WG) AWA—Alternative Workplace Arrangements
(Added-940WG) AWS—Alternative Work Schedules
COMP—Compensatory
(Added-940WG) CWS—Compressed Work Schedule
DCPS—Defense Civilian Pay System
DOD/DD—Department of Defense
(Added-940WG) FWS—Flexible Work Schedule
(Added-940WG) GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IMT—Information Management Tool
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OT—Overtime
POC—Point of Contact
(Added-940WG) RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMP—Readiness Management Period
(Added-940WG) SDO—Scheduled Day Off
T&A—Time and Attendance
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCI—Unit Compliance Inspection
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
(Added-940WG) WG—Wing

Terms
(940WG) Defense Civilian Pay System—A system whose primary objective is to standardize
the Department of Defense civilian pay with regard to interpretation of regulations, calculations,
hardware, software, and operations. Its secondary objective is to fulfill all necessary reporting
requirements of pay and pay related data.
(940WG) Flexitour—A flexible schedule which consists of five 8-hour days, 40 hours each
week, and 80 hours biweekly. A fixed arrival time is established for each employee. Credit hours
may be authorized for this schedule.
 30                                              AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


(940WG) Maxiflex Work Schedule—The employee has a basic work requirement of 80 hours
biweekly. The employee may work less than 5 days per week and/or less than 10 days during the
biweekly pay period, and vary arrival/departure times. Core time is only required 3 days a week.
Credit hours are authorized for this schedule. Hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a week will
be assumed to have been at the employees request and should be reported as credit hours.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                          31


                                          Attachment 2
                   TIME AND ATTENDANCE PROGRAM CHECKLIST


Unit Time and Attendance Program Management Checklist

I. MANAGEMENT REVIEW
UNIT:                                                         DATE:           YES NO   N/A
1. Has a Time and Attendance (T&A) OPR for the Wing/Group/Staff               x
Office been appointed?
2. Has the T&A OPR trained the workforce on proper leave accounting               x
and premium pay procedures for all civilian employees? (How?)
3. Has the T&A OPR ensured audits are conducted? (Describe
process/selection)
                                                                                       x
4. Does the T&A OPR maintain a master listing of all ARTs in the unit?

5. Are 25% of ART T&A folders audited each quarter by someone other
than the assigned timekeeper/supervisor?
    Is there a statement showing that the quarterly audit was completed
and filed in the timecard folder? NOTE: Statement required showing
date, name of auditor, and pay periods audited.
   Are results of the audit given to the T&A OPR for the quarterly report
to the Commander?
(What information/data is reported?)
   Are quarterly reports of audits being kept on file with T&A OPR until
the next UCI?

6. Has the T&A OPR briefed the Wing/CC each quarter on the results of
the audit and premium pay trends?

7. Do timekeepers use a standard six-part folder (or reasonable substitute)
for each ART (name only on the outside of the folder)?
8. Do T&A folders contain a timecard for each pay period with copies of
all supporting documentation (military documents, AF Fm 428, work
schedule changes, leave requests, master history DCPS printout, etc.)
attached?
9. Do T&A folders have timecards for each quarter in a separate section
of the six-part folder with the quarterly audit documentation on top of the
section audited?
 32                                                 AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


10. Are approved AF Forms 428 completely filled out with specific
justification, appropriate signatures/approval authority, and
approved/dated on or before the first hour worked?

   EXCEPTION: May be approved the next business day under special
situations/emergencies.
                  Does justification explain these exceptions?
 Is the total number of hours approved on the AF Forms 428 equal to or
more than the total number of hours earned on timecards?
11. Is alternate work schedules authorized and written policy/guidance
published?

      If yes, what types:

      Are there restrictions on who can and cannot use these schedules?

12. Does the unit have a civilian physical fitness policy?
    If yes, ask for a copy to review – was a written policy available for
review?
13. Are there any other local policies that affect time and attendance
documentation/auditing?
      If, yes was a copy of these local policies available for review?

II. TIMECARD FOLDERS

1. Audit Performed by (Name):

2. Inclusive Period of Audit:

3. Employee Timecard Folder Audited (Name):

4. Employee Unit of Assignment:
                                                                            YES   NO   N/A

5. Are folders arranged with timecards for each quarter in a separate
section of the six-part folder with the quarterly audit documentation on
top of the section audited?
6. Is a timecard for each pay period for this audit period filed in the
folder?
6.1. Do the timecards include start and end times for the day?
7. Do the employee’s tour of duty and hours of work on the timecards
match the work schedule request forms filed in the timecard folder?
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                        33


8. Has each timecard been signed by the employee, timekeeper and
supervisor or designated representative?
8.1 By signing the timecard supervisor indicates that the timecards and
supporting documentation were reviewed, time and attendance is
accurate, and all exceptions to the normal tour of duty are noted.
9. Are signed/approved OPM Form 71, Request for Leave or Approved
Absence, (or other appropriate absence request), filed with affected
timecard?
10. When LNF is coded on the timecard for periods of physical fitness,
does the timecard show: Start-End time in “leave used” column and
activity type and activity location in the remarks section or other
statement of verification of activity?
11. Are the DCPS Master History printouts filed with each timecard and
does it match the entries on the timecards?

    If no, how many errors found: ___________
III. OVERTIME/COMP TIME (Premium Pay)
12. Is an approved AF Fm 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium        YES   NO   N/A
Pay and Compensatory Time, for any overtime or compensatory time
worked filed with affected timecard?
    If yes, is the AF Form 428 completely filled out with specific
justification, appropriate signatures/approval authority, and
approved/dated on or before the first hour worked?
    EXCEPTION: May be approved the next business day under special
situations/emergencies. Does justification explain these exceptions?
    Is the total number of hours approved on the AF Fm 428 equal to or
less than the total number of hours earned on the affected timecard? If
more, was another AF Fm 428 accomplished? If less hours, were
corrections made in a manner that the original request is still legible?
IV. MILITARY DUTY
                 Use “Point Credit Accounting and Reporting                YES   NO   N/A
System” to answer Items 13-15
Codes under Type: AF Form 938 = 1, 2, 3, 4               AF Form 40A
= 7         AFTPs = 6

Codes under Half Day:      0 = whole     1 = afternoon (PM)     2=
morning (AM)
13. Are certified copies of AFTP AF Fm 3956 or automated AFTP form filed with affected
timecards?
     Was appropriate leave recorded on the timecard if performed during
civilian duty hours?
     If no, _____Dual Compensation _____Inappropriate Leave
(how many of each)
 34                                              AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


14. Are certified copies of AF Form 40A, Record of Individual Inactive
Duty Training, for rescheduled UTAs filed with affected timecards?
    Was appropriate leave recorded on the timecard if performed during
civilian duty hours?
     If no, _____Dual Compensation _____Inappropriate Leave
(how many of each)
15. Are certified copies of AF Forms 938, Request and Authorization for
Active Duty Training/Active Duty Tour, filed with affected timecards?
    Was appropriate leave recorded on the timecard if performed during
civilian duty hours?
     If no, _____Dual Compensation _____Inappropriate Leave
(how many of each)
16. Were the AF Forms 938s, AF Forms 40As, and AF Form 3956s
either signed or initialed by the timekeeper as required by AFRC policy?
17. Are certified copies of the AF Form 40A for Readiness Management
Periods (RMP) filed
 with affected timecard and untilized in accordance with AFI 36-2254,
Volume 1 and paragraph 4.1.1.5 of this instruction.
18. DISCREPANCIES / COMMENTS. (Any checklist item marked “NO” must be explained
below.)
V. OVERALL UNIT AUDIT RESULTS
I. MANAGEMENT REVIEW: Is management oversight adequate? Yes _______ No
_______
II. TIMECARD FOLDERS: Input accuracy of timecards into DCPS
                       Number of input errors found: _____________
III. OVERTIME/COMP TIME (Premium Pay):        Number of errors found: _____________
                                               Error Percentage: __________

IV. MILITARY DUTY

A. Dual Compensation:   ____________        /   _________________       =
______________
                        # of total errors       # of instances requiring leave   Error
Percentage

B. Inappropriate Leave/Duty Status Errors:   ____________ / _________________ =
______________                                            # of total errors # of
instances requiring leave   Error Percentage
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                             35


VI. DISCREPANCIES / COMMENTS. (Any checklist item marked “NO” must be explained
below.)
 36                                               AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 3
             PREMIUM PAY AUDIT TOOL/PROCEDURES FOR UNIT USE

A3.1. The following procedures apply to use of the overtime/comp time spreadsheet (see sample
at https://wwwmil.a1.afrc.af.mil/ A1C, Unique to Us, A1CE, ART Time & Attendance,
Premium Pay Tool).       This spreadsheet can be used to perform audits at the local level that
mirror the audit performed during Inspector General visits.
1.       The spreadsheet headings divide the document into four sections; personal data, program
administration, compliance items and observations. The columns are self explanatory except for
the following data:
a.      Column G, # INST OT/CT (on timecard). Was the AF Form 428 filed for overtime or
comp time recorded on the timecards for the employee during the timeframe audited? Every 428
is one instance.
b.      Column H, # OT Coded Properly in DCPS; OS vs. OU. In those instances where the
employee earned paid overtime, was the proper code used? “OS” is required if the overtime was
scheduled prior to the start of the administrative workweek (0001 on Sunday).
c.      Column J, # 428 matches DCPS. Do the hours requested on the AF Form 428 match the
Defense Civilian Payroll System (DCPS)?
d.       Column K, # INST OT/CT w/428. Was the AF Form 428 prepared for overtime work?
e.      Column L, # 428 Signed at the Correct Level. Was overtime/comp time approved by the
Group CC or manager acting in his/her absence?
f.      Column M, OT/CT Paid Appro. Was OT/CT paid appropriately? Training, volunteer
work, military duties are examples of inappropriately paid OT/CT. Questions regarding the
circumstances an employee may earn OT/CT should be directed to your servicing Civilian
Personnel Flight.
g.      Column N, # Approved in Advance. Was the AF Form 428 approved before the
overtime work was performed or within one business day after the fact?
h.      Column O, # OT/CT Certified by FM/Res Adv. Was the funds certification block signed
by the Group resource advisor or by the unit FMA?
i.      Column Q, # w/Appro Just. Was the justification on the AF Form 428 sufficient to
describe the work performed? Justifications must be clear and specific. “Catching up on e-
mail,” “UTA preparation,” are examples of poor justification. Better examples would be
“Preparing unit news letter for e-mail distribution,” “Planning, scheduling and preparing location
for UTA commanders call. “
j.      Column R, # w/OT on SDO. Did the employee, who is on a compressed work schedule,
work overtime on their scheduled day off?
k.      Column S, # OT for Exempt Emp. For employees who are exempt under the Fair Labor
Standards Act (FLSA), was the employee given paid overtime instead of comp time?
 l.     Column T, # OT for UTA Spt. Was the employee given overtime or comp time for
 working on a UTA weekend rather than rescheduling their workweek?
    2. For the purpose of computing the premium pay error rate only those columns in the
        Compliance sections are used. The numbers in the Observation section are as stated and
        are areas that Commanders should watch for trends that would indicate the degree of
        management oversight required. The error rate for each column will be determined by
        dividing the number in each column by the number of instances of OT/CT (column G).
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                              37


     For example, if 130 instances were reviewed, and 98 were signed at the appropriate level,
     75% were correct and 25% were in error. The overall error rating is determined by
     averaging all the error percentages in columns J-O (Compliance section). None of the
     numbers in columns J-O should exceed the number in column G.
  3. A master listing of all civilians, to include ARTs in the unit will be maintained by the unit
     Time and Attendance POC to ensure all records are audited quarterly.
        a. A minimum of 25% of the civilian workforce will be audited each quarter.
        b. For the records selected, auditors will review all timecards during that quarter for
            compliance with premium pay policies and procedures.
        c. A statement showing that the audit was completed will be filed in the individual
            employee’s folder. For example, “This record was audited on ______by ________
            for pay periods __________ to __________.”
  4. Audit results will be given to the wing Time and Attendance POC for the quarterly report
     to the Commander. The quarterly reports will be maintained by the POC IAW records
     disposition policies.
 38                                               AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 4
              AF FORM 938 CERTIFICATION FROM HOME OF RECORD

A4.1. Sample certification of AF Form 938 when member starts military duty travel from Home
of Record

Figure A4.1. AF Form 938 Certification From Home Of Record.




Notes:
1. The AF Form 938 is used to request, approve and certify active duty times
2. Time and Attendance auditors will use the times in block 36a and 36d to determine start and
end of active duty status to ensure there are no dual compensation or inappropriate leave errors
3. The AFRC Form 270, Timecard, entries must match the AF Form 938 entries in blocks 36a-
36d
4. Inappropriate leave example: member departs HOR at 0700, 938 block 36a; timecard should
reflect leave start at 0700 any other entry such as 0600 would be inappropriate leave.
5. Dual compensation example: Member departs HOR at 0700, 938 block 36a, traveled to
civilian duties and did not start military duty until 1000. Timecard reflects civilian duty 0700-
1000, leave starting at 1000. Since orders state military duty began at 0700 there is dual
compensation error because member cannot be compensated from the military and civilian side
for the same timeframe. (0700-1000)
Block 40 indicates when a member reported for duty, however, it does not take into account any
travel time associated with the military duty which the member is entitled to.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                      39


                                      Attachment 5
          AF FORM 938 CERTIFICATION FOR IN PLACE CONVERSIONS

A5.1. Sample certification of AF Form 938 when member starts military duty In Place at the
military duty location.

Figure A5.1. AF Form 938 Certification For In Place Conversions.
 40                                           AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014


                                      Attachment 6
 AF FORM 938 CERTIFICATION WHEN STARTING MILITARY TRAVEL OTHER
                            THAN HOR

A6.1. Sample certification of AF Form 938 when member starts military duty travel after the
beginning of the civilian duty day.

Figure A6.1. AF Form 938 Certification When Starting Military Travel Other Than HOR.
AFRCI36-803_940WGSUP 6 MARCH 2014                                                    41


                                     Attachment 7
           AF FORM 938 CERTIFICATION WHEN RELEASED IN PLACE

A7.1. Sample certification of AF Form 938 when member is released from military duty and
will remain in place to finish out the civilian duty day.

Figure A7.1. AF Form 938 Certification When Released In Place.
