BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE RESERVE INSTRUCTION
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                     21-108

                                                                                  15 MAY 2012

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                                    STRANDED AIRCRAFT
                                                                  RECOVERY PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFRC/A4OP                                                    Certified by: HQ AFRC/A4
                                                                      (Colonel George J. Pierce)
                                                                                      Pages: 18




This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 21-1, Air and Space
Maintenance. It provides policy and procedures governing aerospace equipment maintenance
management for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). This instruction applies to AFRC unit
equipped (UE), Active Associate and Air Reserve Component Associates when AFRC is the lead
organization. This instruction does not apply to AFRC Classic Associate maintenance units or
the Air National (ANG). Refer recommended changes, supplements and questions about this
publication to HQ AFRC/A4OP from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System      (AFRIMS)         Records     Disposition    Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Send comments, questions, and
suggested improvements to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication through channels to HQ AFRC/A4OP, 155 Richard Ray Blvd. Robins AFB, GA
31098-1635. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This is a new publication within AFRC. Therefore, the AFRCI must be completely reviewed.
2                                                                                             AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


Chapter 1—FORCE GENERATION CENTER RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                     3
     1.1.   Force Generation Center (FGC). ............................................................................                3
     1.2.   Mobility Air Forces (MAF) Aircraft Recovery: ....................................................                          3
     1.3.   Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) Aircraft Recovery: ................                                           3
     1.4.   CAF Aircraft Recovery: .........................................................................................           4
     1.5.   Aircraft Recovery not supported by other MAJCOMS: ........................................                                 4

Chapter 2—UNIT RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                        6
     2.1.   Maintenance Group Commander Responsibilities. ...............................................                              6
     2.2.   MOC Responsibilities. ...........................................................................................          6
     2.3.   The Maintenance Recovery Team (MRT) Chief Responsibilities. ........................                                       8
     2.4.   Production Superintendent Responsibilities. .........................................................                     11
     2.5.   Manpower Funding Requirements: ........................................................................                   12

Chapter 3—AIRCREW RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                    13
     3.1.   Aircraft Commander Responsibilities for Stranded Aircraft .................................                               13
     3.2.   Crew Chief/MEGP Responsibilities. .....................................................................                   14

Chapter 4—LRS AND SUPPLY PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                              15
     4.1.   Supply Procedures: ................................................................................................       15
     4.2.   Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................   15
     4.3.   Funding Aircraft Repairs on AFRC Missions (Reference: ....................................                                15
     4.4.   Munitions Requirements: .......................................................................................           16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        17
AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012                                                                         3


                                           Chapter 1

                 FORCE GENERATION CENTER RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Force Generation Center (FGC). The(FGC) is AFRC’s Command and Control (C2)
component and is the focal point for all matters affecting current operations in execution within
the AFRC C2 system.
   1.1.1. The AFRC FGC 24-hour/7-day contact is the Battle Watch, 1-800-223-1784 x497-
   0686 or DSN:497-0686 or Com: 478-327-0686 that provides a single entry point for all
   request for AFRC support. The FGC provides expeditious logistics support by initiating and
   controlling recovery actions for AFRC aircraft that are on AFRC missions that are not
   mission capable (NMC) or have reported mission essential (ME) discrepancies away from
   home station. The FGC supports aircraft recovery by coordinating the movement of
   Maintenance Recovery Teams (MRT), parts, and equipment (as applicable) through the
   transportation system to support NMC aircraft off station. AFRC FGC has the authority to
   direct, control, and task subordinate units for personnel, parts, and equipment as well as
   coordinating transportation requirements.
1.2. Mobility Air Forces (MAF) Aircraft Recovery:
   1.2.1. MAF Aircraft on AMC/AFRC Missions: It is the responsibility of the aircrew to first
   contact their home station to coordinate recovery efforts. In the event the home station cannot
   support the recovery effort aircrew should contact AFRC FGC for CONUS missions by
   calling AFRC Battle Watch 1-800-223-1784 x497-0686 or DSN:497-0686 or Com: 478-327-
   0686. For OCONUS mission refer to guidance in AMCI 21-108 Logistics Support
   Operations for reach back communication CONOPS. AMC XOCL can be contacted by
   calling Toll Free Commercial 1-800-AIR-MOBL, options 2, then 1; Commercial, 618-229-
   0363; STE DSN 576-2425. If normal telephone communication is unavailable, use the most
   expeditious means possible to contact XOCL. Suitable systems include any of the following:
   Email at tacc.xocl@scott.af.mil, Satellite Communications (SATCOM DAMA-3), Global
   Decision Support System (GDSS), International Maritime Satellite (INMARSAT) phone,
   FAX. MRTs may contact XOCL via DSN FAX (779-7907), Commercial FAX, (618-229-
   7907). XOCL Division Chief possesses SIPRNET capability. Email at
   tacc.xocl@amc.af.smil.mil.
1.3. Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) Aircraft Recovery:
   1.3.1. AFSOC Aircraft on Non-AFSOC missions: The aircrew or senior maintenance
   representative with the stranded aircraft contacts their home station Aircraft Maintenance
   Squadron (AMXS)/MOC. After debriefing, the AMXS recommends a recovery strategy to
   the MXG/CC. The MXG/CC decides if recovery is best accomplished organically or if
   assistance is needed. If assistance is required refer to guidance in AFSOCI 21-108, Combat
   Logistics Operations. In the event the recovery effort cannot be supported by home station or
   AFSOC, contact AFRC FGC for assistance by calling AFRC Battle Watch 1-800-223-1784
   x497-0686 or DSN:497-0686 or Com: 478-327-0686.
   1.3.2. For AFRC/AFSOC aircraft on AFSOC missions refer to guidance in AFSOCI 21-108.
   This process includes oversees and AFSOC funded events stateside.
 4                                                                    AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


1.4. CAF Aircraft Recovery:
     1.4.1. CAF Aircraft on Non-ACC Missions: The aircraft commander or senior maintenance
     representative with the stranded aircraft will contact their home station AMXS. Utilizing the
     debrief information the AMXS recommends a recovery strategy to the MXG/CC. The
     MXG/CC will determine if maintenance recovery is best accomplished organically, or
     additional assistance is required. If assistance is required contact the AFRC FGC for
     assistance by calling AFRC Battle Watch 1-800-223-1784 x497-0686 or DSN:497-0686 or
     Com: 478-327-0686. The FGC will coordinate all required resources, to include MRT
     transportation for parts, equipment and personnel. AFRC/A4M Weapons System Functional
     Manager will assist and support the FGC as required. This may require coordinating
     assistance from other units or Commands. The FGC will remain engaged until the aircraft is
     returned to a flyable condition and MRT personnel have returned to home station and
     parts/equipment have been accounted for.
     1.4.2. CAF Aircraft on CAF Missions: ACCI 21-108 CAF: Stranded Aircraft Recovery
     Procedures outlines procedures to follow when an AFRC aircraft is on a CAF mission. The
     aircrew or senior maintenance representative, with the stranded aircraft contacts their home
     station AMXS. After debriefing the AMXS recommends a recovery strategy to the
     MXG/CC. The MXG/CC decides if recovery is best accomplished organically, or if
     assistance is needed. If assistance is required, the request is sent from the unit to the Stranded
     Aircraft Support Team (SAST) using CAF Form 1 Stranded Aircraft Worksheet in
     accordance to procedures outlined in ACCI 21-108. If any additional assistance is required
     contact the AFRC FGC by calling AFRC Battle Watch 1-800-223-1784 x497-0686 or
     DSN:497-0686 or Com: 478-327-0686.
1.5. Aircraft Recovery not supported by other MAJCOMS:
     1.5.1. The AFRC FGC will provide/coordinate maintenance advice to aircrews when
     requested using applicable technical orders and policy guidance. The crew chief/MEGP, if
     applicable, will update the local MOC with information on significant factors impacting the
     recovery of aircraft.
     1.5.2. The AFRC FGC will coordinate with the aircraft commander, flight engineer, crew
     chief/MEGP, AFRC/A4M representative, tasked unit MOC (as applicable) to relay additional
     information required by MRTs. AFRC/FGC or crew chief/MEGP, (as applicable) will update
     the recovery site local MOC with information on significant factors impacting the recovery
     of aircraft.
     1.5.3. AFRC/FGC directs and controls the recovery function by receiving and collecting
     information about broken aircraft that meet FGC recovery involvement criteria as defined in
     Chapter 3 of this instruction. AFRC/FGC creates and maintains records of logistics status
     recovery maintenance and logistics history for each aircraft in the Global Decision Support
     System (GDSS).
     1.5.4. Successful and expedient recovery of delayed aircraft depends upon accurate and
     timely communication between field personnel and the FGC. The primary means of relaying
     information between recovery sites and FGC is via telephone. Contact the AFRC Battle
     Watch 1-800-223-1784 x497-0686 or DSN:497-0686 or Com: 478-327-0686. If normal
AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012                                                                          5


  telephone communication is unavailable, use the most expeditious means possible to contact
  the FGC
  1.5.5. For aircraft under the control of the FGC, the FGC will determine parts, MRT, and
  equipment transportation mode/route to the recovery site with the primary objective being the
  expeditious recovery of the aircraft.
  1.5.6. Commercial transportation of MRTs and equipment is in many cases the most
  expeditious method. The FGC will direct commercial transportation if military airlift is not
  available. The AFRC unit tasked to provide transportation for resources must coordinate
  through their host Traffic Management Flight (TMF) to arrange for commercial
  transportation. For equipment, the tasked unit must provide shipping documents with
  appropriate funding citation. Personnel requiring commercial transportation must provide
  valid travel orders. TMF will determine the fastest mode of commercial transportation based
  on the size, weight, dimensions and destination of the parts and equipment. When using
  commercial transportation, mark all assets for priority handling as “Aircraft on Ground”
  (AOG).
  1.5.7. The FGC will notify the tasked unit’s MOC, or other applicable agency via telephone
  after determining tasking requirements.
  1.5.8. The FGC will ensure requirement of travel clearances, passports, or visa requirements
  as       needed      using       the     Electronic     Foreign       Clearance        Guide
  https://www.FGC.pentagon.mil/FGC.cfm. The FGC will coordinate with the US Embassy
  and US Defense Attaché Office (DAO) at the recovery location if required. The FGC will
  review (if applicable) the Electronic Foreign Clearance Guide and provide the format to the
  unit. The FGC will advise MRT of travel priority, travel clearance requirements, and the
  need to have "Mission Route Support (MRS) Authorized" and "Mission Essential Ground
  Personnel (MEGP) Authorized," on travel orders. This enables the MRT to obtain correct
  travel arrangements from passenger service functions.
  1.5.9. The FGC will monitor progress of parts, MRT, and equipment in transit to recovery
  locations and once on site, FGC will monitor status of MRT and/or recovery operations.
  1.5.10. The FGC will coordinate and monitor the return of MRT members, and equipment to
  place of origin after the aircraft is returned to mission capable status. Priority transportation
  is authorized for all resources in both directions.
 6                                                                   AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


                                             Chapter 2

                                  UNIT RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Maintenance Group Commander Responsibilities. The Maintenance Group Commander
(MXG/CC) or designated representative is responsible for deploying tasked MRTs and
equipment to recover aircraft at off station locations when directed by the FGC. Unit resources,
including personnel, supplies, and equipment will be made available as tasked to support en
route aircraft recoveries, regardless of aircraft ownership. The MXG/CC or designated
representative will:
     2.1.1. Ensure their unit provides assistance to expeditiously recover aircraft when tasked by
     the FGC.
        2.1.1.1. Ensure the applicable agency immediately notifies the FGC of intent to support
        tasking and a support timeline or possible shortfall situations. Units may shortfall FGC
        tasking, but final authority to approve or disapprove unit’s shortfall request rests with the
        HQ AFRC/A4M Division Chief or designated representative. Verbal shortfalls, approved
        by HQ AFRC/A4M or designated representative, must be followed up with a written
        letter/e-mail routed to the AFRC/FGC and AFRC/A4M from the MXG/CC, or designated
        representative on next duty day of the tasking release outlining circumstances driving the
        shortfall request.
     2.1.2. Ensure individuals selected for MRTs are fully qualified to perform and complete all
     anticipated tasks, including In-Process Inspections (IPI) and Red X sign-offs to include
     clearing repeat/ recur discrepancies. Additionally, consider the experience level of the
     individual(s) selected when additional troubleshooting requirements are possible.
     2.1.3. Ensure TDY orders are generated to support the MRT tasking. No member will depart
     Home Station without approved orders. Ensure Mission Essential Ground Personnel
     (MEGP) authorizations are included on MRT member’s orders. Additionally, advance per
     diem, commercial travel authorization, rental car authorization, excess baggage
     authorization, and variations authorized will be included. Priority transportation is
     authorized for all resources in both travel directions.
     2.1.4. After identification of the MRT Chief, ensure they are fully briefed of their
     responsibilities and are familiar with responsibilities listed in Paragraph 2.3.
2.2. MOC Responsibilities. The MOC (unless designated otherwise by the MXG/CC) is the
single POC for FGC tasking and information concerning aircraft under FGC control. Timely and
accurate information is critical.
     2.2.1. Upon receiving a tasking from the FGC, all tasked unit MOCs will follow the
     procedures outlined below to assist the FGC in assembling the best possible support package.
     Expediency and attention to detail are critical to successful aircraft recovery.
     2.2.2. Upon receiving a Maintenance Recovery Team (MRT) Tasking:
        2.2.2.1. The MOC will record the following details provided by the FGC. Aircraft MDS
        and tail number, location, point of contact and phone number, applicable funding
        citations (fund cites), all discrepancies requiring support, AFSC and necessary skill level
AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012                                                                          7


     of required technicians, part and equipment requirements, mode of transportation and
     projected date and time of departure, and passport or visa requirements for personnel.
     The MOC will utilize the data provided to create an aircraft discrepancy in the
     Maintenance Information System (MIS) (if not previously complied with). Additionally,
     the MOC will ensure the discrepancy is properly cleared upon notification the subject
     aircraft is no longer NMC.
  2.2.2.2. The MOC will immediately notify the Installation Deployment Officer (IDO) of the
  tasking who will then ensure support through the Wings deployment machine of MRT
  tasking. The MOC will also contact the applicable Production Superintendent or Senior
  Maintenance representative when the unit does not have a production superintendent, and
  inform them of the tasking requirement. The MOC will pass the FGC tasking to them for
  selection of MRT members and select/source required equipment items. Production
  Superintendents will follow responsibilities outlined in Chapter 4.
     2.2.2.3. The MOC will brief MRT personnel on all duties and responsibilities to include
     passport/visa/immunization/terrorist/criminal/intelligence threat requirements at recovery
     site. If necessary contact local agencies, (e.g. UDM, IDO, intelligence, medical group,
     OSI, etc.) to gather required briefing information. Ensure the MRT is aware of personal
     equipment requirements, (e.g. A-bags, C-bags, etc.). Ensure the MRT team chief has a
     current copy of this instruction and fully understands their responsibilities as identified in
     Chapter 5.
     2.2.2.4. The MOC will advise the applicable base agencies of the requirement to move
     an MRT.
     2.2.2.5. The FGC will coordinate country clearance letters if required.
     2.2.2.6. The MOC will inform the FGC of MRT names, rank, position (e.g., team chief,
     AR, etc.), SSN, AFSC and skill level, and Transportation Control Numbers (TCN) for all
     parts and equipment processed for shipment. Notify the FGC when the tasked MRT and
     all associated parts and or equipment are ready for movement. Immediately notify the
     FGC in the event of difficulties with meeting or completing the tasking requirements.
     2.2.2.7. The MOC will maintain MRT folders and provide them to each MRT team chief
     prior to departure. As a minimum, the folder will contain a copy of this instruction and a
     listing of the phone numbers for AFRC (Force Generation Center), AMC (XOCL),
     AFSOC (Combat Logistics Operations) and ACC (Stranded Aircraft Support Team)
     contained in Chapter 1.
     2.2.2.8. MOC will coordinate with passenger service for MRT processing procedures, if
     applicable.
     2.2.2.9. MOC will inform the FGC and A4M whenever an engineering disposition
     request (i.e. 107, ETAR) is required and ensure the FGC receives a copy of the submitted
     engineering disposition request and a copy of the final disposition.
     2.2.2.10. The MOC will notify the FGC when MRT personnel and deployed equipment
     has returned to home station.
  2.2.3. The MOC will accomplish the following actions for equipment items not accompanied
  by MRT:
 8                                                                AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


        2.2.3.1. MOC will record the following details provided by the FGC: Aircraft MDS and
        tail number, location, equipment requirements, mode of transportation, and projected
        date/time of departure.
        2.2.3.2. MOC will contact the applicable Production Superintendent/Senior Maintenance
        representative and inform them of the tasking requirement to select and source required
        equipment items. Refer to Production Superintendent Responsibilities in Paragraph 2.4.
        2.2.3.3. Notify the FGC when coordination is complete and pass on all TCNs, if used.
        Immediately notify the FGC in the event of difficulties with fulfilling the tasking
        requirements.
        2.2.3.4. MOC will notify the FGC when the deployed equipment has returned to home
        station.
     2.2.4. Cannibalization (CANN) procedures are as follows:
        2.2.4.1. If parts cannot be provided by other sources, or if available transportation
        options dictate, the FGC may direct CANN action from an AFRC asset. If a unit is tasked
        with a CANN action and the CANN action is not feasible, coordinate with the FGC for
        resolution. Only the GP/CC or equivalent may shortfall a CANN tasking. Shortfall
        procedures outlined in paragraph 2.1.1.1. apply.
        2.2.4.2. The tasked unit MOC will record the following details provided by the FGC
        upon receipt of a CANN tasking: Aircraft MDS and tail number, location, parts
        requirements, technical order, figure, and index, part number, national stock number,
        nomenclature and TCNs, mode of transportation and projected date/time of departure.
        The tasked unit MOC will also forward as required any blue prints, parts specifications,
        drawings or other documents required to ensure the correct assets are provided for the
        recovery.
        2.2.4.3. The MOC will contact the applicable production superintendent and inform them
        of the tasking requirement to select donor aircraft or engine and initiate the CANN
        action. The production superintendent will coordinate disposition of parts per FGC
        direction.
        2.2.4.4. Notify the FGC when coordination is complete and pass on all TCNs. Notify the
        FGC when the tasked parts are ready for movement. Immediately notify the FGC in the
        event of difficulties with the tasking.
     2.2.5. The following procedures will occur when parts are not accompanied by MRT:
        2.2.5.1. The FGC will task the home station unit supply to source any required
        parts/equipment. When sourcing the assets supply will ensure all items ordered are
        properly coded to reach the required recovery site destination in the most expedient
        manner. Supply will determine appropriate shipment procedures based on the recovery
        location of the aircraft and the relationship between the shipping base and the ownership
        of the aircraft that is NMC. The unit Supply will notify the FGC when tasked parts have
        been delivered to the applicable transportation section. Include the date, time, and name
        of the transportation specialist who received the part(s).
2.3. The Maintenance Recovery Team (MRT) Chief Responsibilities. The MRT Chief is
responsible for the proper execution of pre-deployment, deployment, employment/on-scene
AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012                                                                          9


recovery, and re-deployment actions. While assigned to the MRT, personnel are directly
responsible to FGC and will contact them for resolution of any problems. The MRT will
coordinate all requirements through the FGC, the local MOC and local production
superintendent (as applicable). If located at a non-AFRC or non-USAF location, coordinate with
the FGC, local MOC, Transient Alert, and the aircraft commander (as applicable). The MRT
chief is responsible for all parts, equipment, and personnel deployed with or sent as follow up
support to MRT locations.
   2.3.1. The MRT chief will report to the MOC for a mission briefing and receipt of an MRT
   folder.
       2.3.1.1. The MRT chief will ensure all personnel assigned to the MRT are qualified
       (review AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder and MIS training run),
       prepared for and are aware of their part in recovery actions.
   2.3.2. The MRT Chief will accomplish a history check on the aircraft by reviewing the
   discrepancy, doing a work unit code or reference designator inquiry in the MIS by reviewing
   the history for the past 30, 60, and 90 days.
   2.3.3. The MRT chief will coordinate travel arrangements with the host TMF when directed
   by the FGC. The MRT chief will notify the FGC of specific travel plans when confirmed.
       2.3.3.1. The MRT chief will not self-procure commercial transportation. Travelers who
       self-procure commercial transportation will not be reimbursed unless they can prove that
       self-procurement was the only way to meet mission requirements.
   2.3.4. The MRT chief will ensure proper technical data is available or carried with the team
   to complete the task.
   2.3.5. The MRT chief will verify all necessary parts are available and taken with the MRT as
   directed by the FGC. The MRT chief will coordinate with Aerial Port (if applicable). The
   MRT chief will open container(s) to ensure the part(s) received are the parts that were
   ordered. The MRT chief will review repair procedures contained in the applicable technical
   orders to ensure attaching hardware and any other attaching parts that may have been (or will
   be) disconnected or damaged in the assembly or disassembly process are available.
   2.3.6. The MRT chief will ensure all test and support equipment is inventoried, calibrated,
   has a current inspection that will not come due while deployed and is fully operational,
   contains all necessary accessory items (i.e., test leads, adapters, etc.), and if applicable, is
   loaded with the correct software to support the MDS (block and serial number) to be
   repaired, prior to dispatch.
   2.3.7. The MRT chief will coordinate with the aerial port to ensure all required parts and
   equipment are assembled, inventoried, and loaded on the support aircraft. The MRT chief
   will physically validate the presence and condition of all MRT assets. Small items may be
   hand-carried by the MRT to prevent loss. Do not check hand-carried items as baggage on
   commercial flights unless absolutely necessary.
   2.3.8. The MRT chief will notify the FGC and the MOC if applicable, immediately upon
   arrival at the recovery site. The MRT chief will make an initial assessment of aircraft
   recovery requirements and update the FGC of status, provide duty phone, cell phone, e-mail
   address (if applicable), billeting location, billeting phone number and room extension if
10                                                                AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


  applicable to the FGC, the local MOC, and the local supporting agency (i.e., Transient Alert
  (T/A) or flight line maintenance unit). Telephone services are often difficult to arrange at off-
  line recovery sites. Use the most convenient, expeditious method available. Commercial
  telephone number is (call collect if necessary), AFRC Battle Watch 1-800-223-1784 x497-
  0686 or DSN: 497-0686 or Com: 478-327-0686. If you have difficulty contacting the FGC
  directly, call your home station MOC to relay information.
     2.3.8.1. MRT will start work immediately upon arrival, dependent upon availability of
     the aircraft, field operating hours, and length of MRT duty day. A 16-hour duty day is
     authorized on the first day only to allow for travel time. The duty day is computed
     starting at the time of initial report for duty at home station. The MRT chief works under
     the guidance of the FGC and will coordinate successive duty hours for the MRT. The
     MRT chief will also coordinate all duty schedule requirements with the local production
     superintendent (as applicable). The MRT chief will assess conditions at the recovery site
     and establish a duty schedule with the local production superintendent (as applicable) that
     balances aircraft recovery needs with proper health and welfare needs of MRT members.
     Normal work and rest periods are 12-hours of work followed by 12-hours of rest. As a
     minimum, each MRT member is provided the opportunity for 8-hours of uninterrupted
     sleep, exclusive of transportation to and from the billeting location and time to eat. MRT
     members traveling in civilian status must have prior approval to work overtime. When in
     question, contact the home station MXG/CC or designate representative.
     2.3.8.2. The MRT chief will coordinate with the local production superintendent or on-
     site maintenance supervision to review local operating instructions. MRTs will adhere to
     local maintenance operating instructions of the location they are deployed.
     2.3.8.3. The following procedures will be used to report maintenance progress to the
     FGC and the local MOC if available:
         2.3.8.3.1. The MRT chief will report maintenance and supply status changes and
         additional requirements (e.g., parts, equipment, and expertise) as they become known.
         If it is determined that additional equipment is required, check with local maintenance
         operations and/or facilities for availability. If the equipment is available from a US
         Department of Defense agency and they will allow its use, advise the FGC of its use
         on your next call. If the equipment is available from any other source (e.g., civilian
         contractor, allied military unit, etc.) contact FGC. FGC will ensure that the equipment
         usage is approved to alleviate any billing conflicts. The aircraft commander is
         authorized to contract for needed equipment using AF IMT 15, United States Air
         Force Invoice. Any equipment that is not available will be provided to the MRT
         through FGC coordination.
         2.3.8.3.2. The MRT chief will report work progress status every 6-hours or no later
         than expiration of current ETIC. The MRT chief will keep the local AMC production
         superintendent informed of all work progress (as applicable).
         2.3.8.3.3. The MRT chief will report start time of work, shift changes, and all work
         stoppages, to include end of shift status or job completion.
  2.3.9. The MRT team chief will notify the local MOC or FGC whenever an engineering
  disposition request (i.e. 107, ETAR) is required. The MRT chief will ensure the FGC
AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012                                                                         11


   receives a copy of the submitted request for engineering disposition, or final engineering
   request disposition. The MRT chief will submit request for engineering assistance with
   assistance from the home station QA representative. If additional assistance is required,
   contact the applicable HQ AFRC Weapon System Functional Manager or the FGC.
   2.3.10. The MRT chief will contact the FGC if a discrepancy must be cleared on a system
   for which no one on the team is qualified. The FGC will follow guidelines in applicable TO
   00-20-1 Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation Policies, And
   Procedures and AFRC supplement 1 to resolve the issue.
   2.3.11. The MRT chief will not allow the MRT to work on aircraft not supported by FGC
   without prior coordination with FGC.
   2.3.12. The MRT chief will ensure all equipment, parts, and supplies are accounted for and
   return transportation has been coordinated with FGC prior to return to home station.
       2.3.12.1. The MRT chief will ensure equipment that cannot be returned with the MRT
       has proper documentation of receipt at the recovery site Transportation Office and
       notifies FGC which items are not being returned, with their return TCNs. The MRT chief
       will advise FGC of any change in support equipment or supply part TCNs. Under no
       circumstances will any parts be left behind without a TCN and proper documentation in-
       hand. Additionally, equipment specifically provided in support of the MRT may not be
       left behind or loaned to any organization, other than an AFRC organization, without
       written consent from HQ AFRC/A4M.
       2.3.12.2. MRT team chief will ensure repair parts are turned in to supply or returned to
       the owning base to properly clear DIFM details. If the MRT has questions about
       disposition of assets, they will contact FGC for disposition instructions.
       2.3.12.3. If applicable, the MRT chief will submit parts for deficiency reporting
       immediately upon return to home station.
       2.3.12.4. Upon return to home station the MRT chief will immediately notify MOC of
       their return. The MOC will contact FGC to confirm/relay MRT return. The MRT team
       chief will also notify their unit production superintendent and section chief upon return to
       home station.
2.4. Production Superintendent Responsibilities. The tasked unit’s on duty production
superintendent, or senior maintenance representative when no production superintendent is on
duty, is critical to the successful recovery of aircraft under the control of FGC.
   2.4.1. The production superintendent will ensure timely and accurate information concerning
   FGC tasking is forwarded to the MOC.
   2.4.2. When informed of an FGC tasking the unit production superintendent will ensure the
   following requirements are accomplished as applicable:
       2.4.2.1. The production superintendent will ensure all required parts and/or equipment
       are properly sourced and issued to the MRT chief to hand-carry to the deployment site.
       Items too large or heavy to be carried will be coordinated with FGC. Ensure coordination
       with Base Supply Equipment Management section concerning deployment of
       accountable equipment. If CANN actions are directed, coordinate with the MOC to
       initiate actions on selected aircraft or engine. The production superintendent will ensure
 12                                                              AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


      all required parts and/or equipment are properly prepared and purged prior to delivery to
      supply or TMF.
      2.4.2.2. The Packing and crating section at each station maintains a block of TCNs and
      assigns them as required for the shipment of “maintenance property”. Equipment and
      parts shipped commercially are also coordinated with TMF.
      2.4.2.3. The production superintendent will verify proper preparation of shipping
      documents (DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document). Include POC
      and phone number plus a clear address to include building number, street address and US
      or host nation zip code.
      2.4.2.4. The production superintendent will ensure timely delivery of tasked assets to the
      Packing and Crating section.
      2.4.2.5. The production superintendent will ensure that all items are assigned
      transportation control number (TCN) and marked as "MICAP". Parts shipped commercial
      should be marked “Aircraft on Ground” (AOG).
      2.4.2.6. For equipment only taskings, the production superintendent will ensure
      equipment includes all applicable accessories, documentation, has a current inspection
      that will not come due while deployed and is in fully operational condition.
      2.4.2.7. The production superintendent will record all TCNs and forward information to
      MOC.
2.5. Manpower Funding Requirements:
   2.5.1. MPA Funding: First request MPA funding when the mission AFRC is supporting is
   funded by another MAJCOM such as AMC, AFSOC or ACC. Follow the procedures from
   the supported command to request MPA allocations and obtain necessary fund sites.
   2.5.2. RPA Funding: Organizations will utilize unit RPA funds to support recovery of one
   of their assigned aircraft performing an internal AFRC mission such as an Off Station Trainer
   or local mission trainer.
   2.5.3. Civilian Overtime: When supporting an MRT for a supporting MAJCOM mission,
   funding and approval for the overtime request should come from the supporting MAJCOM
   or supporting MAJCOM unit. Follow the procedures from the supported command to request
   overtime and obtain necessary fund sites.
      2.5.3.1. When supporting an MRT for organic support the owning organization should
      fund the overtime request.
      2.5.3.2. Authorization for projected overtime of an employee supporting an MRT should
      be documented and approved in advance on an AF Form 428 Request For Overtime,
      Holiday Premium Pay And Compensatory Time.
AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012                                                                       13


                                          Chapter 3

                             AIRCREW RESPONSIBILITIES

3.1. Aircraft Commander Responsibilities for Stranded Aircraft
   3.1.1. The aircraft commander is responsible for ensuring aircraft support requirements are
   reported as expeditiously as possible. Follow the guidance provided in Chapter 1, Section
   1.1.1. (Depending on associated command) and the paragraphs below to gain required
   support:
      3.1.1.1. The aircraft commander will ensure the crew chief, or crewmember most
      familiar with the discrepancy is available to brief FGC. The following information is
      essential when contacting FGC:
          3.1.1.1.1. Tail number, aircraft type and location.
          3.1.1.1.2. Aircraft commander's name, phone number, crew rest location and room
          number.
          3.1.1.1.3. Mission-essential maintenance conditions, fault isolation number, if
          applicable, and troubleshooting actions that have been accomplished.
          3.1.1.1.4. When discovered.
          3.1.1.1.5. Progress of maintenance actions to date.
          3.1.1.1.6. Should parts be required, provide the following:
             3.1.1.1.6.1. Noun.
             3.1.1.1.6.2. Quantity.
             3.1.1.1.6.3. Part Number.
             3.1.1.1.6.4. National Stock Number (NSN).
             3.1.1.1.6.5. Technical Order (TO) Reference--illustrated parts breakdown (TO)(-
             4).
             3.1.1.1.6.6. Work Unit Code (WUC) or reference designator (GO81).
          3.1.1.1.7. Advise FGC of available equipment/maintenance support known to exist
          on-station and who the owner of the equipment is or what unit the maintenance
          belongs to. FGC will authorize and negotiate for use of the assets. When determined
          necessary by FGC, the aircraft commander ensures that contractor and/or host
          services required to support a recovery operation is provided using AF IMT 15 or AF
          IMT 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA).
          3.1.1.1.8. Advise the FGC of part requirements, to include nomenclature, position,
          part number, national stock number (NSN), work WUC, technical order number,
          figure, and index. If available, host Transient Alert (TA) orders all required parts
          through the local base supply (some TAs are not allowed to do this per their contract).
          Aircraft commander or Crew Chief/MEGP contacts the FGC for required parts not
          available at the recovery location.
 14                                                              AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


          3.1.1.1.9. Advise the FGC of duty and billeting phone numbers, billeting location
          and room number for aircraft commander and crew chief as applicable.
   3.1.2. The aircraft commander in coordination with the MRT (if an MRT is in place) will
   ensure repairable parts used to repair their aircraft are returned to the correct location to
   properly clear DIFM details. If necessary contact the FGC for disposition instructions.
   3.1.3. Aircraft operating on classified missions should contact the FGC or appropriate
   operations center via secure communications if possible. If secure communications are not
   possible, contact the FGC and provide as much of the information listed above within the
   security constraints of the operation. As a minimum, a point of contact, phone number and an
   unclassified delivery location will be required.
   3.1.4. Heavy Aircraft: If an MRT has not been assigned and an Engineering Disposition (i.e.
   107, ETAR) is required, the Crew Chief/MEGP will ensure the local MOC and FGC is
   notified of the requirement. The Crew Chief/MEGP will ensure the FGC receives a copy of
   the submitted Request for Engineering Disposition and a copy of the final engineering
   disposition. Contact the local home station Quality Assurance (QA) representative for
   assistance with a 107 if required.
3.2. Crew Chief/MEGP Responsibilities.
   3.2.1. The crew chief/MEGP will comply with all responsibilities outlined in AFI 21-101,
   Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management and applicable AFRC supplements and
   other applicable command guidance.
   3.2.2. The Crew Chief/MEGP performing duties as a flying crew chief should not depart
   home station without an approved AF Form 616. If necessary this document provides
   authorized funding for MRT support from other supporting MAJCOMs.
   3.2.3. The crew chief/MEGP will provide the FGC a valid phone number along with all
   other information outlined above to include identifying any known parts, special tools, and
   equipment requirements. From the time of initial notification, the crew chief will be in on-
   call status and will keep the FGC advised of a current contact phone number.
   3.2.4. Prior to MRT, parts, or equipment arrival, the crew chief will coordinate with the FGC
   and local maintenance organization for availability of necessary local equipment and parts.
   3.2.5. Notify the FGC or the local MOC (as applicable) of the following. Job start time, shift
   changes, work progress (minimum every 6 hours) and all work stoppages to include end of
   shift or job completion.
AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012                                                                      15


                                          Chapter 4

             LRS AND SUPPLY PROCEDURES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

4.1. Supply Procedures:
   4.1.1. These procedures apply to all AFRC bases/units in support of stranded aircraft
   recovery that are assigned to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).
4.2. Responsibilities:
   4.2.1. The owning unit LRS will request required asset(s) from the supporting AFGLSC site
   (635 SCOG or 735 SCOG). If the stranded aircraft is at another base order required item
   from that base LRS.
   4.2.2. If Mission Support Kit (MSK), Mobility Readiness Spares Package (MRSP) or other
   spares kit(s) is/are aboard the down aircraft, the first source of parts is/are these kit(s).
   4.2.3. Coordinate with TMO to ensure the most expeditious means of transportation is
   utilized to expedite required asset(s) to recovery location. Note: Use commercial air for all
   MICAPs.
   4.2.4. Ensure items are marked properly for shipment through commercial carriers.
   4.2.5. Return of the Due-In From Maintenance (DIFM) asset(s) back into the Supply system
   after recovery is a concern. These asset(s) must be controlled throughout the entire recovery
   process. Asset may be returned to home station with the aircraft or shipped through
   transportation channels.
   4.2.6. If asset(s) was/were taken from spare parts kit(s) aboard an aircraft, then maintain
   asset(s) on the aircraft with the required unserviceable documentation, continue the mission,
   and return asset(s) to perspective LRS upon completion of mission.
   4.2.7. If the asset(s) was/were shipped to the recovery location, maintain asset(s) on the
   aircraft with the required unserviceable documentation, continue the mission, and return
   asset(s) upon completion to the host LRS.
   4.2.8. Maintenance personnel may employ maintenance-to-maintenance procedures to ship
   the asset(s) to the location that is repairing the aircraft.
   4.2.9. Supply technicians may be required to travel with the aircraft recovery teams. It is
   preferred that MSL personnel augment this team. However, if this is not possible, select the
   most highly qualified supply technician.
4.3. Funding Aircraft Repairs on AFRC Missions (Reference: AFRC/PIM 08-025)
   4.3.1. The referenced 08-025 AFRC Product Improvement Message (PIM) establish a wing
   funding process to expedite repair of unit-equipped, AFRC mobility aircraft Non Mission
   Capable (NMC) or reporting Mission Essential (ME) discrepancies when away from home
   station. Implementation will streamline coordination efforts between the aircraft
   commander/home unit, TACC/XOCL and AFRC/A30C/A4M to source a Maintenance
   Recovery Team (MRT).
 16                                                                AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


      4.3.1.1. The following funding process is directed to speed up the repair of aircraft,
      minimize mission impact, and save money for aircraft repairs on off-station AFRC
      training missions.
   4.3.2. Each units financial management office will prepare an Air Force Form 616, Fund
   Cite Authorization, with estimated costs identified for a MRT to immediately begin to
   complete possible repairs for aircraft on off-station, AFRC training missions.
      4.3.2.1. The 616 will be issued to the Reserve flying units wing control center
      (Command Post) and will be used for the travel of recovery teams other than AFRC-
      assigned. As a guide, travel and per diem costs are based on travel from AMC
      maintenance support base(s) to enroute mission location(s); a typical MRT consists of
      three maintenance personnel for a four-day TDY.
      4.3.2.2. The AF Form 616 requires strict accountability; funds are available for
      obligation for a specific period of time and for a designated purpose. Close coordination
      efforts between the Wing FM/LG/OG must be maintained in estimating costs and
      monitoring its use.
      4.3.2.3. The PIM has been coordinated with HQ AFRC/FMAO/A3O/A4M/A4P. POCs
      are HQ AFRC/FMAOT or HQ AFRC/A3O.
4.4. Munitions Requirements:
   4.4.1. When munitions items (e.g. squibs) are required to support en route aircraft, order
   them through the appropriate local munitions activity. The local munitions activity will
   support the requirement if possible and be back filled as soon as possible from the aircraft
   home station munitions activity. If the requirement is not supportable locally, the request will
   be handled on a case by case basis through the local munitions activity, aircraft home station
   munitions activity and parent MAJCOM. Under no circumstances should local maintenance
   requisition the items and arrange for shipment on their own.




                                             CHARLES E. STENNER, JR. Lt Gen, USAFR
                                             Commander
AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012                                                               17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AMCI 21-108, Logistics Support Operations, 16 December 2011
AFSOCI 21-108, Combat Logistics Operations, 10 December 2009
ACCI 21-108, CAF Stranded Aircraft Recovery Procedures, 8 December 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
TO 00-20-1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Inspection, Documentation Policies, And
Procedures,
AFRC PIM 08-025, Funding Aircraft Repairs on AFRC Missions
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 15, United States Air Force Invoice
AF Form 428, Request For Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay And Compensatory Time
AF IMT 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA)
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
CAF Form 1, Stranded Aircraft Worksheet
DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document
Electronic Foreign Clearance Guide https://www.FGC.pentagon.mil/FGC.cfm.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFGLSC—Air Force Global Logistics Support Center
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
ANG—Air National Guard
CAF— - Combat Air Forces
CANN—Cannibalization
DIFM—Due-In From Maintenance
FGC—Force Generation Center
MAF—Mobility Air Forces
 18                                                AFRCI21-108 15 MAY 2012


MAJCOM—Major Command
ME—Mission Essential
MEGP—Mission Essential Ground Crew Personnel
MICAP—Mission Impaired Capability Awaiting Parts
MOC—Maintenance Operations Command
MRSP—Mobility Readiness Spares Package
MRT—Maintenance Recovery Team
MSK—Mission Support Kit
MSL—Maintenance Supply Liaison
NMC—Non Mission Capable
PIM—Product Improvement Message
QA—Quality Assurance
SCOG—Supply Chain Operations Group
