BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                        INSTRUCTION 36-2807

                                                                                24 MAY 2010

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                             AFRC OPERATIONS AWARDS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRC/A3TA                                                 Certified by: HQ AFRC/A3
Supersedes: AFRCI 36-2807,                                      (Maj Gen Charles E. Reed, Jr.)
            1 December 2006                                                         Pages: 37


This instruction implements AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, and establishes
awards sponsored by the AFRC Directorate of Air, Space and Information Operations. These
incentive awards are designed to stimulate competition, increase operational capability, and
emphasize and recognize outstanding performance to improve welfare and moral. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. This
publication may not be supplemented. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

It removes A2 from the Directorate of Air, Space and Information Operations title in
Responsibilities (paragraph 1). It changes awards approval process from AFRC/CV to
AFRC/CC throughout the instruction. It was rewritten to standardize the wording and processes
throughout each numbered paragraph, as well as standardizing award package requirements,
where applicable, throughout the entire instruction. It specifies the specific package
requirements for AFA awards (paragraphs 2 & 3). It changes the name of Aircrew Life Support
 2                                                                                             AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


(ALS) to Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) to align with the latest Air Force AFE awards
guidance (paragraph 4). It adds the Sergeant Dee Campbell Outstanding Large and Small Unit
awards (paragraph 5). It changes specifics to the Weather Awards (paragraph 6) and changes
specifics to the Airfield Operations Awards (paragraph 7). It defines the AFSC eligibility for the
Outstanding AFRC Senior NCO/NCO/Airman Aircrew Member of the Year Awards and
eliminates the package photo requirements (paragraph 9). It clearly defines package
requirements for the Grover Loening and Albert P. Loening Awards (paragraphs 10 & 11). It
updates the eligibility to include enlisted personnel to Outstanding AFRC Tactician of the Year
Award (paragraph 12). It adds company grade officer eligibility and changes name of the Space
Operator of the Year Awards (paragraph 13). It changes the time in present assignment criterion
from five to six months for the Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew member
and Aeromedical Evacuation Operational Support Officer and Senior NCO/NCO/Airman of the
Year Awards (paragraph 14). It adds Outstanding AFRC Survival, Evasion, Resistance &
Escape (SERE) Specialist Awards (paragraph 16).

       1.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        3
       2.      Air Force Association (AFA) Outstanding Reserve Aircrew Award-The President’s
               Award. ....................................................................................................................    3
       3.      Air Force Association (AFA) Outstanding Reserve (Flying Wing) Unit Award. .                                                    4
       4.      Outstanding AFRC Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) HQ Staff Member Nominee/
               Officer/ Senior NCO/NCO/Airman/Civilian and Program of the Year Awards. ..                                                     6
       5.      Outstanding AFRC Aviation Resource Management (ARM) Senior NCO/ NCO/
               Airman/Civilian of the Year Awards. ....................................................................                       8
       6.      Weather Awards. ...................................................................................................           11
       7.      Airfield Operations Awards. ..................................................................................                12
       8.      Outstanding AFRC Pararescue Senior NCO/NCO/Airman and Combat
               Rescue Officer (CRO) of the Year Awards. ..........................................................                           17
       9.      Outstanding AFRC Senior NCO/NCO/Airman Aircrew Member of the Year Awards. 19
       10.     The Grover Loening Trophy. .................................................................................                  20
       11.     The Albert P. Loening Trophy ...............................................................................                  22
       12.     Outstanding AFRC Tactician of the Year Award. .................................................                               23
       13.     Outstanding AFRC Space and Missile Operator Company Grade
               Officer/Enlisted Space Systems Operator of the Year Award. ..............................                                     24
       14.     Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Member and Aeromedical
               Evacuation Operational Support Officer and Senior NCO/NCO/Airman of the Year
               Awards. ..................................................................................................................    26
       15.     Outstanding AFRC Combat Crew Communications (CCC)
               Senior NCO/NCO/Airman of the Year Awards. ...................................................                                 28
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                                                             3


       16.    Outstanding AFRC Survival, Evasion, Resistance, & Escape (SERE)
              Specialist Awards. .................................................................................................   30
       17.    Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................            32

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       33

Attachment 2—SAMPLE CITATION                                                                                                         35

Attachment 3—BIOGRAPHY FOR UNIT AWARDS                                                                                               36

Attachment 4—BIOGRAPHY FOR INDIVIDUALS                                                                                               37


1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. HQ AFRC/A3: serves as monitor for award design standardization and ensures
   adequate funding is made available for all Operations awards.
   1.2. HQ AFRC/A3T: serves as monitor for Operations awards and will consider changes to
   this instruction, as necessary.
   1.3. HQ AFRC/A3T: chairs the board of officers appointed by the A3 to select winners of
   Operations awards, as necessary.
   1.4. HQ AFRC/A3TA: serves as AFRC/A3T OPR for processing and staffing award
   packages for review and approval through AFRC/A3 and AFRC/CC, as required. These
   responsibilities include staffing announcement memorandums for AFRC/CC signature to
   NAF and Wing Commanders. In addition, the OPR will coordinate with functional area
   managers to ensure accuracy of details surrounding a specific award.
   1.5. AFRC Numbered Air Forces (NAF): supervise, provide guidance, and monitor the
   Operations awards for their respective organizations. As a minimum, each NAF:
       1.5.1. Encourages maximum participation through solicitation and publicity.
       1.5.2. Ensures the accuracy and timeliness of nominations.
       1.5.3. Arranges appropriate awards ceremonies.
2. Air Force Association (AFA) Outstanding Reserve Aircrew Award-The President’s
Award.
   2.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TA.
   2.2. Purpose or Objective: Established in 1962, the first The President’s Award was
   approved by President Lyndon B. Johnson for the outstanding Reserve troop carrier crew.
   The current award is intended to promote aircrew efficiency and safety through competitive
   spirit within AFRC organizations.
   2.3. Eligibility: Outstanding AFRC aircrew members. The crew need not be an integral
   crew, however, may be AFRC individuals occupying aircrew positions against one of the
   tactical aircraft employed.
   2.4. Description: An AFA plaque for permanent retention, and a citation.
 4                                                                 AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


     2.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
     December.
     2.6. Method of Presentation: Presented at the annual AFA National Convention.
     Recipients of award are invited to attend the convention by the AFA.
     2.7. Related Directives: Annual Aerospace Awards message received from Air Force
     Association.
     2.8. Criteria: Consideration based on total performance during the preceding calendar year
     addresses the following criteria:
        2.8.1. Unique accomplishment of mission.
        2.8.2. Specific meritorious or outstanding accomplishments.
        2.8.3. Application of operational procedures and safety practices.
     2.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
     higher echelons to arrive at NAF/A3 not later than 28 February each year. Each NAF/A3
     convenes a board and will nominate one package. NAFs forward nominations to HQ
     AFRC/A3T to arrive not later than 1 April each year. Each package submitted from the NAF
     must be in an electronic format. Electronic nomination folders will contain the following
     items:
        2.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
        designated representative.
        2.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award. The substantiating data will be limited to a
        single side (front side) and will be written in bullet format, using Times New Roman, 12-
        pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not have a space for email address; however, this
        data must be added to the form.
        2.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction as
        an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines written
        using 10 – 12 pitch font.
        2.9.4. Biography - A biographical summary of the commander and crew according to
        Attachment 3 of this instruction.
     2.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of three
     officers from within HQ AFRC/A3T. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the
     winner is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The AFRC winning
     package is forwarded to AFA. AFA notifies the appropriate MAJCOM office of the winners.
     AFA Chairman of the Board sends congratulatory letters to award recipients with copies to
     the nominating commander identified on the submission.
3. Air Force Association (AFA) Outstanding Reserve (Flying Wing) Unit Award.
     3.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TA.
     3.2. Purpose or Objective: Established in 1955, this award is intended to promote a
     competitive spirit throughout the Air Force Reserve, with a resultant increase in the
     effectiveness of units.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                       5


  3.3. Eligibility: All AFRC units (including associates).
  3.4. Description: An AFA plaque for permanent retention, and a citation.
  3.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  3.6. Method of Presentation: Presented at the annual AFA National Convention.
  Commander of selected Unit is invited to attend the convention by the AFA.
  3.7. Related Directives: Annual Aerospace Awards message received from Air Force
  Association.
  3.8. Criteria: Consideration based on superior performance and outstanding achievements
  during the preceding calendar year addresses the following criteria:
     3.8.1. Participation in real-world operations, training assemblies and field training.
     3.8.2. Adherence to operational procedures and safety practices.
     3.8.3. Unit accomplishments and outstanding achievements.
     3.8.4. Compliance with applicable directives.
     3.8.5. Results of on-the-job training (OJT) upgrade training.
     3.8.6. Assigned strength, stability of assignment, special tours, and manning versus skill-
     level.
     3.8.7. Contributions to cost reduction, management improvement, and energy
     conservation program.
     3.8.8. Involvement with the Community.
     3.8.9. Other mission accomplishments.
  3.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
  higher echelons to arrive at NAF/A3 not later than 28 February each year. Each NAF/A3
  convenes a board and will nominate one package. NAFs forward nominations to HQ
  AFRC/A3T to arrive not later than 1 April each year. Each package submitted from the NAF
  must be in an electronic format. Electronic nomination folders will contain the following
  items:
     3.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
     designated representative.
     3.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to a
     single side (front side) and will be written in bullet format, using Times New Roman, 12-
     pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not have a space for email address; however, this
     data must be added to the form.
     3.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction as
     an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines written
     using 10 – 12 pitch font.
     3.9.4. Biography – A biographical summary of the commander according to Attachment
     3 of this instruction.
6                                                                 AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


    3.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of three
    officers from within HQ AFRC/A3T. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the
    winner is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The AFRC winning
    package is forwarded to AFA. AFA notifies the appropriate MAJCOM office of the winners.
    AFA Chairman of the Board sends congratulatory letters to award recipients with copies to
    the nominating commander identified on the submission.
4. Outstanding AFRC Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) HQ Staff Member Nominee/
Officer/ Senior NCO/NCO/Airman/Civilian and Program of the Year Awards.
    4.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TS.
    4.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among AFRC aircrew flight
    equipment personnel with a resultant increase in efficiency, and to identify the AFRC
    nominee for the USAF ARC Aircrew Flight Equipment Awards.
    4.3. Eligibility: Nominees must meet the following criteria at the time the lowest echelon
    submits the nomination.
       4.3.1. Outstanding AFRC AFE HQ Staff Member of the Year Award. Nominee must be
       an NCO in the rank of staff sergeant through senior master sergeant, possessing a primary
       five- or seven-skill level or higher in the 1P0X1 career field. The nominee must be
       assigned to a NAF or command level position for a minimum of six months, performing
       1P0X1 duties outlined in the Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFECD), and
       actively working in a 1P0X1 career field at the time of the nomination.
       4.3.2. Outstanding AFRC AFE Officer of the Year Award. Nominee should be a rated
       Air Force officer, assigned as a wing, group, or squadron AFE Officer. The nominee
       must have at least six months in the present assignment, be actively performing AFE
       Officer duties at the time of the nomination, and have completed the USAF AFE Program
       Manager’s Course, or at least been selected and scheduled for a course date.
       4.3.3. Outstanding AFRC AFE Senior NCO of the Year Award. Nominee must be a
       senior NCO in the rank of master sergeant or senior master sergeant, possessing a
       primary seven-skill level or higher in the 1P0X1 career field. The nominee must have a
       minimum of one year experience in the 1P0X1 career field, at least six months in 1P0X1
       duties outlined in the AFECD, and be actively working in the 1P0X1 career field below
       the NAF position at the time of nomination. A retrainee who does not possess a seven-
       skill level, but is progressing satisfactorily in upgrade training, may be submitted for this
       award provided all other requirements are met.
       4.3.4. Outstanding AFRC AFE NCO of the Year Award. Nominee must be an NCO in
       the rank of staff sergeant through technical sergeant, possessing a primary five-skill level
       or higher in the 1P0X1 career field. The nominee must have a minimum of one year
       experience in the 1P0X1 career field, at least six months in 1P0X1 duties outlined in the
       AFECD, and be actively working in a 1P0X1 career field below the NAF position at the
       time of nomination. A trainee who does not possess a five-skill level, but is progressing
       satisfactorily in upgrade training, may be submitted for this award provided all other
       requirements are met.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                    7


     4.3.5. Outstanding AFRC AFE Airman of the Year Award. Nominee must be an Airman
     in the rank of airman basic through senior airman, possessing a primary three- or five-
     skill level in the 1P0X1 career field. The nominee must have at least one year in the Air
     Force Reserve, at least six months in 1P0X1 duties outlined in the AFECD, and be
     actively working in a 1P0X1 career field below the NAF position at the time of the
     nomination.
     4.3.6. Outstanding AFRC AFE Civilian of the Year Award. Nominee must be an Air
     Force civilian (any DoD civilian, or contractor equivalent) assigned to an authorized
     1P0X1 position or in a position primarily supporting the AFE career field. ARTs are not
     eligible for this award category. The nominee must have at least one year with the Air
     Force Reserve, at least six months in present assignment, and be actively working to
     support the AFE program at the time of nomination.
     4.3.7. Outstanding AFRC AFE Program of the Year Award.
  4.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
  the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
  4.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  4.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by the NAF commander, or designated
  representative, at an appropriate ceremony.
  4.7. Related Directive: AFI 36-2807, Chapter 8.
  4.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the following criteria:
     4.8.1. The individual awards will be scored using the following point value:
         4.8.1.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duties (maximum of 15 points).
         4.8.1.2. Leadership Qualities (maximum of 10 points).
         4.8.1.3. Significant Self-Improvement (maximum of 5 points).
     4.8.2. The program awards will be scored using the following point value:
         4.8.2.1. Actions of Lasting Impact/ Value to the Unit Mission (maximum of 15
         points).
         4.8.2.2. Management and Implementation of Key Processes (maximum of 10 points).
         4.8.2.3. Support of AFE Program (maximum of 10 points).
         4.8.2.4. Program Cohesiveness (maximum of 5 points).
         4.8.2.5. AFE Program Improvement Efforts (maximum of 5 points).
  4.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically, through
  higher echelons, to NAF/A3 not later than 15 January each year. Each NAF/A3 convenes a
  board and will nominate one HQ staff member, one officer, one Senior NCO, one NCO, one
  Airman, one civilian and one program. NAFs forward the nominations to HQ AFRC/A3T to
  arrive not later than 1 February each year. Each package submitted from the NAF must be in
  an electronic format. Electronic nomination folders will contain the following items:
8                                                                 AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


       4.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
       designated representative.
       4.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
       30 lines and will be written in bullet format, using the headings in paragraph 4.8. Use
       Times New Roman, 12-pitch font.
       4.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction as
       an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines written
       using 10 – 12 pitch font.
    4.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of three
    officers from within HQ AFRC/A3. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the
    winner in each category is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The
    AFRC/CC will notify winners by letter through appropriate command channels. The AFRC
    winning packages are forwarded to HQ USAF/A3O-AT for Air Force wide ARC
    competition.
5. Outstanding AFRC Aviation Resource Management (ARM) Senior NCO/ NCO/
Airman/Civilian of the Year Awards.
    5.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TF.
    5.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among AFRC aviation resource
    management (1C0X2) personnel with a resultant increase in efficiency and esprit-de-corps,
    and to identify the AFRC nominee for the USAF Aviation Resource Management Awards.
    5.3. Eligibility: Any ART or reservist in the ranks of airman through senior master sergeant
    with primary AFSC 1C0X2, or civilians who performed duties in an authorized 1C0X2
    position for a minimum of six consecutive months immediately before nomination.
    Individuals who had an Unfavorable Information File (UIF) or who did not meet the
    requirements of AFI 10-248, Fitness Program at any time during the calendar year of the
    award are ineligible. Individuals who won an award the previous year are ineligible to
    compete again for four years. For example: Mr. Jones was selected as Civilian of the Year
    for 2005. He may not be considered again until 2010. This also includes ARTs who won in
    a military or civilian category. For example: SSgt Jones was selected as the NCO of the
    Year for 2005. He may not be considered for any military category or civilian award until
    2010. The following also applies:
       5.3.1. Outstanding AFRC Aviation Resource Management Senior NCO/NCO/Airman of
       the Year Award.
           5.3.1.1. Outstanding AFRC ARM Senior NCO of the Year Award. Nominee must
           be a senior NCO in the rank of master sergeant or senior master sergeant, possess a
           primary seven or nine-skill level in the 1C0X2 career field and be CHARM certified.
           The nominee must have a minimum of one year experience in the 1C0X2 career field,
           at least six months in the 1C0X2 duties outlined in the Air Force Enlisted
           Classification Directory (AFECD), and be actively working in the 1C0X2 career field
           at the time of nomination.
           5.3.1.2. Outstanding AFRC ARM NCO of the Year Award. Nominee must be an
           NCO in the rank of staff sergeant or technical sergeant and possess a primary five-
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                    9


        level AFSC or higher in the 1C0X2 career field. The nominee must have a minimum
        of one year of experience in the 1C0X2 career field, at least six months in 1C0X2
        duties outlined in the AFECD, and be actively working in the 1C0X2 career field at
        the time of the nomination.
        5.3.1.3. Outstanding AFRC ARM Airman of the Year Award. Nominee must be an
        Airman in the rank of airman basic through senior airman and possess a primary
        three-level AFSC in the 1C0X2 career field. The nominee must have at least one year
        in the Air Force Reserve, and be performing 1C0X2 duties as outlined in the AFECD.
     5.3.2. Outstanding Air Force ARM Headquarters Staff Member of the Year Award.
     Nominee must be an NCO in the rank of staff sergeant through senior master sergeant,
     and possess a five-skill level or higher in the 1C0X2 career field. The nominee must
     have been assigned to a command level position for a minimum of six months, be
     actively working in the 1C0X2 career field at NAF level or above, and be CHARM
     certified. Headquarters staff members are limited to the Headquarters Staff Member of
     the Year category only, while assigned to headquarters positions. Once a headquarters
     staff member leaves this position, he/she may compete in other categories as appropriate,
     using accomplishments from the entire calendar year.
     5.3.3. Sergeant Dee Campbell Outstanding Large Unit and Small Unit Air Force ARM
     Team of the Year Awards.
        5.3.3.1. Eligibility for Large Unit Award. Each wing with 30 or more aviation
        resource management (1C0X2) billets assigned may submit a nomination package to
        HQ AFRC for the large unit award. The HQ AFRC/A3 will evaluate each
        submission based on team achievements during the award period.
        5.3.3.2. Eligibility for small unit award. Each wing with less than 30 aviation
        resource management (1C0X2) billets assigned may submit a nomination package to
        HQ AFRC. The HQ AFRC/A3 will evaluate each submission based on team
        achievements during the award period.
        5.3.3.3. Calculating number of billets assigned. When calculating the number of
        billets assigned, wings will include all 1C0X2 billets assigned within the
        organizational structure of the wing, including 1C0X2 billets assigned to subordinate
        units not co-located with the wing.
        5.3.3.4. Tenant units. Accomplishments of a tenant unit assigned within the
        organizational structure of a parent wing will be included in the parent wing’s
        nomination package.
            5.3.3.4.1. A tenant unit not assigned under a parent wing may compete as a stand-
            alone organization in the large or small team category as appropriate based on
            number of 1C0X2 billets assigned to the organization.
            5.3.3.4.2. When calculating the number of 1C0X2 billets assigned, the stand-
            alone tenant unit will include all 1C0X2 billets assigned to units within the
            organizational structure of the tenant. Stand-alone tenant unit packages will
            include accomplishments of subordinate units assigned to the tenant organization.
10                                                            AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


     5.3.4. Outstanding AFRC ARM Civilian (Supervisory) of the Year Award. Nominee
     must be a civilian assigned to an authorized 1C0X2 position for a minimum of one year,
     at least six months in 1C0X2 duties outlined in the AFECD, be actively working in a
     1C0X2 career field wing level or below position at the time of the nomination, and
     supervise subordinates.
     5.3.5. Outstanding AFRC ARM Civilian (Journeyman/Technician) of the Year Award.
     Nominee must be a civilian assigned to an authorized 1C0X2 position for a minimum of
     one year, at least six months in 1C0X2 duties outlined in the AFECD, be actively
     working in a 1C0X2 career field wing level or below position at the time of nomination,
     and not supervise subordinates.
  5.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
  the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
  5.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  5.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by the Wing/CC during an awards presentation
  ceremony.
  5.7. Related Directive: AFI 36-2807, Chapter 9.
  5.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the following criteria:
     5.8.1. Leadership and Job Performance in 1C0X2 Duties. Cite examples and
     accomplishments for calendar year of award.           Describe significant leadership
     accomplishments and how well the individual performed assigned primary 1C0X2 duties.
     The individual’s leadership and job development of new techniques must contribute
     significantly to increased mission effectiveness above and beyond normal day-to-day
     duties during the current calendar year.
     5.8.2. Significant Self-Improvement. Indicate how the individual developed new or
     improved skills related to primary duties, e.g. formal training, career development course
     enrollment or completion, on-the-job training, certifications, computer courses, and/or
     off-duty education, related to primary 1C0X2 duties.
     5.8.3. Other Significant Career Field Contributions/Recognition. Indicate the nature and
     results of the individual’s other 1C0X2-duty accomplishments and how they set the
     individual apart from peers and goes beyond normal day-to-day operations.
     5.8.4. Articulate and Positive 1C0X2 Representative of the Air Force. Indicate
     demonstrated ability as an articulate and positive member of the Air Force (in
     performance of 1C0X2 related duties) during the calendar year or the award.
  5.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
  higher echelons to their respective NAF/A3. Each NAF/A3 convenes a board and will
  nominate one package from each category. NAFs forward nominations to HQ AFRC/A3TF
  to arrive not later than 15 February each year. Packages received after 15 February will NOT
  be considered. Each package submitted from the NAF must be in an electronic format.
  Electronic nomination folders will contain the following items:
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                       11


      5.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
      designated representative.
      5.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
      30 lines and will be written in bullet format using the headings in paragraph 5.8. Use
      Times New Roman, 12-pitch font. No text will be entered to the right of the headings,
      and any text listed on the same line as a heading will be ignored by the board. All
      acronyms will be listed on the reverse side of the AF IMT 1206; this space may be used
      to spell out up to five acronyms used in the nomination narrative. These lines are not
      counted toward the 30-line limit.
      5.9.3. Letter from Commander - Letter signed by the member’s squadron commander
      verifying the individual meets all requirements, to include no UIF and Fitness Test for the
      award period.
      5.9.4. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction as
      an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines written
      using 10 – 12 pitch font.
   5.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of functional
   managers within HQ AFRC/A3. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the winner
   in each category is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The
   AFRC/CC will notify the winners by letter through appropriate command channels. The
   AFRC winning packages are forwarded to HQ USAF/A3O-ATF for Air Force wide
   competition.
6. Weather Awards.
   6.1. Responsible Agency: AFRC/A3VA.
   6.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among Air Force Reserve
   Weather personnel with a resultant increase in efficiency and esprit-de-corps, and to identify
   AFRC nominees for both Air Reserve Component (ARC) and USAF Annual Weather
   Awards.
   6.3. Eligibility: According to AFI 36-2807, and interim changes, all Air Force Reserve
   (military and DoD civilian) and units of AFRC are eligible to be nominated, based on award
   criteria.
   6.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
   the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
   6.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
   December.
   6.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by AFRC/CC, or designated representative, for
   AFRC awards, and AF/A3O-W for ARC and USAF level awards.
   6.7. Related Directive: AFI 36-2807, Chapter 14 and interim change 20 Nov 2008.
   6.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
   year addresses the following criteria:
 12                                                             AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


      6.8.1. Individuals. To be eligible for an individual award, the individual must have a
      core duty AF Specialty Code (AFSC) of 15WX (officers) or 1W0X1 (enlisted).
      Individuals may only be submitted for one award each year (e.g., a SNCO cannot be
      nominated for both the Air Force Weather SNCO of the Year and Air Force Weather
      Staff Enlisted Member of the Year). The organization to which the individual was
      assigned on 31 December is responsible for award submission; however, award inputs
      should be solicited from the losing organization. In addition, the individual’s duty AFSC,
      rank, and/or primary duties for the majority (184 days or more) of the calendar year
      determine the eligibility and award category.
      6.8.2. Organizations. May only be nominated for one award each year (Note: this does
      not preclude squadron-level organizations from nominating a subordinate organization
      for the flight-level award).
   6.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages for TR/IMA/ART
   personnel electronically to AFRC/A3VA org box not later than 1 February each year. Use
   AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award, for each nomination. The substantiating data will be
   limited to a single side (front side) and will be in bullet format, using Times New Roman, 12-
   pitch font. The nomination will focus on actions and impacts directly related to the weather
   mission, unless otherwise stated. Submissions for all squadron level organization awards
   will include the official unit mission description on the reverse side of the AF IMT 1206.
   6.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a five member board
   consisting of one Officer and four enlisted or civilians within HQ AFRC/A3V. The HQ
   AFRC/CC will notify winners by letter through appropriate command channels. Upon
   AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the winner in each category is submitted by letter
   to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The winning packages are forwarded to HQ
   USAF/A3O-W as the AFRC representative for the Air Reserve Component and Air Force
   level awards.
7. Airfield Operations Awards.
   7.1. Responsible Agency: AFRC/A3V.
   7.2. Purpose or Objective: To recognize individuals who contribute to an outstanding
   degree, their services, ideas, developments, or accomplishments in Air Traffic Control (ATC)
   and airfield management (AM), and to identify the AFRC nominees for the USAF Airfield
   Operations (air traffic control and airfield management) Awards.
   7.3. Eligibility: All AFRC DoD civilian personnel performing ATC 13M3/1C1X1 or
   AM1C7X1 duties are eligible for these awards. Nominees must have worked at least six
   months in present assignment. Contractors are not eligible for an award.
      7.3.1. Airfield Operations Flight Complex of the Year. Award is presented for a
      combination of airfield management and air traffic control facilities when they interact in
      the achievement of one, or a combination, of the following areas:
          7.3.1.1. A notable contribution to quality, safety, or procedural development of the
          airfield and ATC systems.
          7.3.1.2. Outstanding handling of an unusual traffic workload, emergency situations,
          deployments, or exercises.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                     13


        7.3.1.3. Sustained efficiency in airfield and air traffic control services as recognized
        by users of the systems.
     7.3.2. D. Ray Hardin Air Traffic Control Facility of the Year. Award is presented to an
     ATC facility at a particular unit that has made a notable contribution to the ATC system.
     Consider the following areas for this award:
        7.3.2.1. A notable contribution to quality, safety, or procedural development of the
        ATC system.
        7.3.2.2. Outstanding handling of an unusual traffic workload, emergency situations,
        deployments or exercises.
        7.3.2.3. Sustained efficiency in air traffic control as recognized by users of the
        service.
     7.3.3. Ronald D. McCarthy Airfield Management Facility of the Year. Award is
     presented to an Airfield Management facility at a particular unit that has made a notable
     contribution to the operations of an airfield. Consider the following areas for this award:
        7.3.3.1. Efforts made by the AM staff to enhance airfield safety (signage, markings,
        airfield driving program, etc.).
        7.3.3.2. Outstanding performance by AM personnel during periods of increased
        workloads (emergency situations, deployments, or exercises).
        7.3.3.3. Sustained efficiency in airfield management as recognized by users of the
        service.
        7.3.3.4. Superior coordination efforts during airfield construction activities.
        7.3.3.5. Self-help projects undertaken in and around airfield management facilities to
        enhance quality of life.
        7.3.3.6. Extraordinary number of flight plans processed beyond normal day-to-day
        operations involving unusual situations or unique support requirements.
     7.3.4. Colonel Derrel L. Dempsey Officer of the Year. Award is presented to an Airfield
     Operations Manager (AOM) who contributed, to an outstanding degree, their services,
     ideas, developments, or accomplishments to enhance the quality, safety, or efficiency of
     the airfield and air traffic control systems. Consider the following areas for this award:
        7.3.4.1. Procedures introduced that significantly improved the quality, safety, or
        efficiency of the airfield and air traffic control systems.
        7.3.4.2. An accepted systems concept or development that significantly enhances
        management of the Airfield Operations Flight (AOF).
        7.3.4.3. Facility or system management beyond normal day-to-day operations.
        7.3.4.4. Establishment of rapport between flying organizations and the AOF.
        7.3.4.5. Innovative management techniques.
        7.3.4.6. Outstanding public relations in AM or ATC.
        7.3.4.7. Outstanding management of administrative procedures.
14                                                             AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


     7.3.5. Air Traffic Control (Civilian) Controller In Charge of the Year. Award is
     presented to a civilian air traffic controller in charge who contributed, to an outstanding
     degree, services, ideas, developments, or accomplishments in ATC. Consider the
     following areas for this award:
        7.3.5.1. Application of extraordinary efforts to protect lives and resources under his
        or her control.
        7.3.5.2. Introduced procedures resulting in improved quality, safety, or efficiency of
        the ATC system.
        7.3.5.3. Outstanding contributions to controller enhancement.
        7.3.5.4. Outstanding personal ATC performance.
        7.3.5.5. Establishment of rapport between crews in the facility or between facilities.
        7.3.5.6. Self- or crew-improvement efforts related to mission accomplishment.
        7.3.5.7. Outstanding demonstrated capabilities while supporting deployments,
        exercises, inspections, mobility, etc.
     7.3.6. Airfield Management Supervisor (Civilian) of the Year. Award is presented to a
     civilian airfield management supervisor who contributed, to an outstanding degree,
     services, ideas, developments, or accomplishments in airfield management. Consider the
     following areas for this award:
        7.3.6.1. Procedures introduced that improved quality, safety or efficiency of airfield
        management.
        7.3.6.2. Procedures introduced that improved quality of life or promoted esprit de
        corps within airfield management.
        7.3.6.3. Outstanding personal duty performance.
        7.3.6.4. An accepted suggestion that enhanced the career field/job series.
        7.3.6.5. Actions beyond normal day-to-day operations involving unusual situations
        on unique support requirements.
        7.3.6.6. Efforts to promote teamwork with regard to co-workers and other base
        agencies.
        7.3.6.7. Outstanding demonstrated capabilities while supporting deployments,
        exercises, inspections, mobility, etc.
     7.3.7. Air Traffic Controller (Civilian) of the Year. Award is presented to a controller
     whose primary duty is operating control positions within a facility (not in a staff or
     supervisory position) and who contributed, to an outstanding degree, services, ideas,
     developments, or accomplishments in ATC. Consider the following areas for this award:
        7.3.7.1. Application of procedures resulting in the saving of lives.
        7.3.7.2. Introduced procedures resulting in improved quality, safety, or efficiency of
        the ATC system.
        7.3.7.3. An accepted systems concept or development.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                    15


        7.3.7.4. Outstanding teamwork.
        7.3.7.5. Outstanding contributions to controller enhancement.
        7.3.7.6. Outstanding personal ATC performance.
        7.3.7.7. Outstanding public relations.
        7.3.7.8. Outstanding demonstrated capabilities while supporting deployments,
        exercises, inspections, mobility, etc.
     7.3.8. Airfield Management (Civilian) of the Year. Award is presented to a civilian
     airfield management specialist who contributed, to an outstanding degree, services, ideas,
     developments, or accomplishments in airfield management. Consider the following areas
     for this award:
        7.3.8.1. Procedures introduced that improved quality, safety, or efficiency of airfield
        management.
        7.3.8.2. Procedures introduced that improved quality of life or promoted esprit de
        corps within airfield management.
        7.3.8.3. Outstanding personal duty performance.
        7.3.8.4. An accepted suggestion that enhanced the career field/job series.
        7.3.8.5. Outstanding demonstrated capabilities while supporting deployments,
        exercises, inspections, mobility, etc.
     7.3.9. Air Traffic Control Training Achievement. Award is presented to an individual
     for exceptional contributions to ATC training. Competition is open to all controllers
     involved in training, not just the Training and Standardization Manager (TSM). Consider
     the following areas for this award:
        7.3.9.1. Effective use of instructional methods.
        7.3.9.2. Actions taken to improve training capabilities.
        7.3.9.3. Application of training innovations or methodology.
     7.3.10. Airfield Management Training Achievement. Award is presented to an
     individual for exceptional contributions to AM training. Competition is open to all AM
     personnel involved in training, not just for the AM Training Manager. Consider the
     following areas for this award:
        7.3.10.1. Effective use of instructional methods.
        7.3.10.2. Actions taken to improve training capabilities.
        7.3.10.3. Application of training innovations or methodology.
     7.3.11. Terminal Procedures (TERPS) Specialist of the Year. Award is presented to an
     individual whose primary duty is to manage base level programs, for exceptional
     contributions to TERPS. Consider for the following areas for this award:
        7.3.11.1. Introduced procedures resulting in the improved quality, safety, efficiency
        of the use of the ATC system.
16                                                              AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


         7.3.11.2. Application of extraordinary efforts to protect lives and resources.
         7.3.11.3. Outstanding personal duty performance.
         7.3.11.4. Outstanding demonstrated capabilities while supporting deployments,
         exercises, inspections, mobility, etc.
     7.3.12. Air Traffic Control Enlisted Manager of the Year. Award is presented to an
     enlisted ATC manager who contributed, to an outstanding degree, their services, ideas,
     developments, or accomplishments in ATC. Consider the following areas for this award:
         7.3.12.1. Procedures introduced that significantly improved the quality, safety, or
         efficiency of the ATC system.
         7.3.12.2. An accepted systems concept or development that significantly enhances
         management of the ATC system.
         7.3.12.3. Facility or system management beyond the normal day-to-day operations.
         7.3.12.4. Establishment of rapport between flying organizations and ATC facilities.
         7.3.12.5. Innovative management techniques.
         7.3.12.6. Outstanding public relations in ATC.
         7.3.12.7. Outstanding management of administrative procedures.
         7.3.12.8. Outstanding demonstrated capabilities while supporting deployments,
         exercises, inspections, mobility, etc.
  7.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
  the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
  7.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  7.6. Method of Presentation: Presentation of awards will normally occur during scheduled
  inspections and/or staff assistance visits. If none are scheduled, AOMs will receive the
  awards via mail and will be responsible for determining the best venue to present the
  award(s) to recognize the accomplishment(s).
  7.7. Related Directive: AFI 36-2807, Chapter 3.
  7.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the criteria listed in paragraph 7.3. and should emphasize the nominees’
  contributions to their units’ mission accomplishment.
  7.9. Nominating Procedures: Commanders submit nomination packages for each category
  electronically through command channels to arrive at the HQ AFRC/A3VA org box
  (afrc.a3va@afrc.af.mil) not later than 1 February each year. Commanders of units
  submitting nominations for Airfield Operations Flight (AOF) Complex of the Year award
  may not submit nominations for ATC or AM Facility of the Year Awards. Each unit may
  submit only one nomination in each category. Electronic nomination folders will contain the
  following items:
     7.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the OG CC, or
     designated representative.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                   17


     7.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
     no more than 25 lines and will be written in bullet format, using Times New Roman, 12-
     pitch font. Nomination criteria headings in the specific accomplishments section are not
     required. In order to be competitive, only significant achievements should be included.
     Acronyms identified in AFIs 13-203, 13-204, 13-213, and 13-218 are acceptable for use
     in the nomination for award. To enable units to fully utilize the required 25 lines for
     substantial information, a list of other acronyms may be created at the bottom of the AF
     IMT 1206. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not have a space for email address; however, this
     data must be added to the form.
     7.9.3. For each category submitted, package the required documents (signed transmittal
     letter and AF IMT 1206) into a single PDF file. Ideally, each nomination file size should
     range between 200-700 kilobytes.
  7.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of five
  personnel within AFRC/A3V and will be chaired by the AFRC/A3V. AFRC winners will be
  selected based on graded score sheets. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the
  winner in each category is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The
  AFRC winning packages are forwarded to HQ AFFSA/A3A as the AFRC representatives for
  the Air Force level award. Winners are notified of their selection through command
  channels.
8. Outstanding AFRC Pararescue Senior NCO/NCO/Airman and Combat Rescue Officer
(CRO) of the Year Awards.
  8.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TR.
  8.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among AFRC pararescue
  personnel with a resultant increase in efficiency, and to identify the AFRC enlisted/officer
  nominees for the USAF Pararescue (PJ) and Combat Rescue Officer (CRO) Awards.
  8.3. Eligibility: An Active Guard Reserve (AGR), or Traditional Reservist (TR) with
  primary AFSC 1T2XX or 13DXA, who filled an authorized PJ/CRO position a minimum of
  six consecutive months immediately before nomination. Nominees must meet applicable Air
  Force standards during the entire eligibility period and meet the following criteria:
     8.3.1. Outstanding AFRC Pararescue Senior NCO of the Year Award. Nominee must be
     an Air Force Reserve senior NCO in the rank of master sergeant, senior master sergeant,
     or chief master sergeant, possessing a primary seven-level AFSC or higher in the 1T2XX
     career field. The nominees must have at least five months in present assignment and be
     actively working in the career field at the time of nomination.
     8.3.2. Outstanding AFRC Pararescue NCO of the Year Award. Nominee must be an Air
     Force Reserve NCO in the rank of staff sergeant or technical sergeant possessing a
     primary five-level AFSC or higher in the 1T2XX career field. The nominee must have at
     least one year in the Air Force, five months in present assignment, and be actively
     working in the career field at the time of nomination.
     8.3.3. Outstanding AFRC Pararescue Airman of the Year Award. Nominee must be an
     Air Force Reserve enlisted person in the rank of airman through senior airman possessing
     a primary three or five-level AFSC or higher in the 1T2XX career field. The nominee
18                                                              AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


     must have at least one year in the Air Force, five months in the present assignment, and
     be actively working in the career field at the time of nomination.
     8.3.4. Outstanding AFRC Combat Rescue Officer (CRO) of the Year Award. Nominee
     must be an Air Force Reserve officer in the rank of second lieutenant through major in
     the 13DXA career field. The nominee must have at least one year in the Air Force, five
     months in present assignment, and be actively working in the career field at the time of
     nomination.
  8.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
  the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
  8.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  8.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by Wing CC, or designated representative, at an
  appropriate ceremony.
  8.7. Related Directive: AFI 36-2807, Chapter 15.
  8.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the following criteria and should emphasize the nominee’s contributions to his
  or her unit’s mission accomplishment using the following headings:
     8.8.1. Primary Duties and Significant Accomplishments - Include the individual’s on-
     the-job accomplishments and leadership that significantly contributed to increased
     mission effectiveness and execution of the Personnel Recovery mission.
     8.8.2. Other Contributions to the Unit Mission - Include any contributions to the unit’s
     mission that set the individual apart from others within the specific nomination category.
  8.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
  command channels to Wing CC for processing. The wing will submit one winning package
  in each category electronically to arrive at NAF/A3 not later than 1 February each year. The
  NAF/A3 will forward the winners’ packages to HQ AFRC/A3T to arrive not later than 1
  March each year. Each package submitted from the NAF must be in an electronic format.
  Electronic nomination folders will contain the following items:
     8.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
     designated representative.
     8.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to a
     single side (front side) and will be written in bullet format, using the headings in
     paragraph 8.8. Use Times New Roman, 12-pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not
     have a space for email address; however, this data must be added to the form.
     8.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction as
     an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines written
     using 10 – 12 pitch font. See AFI 36-2803 for additional guidance.
     8.9.4. Biography – Include current military biography of individual using Attachment 4
     of this instruction as an example.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                     19


   8.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Due to the fact that only one package in each
   category is submitted from the wing, a selection board is not necessary within HQ AFRC/A3.
   Upon arrival at AFRC/A3T, the package is created for submission through HQ AFRC/A3.
   Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the winner in each category is submitted by
   letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The AFRC/ CV will notify winners by letter
   through appropriate command channels. The AFRC winning packages of the CRO, SNCO,
   NCO, and Airman of the Year Awards are forwarded to HQ USAF/Director of Operations
   for Air Force wide competition.
9. Outstanding AFRC Senior NCO/NCO/Airman Aircrew Member of the Year Awards.
   9.1. Responsible Agency: AFRC/A3TA.
   9.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among AFRC enlisted aircrew
   members with a resultant increase in efficiency and esprit-de-corps, and to identify the AFRC
   nominees for the USAF Staff Sergeant Henry E. ―Red‖ Erwin, Outstanding Enlisted Aircrew
   Member of the Year Awards.
   9.3. Eligibility: Any ART or AFRC reserve enlisted aircrew member with a primary AFSC
   of 1AXXX. Nominees must meet acceptable Air Force standards during the entire eligibility
   period and meet the following criteria at the time of nomination:
      9.3.1. AFRC Outstanding Senior NCO Aircrew Member of the Year Award. Nominee
      must be an Air Force Reserve senior NCO in the rank of master sergeant through senior
      master sergeant and possess a seven-skill level or higher. The nominee must have a
      minimum of two years experience as an aircrew member and at least six months as a
      Senior NCO.
      9.3.2. AFRC Outstanding NCO Aircrew Member of the Year Award. Nominee must be
      an Air Force Reserve NCO in the rank of staff sergeant through technical sergeant and
      possess a five-skill level or higher. The nominee must have a minimum of two years
      experience as an aircrew member and at least six months as a NCO.
      9.3.3. AFRC Outstanding Airman Aircrew Member of the Year Award. Nominee must
      be an Air Force Reserve Airman in the rank of airman first class through senior airman
      and possess a three-skill level or higher. The nominee must have at least 24 months in
      the Air Force, ANG, or Air Force Reserve, and at least 12 months experience as an
      aircrew member.
   9.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
   the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award. The award
   winners’ names will also be permanently mounted on the Outstanding AFRC Enlisted
   Aircrew Member of the Year Plaque on display at HQ AFRC.
   9.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
   December.
   9.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by the NAF/A3, or designated representative, at an
   appropriate ceremony. A local presentation may be made by Wing CCs for their nominees in
   each category.
   9.7. Related Directives: AFI 36-2807, Chapter 10.
 20                                                              AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


   9.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
   year addresses the following criteria:
      9.8.1. Outstanding accomplishments. (Accomplishments should pertain to specific flight
      activities or ground duties supporting flight activities.)
      9.8.2. Leadership. (How does the person lead and how has their leadership abilities
      impacted the Air Force mission?)
      9.8.3. Self-Improvement. (What things has the person done to improve himself/herself
      through education and training?)
   9.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
   higher echelons to arrive at NAF/A3 not later than 31 January. Each NAF/A3 convenes a
   board and nominates one Airman, one NCO, and one Senior NCO. NAFs forward
   nominations to AFRC/A3T to arrive not later than 28 February of each year for AFRC level
   competition. Each package submitted from the NAF must be in an electronic format.
   Electronic nomination folders will contain the following items:
      9.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
      designated representative.
      9.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
      30 lines (excluding the three headings) and will be written in bullet format using the
      headings outlined in paragraph 9.8., leaving the space to the right of the headings blank.
      Use Times New Roman, 12-pitch font. All acronyms will be spelled out on the reverse
      side of the AF IMT 1206. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not have a space for email address;
      however, this data must be added to the form.
      9.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction as
      an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines written
      using 10 – 12 pitch font. See AFI 36-2803 for additional guidance.
      9.9.4. Biography – Include current military biography of individual. See Attachment 4
      of this instruction for an example.
   9.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of one field
   grade officer and two senior NCOs from within HQ AFRC/A3. Upon AFRC/CC approval,
   an announcement of the winner in each category is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for
   publicity support. The AFRC/CC will notify winners by letter through appropriate command
   channels. The AFRC winning packages are forwarded to HQ USAF/A3O-AT for the USAF
   Staff Sergeant Henry E. ―Red‖ Erwin, Outstanding Enlisted Aircrew Member of the Year
   Awards competition.
10. The Grover Loening Trophy.
   10.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TA.
   10.2. Purpose or Objective: Promote a competitive spirit among AFRC flying squadrons
   throughout the Air Force Reserve with a resultant increase in effectiveness and esprit-de-
   corps. A pioneer in the aviation industry, Grover Loening was the first aeronautical engineer
   for the Wright Brothers and intimately involved in the development of aviation. Loening
   was an accomplished pilot, aircraft designer, engineer, industry advisor and eventually an
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                     21


  aircraft consultant to the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics (predecessor to
  NASA). With his name on numerous trophies and awards throughout the industry, the
  winner of this award should be considered among the best in the business.
  10.3. Eligibility: All AFRC flying units and associate units exclusive of combat rescue and
  special operations units.
  10.4. Description: A scroll depicting the citation of Grover Loening Trophy is presented to
  the honored unit for permanent retention. The Grover Loening Trophy, which has a
  rectangular plate at the base, is engraved with the unit designation and maintained on display
  at HQ AFRC.
  10.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  10.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by the NAF commander, or designated
  representative, at an appropriate ceremony.
  10.7. Related Directive: None.
  10.8. Criteria: Consideration based on total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the following criteria:
     10.8.1. Outstanding performance of Air Force, Gaining Command, and AFRC missions.
     10.8.2. Community support and involvement.
     10.8.3. Improvements, or innovations, resulting in major mission improvements.
     10.8.4. Specific outstanding accomplishments.
  10.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
  higher echelons to arrive at their respective NAF/A3 not later than 1 February. Each
  NAF/A3 convenes a board and will nominate one package. NAFs forward nominations to
  HQ AFRC/A3 not later than 1 March each year. Packages received after 1 March will NOT
  be considered. Each package submitted from the NAF must be in an electronic format.
  Electronic nomination folders will contain the following items:
     10.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
     designated representative.
     10.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
     a single side (front side) and will be written in bullet format using the headings outlined
     in paragraph 10.8., leaving the space to the right of the headings blank. Use Times New
     Roman, 12-pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not have a space for email address;
     however, this data must be added to the form.
     10.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction
     as an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines
     written using 10 – 12 pitch font. See AFI 36-2803 for additional guidance.
  10.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of three
  officers within HQ AFRC/A3T staff. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the
  winner is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The AFRC/CC will
  notify winners by letter through appropriate command channels.
 22                                                             AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


11. The Albert P. Loening Trophy.
   11.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TR.
   11.2. Purpose or Objective: To promote a competitive spirit among combat rescue and
   special operations units throughout the Air Force Reserve, with a resultant increase in unit
   effectiveness and esprit-de-corps.
   11.3. Eligibility: AFRC combat rescue and special operations units.
   11.4. Description: A scroll depicting the citation of the Albert P. Loening Trophy is
   presented to the honored unit for permanent retention. The Albert P. Loening Trophy has a
   rectangular plate at the base and is engraved with the unit designation and maintained on
   display at HQ AFRC.
   11.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
   December.
   11.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by the NAF commander, or designated
   representative, at an appropriate ceremony.
   11.7. Related Directives: None.
   11.8. Criteria: Consideration based on total performance for the preceding calendar year
   addresses the following criteria:
      11.8.1. Outstanding performance of Air Force, Gaining Command, and AFRC missions.
      11.8.2. Community support and involvement.
      11.8.3. Improvements or innovations resulting in major mission improvements.
      11.8.4. Specific outstanding accomplishments.
   11.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
   higher echelons to arrive at the NAF/A3 not later than 1 February. The NAF/A3 convenes a
   board and will nominate one package. NAFs forward nominations to HQ AFRC/A3 not later
   than 1 March each year. Packages received after 1 March will NOT be considered. Each
   package submitted from the NAF must be in an electronic format. Electronic nomination
   folders will contain the following items:
      11.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
      designated representative.
      11.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
      a single side (front side) and will be written in bullet format using the headings outlined
      in paragraph 11.8., leaving the space to the right of the headings blank. Use Times New
      Roman, 12-pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not have a space for email address;
      however, this data must be added to the form.
      11.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction
      as an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines
      written using 10 – 12 pitch font. See AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and
      Decorations Program, for additional guidance.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                         23


   11.10. Selection and Notification Procedure: Selections are made by a board of three
   officers within HQ AFRC/A3T staff. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the
   winner is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The AFRC/CC will
   notify winners by letter through appropriate command channels.
12. Outstanding AFRC Tactician of the Year Award.
   12.1. Responsible Agency: AFRC/A3TA and the Military Officers Association of America
   (MOAA). MOAA will sponsor the award.
   12.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among AFRC unit weapons
   and tactics personnel with a resultant increase in efficiency, esprit-de-corps and flying tactics
   development.
   12.3. Eligibility: Any AGR, ART, or traditional reservist, in officer grades of O-1 through
   O-5, or any enlisted grade, who is actively flying or holds a position of leadership in the unit
   weapons/tactics program.
   12.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
   the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
   12.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually.                  1 January through 31
   December.
   12.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by the HQ AFRC/A3, or designated
   representative, at an appropriate ceremony.
   12.7. Related Directive: None.
   12.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
   year addresses the following criteria:
      12.8.1. Outstanding accomplishments in tactical employment of unit assets (40 points).
      12.8.2. Major improvements in the development of tactical programs (40 points).
      12.8.3. Leadership (15 points).
      12.8.4. Self-improvement/awards received (5 points).
   12.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
   higher echelons to arrive at NAF/A3 not later than 31 January. Each NAF/A3 convenes a
   board, if required, to determine their nominee and forward the winning package to
   AFRC/A3T to arrive not later than 28 February each year. Each package submitted from the
   NAF must be in an electronic format. Electronic nomination folders will contain the
   following items:
      12.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
      designated representative.
      12.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
      a single side (front side) and will be written in bullet format using the heading outlined in
      paragraph 12.8. Use Times New Roman, 12-pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not
      have a space for email address; however, this data must be added to the form.
 24                                                             AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


      12.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction
      as an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines
      written using 10 – 12 pitch font. See AFI 36-2803 for additional guidance.
   12.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selection is made by a board of three
   highly experienced personnel within HQ AFRC/A3T. The selection results will be
   forwarded to AFRC/A3 for review, then to AFRC/CC for final approval. Upon AFRC/CC
   approval, an announcement of the winner is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for
   publicity support. AFRC/A3T will notify the NAF, unit, and winner by letter through
   appropriate command channels.
13. Outstanding AFRC Space and Missile Operator Company Grade Officer/Enlisted
Space Systems Operator of the Year Award.
   13.1. Responsible Agency: AFRC/A3TT.
   13.2. Purpose or Objective: This award was formally known as the Enlisted Space
   Operator of the Year Award. It has been expanded to include a company grade officer
   category. The objective is to provide a competitive spirit among AFRC Space and Missile
   Operators and Space Systems Operators with a resultant increase in efficiency and esprit-de-
   corps, and to identify the AFRC nominees for AF Company Grade Officer (CGO) and
   Enlisted Space and Missile Operator of the Year Awards.
   13.3. Eligibility: Any ART or AFRC reserve company grade officer space and missile
   operators (AFSC 13S) and enlisted space system operators (AFSC 1C6X1). This includes
   individuals in training organizations and performing staff duties. This award is given to one
   individual in each category who made the most significant contribution to space and missile
   operations in the previous calendar year. Individuals who received an unfavorable personnel
   action during the award period are not eligible. Minimum requirements for each category
   are:
      13.3.1. Outstanding AFRC Space and Missile Operator CGO of the Year Award.
      Nominee must be a company grade officer in the rank of second lieutenant through
      captain and must possess a Space Professional Level 1 Certification or higher, and must
      have completed mission ready certification in at least one system.
      13.3.2. Outstanding AFRC Space Systems Operator Senior NCO of the Year Award.
      Nominee must be a senior NCO in the rank of master sergeant or senior master sergeant
      and possess a seven-level AFSC, or higher, in the 1C6X1 career field. The nominee must
      have completed the appropriate level of PME and been awarded a Community College of
      the Air Force (CCAF) Associate’s Degree in their primary or secondary AFSC. They
      must also possess a Space Professional Level 1 Certification or higher, and must have
      completed mission ready certification in at least one system.
      13.3.3. Outstanding AFRC Space Systems Operator NCO of the Year Award. Nominee
      must be a NCO in the rank of staff sergeant or technical sergeant and possess a five-level
      AFSC, or higher, in the 1C6X1 career field. The nominee must have completed the
      appropriate level of PME and 30 semester hours towards a CCAF Associate’s Degree in
      their primary or secondary AFSC. They must also possess a Space Professional Level 1
      Certification or higher, and must have completed mission ready certification in at least
      one system.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                   25


     13.3.4. Outstanding AFRC Space Systems Operator Airman of the Year Award.
     Nominee must be an airman in the rank of airman basic through senior airman and must
     possess a three-level AFSC, or higher, in the 1C6X1 career field. The nominee must
     have completed mission ready certification in at least one system and be enrolled in
     CCAF. They must also possess a Space Professional Level 1 Certification or higher, and
     must have completed mission ready certification in at least one system.
  13.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
  the Command Space occupational badge, the name of the recipient, and the period of the
  award.
  13.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  13.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by the Functional Manager, or designated
  representative, at an appropriate ceremony. A local presentation may be made by the Wing
  CC for their nominees in each category.
  13.7. Related Directive: None.
  13.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the criteria listed in paragraph 13.3 and should emphasize the nominee’s
  contributions to his or her unit’s mission accomplishment using the following headings:
     13.8.1. Contributions to Organizational Mission and Management Goals (30 points).
     This category carries the most competition weight and must emphasize specific
     contributions the individual made to the organization’s mission and goals, completion of
     PME, college degrees, and college certificate programs. The facts must relate directly to
     space operations crew or staff duties and reflect the impact the actions had on the
     organization’s missions and goals. Priority is given to actions that lead to quantifiable
     improvement to combat effectiveness or combat support. Other examples include actions
     that improve unit operations and effectiveness; provide direct support to DoD or USAF-
     directed testing; or provide superior team or combat support during deployments.
     13.8.2. Educational and Training Self-Improvement Efforts (10 points). This category is
     duties during the calendar year of the award. Examples include AFSC skill level
     awarding schools, pursuit of CCAF degree in Space Systems Operations, classes to
     improve instructor or evaluator skills, mission ready qualifications, courses aimed at
     improving the individual’s skills to perform their duties and graduation from training
     squadron schools. Significant data to emphasize excellence, such as ―Honor Graduate‖,
     should also be included.
     13.8.3. Other Accomplishments (10 points). This category is limited to additional duties,
     awards, prizes, titles, etc., which directly relate to the 1C6X1 career field. Examples
     include AFA’s Operational Excellence Award, Crew Member Excellence Award, Crew
     of the Quarter, Quality Team Awards, and Instructor/Evaluator of the Year. Each item
     listed in this category should provide a brief explanation of the nominee’s actions
     towards earning distinction.
  13.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
  higher echelons to NAF/A3 for processing not later than 31 January. IMAs submit
26                                                            AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


  nominations to their RMG. RMG may submit one nominee per category. Each NAF/A3
  convenes a board and nominates one airman, one NCO, one senior NCO and one company
  grade officer. NAFs forward nominations to HQ AFRC/A3TT to arrive not later than 28
  February each year for AFRC level competition. Each package submitted from the NAF
  must be in an electronic format. Electronic nomination folders will contain the following
  items:
     13.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be digitally signed by the NAF/A3,
     or higher representative.
     13.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
     30 lines maximum and will be written in bullet format using the headings outlined in
     paragraph 13.8., leaving the space to the right of the headings blank. Use Times New
     Roman, 12-pitch font. All acronyms will be spelled out on the reverse side of the AF
     IMT 1206. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not have a space for email address; however, this
     data must be added to the form.
     13.9.3. Current Space Professional Single Uniform Retrieval Format (SURF).
     13.9.4. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction
     as an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines
     written using 10 – 12 pitch font.
  13.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of three
  members to include the Space Ops FAM (13S), or a designated officer representative; the
  enlisted Space Systems FAM (1C6); and another chief master sergeant from within HQ
  AFRC/A3. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the winner in each category is
  submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The AFRC/CC will notify
  winners by letter through appropriate command channels. The AFRC winning packages are
  forwarded to HQ USAF/A3 for the Air Force Space and Missile Operator of the Year
  Awards competition.
14. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Member and Aeromedical
Evacuation Operational Support Officer and Senior NCO/NCO/Airman of the Year
Awards.
  14.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TM.
  14.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among AFRC aeromedical
  evacuation personnel with a resultant increase in efficiency and esprit-de-corps.
  14.3. Eligibility: Any ART or traditional reservist with primary AFSC assigned to an
  aeromedical evacuation UTC, who filled an authorized aeromedical evacuation or
  operational support position for a minimum of six consecutive months immediately before
  nomination. The following also applies:
     14.3.1. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Member Officer of the
     Year Award. Nominee must be an Air Force Reserve officer in the rank of second
     lieutenant through lieutenant colonel possessing a primary AFSC of X46F3. The
     nominees must have at least six months in present assignment and be actively working in
     the career field at the time of nomination.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                   27


     14.3.2. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Member SNCO of the Year
     Award. Nominee must be an Air Force Reserve senior NCO in the rank of master
     sergeant, senior master sergeant, or chief master sergeant, possessing a primary seven-
     level AFSC or higher in the X4NOX1 career field. The nominees must have at least six
     months in present assignment and be actively working in the career field at the time of
     nomination.
     14.3.3. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Member NCO of the Year
     Award. Nominee must be an Air Force Reserve enlisted person in the rank of staff
     sergeant through technical sergeant possessing a primary five-level AFSC or higher in the
     X4NO career field. The nominee must have at least one year in the Air Force, six months
     in present assignment, and be actively working in the career field at the time of
     nomination.
     14.3.4. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Aircrew Member Airman of the
     Year Award. Nominee must be an Air Force Reserve enlisted person in the rank of
     airman through senior airman possessing a primary three or five-level AFSC or higher in
     the X4NOX1 career field. The nominee must have at least one year in the Air Force, six
     months in present assignment, and be actively working in the career field at the time of
     nomination.
     14.3.5. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Operational Support Officer of the
     Year Award. Nominee must be an Air Force Reserve officer in the rank of second
     lieutenant through lieutenant colonel assigned to a non-flying aeromedical evacuation
     UTC billet. The nominee must have at least six months in present assignment, and be
     actively working in the career field at the time of nomination.
     14.3.6. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Operational Support SNCO of the
     Year Award. Nominee must be an Air Force Reserve senior NCO in the rank of master
     sergeant, senior master sergeant, or chief master sergeant possessing a primary seven
     level or above in the PAFSC assigned to a non-flying aeromedical evacuation UTC. The
     nominee must have at least one year in the Air Force, six months in present assignment,
     and be actively working in the career field at the time of nomination.
     14.3.7. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Operational Support NCO of the
     Year Award. Nominee must be an Air Force Reserve enlisted person in the rank of staff
     sergeant through technical sergeant possessing a primary five-level or higher AFSC
     assigned to a non-flying aeromedical evacuation UTC. The nominee must have at least
     one year in the Air Force, six months in present assignment, and be actively working in
     the career field at the time of nomination.
     14.3.8. Outstanding AFRC Aeromedical Evacuation Operational Support Airman of the
     Year Award. Nominee must be an Air Force Reserve enlisted person in the rank of
     airman through senior airman possessing a primary three or five-level AFSC assigned to
     a non-flying aeromedical evacuation UTC. The nominee must have at least one year in
     the Air Force, six months in present assignment, and be actively working in the career
     field at the time of nomination.
  14.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
  the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
28                                                              AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


  14.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  14.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by the NAF commander, or designated
  representative, at an appropriate ceremony.
  14.7. Related Directive: AMCI 36-2806, Chapter 6 and AFI 36-2856.
  14.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the following criteria:
     14.8.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duties (maximum 25 points).
     14.8.2. Significant accomplishments or achievements in assigned functional area
     (maximum 15 points).
     14.8.3. Other Contributions to the Unit Mission (maximum 10 points).
  14.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
  higher echelons to arrive at NAF /A3s not later than 1 February each year. Each unit may
  submit two nominations from each category. Each NAF/A3 convenes a board and will
  nominate one package from each category. NAFs forward nominations to HQ AFRC/A3T to
  arrive not later than 1 March each year. Each package submitted from the NAF must be in
  an electronic format. Electronic nomination folders will contain the following items:
     14.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
     designated representative.
     14.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
     a single side (front side) and will be written in bullet format using the heading outlined in
     paragraph 14.8. Use Times New Roman, 12-pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not
     have a space for email address; however, this data must be added to the form.
     14.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction
     as an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines
     written using 10 – 12 pitch font. See AFI 36-2803 for additional guidance.
  14.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board of two
  officers and a chief master sergeant from within HQ AFRC/A3. Upon AFRC/CC approval,
  an announcement of the winner in each category is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for
  publicity support. The AFRC/CC will notify winners by letter through appropriate command
  channels.
15. Outstanding AFRC Combat Crew Communications (CCC) Senior NCO/NCO/Airman
of the Year Awards.
  15.1. Responsibility: HQ AFRC/A3TC.
  15.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among AFRC Combat Crew
  Communications personnel with a resultant increase in efficiency and esprit-de-corps.
  15.3. Eligibility: Any Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA), ART, or traditional
  reservist who is assigned as Combat Crew Communications and possess a primary AFSC of
  3C1X1. Nominees must be at a minimum Level 1 certified. Each unit will submit only one
  nomination for each award category.
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                     29


     15.3.1. Outstanding AFRC CCC SNCO of the Year. Nominee must be an Air Force
     Reserve senior NCO in the rank of master sergeant, senior master sergeant, or chief
     master sergeant, possessing a primary seven-level AFSC or higher in the 3C1XX career
     field. Nominees must have at least five months in the present assignment and be actively
     working in the career field at the time of nomination.
     15.3.2. Outstanding AFRC CCC NCO of the Year. Nominee must be an Air Force
     Reserve NCO in the rank of staff sergeant or technical sergeant, possessing a primary
     five-level AFSC or higher in the 3C1XX career field. Nominees must have at least one
     year in the Air Force, five months in the present assignment, and be actively working in
     the career field at the time of nomination.
     15.3.3. Outstanding AFRC CCC Airman of the Year. Nominee must be an Air Force
     Reserve Airman in the rank of airman through senior airman, possessing a primary three
     or five-level AFSC or higher in the 3C1XX career field. Nominees must have at least
     one year in the Air Force, five months in the present assignment, and be actively working
     in the career field at the time of nomination.
  15.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
  the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
  15.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  15.6. Method of Presentation: AFRC CCC FAM will prepare a message and individual
  congratulatory letters for presentation by the respective NAF commander, or designated
  representative to their winners. The trophy/plaque will be mailed to the winner’s Wing CC
  for presentation.
  15.7. Related Directives: AFI 11-244 Volume 1.
  15.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the following criteria:
     15.8.1. Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duty. Describe significant
     leadership accomplishments and how well the individual performed assigned primary and
     additional duties. Define the scope and level of responsibilities and impact on the mission
     and unit. Include any new initiatives or techniques developed by the individual that
     positively impacted the unit and/or the mission. Include results of Air Force, MAJCOM,
     and Numbered Air Force, or Forward Deployed-evaluation inspections and/or
     evaluations. Include awards received such as NCO of the Quarter, Month, and Year. Do
     not include medals/ribbons received. Maximum number of points: 25.
     15.8.2. Significant Self-Improvement. Show how the individual developed or improved
     skills related to primary and extra duties; e.g., formal training, Career Development
     Course enrollment/completion, On-the-job training, certifications, off duty education, and
     so forth. Include completion of any Professional Military Education (PME), as well as
     awards earned during in-residence attendance. Include grade point average, classes
     completed to date, or completion of degree programs. Cite any other relevant training or
     activity that significantly enhanced the individual’s value as a military citizen. Maximum
     number of points: 15.
 30                                                             AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


      15.8.3. Base or Community Involvement. Define the scope and the impact of the
      individual’s positive leadership and involvement in both the military and civilian
      community. Include leadership, membership, or participation in unit advisory councils,
      professional military organizations, associations, events; e.g., President of the Top 3
      enlisted Dining-Out committee, member of the Air Force Sergeants Association, Sunday
      School Teacher, and so forth. Maximum number of points: 10.
   15.9. Nominating Procedures: Units will submit nomination packages through higher
   echelons to arrive at NAF/A3s not later than 15 January. Each NAF/A3 convenes a board
   and will nominate one Senior NCO, one NCO and one Airman. NAFs forward nominations
   to HQ AFRC/A3TC to arrive not later than 31 January each year. Packages received after 31
   January will NOT be considered. Each package submitted from the NAF must be in an
   electronic format. Electronic nomination folders will contain the following items:
      15.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the NAF/A3, or
      designated representative.
      15.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
      a single side (front side) and will be written in bullet format using the headings outlined
      in paragraph 15.8. Use Times New Roman, 12-pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not
      have a space for email address; however, this data must be added to the form.
      15.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction
      as an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines
      written using 10 – 12 pitch font. See AFI 36-2803 for additional guidance.
      15.9.4. RIP – A Record of Individual Personnel (RIP) must also be included with the
      package. Privacy Act information will be destroyed IAW governing AFI’s once the
      nominations have been made.
   15.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board consisting
   of two senior NCOs and one officer as board president within HQ AFRC/A3T. The board
   president will be used only in the event of a tie. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement
   of the winner in each category is submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support.
   The AFRC/CC will notify winners by letter through appropriate command channels.
16. Outstanding AFRC Survival, Evasion, Resistance, & Escape (SERE) Specialist
Awards.
   16.1. Responsible Agency: HQ AFRC/A3TR.
   16.2. Purpose or Objective: To provide a competitive spirit among AFRC SERE personnel
   with a resultant increase in efficiency and esprit-de-corps, and to identify the AFRC
   nominee(s) for the USAF Outstanding SERE Specialist Award.
   16.3. Eligibility: Any AGR, ART, (civilian) or reservist (SNCO, NCO and Airman) with
   the primary AFSC 1T0X1. Nominees must meet acceptable Air Force standards during the
   entire eligibility period and meet the following criteria at the time of nomination:
      16.3.1. Outstanding AFRC SERE Specialist Senior NCO of the Year Award. Nominee
      must be a senior NCO in the rank of master sergeant or senior master sergeant and
      possess a primary seven-level or higher AFSC in the 1T0X1 career field. The nominee
      must have served at least six months as a senior NCO during the award period and be
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                    31


     actively working in the career field at the time of nomination. The Outstanding AFRC
     SERE Specialist Senior NCO of the Year is awarded in two tiers depending on level of
     assignment during the award period:
         16.3.1.1. Tier I: Individuals assigned to the Numbered Air Force (NAF) or higher
         position at the end of the award period.
         16.3.1.2. Tier II: Individuals assigned to units below the NAF level, including wings,
         groups, squadrons and flights.
     16.3.2. Outstanding AFRC SERE Specialist NCO of the Year Award. Nominee must be
     an NCO in the rank of staff sergeant or technical sergeant possessing a primary five- or
     seven-level AFSC in the 1T0X1 career field. The nominee must have served at least six
     months as a NCO during the award period and be working in the career field at time of
     nomination.
     16.3.3. Outstanding AFRC SERE Specialist Airman of the Year Award. Nominee must
     be an airman first class or senior airman possessing a primary three- or five-level AFSC
     in the 1T0X1 career field, and be working in the career field at time of nomination.
  16.4. Description: A citation accompanied by an award/plaque/trophy/statue engraved with
  the name of the award, the name of the recipient, and the period of the award.
  16.5. Frequency of Award and Period Covered: Annually. 1 January through 31
  December.
  16.6. Method of Presentation: Presented by NAF commander, or designated
  representative, at an appropriate ceremony. A local presentation may be made by the Wing
  CC for their nominees in each category.
  16.7. Related Directive: AFI 36-2807, Chapter 11 and AFI 36-2805.
  16.8. Criteria: Consideration based upon total performance during the preceding calendar
  year addresses the following criteria:
     16.8.1. Primary Duties and Significant Accomplishments (80% value).
     16.8.2. Other Contributions to the Unit Mission (10% value).
     16.8.3. Self-Improvement Efforts (10% value).
  16.9. Nominating Procedures: Units submit nomination packages electronically through
  higher echelons to arrive at AFRC/A3TR not later than 30 January each year. Packages
  received after the suspense date will NOT be considered. Each package submitted must be in
  an electronic format. Electronic nomination folders will contain the following items:
     16.9.1. Letter of Transmittal – nomination letter must be signed by the submitting
     authority, or designated representative.
     16.9.2. AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award – The substantiating data will be limited to
     30 lines on a single side and will be written in bullet format using the headings outlined
     in paragraph 16.8. Use Times New Roman, 12-pitch font. Note: AF IMT 1206 does not
     have a space for email address; however, this data must be added to the form.
 32                                                            AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


      16.9.3. Draft citation narrative – Prepare citation using Attachment 2 of this instruction
      as an example. Citation should be brief (50-70 words) with a maximum of 15 lines
      written using 10 – 12 pitch font. See AFI 36-2803 for additional guidance.
   16.10. Selection and Notification Procedures: Selections are made by a board within HQ
   AFRC/A3. Upon AFRC/CC approval, an announcement of the winner in each category is
   submitted by letter to HQ AFRC/PA for publicity support. The AFRC/CC will notify winners
   by letter through appropriate command channels. The AFRC winning packages are
   forwarded to HQ USAF/A3 for Air Force wide competition. AFSSAP awards will be
   presented at an awards banquet in the Washington DC area, usually in the May/June
   timeframe. Upon notification of selection, HQ AFRC/A3TR will direct the unit to provide a
   soft-copy biography, citation, and a high resolution jpeg format 5 x 7 inch color photograph
   for each winner to be subsequently forwarded to USAF.
17. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   17.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms prescribed.
   17.2. Adopted Forms:
   AF IMT 1206, Nomination for Award.
   AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           CHARLES E. STENNER, JR., Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                     33


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFECD, Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory (AFPC website)
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Program, 1 August 1997
AFI 10-248, Fitness Program, 25 September 2006
AFI 11-244V1, Instructions for Combat Crew Communications, 26 April 2002
AFI 13-203, Air Traffic Control, 30 November 2005
AFI 13-204, Functional Management of Airfield Operations, 10 January 2005
AFI 13-213, Airfield Management, 29 January 2008
AFI 13-218, Air Traffic System Evaluation Program, 10 October 2003
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel (Officer and Enlisted), 7 March 2006
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 15 June 2001
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 June 2001
AFI 36-2807, Headquarters United States Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Operations, Plans
and Requirements Annual Awards Program, 18 July 2007
AFI 36-2856, Medical Service Awards, 10 August 2006
AMCI 36-2806, Directorate of Operations Award Program Management, 25 November 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFA—Air Force Association
AFDPO—Air Force Departmental Publishing Office
AFE—Aircrew Flight Equipment
AFECD—Air Force Enlisted Classification Directory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
ALS—Aircrew Life Support
ANG—Air National Guard
ARC—Air Reserve Component
ART—Air Reserve Technician
ATC—Air Traffic Control
 34                                             AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


CCAF—Community College of the Air Force
CHARM—Chief Host Aviation Resource Management
CRO—Combat Rescue Officer
DoD—Department of Defense
DOR—Date of Rank
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FM—Functional Manager
HQ—Headquarters
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
MOAA—Military Officers Association of America
NAF—Numbered Air Forces
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
OJT—On-the-Job Training
PME—Professional Military Education
POC—Point of Contact
RIP—Report on Individual Personnel
RMG—Reserve Management Group
SURF—Single Uniform Retrieval Format
TR—Traditional Reservist
UIF—Unfavorable Information File
WBFMP—Weight and Body Fat Management Program
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                            35


                                          Attachment 2
                                      SAMPLE CITATION

                       CITATION TO ACCOMPANY THE AWARD OF

                                          (Double Space)

            THE AIR FORCE ASSOCIATION OUTSTANDING ______ AWARD

                                          (Double Space)

                                                TO

                                          (Double Space)

                                  (DESIGNATED AWARDEE)

                                          (Triple Space)

The (awardee), (location), distinguished itself by outstanding achievement(s) from (date) to
(date). During this period, the (awardee) achieved an outstanding degree of (administrative or
operational………etc….). The distinctive accomplishments of the (awardee) reflect credit upon
all assigned (unit/crew/wing…….etc…..) personnel and the United States Air Force Reserve.
During this period, the (awardee) displayed outstanding (ability…etc….) and professional
(skill………….etc……) by (give concise description of achievement(s)). The distinctive
accomplishments of the (awardee) reflect credit upon (himself/herself/entity) and the United
States Air Force Reserve.
Notes:
1. The citation should be brief (will not exceed 15 typed, 10-12 font lines).
2. Prepare citation using landscape style (horizontal) type.
3. Do not use abbreviations.
4. The top margin is 1 inch to 1 ½ inches; the side margins are 1 inch to 2 inches; and the
bottom margin should be a minimum of 4 inches.
5. The header lines must be center justified.
6. The body of the citation must be full justification. This creates a clean look along the left and
right side of the page.
7. The opening and closing sentences will not be changed.
8. Unless submitted electronically, prepare citation on plain bond paper.
9. If printed, the citation cannot be stapled or clipped to nomination, but placed in an envelope
or other protective covering and attached to the nomination.
 36                                                          AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010


                                       Attachment 3
                           BIOGRAPHY FOR UNIT AWARDS

A3.1. The following items serve as an example of what should be included in the biographical
information for the commander/unit:
   A3.1.1. AFA Outstanding Reserve Flying Unit (Flying Wing) Award
       439 AW, Westover AFB, Chicopee Falls, MA
       Commander: Brig Gen John Bigwig
       Duty Phone: DSN 123-4567
       Home Address: 111 1st Street
       Chicopee Falls, MA 01111-5000
       Home Phone: (111) 555-5555
   A3.1.2. AFA Outstanding Reserve Aircrew Award
       512 AW, Dover AFB, Dover, DE
       Commander: Maj Ima Flyer
       Home Address: 222 2nd Street
       Milford, DE 22222
       Home Phone: (222) 555-4444
A3.2. The aircrew was composed of the following individuals:
   Maj Ima Flyer, 709 AS, Aircraft Commander
   Maj Steve G. Canyon, 709 AS, First Pilot
   CMSgt Aero Smith, 512 AW, Standardization Loadmaster
   MSgt Jolly Rancher, 709 AS, Flight Engineer
   SSgt John B. Good, 436 AS, Dedicated Crew Chief
AFRCI36-2807 24 MAY 2010                                                                     37


                                        Attachment 4
                            BIOGRAPHY FOR INDIVIDUALS

A4.1. The following serves as an example of what must be included in the military biography
for individuals, if required for follow-on awards:
- Name/Grade/DOR
- Current Duty Title
- Awards/decorations received in past 12 months
- All PME completed (resident/non-resident) and date
- Education completed in past 12 months (i.e. 18 hours toward CCAF) (ensure only education
actually completed during this 12 month period is included)
A4.2. Information should be listed in a bullet type format, and should fit on the single side of
one standard 8 ½ x 11 sheet of paper oriented vertically (portrait).
