BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                    INSTRUCTION 36-2002
                                                                                              11 JULY 2007

                                                                                                   Personnel

                                                            RECRUITING GOAL DEVELOPMENT,
                                                       ALLOCATION AND ACCESSION REPORTING
                                                             PROCEDURES FOR THE AIR FORCE
                                                                                  RESERVE

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                        e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFRC/RSOA                                      Certified by: HQ AFRC/RSO (Major Michael Farr)
Supersedes AFRCI36-2002, 26 June 1998                                                       Pages: 7

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel.
It provides procedures for developing and allocating recruiting goals and accession reporting. It applies to
all Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) recruiting personnel. AFRC/RSOA must approve supplements
to this instruction before publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Management of
Records (will become AFMAN 33-363), and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This supplement is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision changes
Numbered Air Force (NAF) to Flight, health profession recruiter to medical officer recruiter, line recruiter
to line enlisted recruiter, adds line officer recruiter, and adds clarification to the goal determination and
allocation process. HQ AFRC/RSOA no longer assigns separate IMA and Unit goals to the flights.
Changes Recruiter Automated Management System (RAMS) to Air Force Recruiting Information Sup-
port System-Reserve (AFRISS-R.)


1. Annual Goal for Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service (HQ AFRC/RS.) The annual
recruiting goal is developed to support the Air Force Reserve Command programmed end strength for
each fiscal year (FY). This goal is based on combined beginning strength of unit and IMA requirements
on 1 October, programmed end-strength for 30 September, and historical attrition. The annual goal is dis-
tributed by zone classification to line enlisted recruiters (LER), in-service recruiters (ISR), line officer
recruiters (LOR), and medical officer recruiters (MOR) based on their zone classifications. An annual
goal revision/review must be accomplished as Air Force Reserve force structure changes; planning, pro-
2                                                                                     AFRCI36-2002 11 JULY 2007


gram, and budgeting system adjustments occur; or other unscheduled end strength modifications alter the
initial fiscal year goal calculations.

2. Unit and IMA Combined Goal. HQ AFRC/RSOA determines the overall HQ AFRC/RS goal
required and the starting position on the Zone Classification Table needed to meet the required annual
goal. (See Table 1., Table 2., Table 3., and Table 4.) The recruiters’ zone classification goals are added
together to determine the Main Operating Locations’ (MOL) recruiting goals. The MOLs’ recruiting
goals are combined to determine the Flights’ goals. The Flights’ goals are combined and compared to HQ
AFRC/RS goal to ensure combined flight goals meet HQ AFRC/RS annual goal requirements.

3. Annual Goal Distribution. The goals assigned to each category of recruiters are carefully scrutinized
on a continuous basis to ensure fairness and equality is consistent throughout HQ AFRC/RS. Each Senior
Recruiter (SR) must maintain a goal letter on file. Once assigned to the OL, the SR assigns a goal to each
recruiter in writing. Each recruiter acknowledges receipt of this goal by signature. (Note: goals may
change at Commander’s discretion to meet mission requirements.)

Table 1. Zone Classification Table (Line Enlisted Recruiters.)
                                                      A        B        C        D    E
Line Enlisted Recruiter      Lucrative                44       45       46       47   48
Line Enlisted Recruiter      Above Average            40       41       42       43   44
Line Enlisted Recruiter      Average                  36       37       38       39   40
Line Enlisted Recruiter      Below Average            32       33       34       35   36
Line Enlisted Recruiter      Difficult                29       30       30       31   32

Table 2. Zone Classification Table (In-Service Recruiters.)
                                         A        B             C
In Service Recruiter      Lucrative      22%      23%           24%
In Service Recruiter      Average        20%      21%           22%
In Service Recruiter      Difficult      18%      19%           20%

Table 3. Zone Classification Table (Line Officer Recruiters.)
                                             A    B        C        D        E
Line Officer Recruiter      Lucrative        28   29       30       31       32
Line Officer Recruiter      Average          26   27       28       29       30
Line Officer Recruiter      Difficult        24   25       26       27       28
AFRCI36-2002 11 JULY 2007                                                                                  3


Table 4. Zone Classification Table (Medical Officer Recruiters.)
                                                A     B     C
Medical Officer Recruiter         Lucrative     16    17    18
Medical Officer Recruiter         Average       14    15    16
Medical Officer Recruiter         Difficult     12    13    14

4. Accession Credit. Accession credit is awarded when the enlistment, appointment, or assignment is a
gain to the drill pay floor which raises Sel Res. Credit is not awarded for individuals being assigned into
the Participating Individual Ready Reserve (PIRR), Category E, or for those going from one pay category
into another pay category. EXCEPTIONS: Recruiters are given accession credit for gains to the Air Force
Ready Reserve Stipend Program and Chaplain Candidacy Program. Recruiters never receive accession
credit for transfers from Category “A” or Category “B” to another Category “A” or “B.” Any accessions
that are gained more than one time in the same FY must be reviewed by RSO for final determination.

5. Submitting Reserve Accessions for Gain.
    5.1. Recruiting managers must ensure all enlistments, appointments, and assignments are gained into
    the Air Force Recruiting Information Support System-Reserve (AFRISS-R) on the gain date or the
    next business day. Assignments are not to be gained into AFRISS-R until the effective date of change
    of strength accountability (EDCSA) occurs and the written documentation to support the accession
    claim is on hand. (Recruiters may not use a signed AF 1288 as verification of gain.) A printed Appli-
    cant Data Worksheet (ADR) must be maintained, with all required supporting documents, at the MOL
    central file on all accessions.
    5.2. In order to claim accession credit, the recruiter must have one or more of the following properly
    completed documents:

Table 5. Documentation for Claiming Accessions.
Item     Documentation
1        DD Form 4-1 and 4-2, Enlistment/Reenlistment--Armed Forces of the United
         States
2        AF Form 133, Oath of Office
3        Assignment Orders
4        Single Unit Retrieval Format (SURF)
5        Print screen from MPF showing gain date

6. Goal Reductions. Recruiting goals are reduced under certain circumstances to ensure fairness to the
recruiter and to maintain high morale.
    6.1. Rookie Recruiters are graduates from Air Force Reserve Recruiting School who have 9 or more
    months left in the recruiting FY. Their first year as a recruiter will be: first 2 months no-goal, next 3
    months 1/3 of zone classification goal, next 3 months 2/3 of zone classification goal, full zone classi-
    fication goal thereafter.
4                                                                          AFRCI36-2002 11 JULY 2007


    6.2. Rising Stars are graduates from Air Force Reserve Recruiting School assigned with less than 9
    months left in the current FY and goaled the same as above; but, fall under their own category for
    awards.
    6.3. In Service Recruiters (ISR) leaving a position are responsible for 2 months goal after departing
    from the position. The new ISR will have a goal of zero for the first 2 months on station and resume
    normal ISR zone classification recruiting goal thereafter.
    6.4. Recruiters transferring from Active Duty Air Force Recruiting or Air National Guard Recruiting
    will have first 2 months with no goal and be on full zone classification recruiting goal thereafter.
    6.5. Recruiters who PCS will receive a 10% goal reduction from the new MOL goal. The goal at the
    departing location will be adjusted based on recruiter’s arrival date at the recruiter’s new location.
    (This does not apply to ISRs.) (Recruiters do not get a goal reduction for PCA.)
    6.6. New Medical Officer Recruiter (MOR) in training will have the first 4 months with no goal, next
    3 months 1/3 of zone classification goal, next three months 2/3 of zone classification goal, full zone
    classification goal thereafter. (A MOR transferring from MOR to LOR does not get a goal reduction.)
    6.7. Line Officer Recruiter (LOR)- new LOR in training first 3 months no goal, next 3 months 1/3 of
    zone classification goal, next 3 months 2/3 zone classification goal, full zone classification goal there-
    after. (An LOR transferring to MOR is granted the usual goal reduction for a new MOR.)
    6.8. Lead LER/LOR/MOR recruiters, except ISR lead recruiters, receive a 10% goal reduction from
    their zone classification goal. Lead LER/LOR/MOR recruiters may receive a greater than 10% goal
    reduction on a case by case basis. (Under certain circumstances an ISR lead recruiter may also receive
    a goal reduction and will be determined on a case-by-case basis and approved by HQ AFRCRS/CC or
    appointed representative.)
    6.9. Recruiters attending PME in-residence receive a 10% goal reduction. Recruiters will not receive
    a reduction for correspondence courses.
    6.10. Recruiter on convalescent/sick leave for 30 days to less than ten weeks will receive a 10% goal
    reduction. The recruiter must be on convalescent/sick leave for ten weeks or more in order to receive
    an additional 10%. Recruiter on convalescent/sick leave more than 16 weeks will be reviewed on a
    case by case basis and HQ AFRC/RSOA will determine the goal reduction.
    6.11. Retiring recruiter’s goal will be reduced by ½ the last 3 months they where on production. The
    reduction will be based on the recruiter’s first day of permissive/ terminal leave.

7. Accession Credit Suspension and Removal. If an applicant is found to have a disqualifying factor
which existed at the time of accession, a non-prior service applicant does not ship to initial training, or a
non-prior service applicant does not complete BMT; the accession credit will be suspended and HQ
AFRC/RSO or HQ AFRC/RSM will notify the flight responsible for the accession. The flight is responsi-
ble for providing all necessary information and a one-page executive summary to HQ AFRC/RSO for
review by the Accession Credit Board to confirm the recruiter was in compliance with all regulations and
procedural guidance messages relating to accessions and the Delayed Entry Program. The flight needs to
provide this information to HQ AFRC/RSO (for review by the Accession Credit Board) within fif-
teen business days of the loss. If the information is not provided within fifteen working days the
credit will be removed. If the recruiter was in compliance with all regulations and procedural guidance
messages, the credit will be returned to the recruiter and remarks will be annotated in AFRISS-R by HQ
AFRCI36-2002 11 JULY 2007                                                                                 5


AFRC/RSO or HQ AFRC/RSM. If the recruiter was not in compliance with all regulations and procedural
guidance messages, the credit will be removed from the recruiter and reassigned to HQ AFRC/RSOA and
remarks will be annotated in AFRISS-R by HQ AFRC/RSO or HQ AFRC/RSM. If the accession occurred
in the previous FY the non-compliant recruiter will have one more added to their current FY goal.

8. PIRR Accessions. It is in the best interest of the Air Force Reserve to have recruiter assistance with
this non-paid category. These applicants are usually referred to as “Cat E” or Participating Individual
Ready Reserve (PIRR.) Recruiters must achieve annual goal to be eligible for any awards.
   8.1. If a recruiter places an applicant into a non-paid or Cat-E position, the recruiter and the senior
   recruiter will receive award credit, not accession credit, for all applicable awards and the accession
   will count towards the recruiter and senior recruiter’s “Base Ball Card.” (Neither the recruiter nor the
   senior recruiter receive accession credit toward their annual goal for any non-Sel Res accessions
   except for those identified in paragraph 4.) Recruiters must achieve annual goal to be eligible for any
   awards. Note: If an overseas recruiter places a Palace Front or a Palace Chase applicant into an OCO-
   NUS non-Sel Res position and the recruiter does not achieve annual goal due to the large amount of
   CAT-E applicants processed, then the senior recruiter may request a goal reduction through their flight
   to the Recruiting Service Commander.
   8.2. If a recruiter processes an applicant who resides in their zone and is transferring from a non-paid
   or Cat E position into a position that raises the SELRES, the processing recruiter receives accession
   credit that counts towards their annual goal and awards. The recruiter that initially processed the
   applicant into the non-paid position does not receive any further credit. (Note: Dual credit will not be
   granted for the same gain during the same FY; in rare cases when this may occur, forward documenta-
   tion and justification to RSO for determination.)
   8.3. If no recruiter is involved when the applicant transfers from a non-paid position to the position
   that raises the Sel Res Floor, RSOI will validate the increase to the Sel Res and notify RSOA. RSOA
   will then coordinate with the senior recruiter where each gained individual resides to ensure the cor-
   rect recruiter and senior recruiter receive credit for the accession. These gains are usually referred to
   as “Quad 7s.”
   8.4. It is the responsibility of all AFRC/RS personnel to know and comply with this guidance. Any
   questions should be directed to RSOA.
6                                                                        AFRCI36-2002 11 JULY 2007


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADAF—Active Duty Air Force
AF—Air Force
AFRISS-R—Air Force Recruiting Information Support System-Reserve
BMT—Basic Military Training
EDCSA—Effective Date of Change of Strength Accountability
FY—Fiscal Year
HQ AFRC/RS—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service
HQ AFRC/RSM—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service Manager
HQ AFRC/RSO—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service Operations Division
HQ AFRC/RSOA—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service Operations,
Analysis Branch
HQ AFRC/RSOO—Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service Operations,
Operations Branch
IMA—Individual Mobilization Augmentee
ISR—In-Service Recruiter
LER—Line Enlisted Recruiter
LOR—Line Officer Recruiter
MOL—Main Operating Location
MOR—Medical Officer Recruiter
RAMS—Recruiter Automated Management System
USAFR—United States Air Force Reserve (includes all Reserve categories)

Terms
Accession—Individual enlisted, appointed, or assigned into a pay category of the Air Force Reserve, the
Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend Program, appointment of enlisted personnel from the Air National
Guard or Individual Ready Reserve into medical officer programs, and gains to the chaplain candidacy
program.
Air Force Ready Reserve Stipend Program—A program in which selected health professionals may
receive a monthly stipend while in training or pursuing higher education, when they agree to participate in
the Air Force Reserve upon completion of training.
Eligible Separatees—Those individuals leaving the active duty Air Force who, according to AFI
36-3205, Applying For The Palace Chase And Palace Front Programs or AFRESI 36-2001, Recruiting
AFRCI36-2002 11 JULY 2007                                                                            7


Enlistment, Appointment And Assignment Procedures for the United States Air Force Reserve are
tentatively qualified for enlistment/assignment/appointment into the Air Force Reserve.
End Strength—The total number of congressionally funded positions programmed for the United States
Air Force Selected Reserve for each fiscal year.
Goal—The projected number of accessions needed to meet AFRC end strength requirements to include
accessions required from each recruiter.
In-Service Recruiter—recruiter whose primary responsibility is to recruit individuals separating from
the active duty Air Force; except for the medical officer AFSCs 44XX-medicine, 45XX-surgery,
47XX-dental, and 48XX-areospace medicine; these, will be worked by the medical officer recruiters.
Individual Mobilization Augmentee—individual reservist pre-assigned to an active component
organization or Selective Service billet that must be filled upon, or shortly after, mobilization.
Line Enlisted Recruiter—recruiter whose primary responsibility is to recruit individuals from the local
community for AFRC unit and IMA programs with entry grade of E1-E9.
Line Officer Recruiter—recruiter whose primary responsibility is to recruit individuals from the local
community for AFRC unit and IMA programs with entry grade of a commissioned officer other than
medical officers.
Medical Officer Applicants—applicants who will be gained into the AFSCs: 40XX-medical
commander, 41XX-health services, 42XX-biomedical clinicians, 43XX-biomedical specialists,
44XX-medicine, 45XX-surgery, 46XX-nurses, 47XX-dental, and 48XX-aerospace medicine. (Exception:
applicants separating from Active Duty Air Force with the AFSCs of 41XX-health services,
42XX-biomedical clinicians, 43XX-biomedical specialists, or 46XX-nurses will be processed by the
in-service recruiters.)
Medical Officer Recruiter—recruiter whose primary responsibility is to recruit individuals from the
local community for AFRC unit and IMA programs with entry grade of commissioned medical office.
MAPPER—The computer software that managed the database system used by recruiting to organize and
maintain historical accession data before AFRISS-R.
QUAD 7—Assignment actions without recruiter involvement
SURF—Single Unit Retrieval Format, report containing assignment, decoration, education, AFSC
information on an individual
