BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                          INSTRUCTION 36-2202

                                                                                 6 MARCH 2014

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                 AFRC RESERVE FINANCIAL TRAINING &
                                                                     MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFRC/FMXX                                                    Certified by: HQ AFRC/FM
                                                                           (Mr. Edward S. Jones)
                                                                                       Pages: 15
Supersedes:    AFRCI36-2202, 2 May 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2201, AF Training Program,
AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations under Emergency Conditions, and AFPAM 65-110,
Deployed Agent Operations. It establishes responsibilities, procedures, and relationships of
agencies involved in the reserve financial training program. It covers training requirements
and establishes procedures and responsibilities for scheduling and conducting training. It
provides guidelines for the management of the financial reservist training program. The financial
reservist training mission is designed for the member to acquire the financial skills needed to
augment the active forces and provide financial operations for all funding, accounting, and
customer service requirements during deployment. The Career Field Education and Training
Plan (CFETP) is the primary training tool for ensuring financial reservists are prepared to meet
mission challenges. This publication only applies to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
and their units. Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) should work closely with the
Active Duty unit of assignment, Unit Training Manager (UTM) and supervisor to accomplish
specific requirements prescribed in this document. This AFRCI may be supplemented at any
level, but all supplements that directly implement this publication must be routed to the HQ
AFRC/FMXX Branch for coordination prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. The authorities to waive
wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”)
number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
 2                                                         AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014


Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS). The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This review
incorporates the procedures in previous version of AFRCI 36-2202 and generally updates the
text.
AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014                                                                      3



                                          Chapter 1

                              CONCEPT AND PROCEDURES

1.1. Training Concept. The goal of this training program is to maintain those skills identified
in the training standards contained within the 6F0X1 Career Field Education and Training Plan
(CFETP). The intent is to train to a standard. Training requirements for each skill level are
prescribed in the 6F0X1 CFETP and AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program. These
requirements must be accomplished in a timely manner, or personnel risk disciplinary action.
   1.1.1. Financial Management (FM) reservists are assigned against wartime Unit Type Codes
   (UTC). The primary mission is to train for wartime/contingency taskings. In addition to
   wartime training, members will prepare to perform peacetime missions supporting CONUS
   requirements.
       1.1.1.1. Contingency training is based on the SAF/FM Comptroller Contingency
       Familiarization Course (CCFC) policy, HQ AFRC/FM four year training life cycle, and
       UTC tasks defined by the Mission Capabilities Statements (MISCAPs).
       1.1.1.2. Completion of the SAF/FM CCFC requirements is mandatory for all FM
       military during the 90 days prior to their Air and Space Expeditionary Force (AEF)
       window in accordance with SAF/FM policy.
       1.1.1.3. The HQ AFRC/FM expectation is for reservists to follow a four-year training
       rotation cycle. The purpose is to acquire as varied and complete an experience as
       possible. This cycle should include Annual Tour (AT) at home station, attending the
       AFRC/FM Combat Comptroller Contingency Course (CCCC), performing with Active
       Duty, and training support of contingency exercises. Maintaining a close training
       relationship with regional Active Duty organizations will enhance the training
       opportunities.
       1.1.1.4. All financial management reservists at the 5-skill level and above and officers
       will attend the AFRC/FM CCCC every four years.
          1.1.1.4.1. Completion of CCFC is recommended prior to attending the AFRC/FM
          CCCC regardless of skill level.
          1.1.1.4.2. Completion of CCFC is required prior to attending the AFRC/FM CCCC
          for members who possess the 3-skill level.
       1.1.1.5. Technical Sergeants must attend Silver Flag Training within one year of putting
       on the rank.
          1.1.1.5.1. Completion of the online CCFC is mandatory prior to attending Silver
          Flag.
1.2. Training Procedure:
   1.2.1. Enlisted personnel must complete all mandatory training requirements for award of
   the 3, 5, 7 and 9 skill levels in accordance with the CFETP, AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training
   Program, and be certified on all tasks as identified in the Specialty Training Standard (STS).
4                                                             AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014


       1.2.1.1. Primary training focus areas are UTC (contingency) and Functional. STS
       training should be focused on MISCAP and functional area requirements for upgrade
       training.
       1.2.1.2. The member will take part in school tours to keep or increase proficiency in the
       functional area and/or wartime UTC. For enlisted members, school tours are identified in
       the CFETP. Officers new to the career field must attend the Basic Financial Management
       Officer course (BFMOC).
           1.2.1.2.1. Officers (Captains and Majors) and Senior Enlisted (MSgts and SMSgts)
           are encouraged to attend Financial Management Staff Officer’s Course (FMSOC).
           Majors/SMSgts and above are encouraged to attend Defense Financial Management
           Course (DFMC). Quotas for FMSOC and DFMC will be coordinated through HQ
           AFRC/FMXX.
           1.2.1.2.2. Units will forecast their formal training requirements as required through
           their unit training office. In-turn, the unit training office notifies HQ AFRC/A1 who
           then obtains and allocates the individual quotas.
           1.2.1.2.3. Deletions or changes to a member’s training slot at Keesler AFB
           schoolhouse must be accomplished 45 days prior to class start date. The senior
           financial reservist (officer or enlisted) will notify HQ AFRC/FMXX in writing,
           stating the reason for the change or deletion. HQ AFRC/FMXX can then reallocate
           the position to best serve the organizations.
           1.2.1.2.4. Reserve units should coordinate formal training requirements with their
           local training office or AFRC/FMXX who will coordinate with Air Education and
           Training Command.
       1.2.1.3. Each unit is responsible for ensuring individual reservists progress in Career
       Development Courses (CDCs). Monthly reviews of this progress must be documented in
       the Air Force Training Record (AFTR) and provided to HQ AFRC/FMXX in the unit
       training assembly (UTA) after action reports.
       1.2.1.4. Each unit will prepare a Master Annual Training Plan using the HQ
       AFRC/FMXX training plan template. The plan must be submitted to HQ AFRC/FMXX
       no later than the unit’s last UTA in September.
    1.2.2. Units on bases hosted by active duty can receive training from the host site. Training
    from the host comptroller squadron is the preferred method to accomplish Seasoning
    Training Program (STP) and other training requirements. The Memorandum of Agreement
    (MOA) between the host comptroller and tenant financial management office should include
    reserve training requirements. Tenant units must communicate training needs for each
    trainee with the host comptroller and ensure required training is received.
    1.2.3. Approved Functional Area Task List (FATL), CFETP, the FM Course list on the
    Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) Gateway, and the Combat Comptroller
    website will be used for lesson plans and tests.
    1.2.4. The CDC will be used to satisfy career knowledge requirements IAW AFI 36-2201
    and the CFETP.
AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014                                                              5


  1.2.5. AT requirements will be submitted utilizing the Air Force Reserve Orders Writing
  System (AROWS-R) and provided as part of the Master Annual Training Plan.
 6                                                               AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                                      RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Financial Reservist.
     2.1.1. Responsible for meeting satisfactory UTA and AT requirements and other necessary
     training in accordance with AFI36-2254 V1, Reserve Personnel Participation and AFI36-
     2254 V2, Reserve Personnel Training.
     2.1.2. Responsible for completing the initial career brief with the superintendent, supervisor,
     or UDM and actively participating in the learning process for the upgrade training.
     2.1.3. Completes on-the-job training (OJT), career field specific training, formal training,
     expeditionary skills training, and ancillary training as outlined in AFI 36-2201, Air Force
     Training Program. Updates OJT and qualification training accomplishments in AFTR with
     the trainer/supervisor, when training is performed at UTA or AT.
     2.1.4. Understand the applicable CFETP requirements and career path.
     2.1.5. Discusses the various phases and subject matter of training with the trainer.
        2.1.5.1. Advises Senior Financial Reservist (officer and enlisted) when training materials
        are needed and/or training is accomplished.
        2.1.5.2. Reads assigned materials and demonstrates proficiency on assigned tasks.
     2.1.6. Notifies FM unit training manager on progress toward completion of CDCs on a
     monthly basis.
     2.1.7. Responsible for maintaining currency of all userids and passwords.
     2.1.8. Plans AT training and/or special tours and coordinates with the ART and/or Senior
     Financial Reservist (enlisted and/or officer).
     2.1.9. Performs AT in accordance with AFRC/FM four year training life cycle, see 1.1.2.3.
        2.1.9.1. Transfers AFTR to training monitor when AT or man-days occur at host
        comptroller squadron or another active duty location.
        2.1.9.2. Submits after-action reports (AT and contingencies) to the ART, Senior
        Financial Reservist (officer or enlisted), or Civilian Comptroller/Budget Officer by the
        end of UTA.
     2.1.10. Requests performance feedback sessions as needed from supervisor.
     2.1.11. Completes CCFC, CCCC and Silver Flag as required, see 1.1.2.2 and 1.1.2.5.
2.2. Senior Financial Reservist (Enlisted) and/or Superintendent.
     2.2.1. Must plan, conduct, monitor, and evaluate training to meet all FM training
     requirements.
        2.2.1.1. Ensures the trainers develop and provide a written Master Annual Training Plan
        which outlines monthly training requirements specific to each trainee. Training will be
AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014                                                                         7


     based on AFRC and SAF/FM standardized training materials. The training must be
     comprehensive to meet overseas and stateside requirements.
     2.2.1.2. Ensures trainers provide specialty training to trainees and proper documentation
     of training is annotated in AFTR.
     2.2.1.3. Works with Senior Financial Reservist (Officer)/Military Comptroller, Civilian
     Comptroller/Budget officer, ART, unit training manager, and individual reservists to
     tailor specific training requirements and develop long-term training plans.
     2.2.1.4. Selects trainers/certifiers. In accordance with AFI 36-2201, trainers must be
     recommended by their supervisors, qualified to perform the task being trained, and have
     completed the Air Force Training Course (AFTC). Certifiers must be at least a SSgt (E-
     5) with a 5-skill level or civilian equivalent, capable of evaluating the task being certified,
     and have completed the AFTC.
     2.2.1.5. Ensures OJT accomplishments of reservists are certified monthly using AFTR.
  2.2.2. Monitors progress of skill level upgrade training.
     2.2.2.1. Manages the reservist CDC study program.
     2.2.2.2. Initiates action to award skill level when the reservist meets all upgrade training
     requirements.
  2.2.3. Manages unit financial reservists and establishes management controls to ensure
  training meets mission requirements.
     2.2.3.1. Ensures initial qualification training begins within 60 days of reservist’s
     assignment to unit.
     2.2.3.2. Uses the Master Annual Training Plan to plan training requirements for each
     reservist and submits plan to HQ AFRC/FMXX annually.
     2.2.3.3. Submits formal training requirements to the unit training office and to HQ
     AFRC/FMXX upon request.
  2.2.4. Reviews/approves monthly Status of Resource Training System (SORTS) report, AEF
  Reporting Tool (ART), and/or DOD Readiness Reporting System (DRRS).
  2.2.5. Ensures reservists eligible to participate in contingency operations meet the necessary
  requirements for worldwide qualification (contingency training course, ancillary
  requirements, equipment, etc.)
  2.2.6. Ensures the UTC XFFAG, Comptroller Logistics Detail Kit, is up-to-date and ready
  for deployment (if applicable).
  2.2.7. Completes the Air Force trainer/certifier course, if necessary.
  2.2.8. Encouraged to attend FMSOC, E-7 and E-8.
  2.2.9. As appropriate by grade, senior NCOs attend Defense Financial Management Course.
  2.2.10. Develops unit awards program to recognize personnel for excellent performance.
 8                                                               AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014


        2.2.10.1. Ensures quarterly and annual award nominations are submitted to Wing POC,
        and annual award nominations are submitted to AFRC/FMXX in accordance with
        prescribed suspense dates.
        2.2.10.2. Uses vPC-GR to nominate personnel for decorations.
     2.2.11. Ensures Self Inspection Check List requirements found in unit’s Management
     Internal Control Toolset are incorporated in to the FM reservist training program.
     2.2.12. Mentors, sets example for, and ensures reservists comply with military standards.
2.3. Senior Financial Reservist (Officer)/Military Comptroller.
     2.3.1. Responsible for overall leadership and management, planning, organization, and
     readiness of the FM Reserve program. The Senior Financial Reservist (Officer)/ Military
     Comptroller, reports directly to the Wing Commander or Vice Commander as a member of
     the Wing Staff. He partners with the Civilian Comptroller/ Budget Officer to ensure the
     success of the program.
     2.3.2. Ensures Master Annual Training Plan is prepared and on file at the unit. Responsible
     for submission of the plan to HQ AFRC/FMXX no later than unit’s last UTA in September.
     The training plan will be developed and in accordance with HQ AFRC/FM template.
        2.3.2.1. Ensures monthly UTA after action report is submitted to HQ AFRC/FMXX no
        later than 10 days after the end of the UTA.
     2.3.3. Provides oversight and guidance to Senior Financial Reservist (Enlisted) and/or
     Superintendent on all aspects of the training program.
        2.3.3.1. Ensures a training area and necessary equipment are available to conduct the
        training.
        2.3.3.2. Works with unit Civilian Comptroller/Budget Officer and coordinates with the
        ART to ensure civilian training support is provided when required during UTA and AT
        performed at home station.
        2.3.3.3. Ensures civilian trainers and certifiers are assigned and qualified.
        2.3.3.4. Monitors and evaluates reservist training on a periodic basis.
     2.3.4. Ensures assigned reservists have access to financial management systems, email, and
     the local area network and maintain userids and passwords.
     2.3.5. Informs Wing leadership, the Civilian Comptroller/Budget Officer, and HQ
     AFRC/FMXX on any changes in unit readiness.
     2.3.6. Coordinates with ART and Civilian Comptroller/Budget Officer to prepare annual
     operations and maintenance budget for mobility and training equipment and supply items.
     Develops reserve personnel appropriation budget for military pay and travel entitlements for
     the assigned financial reservists.
     2.3.7. Coordinates with recruiters to establish criteria and hire recruits properly suited to
     become successful financial reservists.
AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014                                                                          9


   2.3.8. Ensures an annual review of HQ AFRC/FMXX deployment requirements is
   performed to ensure required mobility items are procured, stored, and maintained and
   reservists are prepared for deployment.
   2.3.9. Ensures monthly SORTS, ART and/or DRRS reports are completed, signed, and
   submitted.
   2.3.10. Encouraged to attend the FMSOC and DFMC. See para 1.2.1.2.1
   2.3.11. Completes the CCFC in accordance with SAF/FM policy.
   2.3.12. Attends the AFRC/FM CCCC every 4 years.
   2.3.13. Develops awards program to recognize personnel for excellent performance.
      2.3.13.1. Ensures quarterly and annual award nominations are submitted to Wing POC,
      and annual award nominations are submitted to AFRC/FMXX in accordance with
      prescribed suspense dates.
      2.3.13.2. Uses vPC-GR to nominate personnel for decorations.
   2.3.14. Ensures the applicable FM Reserve Self-Inspection Checklist is completed annually.
   2.3.15. Ensures performance feedback and evaluations are completed on all FM reserve
   military personnel.
   2.3.16. If more than one officer is assigned to a reserve unit, the junior officer is rated by the
   senior ranking officer.
2.4. Air Reserve Technician (ART).
   2.4.1. Serves as liaison between assigned reservists and other full time staff functions.
   Coordinates enrollment in or requirements for:
      2.4.1.1. Formal training program to include ordering materials and scheduling of tests.
      2.4.1.2. Rescheduling of UTAs.
      2.4.1.3. Orders preparation.
      2.4.1.4. Ancillary training requirements          (chemical    warfare    training,   weapons
      qualifications, medical appointments, etc.).
   2.4.2. Works with Senior Financial Reservist (officer and enlisted) and coordinates with
   Civilian Comptroller/Budget officer to ensure civilian training support is provided when
   required during UTA and AT performed at home station.
   2.4.3. If required, fulfills responsibilities designated in the AFI 36-2201 for Unit Training
   Managers (UTMs).
      2.4.3.1. Works with Senior Financial Reservist (officer and enlisted) and Civilian
      Comptroller/Budget officer to ensure all civilian trainers/certifiers have the proper
      certification training IAW AFI 36-2201.
      2.4.3.2. Maintains and monitors assigned reservist training records in AFTR.
      2.4.3.3. Works with the Senior Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted) to develop
      Master Annual Training Plan for reservists and a training schedule for each UTA.
 10                                                          AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014


      2.4.3.4. Works with Senior Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted) to monitor
      reservist upgrade and proficiency training and ensure timely progression in accordance
      with the CFETP.
      2.4.3.5. Works with Senior Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted) to coordinate
      formal school tours and ATs to maximize training opportunities. Schedules reservists for
      MAJCOM and Air Force-level contingency exercises and training.
      2.4.3.6. Coordinates OJT.
      2.4.3.7. With guidance from Senior Financial Reservist (officer and enlisted) and the
      reservist’s supervisor, the ART coordinates with the off-station AT site advising them of
      the type of training required for each reservist no later than 45 days before the start of
      AT.
   2.4.4. Distributes and responds to manning assistance requests levied by HQ AFRC/FMXX.
   2.4.5. Ensures a copy of the training feedback on AT, TDY, and AEF are provided to HQ
   AFRC/FMXX.
   2.4.6. Maintains contact with HQ AFRC/FMXX to secure up-to-date information on
   wartime mission, deployment locations, and AEF tasking. Works with Senior Financial
   Reservists (officer and enlisted) and Civilian Comptroller/Budget Officer to formulate plans
   and operational instructions to assist financial reservists in responding to tasking.
   2.4.7. Disseminates all changes in mobility data to commander, Senior Financial Reservists
   (officer and enlisted), and Civilian Comptroller/Budget Officer.
   2.4.8. Works with the Senior Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted) and Civilian
   Comptroller/Budget Officer to ensure financial reservists meet all requirements for
   worldwide deployment tasking.
   2.4.9. Monitors mobility roster and tasking requirements to ensure qualified members are
   assigned mobility positions.
   2.4.10. If applicable, ensures UTC XFFAG logistic detail kit is up-to-date and ready for
   deployment (current regulations, forms, and equipment).
   2.4.11. If required, coordinates monthly SORTS, ART, and/or DRRS reports with the Senior
   Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted).
   2.4.12. If required, ensures award nominations are submitted to Wing or AFRC/FMXX on
   schedule.
   2.4.13. Completes all other duties as assigned by Senior Financial Reservist (officer and
   enlisted).
2.5. Civilian Comptroller/Budget Officer:
   2.5.1. Responsible for overall leadership and management, planning and organization, of
   base level financial management operations. Partners with the Military Comptroller/ Senior
   Financial Reservist (officer and enlisted) to ensure the success of the FM Reserve program.
   2.5.2. Provides guidance, mentoring, support, and training to Senior Financial Reservists
   (officer and enlisted).
AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014                                                                  11


  2.5.3. Reviews the Master Annual Training Plan developed by the Senior Financial
  Reservists (officer and enlisted) and works to schedule civilian support during UTAs and AT
  to provide training to reservists.
  2.5.4. Ensures office space, computers, publications, and other necessary equipment are
  available for reservists during the UTA and provides adequate storage space to file training
  records and equipment of reservists.
  2.5.5. Ensures availability of and access to financial management systems, email, and the
  local area network for assigned reservists. Coordinates computer system requirements with
  the Senior Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted) and take steps to ensure software and
  hardware updates are completed in a timely manner.
  2.5.6. Ensures open lines of communication between civilian work force and reservists to
  enhance training program and guarantee success of financial management operations as base
  level.
  2.5.7. Attends a minimum of one (1) UTA per quarter to observe training and coordinate
  with Senior Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted).
  2.5.8. Coordinates with Senior Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted) on FM policy and
  program changes.
  2.5.9. At tenant locations, ensures the MOA with the host Comptroller includes reservists’
  training requirements.
  2.5.10. Plans and budgets for Comptroller Logistics Detail Kit (UTC XFFAG), schools,
  training, and mandays required by the reservists in the Master Annual Training Plan.
  2.5.11. Ensures applicable FM Self-Inspection Check List is completed annually.
2.6. HQ AFRC/FMXX.
  2.6.1. Serves as the Finance Functional Area Manager (FAM), MAJCOM Functional
  Manager (MFM) and Training Manager. Oversees the education and training program,
  manpower, and deployment of the comptroller reservists to ensure compliance with
  applicable directives.
  2.6.2. Performs Functional Assistance Visits (FAV) at units to review the overall training
  program, to evaluate the effectiveness of leadership and management, assess the quality of
  planning and organization and ascertain readiness through continuous process growth and
  improvements.
  2.6.3. Provides guidance and policy interpretation to the unit on training issues and
  initiatives.
  2.6.4. Serves as HQ AFRC/FM liaison for financial reserve organization structure and the
  financial reservist training program.
  2.6.5. Maintains financial reservist training program database.
  2.6.6. Ensures training on wartime tasks are included in unit training.
  2.6.7. Identifies and coordinates MAJCOM training requirements.
12                                                            AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014


  2.6.8. Reviews AT plans submitted by units as part of the Master Annual Training Plan.
  Reports any problems to Senior Financial Reservist (officer and enlisted)/ART.
  2.6.9. Plans and schedules a reservist workshop as required. Facilitates communication
  between reserve units and HQs through multiple avenues; Defense Connect Online
  conferences (DCOs), teleconferences, newsletters, etc.
  2.6.10. Oversees SORTS, ART, and/or DRRS reporting.
  2.6.11. Coordinates AEF and mobilization tasking with HQ AFRC/A5XW, AFRC Force
  Generation Center and applicable Headquarters Air Force, Force Provider, and ANG FAMS.
  2.6.12. Chairs all Financial Reservists’ Working Groups.
  2.6.13. Oversees annual HQ AFRC/FM awards program.
  2.6.14. Monitors corrective actions for training deficiencies.
  2.6.15. Coordinates policy and program changes with FM reserve units.
  2.6.16. Monitors unit OJT to ensure that qualifications and skill level upgrade requirements
  meet MAJCOM priorities.
  2.6.17. Oversees and forecasts formal school requirements each year.
  2.6.18. Attends Utilization and Training Workshops (U &TW).
  2.6.19. Evaluates training waiver requests based on requirements outlined in AFI 36-2201,
  Chapter 4.
AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014                                                                     13


                                          Chapter 3

                                      DEPLOYMENTS

3.1. Air & Space Expeditionary Force (AEF).
   3.1.1. Financial reservists are required to participate in the AEF life cycle that includes
   training, preparation, and on-call/deployment eligibility. Finance reservists are committed to
   a minimum of a 15-day in-place tour with the option of volunteering for longer tours with
   unit commander and HQ AFRC/FMXX approval. Deployable reservists are required to be
   current on all ancillary and contingency training.
3.2. Contingencies.
   3.2.1. When approved by unit commander and HQ AFRC/FM, financial reservists may
   deploy in support of their unit or an active duty unit during a contingency. Volunteerism
   under 10 U.S.C. § 12301 (d) does not prevent a reservist from mobilization.
   3.2.2. Deployed reservists must submit after-action reports to their Senior Financial
   Reservists (officer and enlisted) or ART within 30 days of return to home station. The Senior
   Financial Reservists (officer and enlisted) or ART sends a copy of this report to HQ
   AFRC/FMXX.




                                            JAMES F. JACKSON, Lt General, USAF
                                            Commander
 14                                                      AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-213, Comptroller Operations under Emergency Condition, 22 July 1994
AFI 36-2201, AF Training Program, 15 September 2010
AFI36-2254 V1, Reserve Personnel Participation, 26 May 2010
AFI36-2254 V2, Reserve Personnel Training, 9 June 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 65-110, Deployed Agent Operations, 10 October 2001
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AEF—Air and Space Expeditionary Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTC—Air Force Training Course
AFTR—Air Force Training Record
ANG—Air National Guard
ART—AEF Reporting Tool
AT—Annual Tour
BFMOC—Basic Financial Management Officer Course
CCCC—Combat Comptroller Contingency Course
CCFC—Comptroller Contingency Familiarization Course
CDC—Career Development Courses
CFETP—Career Field Education and Training Plan
CONUS—Continental United States
DFMC—Defense Financial Management Course
DRRS—DOD Readiness Reporting System
FAM—Functional Area Manager
AFRCI36-2202 6 MARCH 2014                           15


FATL—Functional Area Task List
FAV—Functional Assistance Visits
FMSOC—Financial Management Staff Officer’s Course
IMAs—Individual Mobilization Augmentees
MISCAPs—Mission Capabilities Statements
MFM—MAJCOM Functional Manager
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OJT—On-The-Job Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SORTS—Status of Resource Training System
STP—Seasoning Training Program
STS—Specialty Training Standard
U&TW—Utilization and Training Workshops
UTA—Unit Training Assembly
UTC—Unit Type Codes
UTM—Unit Training Manager
