BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                         INSTRUCTION 36-114

                                                                               14 JULY 2011

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                      PROCEDURES ON AIR RESERVE
                                                TECHNICIANS (ART) WHO LOSE ACTIVE
                                                      MEMBERSHIPIN THE RESERVE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY.

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are not releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRC/A1CE                                    Certified by: HQ AFRC/A1 (Col Michael
                                                                               J. McCully)
Supersedes:    AFRCI 36-114, 10 August                                             Pages: 9
               2001


This instruction implements AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and
Authorities,7 March 1995 and outlines provisions necessary to administer program requirements
for air reserve technicians (ART) who lose active membership in the Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) unit of assignment for any reason. It applies to all civilian personnel flights
and offices (CPF/CPO) that service ART employees and to all AFRC units authorized ART
positions. It should be used in conjunction with applicable public laws, 10 U.S.C. 10216 –
10218, 38 U.S.C. Chapter 43, The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights
Act (USERRA) of 1994, FPM Supplement (Internal) 930-71, Recruitment of Air Reserve
Technicians Through Competitive Examination (ART Agreement), January 1988, DoD Directive
1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve Components, 4 May 2007, DoD Priority
Placement Program (PPP) Operations Manual, July 1998, AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-
Management Relations, 15 December 2008, AFI 36-108, Air Reserve Technician (ART)
Program, 26 July 1994, AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994, AFI 36-
2612, United States Air Force Reserve (USAFR) Reenlistment and Retention Program, 25 July
1994, and AFRCI 36-201, Air Reserve Technician (ART) Officer--Extension to Mandatory
Separation Date (MSD), 30 December 2005. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, are maintained in accordance
with this manual, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.               Refer
recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) at HQ AFRC/A1CE, 155 Richard Ray Blvd, Robins AFB, GA 31098-
1635, using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
 2                                                                   AFRCI36-114 14 JULY 2011


AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. The use of
the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in
this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. This publication does not apply to
Air National Guard (ANG). This publication does apply to the Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and their units.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision clarifies the procedures for handling ARTs who lose active membership in their
respective reserve unit and incorporates provisions of the National Defense Authorization Act
(NDAA) of 2008 (10 U.S.C. Section 10216).
1. Concept of an ART. The Air Force and the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) have
agreed that an ART must:
     1.1. Meet Air Force physical and military assignment requirements for the reserve position
     to which assignment is made.
     1.2. Maintain active membership in the Air Force Reserve unit in which the position is
     authorized.
     1.3. Be assigned militarily to the designated ART position.
2. ART. ARTs are full-time civilian employees who are also active members of the Air Force
Reserve unit in which they are employed. In addition to their civilian assignments, they are
assigned to equivalent positions in the reserve organization with a reserve military rank or grade.
They play vital roles in the combat readiness of their reserve unit by training other reservists and
serving as mobilization assets when the unit is mobilized.
3. Loss of Active Membership in the Reserve. Active membership in the applicable reserve
unit is a condition of employment. Loss of active membership in the Reserve could be for all
ART positions or only for the current ART position of assignment. Such loss may result in the
involuntary removal from Federal employment for failure to maintain a basic condition of
employment for an ART position. The four main categories of loss of active membership in the
Reserve are:
     3.1. Officer Mandatory Separation Date (MSD) Program (First Category). ART officers
     who lose active membership in the Reserve due to reaching their reserve/military MSD face
     mandatory removal from their ART position. This program helps to ensure military mission
     capability. Assuming age and length of service requirements are met, such individuals would
     be eligible for discontinued service retirement (DSR) from their civilian position following
     the involuntary removal.
     3.2. Enlisted High-Year-of-Tenure (HYT) Program (Second Category). ART enlisted
     members who lose active membership in the Reserve due to reaching their reserve HYT date
     face mandatory removal from their ART position. This program helps to ensure military
     mission capability. ART reserve/military HYT dates are automatically extended to the first
     date the ART attains eligibility for optional civil service retirement or age 60, whichever
     occurs first IAW AFI 36-3612. In some cases, enlisted ARTs may reach age 60 and be
     militarily retired (losing active membership in the Reserve) before accruing 20 years of
     potentially creditable service for civilian retirement. In those cases, they are continued in the
AFRCI36-114 14 JULY 2011                                                                        3


  Part A (civilian) position until reaching civilian optional retirement eligibility or being
  affected by the separation requirements described in paragraph 3.6.2, whichever occurs first.
  Employees being retained in the Part A (civilian) position as a result of reaching age 60 and
  be militarily retired before accruing 20 years of potentially creditable service for civilian
  retirement are not converted to a Non-Dual Status Technician (NDST).
  3.3. Voluntary or Within the Individual's Control (Third Category). This term has unique
  meaning in the ART program and should not be confused with the dictionary definition.
  The term means a loss of active membership in the applicable reserve unit or position of
  assignment that includes, but is not limited to, those situations that follow. Additional
  situations may be added through policy letter or subsequent revision to this instruction.
     3.3.1. Failure to reenlist or reenlistment denied.
     3.3.2. Fraudulent enlistment.
     3.3.3. Ineptitude, unsuitability, unfitness, misconduct, or inefficiency, or any other
     reasons specified for discharge of officers or enlisted members in AFI 36-3209,
     Separation Procedures for Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Members.
     3.3.4. Resignation or voluntary retirement (unless resignation or retirement is in lieu of
     medical disqualification beyond the individual's control and the employee has been
     notified of pending reserve separation).
     3.3.5. Failure to participate in prescribed reserve activities.
     3.3.6. Reassignment as inactive member of the Reserve for unsatisfactory participation
     or failure to meet standards.
     3.3.7. Mental conditions or physical conditions, such as being overweight, which
     authorized military medical personnel consider within the individual's control.
     3.3.8. Failure to be promoted to the grade of first lieutenant, or being twice deferred for
     promotion to captain, major, or lieutenant colonel.
     3.3.9. Enlisted ARTs who become commissioned officers.
     3.3.10. Accepting a military assignment to a non-ART reservist position.
     3.3.11. Accepting military promotion to the grade of colonel (O-6) when it exceeds the
     military grade authorized for the ART position of assignment.
     3.3.12. Voluntary military retirement while on an active duty tour (AGR).
  3.4. Involuntary or Beyond the Individual's Control (Fourth Category). The only situation
  covered by this term involves ARTs who lose active reserve status as a result of failing a
  reserve medical examination for reasons that military medical personnel determine to be
  beyond the individual's control. ARTs in this situation who are physically/medically
  qualified to perform the duties of the civilian part (Part A) of the ART position and are not
  immediately eligible for a civil service annuity unreduced due to age or years of service may
  be retained in the Part A position IAW the procedures in paragraphs 3.6 and 4.4, below. An
  agency medical authority, i.e. at a base or contract facility, must make the determination as to
  whether or not the individual is medically qualified to perform the civilian duties.
4                                                                 AFRCI36-114 14 JULY 2011


    3.5. Military Technicians Who Lose Active Reserve Membership Due to a Combat Related
    Disability. Technicians who lose active Reserve membership due to a combat related
    disability will be retained as a Non-Dual Status Technician (NDST) until reaching eligibility
    for a civil service retirement unreduced due to age or years of service, regardless of date
    hired as a military technician, providing they are physically/medically qualified to perform
    the duties of the civilian part (Part A) of the ART position.
    3.6. Non-Dual Status Technician (NDST). Term for employees who meet the conditions in
    paragraph 3.4 and are retained on the civilian part of their ART positions despite the loss of
    active membership in the Reserve. NDSTs are subject to the mandatory separation
    provisions of 10 U.S.C. 10218 as well as the separation provisions based on failure to
    maintain active membership in the Reserve that are described in this instruction.
       3.6.1. NDSTs are notified of conditions under which they are being retained in ART
       positions by including an appropriate statement on the Standard Form (SF) 50-B,
       Notification of Personnel Action, under Remarks. Employees covered by paragraph 3.4
       must be found medically qualified to perform the civilian duties of the ART position
       prior to any official personnel action in order to be eligible for designation as NDST. See
       paragraph 4.4 for the appropriate procedures to follow. NDST does not apply to ARTs
       affected by officer mandatory separation, enlisted HYT, or to ARTs occupying key
       positions as defined in Appendix D of FPM Supplement 930-71 (Internal).
       3.6.2. NDSTs are separated IAW 10 U.S.C. 10218 and command policy as outlined in
       the following rules initially contained in the NDAA of 2000.
           3.6.2.1. NDSTs first hired as an ART or military reserve technician (dual status) on
           or before 10 Feb 96 must be separated no later than 30 days after attaining eligibility
           for civil service retirement unreduced due to age or years of service. This date will
           depend on whether the employee is covered by CSRS or FERS. OPM has determined
           the earliest eligibility for CSRS employees or FERS employees with a CSRS
           component is reached at age 55 with 20 years of service or age 62 with 5 years of
           service. FERS employees reach eligibility at age 50 with 20 years of service, any age
           with 25 years of service, or age 62 with 5 years of service.
           3.6.2.2. NDSTs first hired as an ART or military reserve technician (dual status) after
           10 Feb 96 must be separated no later than one year after loss of active membership in
           the Reserve, if ineligible for a civil service retirement unreduced due to age or years
           of service at the time dual status is lost. If eligible for a civil service retirement
           unreduced due to age or years of service as discussed in paragraph 3.6.2.1, the NDST
           must be separated no later than 30 days after loss of active membership in the
           Reserve. If an NDST is ineligible for a civil service retirement unreduced due to age
           or years of service at the time active membership in the Reserve is lost, but becomes
           eligible within 11 months, the NDST must be separated no later than 30 days after
           becoming eligible for a civil service retirement unreduced due to age or years of
           service.
       3.6.3. NDSTs cannot be retained when AFRC units are mobilized. In the event of the
       unit's demobilization, former NDSTs who lost their employment as a result of the unit's
       mobilization will be given consideration for reemployment to non-ART positions in the
AFRCI36-114 14 JULY 2011                                                                         5


      same manner and with the same entitlement as any other employee on the Reemployment
      Priority List (RPL).
   3.7. Valid Offer. For ARTs, a valid offer is an offer of assignment to a non-ART position at
   any grade level or Air Force activity for which registered in the Department of Defense
   (DoD) Priority Placement Program (PPP). If the employee refuses a valid offer, he or she is
   precluded from further consideration for placement that otherwise would have been provided
   under this instruction.
   3.8. Determining Eligibility for Civil Service Retirement. All service that is potentially
   creditable for civilian retirement will be considered in eligibility determinations, even though
   deposits for some service may be required. For example, all FERS or CSRS covered service,
   all active duty military service, refunded CSRS service, and temporary service prior to 1989
   is potentially creditable. Although creditable toward a CSRS retirement, temporary service
   after 1988 can never be credited toward a FERS retirement and would not be counted when
   determining FERS eligibility dates. Employees are responsible for ensuring that all service is
   actually creditable by making any required deposits.
4. Effect of Loss of Active Membership in the Reserve. The processes applicable to ARTs
who lose active membership in the applicable reserve unit for any reason are:
   4.1. Officer MSD Program (paragraph 3.1). Officers must ensure they are registered by HQ
   AFRC/A1CSAin the DoD PPP to avail themselves of AFRC's intent to provide them with a
   one-year registration period prior to their separation. However, failure to be registered one
   year prior to a member's MSD will not extend the date of separation. Separation is effected
   on the MSD regardless of the length of registration. Each member may register beyond the
   local commuting area and for lower- graded jobs in accordance with the DoD PPP
   procedures. If member registers for and accepts an offer to a lower-graded position, pay
   retention is not authorized.
   4.2. Enlisted HYT Program (paragraph 3.2). Enlisted members must ensure they are
   registered by the servicing civilian personnel flight (CPF) in the DoD PPP to avail
   themselves of AFRC's intent to provide them with a one-year registration period prior to their
   separation. However, failure to be registered one year prior to a member's HYT date will not
   extend the date of separation. Separation is effected on the HYT date regardless of the length
   of registration. Each member may register beyond the local commuting area and for lower-
   graded jobs in accordance with the DoD PPP procedures. If member registers for and
   accepts an offer to a lower-graded position, pay retention is not authorized.
   4.3. Voluntary or Within the Individual's Control (paragraph 3.3). Members face the
   immediate initiation of removal action. Although not entitled to any type of priority
   consideration, management may consider such employees for possible placement in other
   unit non-ART vacant positions. Pay retention is not appropriate. Placement efforts must not,
   however, delay removal from the ART position.
   4.4. Involuntary or Beyond the Individual's Control (paragraph 3.4). Members should be
   treated according to the designation of their position (key or non-key as defined in Appendix
   D of FPM Supplement 930-71) and their date of first hire into an ART or military reserve
   technician (dual status) position. Non-key members should be converted to NDST with a
6                                                                  AFRCI36-114 14 JULY 2011


    personnel action; do not convert key members with a personnel action but code their
    positions as NDST in the civilian data system.
       4.4.1. ARTs in key positions are registered in the DoD PPP for Air Force activities in
       their local commuting area; they may voluntarily expand consideration in accordance
       with DoD PPP procedures. Registration is for one year. If not placed in a non-ART
       position during the registration, removal action is effected at the end of the registration
       period, unless the provisions detailed in paragraph 3.5.2 require an earlier separation date.
       Declination of a valid offer precludes them from further consideration for placement that
       otherwise would have been provided under this instruction.
       4.4.2. ARTs in non-key positions are registered in the DoD PPP for Air Force activities
       in their local commuting area one year prior to the separation date determined IAW
       paragraph 3.5.2; they may voluntarily expand consideration in accordance with DoD PPP
       procedures. They remain as NDSTs until affected by the separation provisions of
       paragraph 3.5.2. Declination of a valid offer precludes them from further consideration
       for placement that otherwise would have been provided under this instruction.
    4.5. In any of the above situations where employees are registered in the DoD PPP,
    registration is in accordance with the DoD PPP Operations Manual. Registration may
    continue for one year after separation so long as the employee (1) has not applied for optional
    civil service retirement and (2) is not receiving civil service retirement benefits.
    4.6. Before assigning a medically disqualified ART to NDST under paragraph 4.4, unit
    commanders/senior ARTs will ensure the appropriate personnel actions are taken in the
    following order:
       4.6.1. Assign the employee to an equivalent non-ART civilian position for which
       otherwise qualified.
       4.6.2. Offer the individual a lower-grade non-ART civilian position acceptable to the
       employee and for which otherwise qualified. Pay retention is appropriate for this type of
       action.
       4.6.3. Consider waiver of qualification requirements under applicable regulatory
       directives for actions listed above.
    4.7. If the ART is not medically qualified to perform the civilian duties, the ART is treated
    in the same manner as any civilian employee who is medically unable to perform. Generally,
    ART positions are not reworked for accommodation purposes due to the military mission
    necessity for the duties as described.
    4.8. Loss of Reserve Status in Conjunction with Restoration Rights under USERRA. ART
    employees who are eligible for the statutory restoration rights provided by USERRA upon
    completion of an active duty tour (e.g., have not exceeded a cumulative five years on active
    duty), but have lost active membership in the Reserve during the tour, are treated in the same
    manner as if they had not left the ART position. Note: Consistent with USERRA
    (specifically, 38 U.S.C. Section 4312), the restoration rights of employees absent from their
    position for more than the cumulative five years allowed under USERRA (subject only to
    extensions and exemptions authorized in the statute) may have expired. Such employees are
    subject to removal based upon that continued absence of more than five years (including any
AFRCI36-114 14 JULY 2011                                                                        7


   period of extension or exemption), rather than on removal for loss of active membership in
   the Reserves described in paragraph 3, above.
       4.8.1. Employees who lose their military status while on active duty due to a voluntary
       action are not entitled to continuing employment under USERRA. They may exercise
       their restoration rights, but face immediate initiation of removal action upon restoration
       for failure to maintain a condition of employment. For example, an ART on an active
       duty tour who lost active membership in the Reserve for reasons within his or her control
       under paragraph 3.3 would be returned to an ART position for a minimum of 30 days
       during which time removal action would be initiated.
       4.8.2. Employees who are restored and subsequently fail to maintain eligibility for active
       membership in the Reserve because of a voluntary action for reasons within their control
       (see paragraph 3.3) are not entitled to continued employment (i.e. they are not entitled to
       protection from removal after restoration under Section 4316 of USERRA). They face
       immediate initiation of removal action for failure to maintain a condition of employment.
       For example, an ART who restored from active duty and lost his or her active
       membership in the Reserve six months later for failure to participate in prescribed reserve
       activities would face removal action for failure to maintain a condition of employment.
       4.8.3. Employees on active duty who lose their military status for medical
       disqualification are treated as though they never left their ART employment. Refer to
       paragraph 3.3.7 and paragraph 4.3 for voluntary actions determined to be within the
       individual's control (members may exercise their restoration rights, but face immediate
       initiation of removal action). Refer to paragraph 3.4 and paragraph 4.4 for involuntary
       actions determined to be beyond the individual's control. For example, an ART assigned
       to a non-key position who lost active membership in the Reserve for medical reasons
       while on tour, would be restored as NDST if found to be medically fit to perform the
       civilian duties of that position.
5. Responsibilities:
   5.1. ART Military Personnel Flight (MPF) chiefs notify appropriate Civilian Personnel
   Flights (CPF) or Offices (CPO) when, for any reason, an ART loses or is about to lose active
   membership in the Reserve. The MPF chief also notifies appropriate CPFs or CPOs 14
   months in advance of an enlisted ART's HYT date IAW AFI 36-2612, paragraph 7.5.2.2.
   The CPF or CPO ensures registration in the DoD PPP is accomplished in a timely manner
   according to this instruction. MPFs and CPFs or CPOs jointly establish local procedures for
   this purpose. HQ AFRC/DPCS registers ART officers in the DoD PPP, when appropriate,
   for loss of active membership in the Reserve prior to MSD.
   5.2. ART unit commanders/senior ARTs, MPFs, and CPFs or CPOs jointly determine if loss
   of active membership in the Reserve is within an individual's control, consistent with this
   instruction. Refer questionable cases to HQ AFRC/A1CE for a decision.




                                            CHARLES E. STENNER, JR., Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                                             AFRCI36-114 14 JULY 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-108, Air Reserve Technician (ART) Program, 26 July 1994
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994
AFI 36-2612, United States Air Force Reserve (USAFR) Reenlistment and Retention Program,
25 July 1994
AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities,7 March 1995
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, 15 December 2008
AFRCI 36-201, Air Reserve Technician (ART) Officer--Extension to Mandatory Separation Date
(MSD), 30 December 2005
DoD Directive 1205.18, Full-Time Support (FTS) to the Reserve Components, 4 May 2007
DoD Priority Placement Program (PPP) Operations Manual, July 1998
FPM Supplement (Internal) 930-71, Recruitment of Air Reserve Technicians Through
Competitive Examination (ART Agreement), January 1988
38 U.S.C. Chapter 43, The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act
(USERRA) of 1994
10 U.S.C. Sec. 10216, Military technicians (dual status)
10 U.S.C. Sec. 10217, Non-dual status technicians
10 U.S.C. Sec. 10218, Army and Air Force Reserve technicians: conditions for
retention; mandatory retirement under civil service laws
Adopted Forms
Air Force (AF) IMT Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AGR—Air Guard Reserve
ART—Air Reserve Technician
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CPO—Civilian Personnel Office
CSRS—Civil Service Retirement System
DoD—Department of Defense
FERS—Federal Employee Retirement System
AFRCI36-114 14 JULY 2011                                           9


HYT—High-Year-of-Tenure
MPF—Military Personnel Flight
MSD—Mandatory Separation Date
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
NDST—Non-Dual Status Technician
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
PPP—Priority Placement Program
RPL—Reemployment Priority List
USERRA—Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act
