BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                                 AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                                           INSTRUCTION 10-601
                                                                                                                               1 March 1999

                                                                                                                                    Operations

                                                                                    MISSION NEEDS AND OPERATIONAL
                                                                                                    REQUIREMENTS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the AFRC LAN InfoBase and subordinate unit
InfoBases. If you lack access, go to the HQ AFRC WWW site at http://www.afrc.af.mil.


OPR: HQ AFRC/XPRC                                                                                         Certified by: HQ AFRC/XP
      (Maj Peter Gretsch)                                                                                 (Maj Gen John J. Batbie, Jr.)
                                                                                                                            Pages: 38
                                                                                                                       Distribution: F
This instruction implements AFPD 10-6, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements, and AFI 10-601,
Mission Needs and Operational Requirements Guidance and Procedures. It outlines Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) policy, responsibilities, and procedures to process requirements documents, to include
AF Forms 1067, Modification Proposal, Mission Need Statements (MNS), and Operational Require-
ments Documents (ORD). It provides guidance and procedures for developing and processing AFRC
mission needs and operational requirements into requirements solutions. It describes the command pro-
cess to analyze, prepare, validate, and approve those requirements solutions. It establishes guidelines on
utilizing O&M funds (3740) and Air Force Reserve Equipment Account procurement appropriation
(0350) to satisfy command mission needs. It describes the interaction between the Office of Air Force
Reserve (AF/RE) and HQ AFRC in the requirements process. It applies to all AFRC offices preparing
and coordinating input to the requirements process and ensures coordinated staff action and documenta-
tion. See Attachment 1 for related publications.
       1.    Introduction. ...............................................................................................................    2
       2.    AFRC Requirements Flow. ........................................................................................                 4
       3.    Requirements Staffing, Validation and Approval (reference the Require .................                                         5
       4.    Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................     8
       5.    Fiscal Responsibilities: ..............................................................................................         14
       6.    Aircraft Modifications, AF Forms 1067, and the Requirements Process: .................                                          15
       7.    Combat Mission Needs Statement (C-MNS): ...........................................................                             20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               21

Attachment 2—AFRC REQUIREMENTS INITIATION AND LEAD COMMAND
             COORDINATION                                                                                                                    26
2                                                                          AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

Attachment 3—AFRC REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS, COORDINATION,
             AND VALIDATION                                                                              27

Attachment 4—AFRC REQUIREMENTS PRIORITIZATION, APPROVAL,
             AND EXECUTION                                                                               28

Attachment 5—AFRC REQUIREMENTS TIMELINE                                                                  29

Attachment 6—AFRC MISSION SOLUTION ANALYSIS Data Sheet                                                   30

Attachment 7—AFRC ACQUISITION Requirement Data Sheet                                                     32

Attachment 8—Ranking Criteria used FOR RROC VOTING                                                       34

Attachment 9—SAMPLE TEMPORARY MODIFICATION DIRECTIVE                                                     35

Attachment 10—SAMPLE TEMPORARY MODIFICATION SUPPLEMENT DIRECTIVE                                         37




1. Introduction. AFRC employs many diverse weapons and support systems in executing its global mis-
sion. Evolving mission needs and operational deficiencies drive the requirement to continually upgrade
and modify these systems.
    1.1. Air Force Modernization Planning Process (MPP). (Reference AFI 10-601 and AFI 10-1401,
    Modernization Planning Documentation). Guided by the Air Force Strategic Plan, the MPP is the
    foundation for requirements generation and the acquisition process. Mission area planners at the Air
    Staff, MAJCOMs, and NAFs conduct the MPP using: (1) Mission Area Assessment (MAA), "strat-
    egy-to-task" process; (2) Mission Need Analysis (MNA), "task-to-need" process; and (3) Mission
    Solution Analysis (MSA). The results of these processes are used to generate Mission Area Plans
    (MAP) and Mission Support Plans (MSP). The MAPs and MSPs document and prioritize operational
    deficiencies and potential solutions.
       1.1.1. Mission Solution Analysis (MSA). MSA, the last step in the MPP, identifies potential solu-
       tions, integrates solutions, develops alternatives, and applies constraints such as cost, interopera-
       bility, commonality, etc. AFRC supports other MAJCOMs in the MSA process, but also conducts
       a MSA process for Reserve weapon systems.
       1.1.2. AFRC Modernization Compendium. AFRC supports the active-duty Air Staff and MAJ-
       COMs at all levels in conducting MAAs, MNAs, and MSAs. In addition to supporting the Total
       Force in developing MAPs and MSPs, AFRC also generates a set of Reserve MAPs referred to as
       the AFRC Modernization Compendium. It is a roadmap of modernization plans for AFRC
       weapon systems. The Compendium uses the results of active-duty MAA, MNA, and MSA pro-
       cesses and AFRC processes to develop a total strategies-to-task-to-need-to-capability plan. It doc-
       uments the most effective means of correcting task deficiencies using system modifications,
       upgrades, technology applications, and new acquisitions. It is a tool to (1) assess active-duty sup-
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                                   3

     port of Reserve weapon systems, and (2) project the modernization investment profile required to
     effectively maintain the Reserves’ partnership in the Total Force.
  1.2. The Requirements Acquisition Process. AFI 10-601 describes this process as a series of four
  event-driven phases to solve a material deficiency.
     1.2.1. In Phase 0, Concept Exploration, the command assesses a specific mission deficiency using
     the "strategy-to-task" methodology.
     1.2.2. During Phase I, Program Definition and Risk Reduction, alternate solutions are measured
     against each another by cost, schedule, and potential capability. This is popularly referred to as
     the studies and analysis phase.
     1.2.3. In Phase II, Engineering and Manufacturing Development, preferred solutions are selected
     and integrated to a weapon or support system. Phase II may end with an operational utility evalu-
     ation, trial installation, kitproof, or low-rate initial production. Phases I and II represent the prac-
     tical application of Mission Solution Analysis (MSA) to the requirements acquisition process.
     1.2.4. In Phase III, Production, Fielding, and Operational Support, a solution is procured, deliv-
     ered to the user, and sustained. Many low-risk modernization programs do not require extensive
     Phase 0/I/II effort and may include engineering, integration, trial installation and kitproof as part
     of Phase III.
  1.3. Lead Command Responsibility (reference AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapons Sys-
  tem Management):
     1.3.1. The Air Force designates a "lead command" when more than one MAJCOM possesses the
     same type of weapon system. It designates all other MAJCOMs as "user" commands. The lead
     command for weapon systems operated by both active MAJCOMs and the Air Reserve Compo-
     nent (ARC) prioritizes requirements, resources, and schedules within a Total Force context. The
     Air Force normally gives priority to warfighting tasked forces which enter the fight first. Accord-
     ing to Air Force policy, if the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) or Congress approve items
     to improve mission capability, the Air Force will make every effort to take advantage of the oppor-
     tunity. However, this should be balanced with the Air Force effort to maintain fleet-wide config-
     uration control for commonality and interoperability within Total Force operations.
     1.3.2. The WC-130 is the only aircraft for which AFRC is the designated lead command. Lead
     command responsibility for all other AFRC weapon systems is assigned to ACC, AMC, and
     AFSOC according to AFPD 10-9 and AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and
     Responsibilities.
  1.4. National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account (NGREA 0350). Congress established the
  NGREA with the intent to enhance readiness and combat capability of the reserve components. It is a
  3-year appropriation, similar to 3080 or 3010 appropriations, used to support AFRC equipment
  upgrades, modifications, procurement, and other equipment needs. According to law, the appropria-
  tion cannot be spent by the active component, or for the active component. It is not meant to offset
  active-duty requirements but to enhance the reserve components, which are historically under-funded
  in the Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS) prioritization. The appropriation
  amount varies from year to year, and is not the result of the Program Objective Memorandum (POM)
  inputs. HQ AFRC via AF/RE submits the Requirements Prioritization List, which is developed
4                                                                         AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

    through the Requirements Review Board Process, as the command validated prioritization for
    NGREA funding.
    1.5. AFRC Operational Requirements Organization (RO). AFRC maintains its own operational
    requirements organization to (1) ensure lead commands and the Air Staff are addressing AFRC mis-
    sion needs, (2) provide coordinated inputs to lead commands, (3) manage the AFRC requirements
    process for allocation of resources to programs that are not funded by lead commands, and (4) execute
    AFRC-funded requirements programs. The AFRC RO consists of various elements throughout the
    AFRC command structure, including representatives and advisors at Air Staff, HQ AFRC, NAFs, spe-
    cialized operating locations, and MAJCOM requirements liaisons. Specific responsibilities are listed
    in paragraph 5. The intent and guiding philosophy is that the RO functions as a single team even
    though separated geographically. The primary organizational elements are AF/REOR and HQ AFRC/
    XPR. AF/REOR lays the foundation of long-range planning; it is the command OPR for the Modern-
    ization Planning Process (MPP) and the AFRC Modernization Compendium. REOR manages Mis-
    sion Solution Analysis (MSA) projects that initially study, engineer, and integrate potential solutions
    to capability shortfalls. HQ AFRC/XPR turns the long-range planning into requirements solutions. It
    is the command OPR for requirements generation and acquisition, including programs initiated by the
    lead commands. XPR manages all 0350 procurement programs.

2. AFRC Requirements Flow. AFRC requirements proposals flow through four stages: (1) initiation;
(2) analysis, coordination, and validation; (3) prioritization and approval; and (4) program execution.
Reference Attachment 2, Attachment 3, and Attachment 4.
    2.1. Stage One (Initiation). Requirements proposals, including aircraft modifications, are initiated at
    any level of the command and at any time within the process annual cycle. NAFs consolidate their
    unit’s requirements inputs and submit these to the RO through the applicable HQ AFRC functional
    areas. The RO coordinates requirements proposals for lead command consideration. Proposals that
    receive lead command concurrence, but are not funded, may be considered for AFRC funding.
    AFRC-funded requirements still require lead command coordination to prevent wasteful redundan-
    cies, sustainment shortfalls, and configuration conflicts between MAJCOMs.
    2.2. Stage Two (Analysis, Coordination, and Validation ). All proposals considered for AFRC fund-
    ing go through a process of analysis, coordination, and validation where they are staffed and devel-
    oped into preferred solutions. HQ AFRC/XPR establishes separate Requirement Development Teams
    (RDT) for each requirement. RDTs analyze their requirement for concept of employment, sustain-
    ment, resource allocation, and determination of proper appropriation (3740 or 0350). RDTs coordi-
    nate with lead commands, Air Staff, ALCs, System Program Offices (SPO), test organizations, etc., as
    necessary. RDTs recommend resource allocation and funding strategies with the coordination of
    financial management personnel. XPR consolidates the work of the RDTs and presents it to the
    Reserve Requirements Oversight Council (RROC) for validation and prioritization.
    2.3. Stage Three (Prioritization and Approval). The RROC evaluates and prioritizes requirements
    solutions prepared by the RDTs. The RROC develops three priority lists: Mission Solution Analysis
    (MSA) Phase I (S&A); MSA Phase II (evaluations and engineering); and Requirements Acquisition
    (0350 procurement). The three priority lists are presented to the Reserve Requirements Review Board
    (RRB) for review and approval. The RRB is the approval authority for the three priority lists and for
    0350 funding and program execution.
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                                5

   2.4. Stage Four (Program Execution). Appropriated funds, either O&M or 0350, are applied to
   AFRC programs according to the RRB-approved priority lists. AF/REOR personnel manage Phase I/
   II MSA projects that may include O&M-funded studies and analyses, operational utility evaluations,
   concept evaluations and testing, and sustaining engineering. In addition to these efforts, REOR exe-
   cutes programs that provide the infrastructure support for operational testing and unique logistics
   requirements.
   If these programs progress to 0350 procurement, program responsibility transfers from REOR person-
   nel to XPR project officers according to pre-defined, event-driven milestones. Many requirements
   solutions, however, are generated with no Phase I/II efforts and stand alone as a Phase III, 0350 pro-
   curement. These programs are managed by XPR personnel.

3. Requirements Staffing, Validation and Approval (reference the Require ments Flow Diagrams
and Process Timeline at Attachment 2 through Attachment 5):
   3.1. Requirements Origination. Anyone in AFRC may identify a mission need or initiate a proposal
   for equipment acquisition by submitting an AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal, AF Form 3215,
   C4 Systems Requirements Document, AF Form 1000, IDEA Application, HQ AFRC Requirement
   Data Sheet, or Memorandum through functional channels. All aircraft modifications require an AF
   Form 1067. Individuals at the unit and wing level forward proposals through their command structure
   to their NAF headquarters. HQ divisions may also initiate requirements proposals, or they may be
   top-down directed. RDTs coordinate all proposals, regardless of origin, with affected NAFs before
   presentation to the RROC.
   3.2. NAF Validation. NAF requirements validation is most effective when performed at recurring
   forums that align with the command’s annual cycle. Therefore, NAFs conduct "planning councils" to
   study their units’ mission needs and to solicit, validate, and prioritize requirements proposals. These
   meetings might encompass an entire NAF or may be aircraft specific. NAFs may incorporate require-
   ments forums into the agenda of existing NAF meetings. While NAFs individually decide the meet-
   ing timelines, ideally their inputs to the command cycle provide sufficient time before the February
   RROC. Requirements submissions in the August to November time period would optimally give the
   RO three to six months to analyze, coordinate, develop, and validate preferred solutions. NAF plan-
   ning councils should be the primary source of the command’s operational requirements.
   3.3. Lead Command Coordination. The RO coordinates requirements proposals for lead command
   consideration. The RO staffs AF Forms 1067 through respective NAF, HQ AFRC, and lead command
   configuration review processes as described in paragraph 6. HQ AFRC/XPR assists HQ AFRC/LGM
   in coordinating AF Forms 1067 with lead commands and SPOs.
      3.3.1. If the lead command approves an AFRC-generated requirement, it enters their POM pro-
      cess for funding. If the lead command concurs with, but is unable to fund the requirement, it may
      be considered for AFRC funding.
      3.3.2. For aircraft modifications, the lead command and the weapon system single manager must
      approve any permanent modification for which there was no previously validated need. The lead
      command is responsible for fleet-wide interoperability and commonality; the single manager is
      responsible to maintain system engineering integrity.
   3.4. Requirement Development Teams (RDT). Following AFI 10-601, AFRC uses a team approach
   to prepare and staff all AFRC-generated requirements proposals. The team approach should result in
6                                                                          AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

    the appropriate offices becoming involved in requirements development, early "buy in," and an
    increased understanding of the issues involved. It should also lead to better coordinated requirements
    and reduced staffing time. The NAF POC or functional area POC who submits a requirement pro-
    posal submits the concept to HQ AFRC/XPR on a draft requirement data sheet (Attachment 6 and
    Attachment 7). Based on the information provided in the draft requirement data sheets, XPR estab-
    lishes RDTs for each requirement submitted.
       3.4.1. RDT Membership. HQ AFRC/XPR identifies membership for each RDT by polling the
       appropriate directorate for a functional POC, a logistics expert from LG, and a financial expert
       from FM. The RDT is led by an action officer from AF/REOR or HQ AFRC/XPR. O&M-funded
       Phase I/II projects are led by AF/REOR, while Phase III 0350 procurement programs are managed
       by XPR. The RDT includes an XPM manpower specialist for proposals that affect manning force
       structure and a CEP facility requirements specialist for proposals that affect facility requirements.
       XPR may request NAF, AATC, or other system experts as needed. Each team member is respon-
       sible to represent their directorate’s position on the requirement. The RDT leader from REOR or
       XPR is ultimately responsible for coordination, issue resolution, staffing, and tracking of the
       requirement through RROC validation and RRB approval.
       3.4.2. RDT Procedures. The primary responsibility of the RDT is to review requirement propos-
       als for applicability and, if appropriate, prepare a requirement data package for presentation to the
       RROC. The package contains a completed requirement data sheet in the format at Attachment 6
       and Attachment 7. It includes system-level performance characteristics and capabilities, concept
       of operations, maintenance concept, facility impact analysis, manpower and follow-on O&M
       funding plans, and all support requirements (e.g., training, additional manpower, logistics, con-
       tractor logistics support). The package must include or reference all supporting documentation to
       include AF Forms 1067, applicable MNS/ORDs/PMDs, statements of work, cost estimates, engi-
       neering reviews, correspondence showing lead command coordination or concurrence, etc. The
       LGM team member coordinates the proposal within LG for potential sustainment issues. The
       FMA team member advises as to which funding source (O&M or 0350) is appropriate before the
       requirement is submitted to the RROC. The XPR team member coordinates with XPM to address
       manning impacts. RDTs submit completed packages to XPR by the end of December. XPR
       returns incomplete packages to the RDT before approving the requirement for the inclusion in the
       February RROC.
    3.5. Reserve Requirements Oversight Council (RROC). The RROC is a division level council that
    conducts a comprehensive review of AFRC mission needs. The council evaluates emerging require-
    ments across the command, ensuring each proposal integrates into AFRC long-range plans and
    addresses known and anticipated capability shortfalls. The council also considers recommendations
    from the NAF planning councils in evaluating proposals on the agenda. It prioritizes requirements for
    consideration of AFRC O&M or 0350 funding. The council reviews all proposed needs, solutions, and
    permanent modifications for multi-command or joint applicability.
       3.5.1. RROC Membership. The RROC chairperson is the Director of Plans and Programs (HQ
       AFRC/XP). XPR is the RROC OPR and process facilitator. RROC permanent voting members
       are DOT, LGM, 4/10/22 NAF representatives, AF/REOR, and any division chief whose require-
       ment is under RROC consideration. Non-voting permanent advisors are FMA, SEF, and Reserve
       Liaisons to ACC, AMC and AFSOC. Ad hoc participants include functional experts from the
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                             7

     RDTs, the programs under consideration, and AATC. XPR may approve contractor representa-
     tives or area experts from other commands and agencies, as required.
     3.5.2. RROC Procedures. The RROC meets in February to align with the next-FY Presidential
     Budget Unfunded Data Call answered by AF/RE (reference Attachment 5). The RROC meets
     again in July/August, approximately three weeks prior to the RRB. XP may convene additional
     meetings as necessary. XPR provides an annual schedule of RROC meetings to the RROC mem-
     bership and interested offices.
     3.5.3. February RROC. In this meeting the council prepares two sets of lists, a next-FY priority
     list and a requirements baseline for future years (funding in the next-FY+1 onward). RDTs may
     brief their programs using the requirement data sheet format at Attachment 6 and Attachment 7.
     The RROC makes recommendations to RDTs on content and issues needing resolution.
         3.5.3.1. Next-FY Priority Lists. The RROC evaluates and prioritizes ("racks and stacks") all
         requirements proposals on the agenda for funding in the next fiscal year. The requirement data
         sheet is the primary source of information from which the council makes its decisions. Pro-
         posals are prioritized using the voting procedure in Attachment 8. The RROC produces three
         priority lists: the MSA Phase I Priority List (S&A); the MSA Phase II Priority List (evalua-
         tions and engineering); and the Acquisition Priority List (APL). The RROC presents its rec-
         ommendations to the Reserve Requirements Review Board (RRB).
         3.5.3.2. Requirements Baseline. This is an outline of command requirements for the next fis-
         cal year plus one.
     3.5.4. July/August RROC. This is the last opportunity for the RROC to review and update the
     Next-FY priority lists and the requirements baseline (next FY+1) before their recommendation to
     the RRB.
     3.5.5. The XPR secretary records, distributes, and maintains the RROC minutes. At a minimum,
     the minutes identify RROC voting and non-voting members in attendance, meeting agenda, sig-
     nificant discussion items, action items, and recommendations not to validate individual proposals.
     XPR electronically sends the minutes to the RROC membership not later than five work days after
     the RROC.
  3.6. Requirements Review Board (RRB). The RRB is a directorate level board chaired by HQ
  AFRC/CC that conducts a comprehensive review of AFRC mission needs. The board evaluates
  emerging requirements across all mission areas and weapons systems, ensuring proposed solutions
  integrate into AFRC long-range plans. The RRB is the approval authority for all requirements on the
  recommended priority lists. Upon RRB approval, the Phase I/II prioritization lists for studies and
  engineering is provided to the Financial Working Group (FWG) for the purpose of budgeting these
  requirements into the AFRC O&M account. The RRB also approves the APL (Phase III programs)
  for 0350 funding.
     3.6.1. Funding Approval. The AFRC Financial Management Board (FMB) approves O&M fund-
     ing for distribution to the RRB-approved Phase I/II priority lists. 0350 funds are not part of the
     POM process and therefore are not considered at the FMB. The RRB approves 0350 funding
     toward the APL.
     3.6.2. RRB Membership. The RRB chairperson is the AFRC Commander. HQ AFRC/XP is the
     RRB OPR and process facilitator. RRB permanent members are AF/RE, HQ AFRC/CV, NAF/
8                                                                      AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

       CCs, and HQ AFRC Directors. Ad hoc advisors may include system level experts for the pro-
       grams being considered, as determined by NAF commanders or HQ AFRC directors. XP may
       approve representation by contractors or area experts from other commands and agencies.
       3.6.3. RRB Procedures. The RRB meets annually in late August to align with the NGREA Data
       Call answered by AF/RE (reference timeline at Attachment 5). The RRB approves the priority
       lists for next-FY funding. The RRB also reviews and approves the requirements baseline
       (next-FY+1).
           3.6.3.1. XPR develops the RRB agenda and schedules the meeting with the AF/RE and HQ
           AFRC/CV secretaries. The XPR secretary publishes the RRB agenda and required attach-
           ments at least ten work days prior to the RRB meeting.
           3.6.3.2. The XPR secretary records, distributes, and maintains the RRB minutes. As a mini-
           mum, the minutes identify RRB members in attendance, meeting agenda, significant discus-
           sion items, and action items. XPR electronically sends the minutes to the RRB and RROC
           membership not later than ten work days after the RRB.
    3.7. Requirements Program Review. XPR conducts an annual Program Review after the February
    RROC. XPR and AF/REOR updates the RRB membership on current and proposed modernization
    projects and acquisition programs. The Program Review addresses mission needs and concepts that
    emerged from command and NAF planning conferences. The RRB may re-prioritize individual
    requirements, however, the focus of the meeting is to thoroughly inform the command leadership on
    program status.

4. Responsibilities:
    4.1. HQ AFRC/XP Responsibilities. The AFRC requirements executive and principal agent for
    AFRC operational requirements. Program management executive for Reserve Equipment Account
    procurement (NGREA 0350). Maintains overall responsibility for MNS, ORDs, PMDs and matters
    pertaining to operational requirements within the command.
    4.2. AF/REO Responsibilities. Program management executive for command long range Moderniza-
    tion Planning.
    4.3. HQ AFRC/FM Responsibilities. Financial management executive for command Depot Pur-
    chased Equipment Maintenance [DPEM (3740)], Reserve Equipment Account procurement (NGREA
    0350), and weapons system engineering.
    4.4. HQ AFRC/LG Responsibilities. Program management executive for command DPEM (3740)
    and weapons system engineering which are part of established AFMC processes.
    4.5. AF/REOR Responsibilities:
       4.5.1. OPR for the AFRC Modernization Planning Process (MPP) and the AFRC Modernization
       Compendium. AFRC POC for AFI 10-1401, Modernization Planning Documentation.
       4.5.2. Executes Mission Solution Analysis (MSA) in support of the MPP. Manages MSA projects
       that are outside established AFMC processes. Such projects may include S&A, operational utility
       evaluation, software modification, weapons system engineering, integration, testing, etc.
       4.5.3. Coordinates with HQ AFRC/XPR to determine how and when MSA projects transition to
       acquisition programs. Program responsibility transfers from REOR to XPR at a predetermined,
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                        9

     event-driven milestone. Normally this is when a project transitions from O&M to 0350 funding
     and may be identified by a contract award date, program kickoff meeting, etc.
     4.5.4. Interfaces with Congress, OSD, SAF/AQ, AF/XOR, NGB, AFOTEC, AATC, and applica-
     ble Integrated Product Teams (IPT) during system development.
     4.5.5. AFRC focal point for AF/XOR requirements issues. Notifies AF/XOR, SAF/AQ, and HQ
     AFRC/XPR when proposed systems do not meet operational requirements.
     4.5.6. Submits annually (1 February) to AF/XOC a three-year funding forecast for pre-MS 0 and
     pre-MS I studies, when applicable (reference AFI 10-601). REOR briefs this forecast, when
     applicable, to the RRB membership.
     4.5.7. Issues S&A contracts, oversees contractors, and ensures programs track technically and
     financially.
     4.5.8. Air Staff interface for coordinating and representing AFRC on all requirements issues.
     Assists AF/XOR in identifying required organizations for tasking. Reviews appropriate docu-
     ments before the MS I decision (reference AFI 10-601).
  4.6. HQ AFRC/XPR Responsibilities:
     4.6.1. OPR for the Requirements Acquisition process (reference AFI 10-601). Develops policy,
     procedures, and planning guidance for AFRC requirements.
     4.6.2. MAJCOM interface for coordinating and representing AFRC on all requirements issues.
     Monitors acquisition, modification and upgrade programs of AFRC, lead commands, supporting
     commands, and AFMC to ensure AFRC mission needs are met. Notifies applicable lead com-
     mand staffs and AF/REOR when proposed systems do not meet operational requirements.
     4.6.3. OPR for the execution and program management of Reserve Equipment Account procure-
     ment (NGREA 0350).
     4.6.4. OCR for executing AF Forms 1067 through the requirements process (LGM is OPR).
     4.6.5. OPR to develop, review, and coordinate MNS, C-MNS, CRD, ORD, PMD, and AoA
     (COEA) documents with applicable commands and agencies. Receives all externally generated
     draft MNS, ORDs, AoAs (COEAs) from other commands or operating agencies, as well as PMDs
     from HQ AF. Coordinates and consolidates AFRC responses to these documents. Maintains a
     record file on the disposition of comments. Maintains a file of all MNS, ORDs, AoAs (COEAs),
     and PMDs received for AFRC coordination. Maintains a file of all active and inactive
     AFRC-originated MNS and ORDs and their status.
     4.6.6. OPR for the RROC and RRB. Plans, schedules and conducts the RROC at the direction of
     HQ AFRC/XP. Plans, schedules, and conducts the RRB at the direction of HQ AFRC/CC. Pro-
     duces and distributes RROC/RRB minutes. Notifies the submitting agencies of program status
     after the RROC/RRB.
     4.6.7. Coordinates with AF/REOR to determine how and when MSA projects transition to acqui-
     sition programs. Program responsibility transfers from REOR to XPR according to predefined,
     event-driven milestones.
     4.6.8. Submits the semiannual MNS/CRD/ORD Certification List to HQ USAF/XOR not later
     than 1 July and 1 January each year, according to AFI 10-601 and XOR guidelines.
10                                                                        AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

        4.6.9. Ensures HQ AFRC/SCP, as the Communications-Computer System Integration (CSI) func-
        tion, reviews applicable MNS, CRD and ORD for communications-computer support require-
        ments.
        4.6.10. OPR for AFRCI 10-601. AFRC POC for AFI 10-601.
        4.6.11. Training. Requirements training certification is required within 6 months of assignment
        to the XPR staff. Certification occurs upon completion of AFIT Systems 111 and allows the per-
        son to lead RDTs as an action officer, prepare requirements packages for submission to the RROC,
        and participate in lead command requirements planning and coordination. HQ AFRC/XP may
        grant substitution and waivers to AFIT System 111. AFIT Systems 111 is waived if the person has
        completed Defense Systems Management College.
     4.7. HQ AFRC/FMA Responsibilities:
        4.7.1. OPR for the financial management of Reserve Equipment Account procurement (NGREA
        0350), Depot Purchased Equipment Maintenance [DPEM (3740)], and weapons system engineer-
        ing.
        4.7.2. Appoints the financial managers for all AFRC DPEM, weapons system engineering, and
        0350 programs.
        4.7.3. Advises the RRB and the RROC on all financial issues.
        4.7.4. Appoints financial advisors to the RDTs as requested by XPR. RDT financial advisors
        advise the RDT on all financial issues, including propriety of using particular funds, methods for
        distribution of funds, bona fide need, fiscal integrity, upward obligation adjustments, etc. Finan-
        cial advisors assist in developing and coordinating requirement data packages regarding all finan-
        cial issues.
     4.8. HQ AFRC/LGM Responsibilities:
        4.8.1. OPR for the program management of DPEM (3740) and weapons system engineering that
        are a part of established AFMC processes.
        4.8.2. OPR for modification policy, procedures, approval process, and guidance development.
        Functional manager for all aircraft modification proposals.
        4.8.3. Chairs the AFRC Configuration Review Board (CRB). Appoints a recorder to manage and
        distribute the CRB agenda and minutes.
        4.8.4. OPR for executing AF Forms 1067 through the requirements process. Assigns AFRC
        tracking numbers and appoints an action officer for each command modification proposal. Modi-
        fication action officer executes AF Forms 1067 through the CRB and requirements process.
        4.8.5. MAJCOM approval authority to sign block 25 of AF Form 1067 for T-1/T-2 modifications.
        Assigns data codes for AFRC-directed T-1 and T-2 modifications. Forwards a copy of T-1/T-2
        modification proposal approval/disapproval correspondence to XPR.
        4.8.6. Requests waiver authority from ALC System Program Director (SPD) for temporary mod-
        ifications lasting more than one year or installed on more than the minimum number of assets nec-
        essary to meet validated specific site, environmental, or mission requirements.
     4.9. HQ AFRC/LGC Responsibilities. Coordinates on the documentation for all DPEM (3740) and
     weapons system engineering accomplished within AFRC (not through a supporting agency).
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                                11

  4.10. HQ AFRC Configuration Review Board (CRB) Responsibilities:
     4.10.1. The HQ AFRC CRB, chaired by HQ AFRC/LGM, acts as the command MRB and the
     command certification and approval authority for all AFRC modification proposals affecting
     AFRC assets.
     4.10.2. HQ AFRC LGM/XPR/DOT/LGS/SEF/FMA assigns branch/section level voting repre-
     sentatives to the CRB. Additional advisory members are appointed by the chairperson as needed.
     Representative CRB divisions/sections assign Functional Area Managers (FAM), Weapons Sys-
     tem Managers (WSM), or Equipment Specialists (ES) for staffing modification proposals as
     needed. The advisory members provide program expertise and may assist in prioritizing modifi-
     cation needs for submission through their division’s voting members to the CRB, lead command
     CCB, or AFRC RROC. They may brief board members on specific details such as risk factors,
     impact, etc., to assist in modification deliberations, prioritization, command validation and certifi-
     cation.
     4.10.3. The CRB convenes as necessary to review modification proposals. LGM forwards
     CRB-approved permanent modification proposals to the applicable lead command for fleetwide
     consideration. Recommendations are by consensus. The chairperson determines a course of
     action for items of contention.
     4.10.4. The CRB may request clarifying information from units and offices that submit AF Forms
     1067.
     4.10.5. The CRB assigns OPRs/OCRs as necessary to ensure command T-1/T-2 modification/
     rescission directives are written, coordinated, and distributed as necessary.
     4.10.6. The CRB recorder prepares meeting minutes and distributes to CRB and RROC members
     and advisors. The CRB recorder publishes a list of all active, rescinded, and pending modifica-
     tions by 30 December of each year and distributes it to the command customers and suppliers
     accordingly. At a minimum, the listing identifes the modification number, title, affected asset(s),
     and status of all active and rescinded modifications for the fiscal year.
  4.11. HQ AFRC/SCM Responsibilities. Reviews applicable MNS, CRDs and ORDs for mission
  communications-computer support requirements according to AFI 10-601.
  4.12. HQ AFRC/SCP Responsibilities: OPR for C4 requirements policy and configuration control.
  Functional manager for all C4 requirements. Conduct software configuration control according to the
  system Computer Resources Lifecycle Management Plan and applicable instructions.
  4.13. HQ AFRC Staff Responsibilities:
     4.13.1. HQ directorates designate a division to serve as their focal point to support requirements
     development and coordination. These focal points are responsible for receiving requirements doc-
     uments and ensuring those documents are routed to appropriate divisions within their directorate
     for coordination. These focal point divisions represent their directorate at RROCs, CCBs, CRBs,
     and other division level requirements meetings.
     4.13.2. HQ directorates provide permanent or advisory members for the RROC and RRB as
     requested by the chairpersons.
12                                                                         AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

        4.13.3. HQ divisions appoint a functional expert as HQ POC for each requirement proposal it is
        designated OPR for. The HQ POC is an RDT team member and assists in coordinating the pro-
        posal within HQ AFRC and with the originating NAF and the lead command, as necessary.
        4.13.4. HQ divisions support XPR in assigning RDT members and functional experts as
        requested.
     4.14. 4 AF, 10 AF, and 22 AF Responsibilities:
        4.14.1. Designate a division-level OPR for the requirements process. Each NAF OPR represents
        their NAF commander at RROC meetings. The OPR represents NAF interests in coordination
        with HQ AFRC/XPR/LGM, HQ functional area division chiefs and AF/REOR.
        4.14.2. Validate and consolidate their individual NAF requirements and submit them to the AFRC
        RO (HQ AFRC/XPR and AF/REOR) through recurring planning councils. NAF planning coun-
        cils should be the primary source of the command’s operational requirements and should be timed
        to cycle into the AFRC requirements timeline (Attachment 5).
        4.14.3. Establish an MRB from within their assigned staffs to align with the HQ AFRC CRB pro-
        cess. A modification proposal review process is established at all echelons within the command
        through the use of Modification Review Boards (MRBs).
        4.14.4. Designate lead units (LU) for assigned weapons systems, subsystems, and equipment.
        LUs are designated by agreement among the NAFs for assets common to multiple NAFs such as
        Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE). NAFS publish a consolidated joint-listing of the LUs and
        provide a copy to each AFRC operational unit and the HQ AFRC CRB. LUs establish and main-
        tain an MRB modification processing/ evaluation/ validation protocol process within their repre-
        sentative areas to align with the NAF and AFRC process. LUs strive to achieve consensus on
        modification proposals submitted to NAFs.
        4.14.5. NAF Modification Review Board (MRB) Responsibilities:
            4.14.5.1. Establish MRBs at all levels within the command to evaluate and validate modifica-
            tion proposals. MRBs meet as necessary to ensure successful customer-supplier support and
            an effective validation process.
            4.14.5.2. Voting members are assigned from collateral management team members authorized
            in the decision making process to commit resources from within their representative areas.
            4.14.5.3. Commit to achieve consensus for the use, assignment, and allocation of resources in
            the best interest of the organization, the customer, and the public. MRBs that supply proposals
            to the next echelon of the MRB evaluation process must ensure compliance with applicable
            acquisition/modification directives as well as the requirements set forth by the customer MRB
            or CRB.
            4.14.5.4. Provide meeting minutes to the applicable MRB’s customers and suppliers.
            4.14.5.5. Designate functional area representatives within their organization to act as modifi-
            cation monitors (MM). MMs ensure tracking of modifications in and out of their organization/
            functional area and assign control numbers. In addition, MMs advise collateral program and
            process managers (e.g., Base Level Suggestion Manager, Product Improvement Monitor, etc.)
            of modification status and ensure necessary documentation required by the collateral process.
            In some cases, a designated MRB or CRB recorder may accomplish this function.
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                               13

         4.14.5.6. Maintain a file of all active applicable T-1/T-2 modification directives for assigned
         assets. The T-1/T-2 file is reviewed at least semiannually for modifications necessary to con-
         vert to permanent (P) status or needing extension waivers. T-1 and T-2 command recession
         directives are maintained on file for two years.
         4.14.5.7. Establish suitable metrics consistent with quality improvement principles to ensure
         their assigned MRB process is efficient, effective, value-added and customer oriented.
         4.14.5.8. NAF MRBs conduct annual reviews of proposed AFRC-initiated modifications by
         weapons system, category and classification. They forward a prioritized list of outstanding
         modifications to the HQ AFRC CRB (HQ AFRC/LMA) by 30 June of each year. NAFs who
         share equipage of common assets provide a consensus on the prioritized listing.
  4.15. AFRC Operational Wings/Units/Lead Units Responsibilities:
     4.15.1. Establish processes to identify, validate, and coordinate requirements proposals to satisfy
     mission deficiencies and operational needs. These processes should align with respective LU/
     NAF procedures.
     4.15.2. Establish and conduct periodic MRBs as directed by their NAF.
  4.16. 94th Air Wing, Financial Management Office (94th AW/FMFC) Responsibilities. 94th AW/
  FMFC at Dobbins ARB is the command certifying official for 0350 appropriations and O&M funding
  for AFRC requirements. The Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS Columbus Center) is
  the paying office for all AFRC requirements.
  4.17. MAJCOM Requirements Liaisons. Reserve liaisons to ACC, AMC, and AFSOC advise the
  respective MAJCOM directorates and staff on all matters relating to Air Force Reserve moderniza-
  tion, requirements, acquisition, and test and evaluation. They provide liaison to HQ AFRC, AF/RE,
  and AATC.
  4.18. Operating Locations. Duties vary according to each location and the purpose for which the
  office is established. However, the underlying responsibility of each position is the success of AFRC
  requirements interests and efforts.
  4.19. Source Selection Responsibilities:
     4.19.1. Source selection information is highly sensitive and requires constant vigilance to pre-
     clude release of information that could compromise the source selection process. Because of the
     close association with industry representatives, AFRC personnel must exercise every precaution
     in this respect. Although not necessarily classified, source selection information is considered
     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY which protects it from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of
     Information Act of 1974. Source selection information consists of the Government’s business
     strategy and may consist of, but is not limited to: source selection plans, proposed costs or prices
     submitted in response to a Federal agency solicitation, number of proposals submitted, name of
     any organization that has submitted a proposal, technical evaluations of proposals, cost evalua-
     tions of proposals, rankings of proposals, reports of source selection panels/boards, and other
     information marked as "SOURCE SELECTION SENSITIVE - See FAR 3.104."
     4.19.2. Proprietary information is also sensitive in that potential contractor’s proposals often con-
     tain trade secrets or other information that legitimately must be protected from competitors. Pro-
     prietary information should be marked as such.
14                                                                         AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

        4.19.3. Only persons who have been formally appointed to a particular source selection organiza-
        tion are authorized access to source selection information. If you are part of a source selection
        organization, you are not authorized to release source selection information to any person in your
        chain of command unless that person is also formally appointed to that same source selection
        organization. Both source selection and proprietary information must be protected from unautho-
        rized disclosure even if not properly marked, as with dealing with classified information. Federal
        acquisition regulations give further information on source selection and proprietary information,
        and on the serious restrictions against receiving or disclosing such information.
     4.20. Document Dissemination to Contractors. AFRC personnel will not release requirements docu-
     ments outside the Air Force until the document is approved. After approval, other agencies and con-
     tractors may obtain copies from the Air Force Information for Industry Office (reference AFI 10-601)
     or through the SPO (if the contractor has a contractual relationship with the AF).

5. Fiscal Responsibilities:
     5.1. Program and financial managers are responsible to the functional director (HQ AFRC/XP/LG
     and AF/REO) and financial management director (HQ AFRC/FM) for the execution of command
     DPEM, weapons system engineering, and 0350 programs. All programs are subject to monthly pro-
     gram reviews.
     5.2. Financial managers are responsible for propriety of funding, i.e., determining the specific appro-
     priation to be used when financing specific projects.
     5.3. Program and Financial Managers:
        5.3.1. Prepare program and funding documents according to guidelines put forth in the HQ AFRC
        Financial Management operating instruction. Managers should be given flexibility to allocate
        funding using all appropriate transfer processes. HQ AFRC/FM is the final approval authority for
        the type of funding document employed.
        5.3.2. Determine the best program approach and which funding method is appropriate before
        releasing the funding document. HQ AFRC/LGM coordinates on the documentation for all
        DPEM (3740) and weapons system engineering accomplished within AFRC (not through a sup-
        porting agency).
        5.3.3. Obtain a copy of the obligating document when funds are obligated. Together, they review
        the obligating document to ensure funds have been properly obligated according to the intent of
        the funding document.
        5.3.4. Conduct monthly reviews of accounting reports from DFAS. Together, they determine if
        there are discrepancies in the accounting records. They prepare and submit a monthly DFAS dis-
        crepancy report to the HQ AFRC/FM and applicable Functional Director. HQ AFRC/FM resolves
        the issue with the appropriate DFAS organization. Ninety days prior to funds expiration, affected
        program and financial managers present a program/financial review of all open discrepancies to
        the Financial and Functional Directors.

6. Aircraft Modifications, AF Forms 1067, and the Requirements Process:
     6.1. General. Aircraft modifications are part of the DOD and AF acquisition and sustainment pro-
     cess. Modifications are based on identified, documented, and validated mission needs which seek to
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                               15

  improve an existing capability or exploit an opportunity to reduce costs or enhance performance.
  Modifications may not establish a new operational capability. Anyone in the command may identify
  and submit modification requirements, provided coordination via the modification and configuration
  management process is consistent with this instruction and lead command guidance. The AF Form
  1067 is the requirement document that supports modifications of out-of-production systems costing
  less than $65 million (FY96 constant year dollars). Additionally, modifications of less than $10 mil-
  lion may be approved at the MAJCOM level, instead of by AF/XOR (reference AFI 10-601).
     6.1.1. Submit all modification proposals on an AF Form 1067. The AF 1067 serves as the source
     document and milestone “0“ from concept to paper for modification proposal packages.
     6.1.2. Establish a modification proposal review process at all echelons within the command
     through the use of Modification Review Boards (MRBs). Each AFRC Numbered Air Force, Lead
     Wing, and Operational Unit establishes an MRB. MRBs comply with the instructions herein for
     evaluating, prioritizing, and processing modification proposals. The HQ AFRC Configuration
     Review Board (CRB) is chaired by HQ AFRC/LGM and acts as the command MRB.
     6.1.3. All modification proposals require MRB and CRB evaluation to ensure configuration man-
     agement. Under no circumstances will an asset be modified without prior MRB, CRB, and SPO
     engineering approval.
     6.1.4. Submit acquisition modifications through the applicable MRBs to HQ AFRC/XPR. Sub-
     mit sustainment modifications through the applicable MRBs to HQ AFRC/LGM. HQ AFRC for-
     wards proposals to the HQ AFRC CRB recorder for assignment of a control number and
     processing into the AFRC CRB. The CRB determines modification management responsibility
     (MMR) and MMR transfer (MMRT) as part of the CRB evaluation for all AFRC initiated modifi-
     cations. Do not submit modification proposals directly to the RROC or the RRB before CRB
     review and the MMR/MMRT is established.
     6.1.5. Modifications constitute alterations to the form, fit, or function of an existing produced
     material asset or configured item such as aircraft, commodity system or component, equipment,
     missile, space system, software, trainer, simulator, pod, etc. Modifications may also result from
     acquisition efforts or proposals that alter or enhance capability. Modifications may result in
     improved safety, sustainability, capability, survivability, reliability and maintainability, process
     efficiency and/or effectiveness.
     6.1.6. Explore alternate solutions and strategies to modifications such as waivers, preferred spares
     replacements, process/procedural improvements, minor technical order and operating manual
     changes, etc., prior to submitting modification proposals. Use other established processes, pro-
     grams, and forums as a more economical solution to modification proposals where appropriate.
     Examples include the system safety group (SSG), quality improvement process (QIP), problem
     solving process (PSP), suggestion program, product improvement working group (PIWG), AFTO
     Form 22, Technical Order Improvement Report and Reply, AFTO Form 135, Source, Mainte-
     nance, and Recoverability Code Change Request, weapons system cost reduction (WSCR),
     T.O. 00-35D-54, Deficiency Reporting, and improved item replacement program (IIRP). Con-
     sider non-material solutions as alternatives to modifications prior to initiating a modification pro-
     posal. Candidate modification proposals must include an analysis of the above alternative
     solutions/considerations and supporting data when being submitted to HQ AFRC for consider-
     ation.
16                                                                           AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

     6.2. Classes of Modifications. Modifications may be classified as permanent (P), temporary (T-1)
     and temporary (T-2) modifications. Regardless of classification, modifications will not be accom-
     plished on any AFRC asset without prior Single Manager (SM) engineering and applicable owning-,
     using- or lead-, command approval. T-1 and T-2 modifications will be removed and the asset restored
     to original configuration prior to transfer to another command unless waived by the gaining com-
     mand. Upon installation of a T-1 or T-2 modification, the installation must be annotated in the appro-
     priate aircraft/equipment condition records until such time the modification is removed and the asset
     returned to its original configuration.
        6.2.1. Permanent (P) modifications are permanent changes to a configured asset. Some examples
        of candidate P modification proposals include the correction of safety or material deficiencies,
        improved reliability and maintainability, adding or removing capability, reducing life-cycle costs,
        weapon systems cost reductions, operational and process improvements. Only proposals that do
        not qualify under one or more of the alternative options listed in this instruction will be processed
        and considered a permanent modification.
            6.2.1.1. Low cost permanent modifications are modifications with a total estimated cost
            (TEC) under the threshold limits established in AFI 10-601 and AFI 63-1001, Aircraft Struc-
            tural Integrity Program. TEC includes engineering, trial installation, functional test flight, kit
            proof, kits, installation, support equipment, technical data, training, software, training devices,
            etc.
            6.2.1.2. Low cost modifications which expand to exceed the threshold limits established by
            AFI 10-601 and AFI 63-1001, require additional documentation prescribed in AFPD 10-6
            such as MNS, etc.
            6.2.1.3. Safety Modifications. Safety modifications correct material or other deficiencies that
            endanger the safety of personnel or could cause loss or damage to equipment or the environ-
            ment. Safety modifications have priority for funding and implementation. To qualify as a
            safety modification one or more of the following criteria must apply:
                6.2.1.3.1. The deficiency must have caused or could cause loss of life, serious injury to
                personnel, or loss of or serious damage to equipment, personnel or the environment.
                6.2.1.3.2. Per AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, the MAJCOM CC endorse-
                ment within 90 days of a mishap recommends corrective action as a safety modification.
                6.2.1.3.3. The MAJCOM/CC restricts training or operations until the modification is com-
                plete.
                6.2.1.3.4. The System Program Director (SPD) grounds the aircraft or places restrictions
                on the affected assets.
        6.2.2. Temporary Modifications. There are two classes of temporary (T) modifications, (T-1) and
        (T-2).
            6.2.2.1. T-1 modifications are temporary operational changes that add or remove equipment to
            provide new or increased capability based on a validated requirement for a special mission.
            They are not a substitute for permanent modifications. T-1 modifications normally require
            installation on no more than five systems/configured items and for no longer than one year.
            (Exception: temporary modifications may be installed for more than one year on the number
            of assets necessary to meet validated specific site, environmental, or mission requirements
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                               17

         provided a waiver is obtained from AF/LGM). T-1 modifications must have the ability to be
         changed back to the original configuration within 48 hours. Equipment and supplies needed to
         accomplish T-1 modifications must be obtained from Air Force stock with no additional pro-
         curement required to replenish supply. The modification must not require any additional pro-
         gram funding, logistics, facilities, or manpower support. Upon completion of the need for a
         T-1 modification affected assets must be returned to their original configuration within 48
         hours.
         6.2.2.2. T-2 modifications are temporary modifications required to support testing and evalu-
         ation, normally before a permanent modification as part of an approved acquisition program.
         T-2 modifications will not normally be accomplished unless an approved, funded, and pro-
         gram management directive driven Air Force program requires the process. Accomplish T-2
         modifications on the minimum number of assets to accomplish necessary testing and evalua-
         tion. Modified assets must be returned to their original configuration upon completion of the
         test and prior to being placed back into normal operational service. (Exception: Successful
         T-2 modifications ultimately submitted as a permanent modifications may be reviewed to
         determine eligibility to remain installed on the affected configured assets). T-2 modifications
         converted to P modification proposals must be submitted to the final approving OPR within 60
         days after the testing process. T-2 modifications require project officers assigned at all levels
         within the command to ensure the successful and timely completion of testing and to provide
         necessary data for a timely and thorough evaluation.
  6.3. AFRC Modification Review Boards (MRBs). Establish MRBs at all levels within the command
  to evaluate, validate, and certify modification proposals. MRBs ensure their process adds value to the
  modification process. MRBs meet as necessary to ensure a successful customer-supplier and valida-
  tion process exists.
     6.3.1. MRB voting members are assigned from collateral management team members authorized
     in the decision-making process to commit resources from within their representative areas.
     6.3.2. MRBs commit to achieve consensus for the use, assignment, and allocation of resources in
     the best interest of the organization, the customer, and the public. MRBs that supply proposals to
     the next echelon of the MRB evaluation process must ensure compliance with applicable acquisi-
     tion/modification directives as well as the requirements set forth by the customer MRB or CRB.
     6.3.3. MRBs assign a recorder to produce written minutes of MRB meetings. Provide minutes
     from MRB meetings to the applicable customers and suppliers.
     6.3.4. Each MRB designates functional area representatives within their organization to act as
     modification monitors (MM). As applicable, MMs are responsible to ensure tracking of modifica-
     tions in and out of their organization/functional area, assigning control numbers, and advising col-
     lateral program and process managers/monitors such as the base level suggestion manager,
     product improvement monitor, etc., of modification status as it changes to include necessary doc-
     umentation required by the collateral process. In some cases, a designated MRB or CRB recorder
     may accomplish this function.
     6.3.5. MRBs maintain a file of all active applicable T-1/T-2 modification directives for assigned
     assets. Review the T-1/T-2 file at least semiannually for modifications necessary to convert to P
     status or needing extension waivers in lieu of making the modification permanent. Maintain T-1
     and T-2 command recession directives on file for two years.
18                                                                           AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

        6.3.6. Each MRB sets up suitable metrics consistent with quality improvement principles to
        ensure their assigned MRB process is efficient, effective, value-added and customer oriented.
     6.4. HQ AFRC Configuration Review Board (CRB). The HQ AFRC CRB acts as the command
     MRB. HQ AFRC/LGM chairs the HQ AFRC CRB. HQ AFRC LGM/ XPR/ DOT/ LGS/ SEF/ FMA/
     CEP assigns necessary division/section level voting representatives to the CRB. Representative CRB
     division/sections assigns action officers, functional area managers (FAM), weapons system managers
     (WSM), or equipment specialists (ES) for staffing modification proposals. As applicable, the action
     officers, FAMs, WSMs, and ESs provide recommendations and expertise in evaluating modification
     proposals. They may also assist in prioritizing modification needs for submission through their divi-
     sion/section level voting members to the CRB, RROC, or CCB. In addition, they may brief board
     members of specific modification details (such as risk factors, impact, etc.) in order to assist the board
     in modification deliberations and the command validation, certification, and prioritization processes.
        6.4.1. The CRB convenes as necessary to review modification proposals. The CRB acts as the
        command certification and approval authority for all AFRC modification requirements affecting
        AFRC assets. The CRB forwards CRB-approved permanent modification proposals to the appli-
        cable lead command for fleet wide consideration.
        6.4.2. The CRB assigns OPRs/OCRs as necessary to ensure command T-1/T-2 modification/
        rescission directives are written, coordinated, and distributed as applicable.
        6.4.3. The AFRC CRB recorder publishes a list of all active, rescinded, and pending modifica-
        tions by 30 December of each year and distributes it to the command customers and suppliers
        accordingly. As a minimum, the listing identifies the modification number, title, affected assets,
        and status of all active and rescinded modifications for the fiscal year.
     6.5. Process Compliance. Process owners assume responsibility for process compliance. Assign-
     ments or possession of an asset does not constitute authority to modify/demodify an asset without an
     approved command level or SPD modification directive.
     6.6. Preparing and Submitting Proposals. Quantify, classify, validate, evaluate, submit, and process
     modification proposals according to this instruction and associated publications. Proposals submitted
     into the modification requirements and evaluation process must be data supported and must include
     accompanying data at the time of submission into the modification evaluation process. Concepts,
     ideas, or recommended engineering studies by themselves do not constitute a modification proposal.
        6.6.1. The initiator (or responsible field level agency tasked to develop a modification package)
        submits all modification proposals on an AF Form 1067. The AF Form 1067 is the basic modifi-
        cation proposal document. Accompanying subordinate supporting documents such as concept/
        feasibility studies, proposed installation instructions, photographs, drawings (consistent with the
        level of expertise and resources available to accomplish the instructions and drawings), numerical
        data, charts, point papers, etc., accompany the AF Form 1067 as attachments when submitted.
        Suppliers into the modification process ensure compliance with these directives and related speci-
        fications.
        6.6.2. Once the basic AF Form 1067 modification proposal and subordinate documents are pre-
        pared, forward the proposal to the next level MRB for processing, evaluation, validation, and pri-
        oritization. Evaluators and MRBs return incomplete or improperly submitted proposals to the
        initiator. Returned proposals include appropriate recommendations to ensure the intent or poten-
        tial benefit of the proposal is not overlooked, suggestions to improve the proposal, and other com-
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                                   19

      ments as necessary. Modification proposals may be disapproved by the staff level OPR at any
      level of the command prior to MRB review provided disapproval of the proposal is data supported
      and the data accompanies the disapproval document.
      6.6.3. Field unit MRBs submit approved modification proposals to the NAF designated aircraft/
      system/subsystem/ equipment lead unit of the asset for processing, evaluation, and prioritization.
      6.6.4. Lead units obtain a consensus of a proposal from like AFRC operating units before for-
      warding it to the NAF MRB for consideration. (Exception: T-1 and T-2 modification proposals to
      support a validated requirement for a special mission affecting only one unit within the com-
      mand). Lead unit evaluations include review of the proposal for interoperability, mobility require-
      ments and compatibility, life-cycle costs, attrition factors, fleet-wide applicability, tangible/
      intangible benefits, and overall weapon system/system/commodity asset prioritization of the pro-
      posal. Lead MRBs forward approved proposals to the applicable NAF MRB for consideration.
      6.6.5. NAF MRBs forward approved modifications to HQ AFRC after MRB evaluation and
      assign the proposal a numerical weighted value and recommended priority for accomplishment.
   6.7. Software. Conduct software configuration control according the system Computer Resources
   Lifecycle Management Plan (CRLMP) and applicable guidance.
   6.8. Modification Implementation. Implementation of approved modifications is by directive from
   the applicable command or SPD as applicable. Under no circumstances will an asset be modified
   without engineering approval and a written directive issued.
      6.8.1. T-1/T-2 modification and rescission directives are issued by the command MRB chair
      according to Attachment 9 and Attachment 10.
      6.8.2. The AFRC MRB recorder provides data codes in the T-1/T-2 directives to document
      man-hours for modifications and rescission actions. Data codes are eight digits in length includ-
      ing the prefix. The first digit represents the command issuing code; the second digit represents the
      year; the third and fourth digits represent the month of issue; and the sixth, seventh, and eighth
      digits represent the sequential number of issue from the first of the calendar year. For example,
      R5010001 represents an AFRC issued directive in 1995, January, and it is the first directive issued
      in the year.

7. Combat Mission Needs Statement (C-MNS):
   7.1. If in a conflict or crisis situation, and an immediate need “loss of life” situation develops, a field
   commander may request the MAJCOM submit a C-MNS in order to activate the Rapid Response Pro-
   cess (RRP). The C-MNS is validated by the MAJCOM (coordinated through lead command) and sent
   to AF/XOR. Within 48 hours, AF/XOR presents the C-MNS to the Air Force Chief of Staff (CSAF)
   for approval. The RRP objective is to provide a readily-available fielded solution to the warfighter
   normally within 60 days from CSAF approval. The RRP does not replace normal acquisition proce-
   dures; but rather speeds up the fielding of readily available systems to satisfy wartime needs. C-MNS
   procedures and format are documented in AFI 10-601, and AFI 63-114, Rapid Response Process.
   7.2. AFRC field commanders submit the C-MNS request message to HQ AFRC/DO/XP and any
   other HQ or NAF directorates as determined by the requester. HQ AFRC/XP organizes an emergency
   RRB to convene within 72 hours of message receipt. Within one hour of message receipt, XPR routes
   the C-MNS request to all other affected HQ directorates. XPR immediately notifies the lead com-
20                                                                        AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

     mand requirements division and AF/XOR that AFRC is beginning the process of MAJCOM C-MNS
     validation. XPR appoints an action officer to staff the C-MNS through completion.
     7.3. The XPR action officer and functional POC prepare the C-MNS with applicable HQ division
     level input, coordinate with the lead command and prepare a briefing for the emergency RRB. If XP
     determines that staffing does not need to continue through a weekend or holiday, XP may coordinate
     with DO to suspend staffing until the next regular duty day. XPR submits daily progress reports to XP
     and DO.
     7.4. XPR presents the C-MNS, along with the lead command response, to the emergency RRB. If the
     C-MNS is validated by the emergency RRB, XPR immediately sends it to AF/XOR according to AFI
     10-601. XPR sends an information copy to lead command.



                                          JAMES E. SHERRARD III, Maj Gen, USAF
                                          Commander
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                21

                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-6, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements
AFPD 10-9, Lead Operating Command Weapon Systems Management
AFPD 10-14, Modernization Planning
AFPD 10-21, Air Mobility Lead Command Roles and Responsibilities
AFPD 63-1, Acquisition System
AFPD 99-1, Test and Evaluation Process
AFI 10-1401, Modernization Planning Documentation
AFI 10-601, Mission Needs and Operational Requirements Guidance and Procedures
AFI 10-602, Determining Logistics Support and Readiness Requirements
AFI 21-101, Maintenance Management of Aircraft
AFI 33-103, Requirements Development and Processing
AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements
AFI 63-101, Acquisition System
AFI 63-114, Rapid Response Process
AFI 65-601 (multiple volumes), Budget Guidance and Procedures
AFI 90-202, Acquisition Oversight Coordination Board (AOCB)
AFI 99-101, Developmental Test and Evaluation
AFI 99-102, Operational Test and Evaluation
CJCSI 3170.01, Requirements Generation System, (Formerly CJCS MOP 77)
DoD D 5000.1, Defense Acquisition
DoD 5000.2, Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs and Major Automated
Information Systems
DoD D 5000.35, Defense Acquisition Regulation (DAR) Management
DoD D 5000.63, Defense Acquisition Regulations (DAR) System
DoD FMR 7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulation
AFFARS Part 5307, Acquisition Planning

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AATC—Air National Guard Air Reserve Test Center
22                                                        AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

ACC—Air Combat Command
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFROC—Air Force Requirements Oversight Council
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AoA—Analysis of Alternatives
ARC—Air Reserve Component
BES—Budget Estimate Submission
CCB—Configuration Control Board
C-MNS—Combat Mission Need Statement
COEA—Cost and Operational Effectiveness Analysis
COTS—Commercial-Off-the-Shelf
CRB—Configuration Review Board
CRD—Capstone Requirements Document
DPEM—Defense Purchased Equipment Maintenance
FMB—Financial Management Board
FWG—Financial Working Group
FY—Fiscal Year
HQ—Headquarters
IPT—Integrated Product Team
MAA—Mission Area Assessment
MAP—Mission Area Plan
MAJCOM—Major Command
MNA—Mission Need Analysis
MNS—Mission Need Statement
MPP—Modernization Planning Process
MRB—Modification Review Board
MSA—Mission Solution Analysis
MSP—Mission Support Plan
NAF—Numbered Air Force
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                               23

ORD—Operational Requirements Document
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
PB—President’s Budget
PMD—Program Management Directive
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBS—Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System
RDT—Requirements Development Team
RO—Requirements Organization
RRB—Requirements Review Board
RROC—Reserve Requirements Oversight Council
SAF/AQ—Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
SERP—Sustaining Engineering Requirements Process
SPO—System Program Office
SPD—System Program Director
S&A—Studies and Analysis

Terms
Air Force Requirements Oversight Council (AFROC)—The AFROC assists AF/XO, VCSAF and
CSAF in their responsibilities to assess Air Force operational requirements. The AFROC chairperson is
the Director of Operational Requirements (AF/XOR). The AFROC permanent members are the
MAJCOM requirements principals and representatives from SAF/AQ (appropriate directorate), SAF/FM
(FMB for funding and FMC for cost issues), AFOTEC, AF/XOI, AF/IL (ILM or ILS as appropriate), AF/
XP, AF/TE, AF/XOC. Ad hoc members, based on topics reviewed, include functional experts from
AFCIC, AF/SG, and AF/SP (representatives are not limited to 0-7s/0-8s or their civilian equivalents), and
other Service representatives when joint needs or requirements are considered.
Analysis of Alternatives (AoA)—The AoA assists decision makers in selecting the most cost-effective
materiel alternative to satisfy a mission need. It compares alternative solutions on the basis of cost and
operational effectiveness, documents the analytical and operational rationale for choosing the preferred
alternative, helps to justify the need for starting or continuing an acquisition program, and serves as an
important tool for developing requirements and assists in developing the concept of operational
employment for the preferred alternative.
Capstone Requirements Document (CRD)—An optional document that describes the requirements for
a family-of-systems or a complex “system-of-systems” in order to satisfy broad mission needs. It is not
part of the formal acquisition process (i.e. not an official acquisition document) and need not be
24                                                                        AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

system-specific. The CRD is normally developed after the MNS is validated. It normally precedes
concept studies leading to one or more ORDs. It follows the format in CJCSI 3170.01, 13 Jun 97,
Enclosure C, Pages C-1 and C-2.
Combat Mission Need Statement (C-MNS) Process—An expedited process for documenting and
staffing urgent, time-sensitive requirement. It is used to document deficiencies that arise during combat
or crisis operations. The C-MNS is described in Rapid Response Process (AFI 63-114) that has
established criteria when a combat need is determined. The C-MNS substitutes for both MNS and ORD
documentation requirements.
Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS)—Commercial items that require little or no unique government
modifications or maintenance over the life-cycle of the product to meet the needs of the using command.
Integrated Product Team (IPT)—Teams composed of representatives from appropriate functional
disciplines working together with a team leader to build successful and balanced programs, identify and
resolve issues, and make sound and timely recommendations to facilitate decision-making.
Interoperability—The ability of systems, units, or forces to work in conjunction with other systems and
provide services to or accept services from other systems, units, or forces and to use the services so
exchanged to operate effectively together.
Lead Command—MAJCOM designated by AF/XOR to prepare, coordinate and submit MNS and ORDs
when more than one MAJCOM or agency has the same mission needs and operational requirements.
Mission Area Plans (MAP)—MAPs are the summation of the studies/analyses process (MAA, MNA,
and MSA) and identify the investment strategy for a specific mission area. The MAP identifies the most
cost effective materiel and non-materiel solutions, changes in force structure, systems modifications,
facility construction or modifications, science and technology applications, and new acquisitions.
Additionally, each MAP must include mission support needs and investments that directly contribute to
the success of its operations and are unique to that particular mission area.
Mission Area Assessment (MAA)—The first phase of the MPP. The MAA process enhances Air Force
warfighting capabilities by identifying military objectives in the Defense Planning Guidance (DPG), the
Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan (JSCP), Air Force guidance, and regional operations Orders and
operations plans. MAA uses a "strategy-to-task" methodology to identify the operational and support
tasks needed to achieve military objectives.
Mission Needs Analysis (MNA)—The second phase of the MPP. The MNA assesses the Air Force’s
ability to accomplish the tasks identified during MAA. MNA uses a "task-to-need" methodology to
identify mission needs. MNA can also highlight technological opportunities and identify reliability and
maintainability improvements which can also enhance warfighting capabilities.
Mission Need Statement (MNS)—A brief statement (no more than five typed pages) prepared by the
CINCs, HQ USAF, or operating MAJCOMs to document mission needs that require a materiel solution.
MNS are a formatted non-system-specific statement that contains operational capability needs, written in
broad operational terms, and does not identify a program or specific solution. MNS describe required
operational capabilities and constraints to be studied during the Concept Exploration and Definition
Phase.
Mission Planning Process (MPP)—Done in three phases, the MPP assesses what operational objectives
and tasks a nation’s military forces must be prepared to perform, evaluates and documents the
requirements and needs to accomplish those tasks, and identifies the potential solutions, both materiel and
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                                 25

non-materiel, to address those needs.
Mission Solution Analysis—The third phase of the MPP. The MSA identifies potential materiel
solutions to solve the deficiencies/needs identified during MNA, integrates those solutions, and develops
mixes of solutions within each MAJCOM. It attempts to prioritize the solutions. The MAJCOMs,
National Laboratories, and test agencies work together during this phase to identify a relevant set of
solutions which address the needs and deficiencies from the MNA
Modification—An alteration to a produced material item applicable to aircraft, missiles, support
equipment, trainers, etc. The alteration changes, as a minimum, the fit or function of the item.
Non-Developmental Item (NDI)—NDIs are: any item commercially available in the market place; any
previously developed item of that is in use by a department or agency of the United States, a state or local
government, or a foreign government with which the United States has a mutual defense cooperation
agreement; any of the previous items that requires only minor modifications to meet the requirements of
the procuring agency; any of the above items of supply that is currently being produced but is not yet in
use or is not yet available in the commercial marketplace; any COTS item.
Operational Requirements Document (ORD)—A document prepared by the respective using
command that describes pertinent quantitative and qualitative performance, operation, and support
parameters, characteristics, and requirements for a specific candidate weapon system describing that
system necessary to fulfill the mission deficiency. Air Force ORDs have a mandatory attachment called
the requirements correlation matrix (RCM).
Program Management Directive (PMD)—The official Air Force document used to direct acquisition or
modification responsibilities to appropriate Air Force MAJCOM for the development, acquisition,
modification or sustainment of a specific weapon system, subsystem, or piece of equipment. It is used
throughout the acquisition cycle to terminate, initiate, or direct research for development, for production,
or modifications for which sufficient resources have been identified. States program unique
requirements, goals, and objectives, especially those to be met at each acquisition milestone or program
review.
Requirement—A recommended solution to a mission deficiency that when validated and approved
justifies the timely allocation of resources to achieve a capability to accomplishes military objectives,
missions, or tasks.
Supporting Command—The command (usually Air Force Materiel Command) responsible for
providing logistics support for a system and assuming program management responsibility from the
implementing command.
Technical Data—Scientific or technical information recorded in any form or medium (such as manuals
and drawings). Computer programs and related software are not technical data; documentation of
computer programs and related software are. Financial data or other information related to contract
administration is also included.
26                                             AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

                             Attachment 2

     AFRC REQUIREMENTS INITIATION AND LEAD COMMAND COORDINATION
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                          27

                              Attachment 3

       AFRC REQUIREMENTS ANALYSIS, COORDINATION, AND VALIDATION
28                                             AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

                            Attachment 4

     AFRC REQUIREMENTS PRIORITIZATION, APPROVAL, AND EXECUTION
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                29

                                   Attachment 5

                           AFRC REQUIREMENTS TIMELINE
30                                                                 AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

                                         Attachment 6

                    AFRC MISSION SOLUTION ANALYSIS DATA SHEET

Title of Requirement:
Date Submitted:


REQUIREMENT DEVELOPMENT TEAM (List names/grades, office symbol, telephone)
Functional Area POC:
Action Officer(s): Primary and secondary from XPR and AF/REOR
LGM POC: May be same as functional area POC for some modification projects
FMA Advisor:
Other Members:


DESCRIPTION OF NEED: (Documentation of Requirement)


PRIORITIZATION/IMPORTANCE: (Configuration Plan, PMD, ORD, MOA’s etc.)


DESCRIPTION OF APPROACH: (Obsolescence, Reliability & Maintainability, Cost Savings, Safety,
Preferred Spare, Low Cost Enhancement, Low Risk, Existing Technology, Commonality, Commodity)


NON DEVELOPMENTAL ITEM INFORMATION (If Applicable): (Current Contractor, Common Mil-
itary Aircraft/ System)


IMPLEMENTING ALC:
CONTRACTOR:
TESTING REQUIRED: (FCT, OT&E, TD&E)
SUBCONTRACTORS:


SCHEDULE (by FY): (Integration/Engineering Study, OT&E, Installation and Fielding)


FINANCIAL INFORMATION (by FY): (Integration Study, Engineering, OT&E, Production/Fielding,
Total Cost)
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                    31

DESCRIPTION OF DELIVERABLES: (e.g., Two Prototypes, Install at AATC, Flight Test Support,
Final Test Report)


STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES:
MAINTENANCE/LOGISTICS STRATEGY:


OTHER POINTS OF CONTACT:
FOR USE BY XPR
RROC Date:RRB Approval Date:
32                                                                      AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

                                            Attachment 7

                        AFRC ACQUISITION REQUIREMENT DATA SHEET

Title of Requirement:
Date Submitted:


DESCRIPTION: (Cost, Quantity, Total Cost)


REQUIREMENT DEVELOPMENT TEAM: (List names/grades, office symbol, telephone)
Functional Area POC:
Action Officer(s): Primary and secondary from XPR and AF/REOR
LGM POC: May be same as functional area POC for some modification projects
FMA Advisor:
Other Members:


JUSTIFICATION:
Authorizing Document: (Include Copies of Related Sections of Document)


AFRC Configuration Review Board (CRB) Approval Date:
Lead Command Configuration Approval Date: (aircraft modification only):


How does this requirement impact the following:
Mission Performance, Survivability, Readiness, Sustainment, Interoperability


Compare this Program to Active-Duty Capability:
Current or Potential Work Around:
Lead Command Position:


Additional Manpower Required? If yes, how many spaces required?
Logistics Support Required (spares, support equipment, TCTOs):
Recurring/non-recurring O&M Required? YES NO; If yes, how much and what for?
Training Requirements (show $ amount required O&M, RPA, etc.):
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                      33

Facility Requirements (show by O&M and MILCON if required):


INITIATOR:


ACQUISITION/PROCUREMENT AGENCY:


OTHER POINTS OF CONTACT:


FOR USE BY XPR
RROC Date:RRB Approval Date:
34                                                                           AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

                                                Attachment 8

                         RANKING CRITERIA USED FOR RROC VOTING

A8.1. The RROC prioritizes all equipment requirements using the following criteria. Each requirement
is measured in five areas: mission performance, survivability, readiness, sustainment, and interoperabil-
ity. Each area is scored using the following scale: Enhancement, Score 0-3; Essential, score 4-7; Critical,
score 8-10.
     A8.1.1. Mission Performance. The ability to accomplish one’s mission.
     A8.1.2. Survivability. Capability of a system to accomplish its mission in the face of an unnatural
     (man-made) hostile, scenario-dependent environment.
     A8.1.3. Readiness. The ability of forces, units, weapons systems, or equipment to deliver the outputs
     for which they were designed (deployment through initial employment).
     A8.1.4. Sustainment. The ability to maintain the necessary level and duration of operational activity
     to achieve military objectives.
     A8.1.5. Interoperability. The ability of systems, units, or forces to provide services to and accept ser-
     vices from other systems, units, or forces.
     A8.1.6. Enhancement (Rank from 0 to 3).
        A8.1.6.1. System or system upgrade intended to postpone obsolescence through modernization.
        A8.1.6.2. Not critical or essential for mission accomplishment.
        A8.1.6.3. Improves system or subsystem performance, reliability, maintainability, availability.
     A8.1.7. ESSENTIAL (Rank from 4 to 7).
        A8.1.7.1. A system or system modification, upgrade, or requirement that provides a new or
        improved capability, but will not cause mission failure if not obtained.
        A8.1.7.2. Provides a capability that does not already exist, and will significantly improve proba-
        bility of mission success.
     A8.1.8. CRITICAL (Rank from 8 to 10).
        A8.1.8.1. A system or system modification, upgrade, or requirement that is a “Show Stopper,”
        i.e., corrects a non-mission capable condition.
        A8.1.8.2. Counters a significant advantage of the enemy (new threat).
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                                35

                                             Attachment 9

                     SAMPLE TEMPORARY MODIFICATION DIRECTIVE

                             AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND (AFRC)
                              Temporary (T-1/T-2) Modification Directive
                                           Modification Title
                                                   for
               Weapons System/Equipment Designation (Example KC-135, C-130, etc.)


Date: (Effective Date of the Directive)


AFRC Mod Control Number: (AFRC MRB Number)Data Code: (AFRC MRB assigned)


1. Purpose: (Clearly state what the modification will do.)


2. When Work Will Be Accomplished: (As appropriate) Aircraft/Equipment will be modified by
(XXXX) or reported by message to HQ AFRES/XPR (or designated OPR/OCR).


3. Applicable Aircraft or Equipment Affected: (Specify the weapon systems or equipment affected. This
is necessary since the proposal may only affect a few assets or the entire inventory.) (Note: If the modi-
fication directive replaces a previous one, reference the command data code and date.)


4. Records: Enter this modification on the applicable (AFTO Form 95, AFTO Form 781A, include mech-
anized reporting systems reporting, etc., as required)


5. Modification Data: (Give step-by-step modification instructions on how the work is accomplished.
Include photos, drawings, schedules, etc., as necessary. Reference to “attached” instructions is accept-
able.) T-2 modifications will be according to MIL(P)27733A(USAF).


6. Supply Data: (List the items/materials to be ordered or fabricated from within the AF supply system
to accomplish the modification. Include accountable materials required for a T-1 mod in either the Air
Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS) using either the weapons system Table of Allowance
Source Code 054 or on a Special Recoverables Authorized to Maintenance (SPRAM) listing according to
AFM 67-1, Vol I, Chapter 2. Account for increases/decreases to -21 or Alternate Mission Equipment
(AME) as a result of T-1/T-2 modifications in the applicable inventory records. Retain removed -21 gear/
AME and keep in serviceable condition, etc.)
36                                                                          AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999


7. Man-hours Required: (List man-hours required, by specialty, but cumulatively to build one item,
install one kit, etc to complete the intent of one modification on an asset. When more than one specialty
is employed at a time to perform a task, list the specialties needed and include the estimated clock-hours
to complete the task.)


8. Special Tools: (List any special tools required to be manufactured or used to comply with the modifi-
cation.)
9. Weight and Balance: (Specify any aircraft weight and balance changes that will result from the modi-
fication. List “negligible,” as applicable. Include a statement to ensure weight and balance calculations
and records are updated as necessary.)


10. Retention: (Identify any time limitations on modification such as “until TCTO XXX compliance”,
“until test project complete,” etc., or “This modification approval/implementation/modification directive
remains in effect for one (1) year from the date of this document.”)


11. Engineering Approval: (Identify the ALC/SPO document, and date, granting the engineering
approval.)


12. Testing Data: (Identify the agency and Project Officer responsible for developing and carrying out
testing of the modification. Include clauses necessary for the review and approval of test plans and data to
include disposition of close-out data as necessary.)


13. POCs: (Identify the OPRs/OCRs, by office symbol and DSN, who may be contacted for technical/
modification assistance.)
AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999                                                                                  37

                                              Attachment 10

             SAMPLE TEMPORARY MODIFICATION SUPPLEMENT DIRECTIVE
                              AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND (AFRC)
                         Temporary (T-1/T-2) Modification Supplement Directive
                                             Modification Title
                                                     for
                Weapons System/Equipment Designation (Example KC-135, C-130, etc.)


Date: (Effective Date of the Directive)


Date of Original Directive: (Self-explanatory)


Supplement: (Enter Supplement Number (A, B, C, etc)


AFRC Mod Control Number: (AFRC MRB Number)Data Code: (AFRC MRB assigned)


1. Purpose: (Clearly state what the supplement does: rescinds/extends/amends the mod etc.)


2. When Work Will Be Accomplished: (As appropriate; No Later Than, After Special Mission or Test
XXX, etc. Aircraft/Equipment will be modified/demodified by (XXXX) or reported by message to HQ
AFRES/XPR (or designated OPR/OCR).


3. Applicable Aircraft or Equipment Affected: (Indicate the original data code, date of issue, and short
definition of the mod. Specify the weapon systems or equipment affected. This is necessary since the
supplement may only affect a few assets or the entire inventory.)


4. Records: Enter supplemental modification or demodification on the applicable (AFTO Form 95,
AFTO Form 781A. Include mechanized reporting systems reporting, etc., as required. )


5. Modification Data: (Give step-by-step modification/demodification instructions as applicable on how
the work is accomplished. Include photos, drawings, schedules, etc., as necessary. Reference to
“attached” instructions is acceptable or, in the case of a demodification, a statement directing the reversal
of the sequence of the modification action will be adequate; i.e., “return the asset to the original configu-
ration prior to implementation of modification XXXX.)
38                                                                       AFRCI10-601 1 March 1999

6. Supply Data: (List the items/materials to be ordered or fabricated from within the AF supply system
to accomplish the required supplemental modification instructions. Include accountable materials
required for a T-1 mod in either the Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS) using either the
weapons system Table of Allowance Source Code 054 or on a Special Recoverables Authorized to Main-
tenance (SPRAM) listing IAW AFM 67-1, Vol I, Chapter 2. Account for increases/decreases to -21 or
Alternate Mission Equipment (AME) as a result of T-1/T-2 modifications in the applicable inventory
records. Indicate that removed -21 gear/AME will be retained and kept in serviceable condition, etc. If
the supplement requires demodification of an asset, indicate disposition instructions of parts/materials,
etc.)


7. Man-hours Required: (List man-hours required, by specialty, but cumulatively to accomplish the sup-
plemental requirement(s). When more than one specialty is employed at a time to perform a task, list the
specialties needed and include the estimated clock-hours to complete the task.)


8. Special Tools: (List any special tools required to be manufactured or used to comply with the supple-
mental information.)


9. Weight and Balance: (Specify any aircraft weight and balance changes that will result from the accom-
plishing the supplement. List “negligible,” as applicable. Include a statement to ensure weight and bal-
ance calculations and records are updated as necessary.)


10. Testing Data: (Identify the agency and Project Officer responsible for developing and carrying out
supplemental testing. Include clauses necessary for the review and approval of test plans and data, to
include disposition of close-out data .)


11. POCs: (Identify the OPRs/OCRs , by office symbol and DSN, who may be contacted for technical/
modification or supplemental assistance.)
