BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                           MISSION DIRECTIVE 1118

                                                                               21 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Mission Directive

                                                     HEADQUARTERS FOURTH, TENTH, AND
                                                           TWENTY-SECOND AIR FORCES

               COMPLIANCE WITH THS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: HQ AFRC/A1MP                                                         Certified by: HQ AFRC/DS
                                                                     (Mr. William C. Redmond, SES)
Supersedes:     AFRCMD1118, 15 April 1999                                                   Pages: 2


This mission directive prescribes the mission, organization, functions, and responsibilities of Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Numbered Air Forces (NAF).

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is significantly revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Mission. Command assigned AFRC units. Ensure assigned units maintain operational
readiness according to Air Force standards to include combat readiness, medical readiness and
inspection readiness. Provide assistance to, and operational readiness assessment of assigned
units through Operational Readiness Exercises and other discretionary events when warranted.
Supervise and assist assigned units in planning for deployment and redeployment actions, for
major events and contingencies. Advocate for assigned units. Implement plans, policies, and
programs as developed and directed by Headquarters (HQ) AFRC.
2. Command. AFRC NAF Commanders:
    2.1. Exercise administrative control over assigned forces.
 2                                                        AFRCMD1118 21 SEPTEMBER 2012


     2.2. Exercise Direct Liaison Authority with respective Lead MAJCOM (LMAJCOM) staff
     to ensure reserve training standards and qualification levels meet mobilization requirements.
     2.3. Coordinate resources with LMAJCOMs to support Total Force Integration units’
     readiness.
     2.4. Execute assigned responsibilities with a lean, task organized staff in a skip-echelon staff
     structure. Command authority does not skip echelon.
        2.4.1. AFRC NAFs are included in staffing products that affect command and
        operational readiness of assigned units.
        2.4.2. When the NAF echelon is bypassed for staffing purposes (skip echelon), the HQ
        AFRC staff agency (or unit), provides effective concurrent and/or follow-up
        communication to the respective NAF functional area and/or the NAF commander’s
        support staff.
        2.4.3. NAF staffs have access to appropriate information/data systems to exercise
        command and maintain an advocacy role in all functions required to manage AFRC units.
     2.5. Exercise Class B mishap convening authority.
3. Responsibilities. Established command channels apply. Communicate directly with the
LMAJCOM on matters relating to training, inspection, operational mission coordination, and
logistical support. Assist assigned units to implement command operational readiness and
compliance processes. Participate in AFRC Corporate Structure. Manage resources across units.
     3.1. Operations/Plans (A3/5). Establish and maintain an operations and plans interface
     with the appropriate levels of the LMAJCOMs, to coordinate on and assist in matters
     affecting reserve force operational readiness.
     3.2. Logistics/Readiness (A4/7). Establish and maintain a logistics, civil engineering,
     security forces and emergency management interface with the appropriate levels of the
     LMAJCOMs, to coordinate on and assist in matters affecting reserve forces operational
     readiness. Implement the plans, programs, and procedures for the management of logistical
     support of all assigned units and ensure units meet program goals and operational readiness.
     3.3. Judge Advocate (JA). Provides legal counsel and services to NAF/CC and NAF staff.
     Advises NAF planners on legal issues and command relationships pertaining to operations.
     Advises NAF/CC on UCMJ actions and the conduct of courts-martial. Provides operational
     legal counsel regarding Law of Armed Conflict, Rules of Engagement, Status of Forces and
     international law.
     3.4. Commander’s Support Staff (CSS). Plans, manages, and organizes activities for
     multi-disciplined NAF staff to include synchronizing NAF suspenses for direct report units.
     Controls NAF budget to accomplish NAF/CC’s priorities.
4. Organizational Changes. Submit changes to the organizational structure to HQ
AFRC/A1M, according to AFI 38-101, Air Force Organization.

                                               JAMES F. JACKSON, Lt Gen, USAFR
                                               Commander
