BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND MISSION
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                                     DIRECTIVE 1157
                                                                                        31 OCTOBER 2002
                                                                           Certified Current 12 August 2009
                                                                                                 Recruiting

                                                                     AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
                                                                             RECRUITING SERVICE


NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ AFRC/XPMP (Ms Patsy L. Roland)                                          Certified by: HQ AFRC/XP
                                                                                (Col Harriett G. Hernandez)
                                                                                                    Pages: 4
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This mission directive prescribes the mission, organization, and responsibilities for Headquarters (HQ)
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Recruiting Service.


1. Mission. To implement policies and procedures to effectively manage AFRC Recruiting Service orga-
nization with the capability of obtaining sufficient numbers of qualified persons to fill programmed posi-
tions in the Air Force Reserve Command. Duties are the same in peacetime as wartime. Responsible,
through channels, to the Commander, Air Force Reserve Command.

2. Command. The Director of Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service (HQ AFRC/RS) is
dual-hatted as the Commander, Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service and reports directly to
the Vice Commander, AFRC.

3. Assigned Forces. AFRC Recruiting Service consists of over 400 recruiting service personnel world-
wide to include headquarters staff, recruiting service flights, senior recruiters, line, in-service, and health
professions recruiters. AFRC Recruiting Service personnel are also assigned to HQ AFRS, HQ ARPC,
HQ AETC (Recruiting School), and the National Personnel Records Center.

4. Relationships to Other Units. Established command channels apply. The commander and staff per-
sonnel communicate directly with HQ AF/RE staff, HQ AFRC directorates, HQ ARPC, wing command-
ers, and other DoD agencies as recruiting matters dictate.



                                                         JAMES E. SHERRARD III, Lt General, USAF
                                                         Commander
2                                                                    AFRCMD1157 31 OCTOBER 2002


                                               Attachment 1

                                     FUNCTIONAL STATEMENTS


             Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command Recruiting Service (HQ AFRC/RS)


Command (RS). Activities relating to enlisting, appointing, and assigning recruiting applicants to fill
programmed Air Force Reserve Command Selected Reserve vacancies, projected vacancies, and autho-
rized overages. Responsibilities include operations, training, planning, personnel, budget, advertising,
and resources support activities. AFRC Recruiting Service commander also serves as director on AFRC/
CV staff.


Reserve Recruiting Flights (604/610/622). Activities relating to recruiting qualified applicants, other
than selected health professions candidates, for wing and IMA positions within their assigned Air Force
Reserve Command NAF. Primary responsibilities include supervision of subordinate senior recruiters and
operating locations (OLs). In addition, they are responsible for all activities of their OLs. Conducts field
staff assistance visits.


Health Professions Reserve Recruiting Flight. Responsible for recruiting qualified health professions
officers for wing and IMA positions throughout Air Force Reserve Command. Primary responsibilities
include supervision of subordinate senior recruiters and OLs. In addition, they are responsible for all
activities of their OLs. Coordinates policy and accession standards with AFRC/SG and Air Reserve Per-
sonnel Center (ARPC). Focal point with SG and ARPC in resolving health professions recruiting con-
flicts. Conducts field staff assistance visits.


Advertising and Information Systems Division (RSA). Conducts national advertising campaigns and
strategies to generate satisfactory number of national leads needed for field recruiters to surpass recruiting
goals. Provides information system support to staff and field recruiters to include computer systems,
applicant record databases, web design, and Air Force Recruiting Information Support System planning
and implementation.


Operations and Training Division(RSO). Provides recruiter goaling and demographic information.
Tracks and forecasts accession data and trends. Coordinates policy and accession standards with HQ AF/
RE staff. Conducts sales training courses for new and existing recruiters. Supports field recruiters with
needed applicant information required for processing, and reviews/approves applicant waiver determina-
tion requests. Provides ARPC coordination concerning appointment applications and IMA applicant pro-
cessing.


Budget/Resources/Plans Division (RSS). Oversees Recruiting Service budget activities (nationally and
locally). Plans for and provides needed resources to recruiters and staff agencies--real estate, vehicles,
AFRCMD1157 31 OCTOBER 2002                                                                            3


communications, supplies and equipment. Submits Programmed Objective Memorandum issues and ini-
tiatives, as requirements dictate. Conducts Recruiting Service Unit Compliance Inspections. Provides
Career Management Program information to field recruiters and ensures compliance with program guide-
lines concerning personnel assignments/progression.


First Sergeant (CCF). Serves as advisor to commander concerning enlisted morale and welfare, and dis-
cipline issues.


Orderly Room/CCQ. Manages commander’s special interest programs such as physical health assess-
ments, dental, drug testing, weight management, and physical fitness programs. Also responsible for
updating personnel assignment actions, promotions, EPRs, and records updates.
4                        AFRCMD1157 31 OCTOBER 2002


          Attachment 2

    AFRC RECRUITING SERVICE
