BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                       INSTRUCTION 33-102

                                                                      4 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                          Communications and Information

                                                   COMMAND SUPPORT LAND MOBILE
                                                                        RADIOS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: AFRC/A6OC                                                       Certified by: AFRC/A6
                                                                         (Maj Kasey L. Fry)
                                                                                    Pages: 7
Supersedes:   AFRCI33-102, 17 April 1998


This instruction implements AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management. It prescribes
procedures for obtaining and using the AFRC command Land Mobile Radios (LMRs). This
publication applies to the Air National Guard. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes all AFRES to read AFRC and (1) indicates where wording or phrases have
been changed. It also deletes the term Command deployable LMR and replaces with Command
support LMR package. It establishes an additional support package at Dobbins ARB GA and
deletes the support package at Travis AFB CA.
1. LMR Custodians. Table 1 contains a list of packages custodians, location, and number of
radios authorized for shipment.
 2                                                        AFRCI33-102 4 SEPTEMBER 2012


Table 1. Package Custodians.
PORTABLE
PACKAGE                     CUSTODIAN                   LOCATION
AUTHORIZATION

Package 1                   94 CS/SCOT                   Dobbins ARB GA
79 (VHF)

Package 2                   94 CS/SCOT                   Dobbins ARB GA
105 (UHF)

Package 3                   439 CS/SCOT               Westover ARB MA
75 (VHF)
NOTE: All portable radios are battery powered and designed to be operated by one person. All
packages are equipped with the National Security Agency (NSA) endorsed Data Advanced
Encryption Standard (AES) algorithm and may be used to pass sensitive unclassified
information, provided the radios are properly keyed.
2. References:
     2.1. AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Land Mobile Radios, and The Military-
     Affiliate Radio System
     2.2. AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. HQ AFRC/A6OC is responsible for overall management of all Command LMR
     packages including scheduling and radio frequency assignments.
     3.2. The 94 CS/SCOT and 439 CS/SCOT are the custodians for the packages respectively.
4. Custodian Responsibilities. Custodians are responsible for accountability, storing,
monitoring, maintaining, programming, and issuing their respective LMR packages as directed
by HQ AFRC/A6OC. Before issuing radios, custodians perform an operational check to ensure
LMR optimal performance, charge each battery, conduct an inventory, and ensure LMR and
ancillary items are properly packed to prevent damage during shipment. Additionally, the
custodians:
     4.1. Maintain DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document, according to
     AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities.
     4.2. Include an inventory checklist in the LMR package, and maintain LMR status in the
     Asset Inventory Management (AIM) System IAW AFI 33-106.
     4.3. Upon return of radios, conduct inventories, perform operational check of each radio and
     ancillary equipment, and visually assess the condition of the equipment.
     4.4. Provide a written status report to HQ AFRC/A6OC in those instances where radios are
     inoperative, have been damaged, or when items equipment items are missing.
AFRCI33-102 4 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                     3


   4.5. Program radios with approved frequencies as authorized by HQ AFRC/A6OC
   (Spectrum Management).
5. Using Unit Responsibilities. AFRC units that use the command support LMR packages:
   5.1. Operate the radios only on the designated channels that correspond to assigned
   frequencies.
   5.2. Use AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, or locally approved sign out system, to
   issue radios and ancillary equipment to individuals.
      5.2.1. Personnel issued LMRs are charged with the responsibility of safeguarding them.
      5.2.2. Personal who lose or damage LMRs may be assessed with the cost of replacement
      under AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, if negligence, willful
      misconduct, or unauthorized use can be established. Additionally, the Uniform Code of
      Military Justice (UCMJ) prescribes punishment of personnel who damage, lose, or
      destroy government property (Article 108), or are derelict in the performance of their
      duty to safeguard that property (Article 92).
   5.3. Assume custodial responsibilities of LMR package upon arrival at designated location
   listed on DD Form 1149. Perform an inventory against package checklist and send the
   respective package within 12 hours after package arrival. Inventory discrepancies are
   indicated on receipt acknowledgment only, by serial number (radios) and or by item
   (ancillary equipment).
   5.4. Are responsible for requesting the use of the command support LMRs and arranging
   transportation to and from the user location. This includes furnishing the custodian fund sites
   by message when required.
   5.5. When returning the equipment advise the custodian by message of the date it was
   shipped, how it was shipped, and from where.
   5.6. Meet the return not later than date, that is, have the package back to the custodian by the
   date. Failure to do so may result in nonsupport of the next scheduled commitment.
   5.7. Ensure the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) radios are used and properly keyed for
   passing sensitive, unclassified information. Sufficient lead time must given to the local
   COMSEC custodian to secure keying material that coincide with package use.
   5.8. The using unit is ultimately responsible for replacing any (or all) equipment that is lost
   or damaged in any way.
6. Procedures:
   6.1. Any AFRC unit requiring temporary LMR support may request use of a command LMR
   package. Use of more than one package at a time is only granted on a case-by-case basis.
   Submit all requests with a minimum of 90 day lead-time to address spectrum supportability
   determination. Request must be submitted by message, letter, or E-mail to HQ AFRC
   Personal Wireless Communications System (PWCS) Management, Robins AFB, Georgia
   31098-1635.
   6.2. Upon receipt of the request, HQ AFRC PWCS Management sends the requesting unit a
   message confirming availability of LMR package. Issuing instructions are sent to the
 4                                                          AFRCI33-102 4 SEPTEMBER 2012


     package custodian and requesting unit approximately 10 to 15 days prior to the required
     operational date. Requests which have a lead time of less than 90 days must be fully justified
     giving reason for failure to meet prescribed lead time and mission impact if request is not
     satisfied.
     6.3. Each request will include the following:
        6.3.1. Tasking authority.
        6.3.2. What mission the LMR package will support.
        6.3.3. Where the LMR package will be used (include all locations).
        6.3.4. Point of contact (POC), organization/office symbol, and DSN number.
        6.3.5. Inclusive dates that the LMR package will be used (actual exercise dates).
     6.4. The package custodian prepares the LMR package for shipment according to paragraph
     4, upon receipt of issuing instructions.
     6.5. Each requesting unit:
        6.5.1. Contacts the LMR custodian to arrange transportation of the radios from the
        custodian to the required locations and return transportation to the LMR package
        custodian. Failure of the unit to contact the LMR custodian may result in nonsupport of
        the requirement.
        6.5.2. Assumes custodial responsibility and complies with paragraph 4.
        6.5.3. In all cases, accounts for all radios and ancillary equipment on AF Form 1297.
7. Maintenance:
     7.1. Radios are repaired on an as-required basis at each custodian’s home station using an
     AF Form 9, Request for Purchase or Government Purchase Card.
     7.2. If one or more of the support radios becomes inoperable while in care of the using unit it
     is the using unit’s responsibility to obtain a replacement or conduct the remainder of the
     exercise without it. In the event of an inoperable radio, the using unit must inform the
     package custodian, who in turn will notify HQ AFRC/A6OC. NOTE:                     DO NOT
     ATTEMPT TO REPAIR ANY RADIO AS IT WILL VOID THE WARRANTY! IF THE
     WARRANTY IS DETERMINDED BY THE MANUFACTURER TO BE VOID THE
     USING UNIT WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REPLACEMENT OF THE RADIO.
     7.3. Using units will not attempt to reprogram any radio. If any radio is damaged as a results
     of re-programming the using unit will replace the radio. If reprogramming is necessary, the
     custodian or appointed technician performs the operation.
     7.4. The package custodian maintains maintenance records IAW the directives provided in
     AFI 33-106, and AFMAN 33-363, Management of records.
8. Priority of Use. HQ AFRC PWCS Manager will determine unit priorities in instances where
LMR request cannot be satisfied due to limited number of radios or insufficient turnaround time
between package deployments. In the event of conflicting LMR support package request, the
following functional listing will be used to determine priorities:
     8.1. Actual contingency tasking.
AFRCI33-102 4 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                         5


  8.2. Gaining command tasking,
  8.3. JCS exercise.
  8.4. ORI/UEI
  8.5. Local exercise.      NOTE:       In all cases, HQ AFRC PWCS Manager is the final
  determining authority when scheduling conflicts arise.




                                       Kimberley A. Ramos, Col, USAFR
                                       Director of Communications
 6                                                    AFRCI33-102 4 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-106, Managing High Frequency Radios, Land Mobile Radios, and The Military-
Affiliate Radio System, 9 January 2002
AFI 33-118, Electromagnetic Spectrum Management, 25 July 2005
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, 01 July 1987
DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document, July 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AES—Advanced Encryption Standard
AFB—Air Force Base
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRES—Air Force Reserves
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AIM—Asset Inventory Management
ARB—Air Reserve Base
CS—Communications Squadron
DSN—Defense Switching Network
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
NSA—National Security Agency
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
PWCS—Personal Wireless Communications System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
AFRCI33-102 4 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                 7


VHF—Very High Frequency

Terms
Assignment—(of a radio frequency or radio frequency channel) Authorization given by an
administration for a radio station to use a radio frequency or radio frequency channel under
specified conditions.
Personal Wireless Communications System (PWCS)—A user centric service that is accessible
via devices either vehicular mobile, hand carried, or worn by individual users. Each user may
have an individually identifiable electronic address.
Wireless—Technology that permits the active transfer of information involving emanation of
energy between separated points without physical connection. Currently wireless technologies
use Infrared acoustic, RF, and optical but, as technology evolves, wireless could include other
methods of transmission.
