BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND
AIR FORCE RESERVE COMMAND                                           INSTRUCTION 33-101

                                                                             25 OCTOBER 2012

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                               AIR FORCE RESERVE CHIEF
                                                             INFORMATION OFFICER (CIO)
                                                                            STRUCTURE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing web site at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: HQ AFRC/A6XC                                                   Certified by: HQ AFRC/A6X
                                                                         (GS-14 Michael J. Hess)
                                                                                      Pages: 18
Supersedes:    AFRCI33-101, 1 July 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, and AFPD 33-4, Enterprise
Architecting. It codifies AFRC/CC direction provided in the AFRC CIO corporate structure
charter, signed April 12, regarding the structure to be used for implementing CIO responsibilities
across AFR to promote the most effective and efficient application, acquisition and management
of information technology resources throughout the command. It also describes required
participation in, and administration of, the AFRC CIO Board (CIOB) and AFRC CIO Working
Group (CIOWG). Significant changes from the previous version include: incorporates Chief
Technology Officer (CTO) and Enterprise Architecture (EA) roles; replaces DS with CTO as
CIO Board co-chair and shift DS to strategic advisory role; replaces AFRC and command with
AFR, including changing CIO scope from AFRC to AFR, to ensure strategic operational
capability across the entire AFR; adds Enterprise Information Management/Enterprise
Information Services (EIM/EIS) Working Group to CIO structure; establishes Enterprise
Configuration Control Board (ECCB); establishes AFR domain IT owners, with oversight for
systems and requirements within domain; removes CIO Council; accommodates NAF structure
changes; establishes CIO implementation guidance (contract reviews, software dev procedures,
testing procedures, etc); adds Air National Guard (ANG) as CIO Working Group/Board invitees.
This instruction applies to Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command (HQ AFRC), all AFRC
numbered air forces (NAFs) and units, AF/RE, and Headquarters Air Reserve Personnel Center
(HQ ARPC). This instruction does not apply to Active Duty or Air National Guard (ANG)
organizations, although the ANG is invited to participate in the AFRC CIO structure if desired.
Send recommended changes or comments to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR),
Headquarters Air Force Reserve, Communications and Information Directorate, Plans and
Programs Division, CIO Support Branch (HQ AFRC/A6XC), 155 Richard Ray Blvd, Robins
 2                                                                                 AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


AFB, GA 31098, using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm




       1.     CIO Background: ...................................................................................................    2
       2.     AFR CIO Structure: ...............................................................................................     2
Figure 1.     AFR CIO Structure. ...............................................................................................     3
Figure 2.     Key Relationships with AFR CIO Structure. .........................................................                    4
       3.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................       4
Figure 3.     AFR CTO Supporting Structure. ...........................................................................              6
Figure 4.     AFR Software Change Decision Authority Thresholds. ........................................                           12
Figure 5.     AFR Software Development, Approval, and Release Process. .............................                                13
       4.     CIO Implementation Guidance. .............................................................................            15
       5.     AFR Representation on AF-level CIO Groups. .....................................................                      16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      17


1. CIO Background: The Information Technology Management Reform Act (ITMRA) of
1996 (aka, the Clinger-Cohen Act) established the role of the CIO to improve the acquisition and
use of information technology and national security systems (IT/NSS) in support of strategic
mission performance. Specific CIO responsibilities include IT acquisition, Capital Planning and
Investment, Cybersecurity, e-Gov/e-Business, Enterprise architecture, enterprise information
management, leadership/management, performance and results-based management, policy,
process improvement, project/program management, strategic planning, and technology
assessment.
2. AFR CIO Structure: AFR utilizes a multi-tier structure (Fig 1), incorporating the AFR
Chief Technology Officer (CTO), to ensure AFR-wide input and perspective is provided on CIO-
related activities and decisions. Fig 2 represents some of the key relationships between the AFR
CIO Structure and other AFR/AF boards, panels, etc. The overarching objectives of the AFR
CIO and CTO processes are to manage IT/NSS capital planning and investment, ensure
development of a standards-based integrated IT architecture, and enforce interoperability of AFR
IT/NSS with other relevant systems.
AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012    3


Figure 1. AFR CIO Structure.
 4                                                          AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


Figure 2. Key Relationships with AFR CIO Structure.




3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. AFR Chief Information Officer (CIO). The Director of Communications and
     Information, Headquarters AFRC (HQ AFRC/A6), is designated as AFR CIO. The AFR
     CIO serves as the Reserve focal point for assuring all IT/NSS–related planning, management,
     investment, evaluation, and revalidation efforts are meeting the Reserve’s operational and
     business objectives and adhering to AF-CIO and Clinger-Cohen directives. Specific CIO
     responsibilities include:
        3.1.1. Co-chairs the AFR CIO Board with AFR CTO
        3.1.2. Provides, executes, and enforces information assurance policy, guidelines, and
        procedures for the AFR, including the development and sustainment of an information
        security program
        3.1.3. Approves IT performance measures
        3.1.4. Provides tactics, techniques, and procedures on network operations
        3.1.5. Provides oversight and management of the communications and computing
        transport layer
        3.1.6. Manages information resources to accomplish mission and improve performance
        3.1.7. Develops and issues AFR IT policy
        3.1.8. Advises on IT matters related to strategic planning, readiness, and modernization
        3.1.9. Promotes AFR Business Process Reengineering (BPR) initiatives related to IT
        3.1.10. Determines AFR-training requirements to develop a highly competent, quality IT
        workforce
        3.1.11. In conjunction with the AFR CIO Board, develops review criteria to determine
        when IT/NSS requirements or other IT issues warrant AFRC Corporate Structure Review
AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 5


  3.2. AFR Deputy CIO. The Deputy Director of Communications and Information,
  Headquarters AFRC (HQ AFRC/A6D), is designated as AFR Deputy CIO. The Deputy CIO
  assists with AFR CIO responsibilities and may be empowered to act on behalf of the AFR
  CIO.
  3.3. AFR Chief Technology Officer (CTO). The AFR CTO works directly for the Chief,
  Air Force Reserve and collaborates with AFR CIO to ensure efficient and effective use of
  AFR IT resources. The AFR CTO serves as the Reserve focal point for assuring all IT/NSS
  architecture–related planning, management, investment, evaluation, and revalidation efforts
  are meeting the Reserve’s operational and business objectives and adhering to AF-CIO and
  Clinger-Cohen directives. Figure 3 depicts the CTO supporting structure. Specific CTO
  responsibilities include:
     3.3.1. Co-chairs the AFR Chief Information Officer Board with the AFR CIO
     3.3.2. Ensures standard processes are utilized across domains for delivering AFR IT
     capability
     3.3.3. Serves as an advisor on utilization of communication-computer systems
     technology, integration and interoperability
     3.3.4. Ensures technology solutions are consistent and congruent across other
     MAJCOMs, Air Force, COCOMs, DoD, and other federal agencies
     3.3.5. Assists functional experts in developing operational and systems architectures and
     strategies to meet AFR unique requirements that ensure enterprise information
     technology solutions are utilized effectively and efficiently
     3.3.6. Co-chairs the Enterprise Configuration Control Board with the AFR Deputy CIO
     and assigns software development-related requirements to appropriate AFR domain
     lead(s), as necessary
     3.3.7. Develops and issues AFR Enterprise Architecture (EA) policy
     3.3.8. Approves Enterprise Architectures and related measures
     3.3.9. Advises on EA matters related to strategic planning, readiness, and modernization
     3.3.10. Promotes AFR BPR initiatives
     3.3.11. In conjunction with the AFR CIO Board, develops review criteria to determine
     when IT/NSS requirements or other IT issues warrant AFRC Corporate Structure Review
 6                                                          AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


Figure 3. AFR CTO Supporting Structure.




     3.4. AFRC/DS. The AFRC Director of Staff serves as the senior GO-level strategic advisor,
     ensuring the standards of the AFR CIO charter are met across staffs.
     3.5. AFR CIO Board. The AFR CIO Board assists the AFR CIO by developing policy,
     procedures, and standards related to the management and oversight of AFR IT/NSS
     resources; by assessing, evaluating, and elevating key IT issues for AFR Corporate Structure
     decision; by prioritizing IT/NSS requirements within the AFR IT/NSS Investment Plan; and
     by managing specific IT/NSS tasks or concerns identified by AFR CIO, CTO, DS, CV, or
     CC. Specific AFR CIO Board Responsibilities:
        3.5.1. Approves AFR-wide CIO-related policy and enforces policy implementation
        3.5.2. Approves priority of the IT/NSS requirements within the AFR IT/NSS Investment
        and Expenditure Plan
        3.5.3. Oversees compliance with AFR CIO policy, Air Force and AFR IT Architectures,
        Air Force direction, and legislative requirements
        3.5.4. Approves AFR-wide IT strategies
        3.5.5. Approves AFR IT architectures, major architecture changes, and other Enterprise
        Architecture products
        3.5.6. Approves CIO-related standard measures and templates
AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 7


     3.5.7. Approves AFR-wide courses of action for corporate decisions on CIO issues such
     as IT/NSS readiness and modernization, Business Process Re-engineering (BPR), and
     Program Management Review (PMR) presentations
     3.5.8. Assesses impact on AFR resources of downward-directed programs
     3.5.9. Provides oversight of AFR’s IT total cost of ownership (TCO)
     3.5.10. Reviews AFR IT portfolio and makes recommendations
     3.5.11. Determines when IT issues warrant elevation through AFR Corporate Structure
     3.5.12. Assesses the AFR impact relative to areas such as infrastructure, information
     assurance (IA), capital planning, and budget assessments
     3.5.13. Approves IT policy
     3.5.14. Reviews and approves AFR software development issues elevated from the
     Enterprise Configuration Control Board chair
     3.5.15. Approves strategies for the training and professional development of AFR
     personnel in the areas of IRM and IT
     3.5.16. Establishes panels, working groups, etc as needed to focus on specific CIO areas
     of interest
  3.6. AFR CIO Board Membership. The AFR CIO Board is co-chaired by the AFR CIO
  and CTO. Members include all HQ AFRC directors and O-6-equivalent representatives
  appointed from FGC, RMG, AF/RE, ARPC, and NAF/CCs. Strategic advisory support is
  provided by AFRC/DS. Technical support is provided by AFR domain owners, AFR
  Enterprise Architecture assets, AFR EIS assets, the Command-level Communications System
  Integrator (CSI-C) for AFRC, and other SMEs as requested. ANG CIO will be invited to
  participate to enhance Reserve Component cross-flow on CIO issues, and may vote on
  approaches or other issues related to AFR systems for which ANG shares the use and
  funding of. Participation via video teleconferencing is encouraged for any AFR CIO Board
  participants not located at Robins AFB.
  3.7. AFR CIO Board Meetings. The AFR CIO Board will meet a minimum of six times
  per year, and may meet additionally at the discretion of the AFR CIO Board Chairpersons.
  AFR CIO Board meetings should follow AFR CIO Working Group meetings. Additionally,
  as much as practical, AFR CIO Board meetings should precede any Financial Working
  Group/Board (FWG/FMB), Facilities/MILCON Committee, Requirements Review Board,
  Agile Combat Support Requirements Council, Program Objective Memorandum (POM), or
  other investment data calls. The objective for this timing is to ensure IT/NSS investment
  strategies support the respective forum’s agenda, to include a single integrated corporately
  vetted and prioritized IT/NSS requirements list for funding consideration.
  3.8. AFR CIO Working Group. The CIO Working Group directly supports the AFR CIO
  Board and AFR CIO by providing action officer-level assessments and assistance in the
  review of IT/NSS requirements, investments, and acquisitions, as well as the development of
  policy, procedures, and standards related to the management and oversight of AFR IT/NSS
  resources. In addition, the AFR CIO Working Group manages specific tasks of the AFR CIO
8                                                         AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


    Board to include initiation of ad hoc panels, committees, IPTs, etc. Specific AFR CIO
    Working Group Responsibilities:
       3.8.1. Recommends a prioritized IT/NSS requirements list for submission to the AFR
       CIO Board
       3.8.2. Provides technical, operational, and tactical assessments in support of AFR
       IT/NSS issues
       3.8.3. Provides planning/guidance on implementation of AFR CIO decisions
       3.8.4. Facilitates capture of AFR’s IT TCO, including ensuring input of pertinent data
       into AFR CIO IT expenditure decision support tools
       3.8.5. Identifies and recommends best practices and trends for AFR applications
       3.8.6. Explores opportunities for and submits Business Process Reengineering (BPR)
       initiatives for AFR CIO Board consideration
       3.8.7. Provides corporate assessment of impact on pending AFR CIO decisions and
       policy development, and after-action assessments as required
       3.8.8. Assesses impact of AF downward-directed and/or AFR-unique programs tasking
       AFR IT/NSS resources
       3.8.9. Prepares issues for AFR CIO Board
       3.8.10. Reviews AFR-unique software development initiatives
       3.8.11. Develops and recommends AFR-wide courses of action for corporate decisions
       on CIO issues such as IT/NSS readiness and modernization, BPR, Program Management
       Review (PMR) presentations, IT/NSS performance measures, etc.
       3.8.12. Determines need for abbreviated Program Management Review (PMR) proposals
       for the AFR CIO Board, as required
       3.8.13. Provide technical and operational guidance for AFR IT architectures
       3.8.14. Assists the AFR CIO Board in the assessment of AFR information resource
       management (IRM) knowledge and skill requirements
       3.8.15. Implements AFR CIO Board approved strategies for the training and professional
       development of AFR personnel in the areas of IRM and IT
       3.8.16. Develops CIO-related standard measures, templates, etc
       3.8.17. Reviews pertinent CIO-related measures
    3.9. AFR CIO Working Group Membership. The AFR CIO Working Group is chaired by
    the HQ AFRC A6 CIO Support Branch Chief, and consists of designated representatives
    from all HQ AFRC directorates, RMG, FGC, AFRC/DS, AF/RE, ARPC and AFR domain
    owners, plus the Senior Cyber tech advisor from each NAF. Technical advisory support to
    the AFR CIO Working Group is provided by EA, EIS, CSI-C for AFRC, and other SMEs as
    required. An ANG CIO representative will be invited to participate to enhance Reserve
    Component cross-flow on CIO issues, and may vote on approaches or other issues related to
    AFR systems for which ANG shares the use and funding of.
AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   9


  3.10. AFR CIO Working Group Meetings. The AFR CIO Working Group will meet a
  minimum of monthly, but may meet more often as directed in support of programs or
  projects identified by the CIO Working Group or CIO Board chairs. Participation will be
  via video teleconferencing for AFR CIO WG members not located at Robins AFB.
  3.11. CIO Advisory Structure. In addition to the CIO Working Group and CIO Board, a
  number of advisory functions/groups may be utilized to support CIO-related responsibilities.
  These may be standing groups asked by the chairs of the CIO Working Group and/or Board
  to provide supporting services, advice, update briefings, or recommendations related to their
  area(s) of expertise, or may be ad hoc groups established by the CIO Working Group and/or
  Board to address specific topics when necessary.
     3.11.1. Enterprise Configuration Control Board (ECCB). The ECCB serves as the
     overarching authority for configuration management of the AFR enterprise network and
     all software development efforts within AFR. The ECCB will be co-chaired by the AFR
     CTO and Deputy CIO. ECCB membership includes the AFR Domain Leads;
     representatives from Enterprise Architecture, HQ AFRC/A1, and RMG; the EIS/EIM
     Working Group Chair; the A6 Information Assurance Manager (IAM) and Information
     Assurance Officer (IAO); the AFR Portfolio Manager; and A6/SC personnel representing
     enclave configuration and enterprise operations. Advisory support will be provided by
     system PMs and related SMEs as required. ANG representation may be included when
     issues related to AFR systems used and funded by ANG are presented to the ECCB. The
     ECCB will meet at least monthly and, as necessary, may meet at the discretion of the
     ECCB co-chairs. Specific ECCB responsibilities include:
         3.11.1.1. Reviews and approves configuration changes to the AFR enterprise
         network and AFR-unique systems
         3.11.1.2. Evaluates cross-functional or cross-domain issues involving AFR systems
         3.11.1.3. Reviews actions taken, and recommendations made, by individual system
         PMs and AFR domain owners
         3.11.1.4. Approves software sustainment actions (i.e. work required to keep existing
         functionality working as expected) anticipated to cost over $25K; proposals for new
         features, functionality, and/or tools up to $75K; architectural changes that will alter
         existing system security stance; requirements involving an interface change (to
         include adding, deleting, or modifying an interface); proposals to expand user base by
         type of user or to increase number of users by 20% or more; requirements impacting
         other systems; migration or sunset plans for AFR systems; and new hardware or
         software purchases in support of AFR systems (also requires PWRR approval)
         3.11.1.5. Reviews and prepares recommendations to AFR CIO Board for any new
         AFR system/application development; proposals for new features, functionality,
         and/or tools over $75K; system release plans, system scope changes; and system
         requirements expected to drive policy changes
         3.11.1.6. Ensures technology solutions are consistent and congruent across other
         MAJCOMs, Air Force, COCOMs, DoD, and other federal agencies
10                                                     AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


     3.11.2. AFR Domain Leads. The AFR CIO Board will establish and maintain AFR
     Domain categories, and associated lead organizations, to align with appropriate AF
     domains or other pertinent groupings. Appropriate AFR offices will appoint AFR leads
     and alternates to serve as focal point for all IT-related requirements within a
     corresponding domain, or group of, AF domains. Specific domain lead responsibilities
     include:
        3.11.2.1. Serves as primary AFR focal point for interaction with associated AF
        domain owner(s)
        3.11.2.2. Reviews AFR-generated requirements within their domain to ensure
        validity of need
        3.11.2.3. Collaborates with AFR CTO to advocate for integration of AFR
        requirements into AF, DoD, or other Federal systems where possible
        3.11.2.4. Determines procedures and tools to be used for processing requirements
        within own AFR domain (but should evaluate feasibility of using coordinating AF
        domain tools and processes to the greatest extent practical)
        3.11.2.5. Briefs ECCB, AFR CIO Working Group, and/or AFR CIO Board on AF
        domain decisions/recommendations
        3.11.2.6. Makes recommendations for AFR-unique development
        3.11.2.7. Reviews all AFR-unique systems within their assigned domains to reduce
        duplication and looks for opportunities for integration with other systems
        3.11.2.8. Identifies dependencies to non-AFR systems
        3.11.2.9. Reviews and validates all non-AFR systems within domain for which AFR
        contributes funds
        3.11.2.10. In conjunction with AFR CTO, develops transition plans for systems
        within domain
        3.11.2.11. Works with AFR Portfolio Manager (PfM) to ensure AFR systems within
        domain are reviewed and certified as required for portfolio management and meet
        applicable AF IT compliance direction
        3.11.2.12. Advocates for AFR capabilities through required review structures {to
        include Investment Review Boards (IRBs), Systems Integration Support Working
        Group (SISWG), etc}
        3.11.2.13. Reviews AFR systems release plans
        3.11.2.14. Collaborates with other AFR domain owners as necessary to review cross-
        domain issues and prepare recommendations for ECCB and/or CIO Working
        Group/Board approval as necessary
        3.11.2.15. Annually provides (or designates system PMs to provide) to the CIO
        Working Group/Board a review of all systems within designated domain
           3.11.2.15.1. Reviews of AFR-developed systems must include: System
           Name/Acronym; Functional Owner; Domain/Portfolio Owner; Market penetration
AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                              11


            (i.e. number and types of users); Contract Number; Cost and Number of FTEs
            supporting per year, broken out by function (i.e., Help Desk, system
            administration, development for bug fix/maintenance, dev for new capabilities,
            HW/SW purchases, other support personnel); Funding source (s); Rationale for
            AFR-unique; Summary of efforts to integrate w/AF/DoD systems; Functional
            position on future plan for system; What’s planned for next year;
            Accomplishments for last funding increment; Analytics indicating type and
            number of users, system usage by major capabilities, help desk response times,
            and trouble ticket analysis
            3.11.2.15.2. Reviews of non-AFR systems funded by AFR must include: System
            Name/Acronym; AFR Functional Proponent; System Owner; Domain/Portfolio
            Owner; Contract Number; Type and number of AFR users; Description of non-
            AFR users; AFR cost and funding source; How AFR cost determined (i.e. fair
            share based on usage, split evenly among MAJCOMs, etc); Specific function of
            costs (i.e., Help Desk, system         administration, development for bug
            fix/maintenance, dev for new capabilities, HW/SW purchases, other support
            personnel); How AFR needs are advocated in process; What type of agreement
            exists between AFR and sys owner; What AFR received for last funding
            increment; What AFR expects to get for next funding increment
     3.11.3. System Program Managers/Owners. Individual system PMs/owners will
     provide initial review, validation, and suggested prioritization of system-related
     requirements. System PMs/owners are authorized to validate, prioritize, and implement
     data maintenance actions and minor development-related sustainment actions (up to
     $25K) to make existing system functionality work as expected (i.e. bug fixes,
     improvements in usability, and adjustments to keep existing functionality working with
     functional business rule changes). PMs/owners will present all other system-related
     requirements, change requests, suggestions, etc, to the associated AFR domain owner and
     the ECCB for approval prior to development or implementation. For cross-domain
     requirements, system PMs/owners must work with all impacted domain owners. (For
     example, a medical or financial system requirement that involves personnel data should
     be vetted through both the Medical/Financial AFR Domain owner and the Human Capital
     Management AFR Domain owner.)
 12                                                                    AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


Figure 4. AFR Software Change Decision Authority Thresholds.




            SW Change Decision Authority
            Sys Owner                  Enterprise CCB                         AFR CIO Board
      • Minor bug fixes to make     • Bug fixes over $25K                  • New system/application
        existing functionality      • New features, functionality,         • New features,
        work as designed or           tools totaling up to $75K
                                                                             functionality, modules, or
        provide improvements in     • Architectural change that will         tools totaling over $75K
        usability up to $25K          alter existing system security
                                      stance                               • Changes to scope of
      • Business rule changes to    • Requires interface change              existing systems
        keep existing                 (expand, add, or delete)             • Changes that impact
        functionality working up    • Expands user base (additional          policy
        to $25K                       user types, or expands
      • Data maintenance              number of users by 25%)
      • Tech Refresh                • Impacts another system
        (hw/sw/operating system     • Migration or sunset plans
        maintenance, version        • New hw/sw purchases in
        upgrades, license             support of systems (also
                                      requires PWRR approval)
        renewals, etc) up to $25K
                                    • System release plans
                                    • Tech Refresh over $25K
AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 13


Figure 5. AFR Software Development, Approval, and Release Process.




       3.11.4. Enterprise Architecture. The AFR Enterprise Architecture (EA) support
       structure, consisting of architecture personnel from AFRC, RE, and ARPC will
       collectively provide technical and strategic architecture assistance to the AFR CIO and
       CTO, along with their respective support structures. Specific responsibilities include:
3.11.4.1. Provides technical support to CIO structure and AFR domain owners for architectural
products development and review

          3.11.4.2. In conjunction with AFR CTO and AFR domain owners, reviews AFR-
          unique development efforts and propose transition plans
          3.11.4.3. Provides EA recommendations to CIO WG/Board for approval
          3.11.4.4. Provides architectural advice and propose tech solutions as requested
          3.11.4.5. Guides implementation of AFR Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)
          environment
          3.11.4.6. Supports AFR Portfolio Management and Requirements Management
          efforts
          3.11.4.7. Manages AFR architecture review process
14                                                      AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


     3.11.5. Enterprise Information Services/Enterprise Information Management
     (EIS/EIM) Working Group. The EIS/EIM Working Group is a standing working group
     with the purpose of providing leadership and oversight for the implementation of
     EIS/EIM throughout AFR in a timely, cost-effective manner, in coordination with
     functional requirements and policies of the US Air Force, Department of Defense, and
     National Agencies.
     3.11.6. Knowledge Managers (KMs). Knowledge Managers are responsible for
     managing strategic information and the structure for presenting that information. KMs
     enforce rules about what can/should be posted and ensure pertinent data is available for
     discovery.
     3.11.7. Content Managers (CMs). Content Managers utilize knowledge management
     structures to post pertinent data and are responsible for ensuring data accuracy.
     3.11.8. Ad Hoc CIO Support Groups. The AFR CIO Working Group or Board may
     establish supporting working groups, IPTs, etc, as necessary to address specific CIO-
     related topics not covered by the existing CIO support structure. These would typically
     be expected to be temporary in nature and would be composed of appropriate subject
     matter experts and/or others having equity in the issue(s) being worked. These ad hoc
     groups could be expected to provide the AFR CIO Working Group and/or Board studies,
     briefings, and recommendations related to their established purpose.
  3.12. CIO Support Branch. Administrative support to the AFR CIO and CIO Structure is
  provided by the HQ AFRC A6 CIO Support Branch.             AFR CIO Support Staff
  responsibilities:
     3.12.1. Serves as AFR CIO Portfolio manager, overseeing development of IT portfolio
     for presentation to AFR CIO Working Group and Board.
     3.12.2. Makes arrangements for all AFR CIO meetings to include requesting VTCs,
     booking meeting rooms, and scheduling pre-briefs.
     3.12.3. Disseminates the agenda, read-ahead briefing slides, decision papers, and any
     other pertinent information to respective CIO Board and Working Group members prior
     to meetings so they can adequately review and timely prepare to discuss agenda items.
     3.12.4. Provides AFR Dep CIO and/or AFR CIO pre-/post-briefs on CIO Working
     Group meetings.
     3.12.5. Provides pre-briefs to AFR CIO and CTO, and read ahead to AFRC/DS, prior to
     AFR CIO Board meetings.
     3.12.6. Serves as Recorder to AFR CIO Working Group and Board, to include recording,
     publishing, and distributing minutes of CIO meetings to the respective members.
     3.12.7. Maintains repository of CIO WG- and Board-directed action items along with
     associated OPRs, and ensures action item updates are provided at each meeting.
     3.12.8. Serves as the headquarters staffing OPR on matters pertaining to AF and AFR
     CIO
     3.12.9. Prepares and pre-briefs AFR CIO or designated representative for attendance to
     AF CIO Executive Committee Meetings.
AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    15


      3.12.10. Maintains AFR CIO IT expenditure decision support tools.
      3.12.11. Works with A7 to ensure AFR Facilities Sustainment, Renovation, and
      Modernization (FSRM) Integrated Priority List (IPL) and CIO IT unfunded list are cross-
      referenced and associated IT needs are accounted for as needed and appropriately
      prioritized on the CIO IT funded list .
      3.12.12. Provides administrative support for ECCB meetings
4. CIO Implementation Guidance. Direction and guidance necessary to successfully
implement any facet of CIO responsibilities may be issued by AFR CIO or the AFR CIO Board
when necessary. Standing CIO-related guidance includes:
   4.1. IT contracts. All AFR software development contracts must include at a minimum,
   performance measures related to system usage and help desk response times. Existing
   contracts that do not include these performance measures should add these when the contract
   is modified or re-competed, whichever comes first. The requirements document {i.e.,
   Performance Work Statement (PWS), Statement of Work (SOW), etc} for any new AFR
   contract incorporating IT or CIO-related services or development that requires expenditure of
   AFR funds, to include contract re-competes for existing IT systems or services, must be
   reviewed by the CIO co-chairs and domain owners prior to finalization. The purpose of the
   review is to:
      4.1.1. Provide CIO visibility of requirement and ensure it is captured in IT portfolio
      4.1.2. Identify opportunities for increased efficiencies
      4.1.3. Inject appropriate 8570 certification requirements
      4.1.4. Ensure adequate performance measures for IT service contracts and software
      development efforts
      4.1.5. Enforce AFWAY purchasing for IT where possible
      4.1.6. Ensure proper registration for HW/SW purchased from contract
   4.2. SW Testing/Release Process. To provide corporate visibility of AFR software
   capability deployments and ensure due diligence in AFR software releases, all significant
   software releases must be approved by the ECCB prior to release. Significant releases are
   defined as those releases for which any one or more of the following conditions are met: the
   planned change(s) result in a total development cost of more than $25K, the planned
   change(s) add a new user community, the planned change(s) affect the security posture of the
   system, or the planned change involves adding a new system interface. PMs must provide the
   following info when seeking AFR ECCB approval to release:
      4.2.1. Capabilities being delivered in this release
      4.2.2. Testing strategy that has been used (type of testing performed, who performed it,
      approx hours expended on testing activities, number of users involved)
      4.2.3. Summary of testing feedback
      4.2.4. Strategy for communicating changes to users (and current status)
      4.2.5. Strategy for providing user training (and current status)
 16                                                        AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


       4.2.6. Any policy changes required due to release
       4.2.7. Roll-back plan or mitigation strategy
       4.2.8. C&A status
       4.2.9. Desired deployment date
       4.2.10. PM release recommendation
5. AFR Representation on AF-level CIO Groups. In addition to AFR-level CIO groups, AFR
representation is required on AF-level CIO groups. The following are designated as AFR reps
for the appropriate AF CIO groups:
   5.1. AF CIO Executive Council: AFRC/CV
5.2. AF CIO Board: AFRC DS (or designate)

   5.3. AF CIO Group: AFR CIO




                                            KIMBERLY A. RAMOS, Colonel, HQ AFRC
                                            Director of Communications and Chief Information
                                            Officer
AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012                                  17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-1, Cyberspace Support, 9 August 2012
AFPD 33-4, Enterprise Architecting, 27 June 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACS—Agile Combat Support
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFR—Air Force Reserve
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
ARPC—Air Reserve Personnel Center
BPR—Business Process Reengineering
C&A—Certification and Accreditation
CC—Commander
CFLI—Core Function Lead Integrator
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CIOB—CIO Board
CIOWG—CIO Working Group
CTO—Chief Technical Officer
CV—Vice Commander
DS—Director of Staff
EA—Enterprise Architecture
ECCB—Enterprise Configuration Control Board
EIM—Enterprise Information Management
EIS—Enterprise Information Services
FMB—Financial Management Board
FSRB—Facilities Sustainment and Renovation Board
IT—Information Technology
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NSS—National Security System
PM—Program Manager
18                                 AFRCI33-101 25 OCTOBER 2012


PMR—Program Management Review
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
