BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                                      INSTRUCTION 36-2846
(AFRL)
                                                                                14 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                          FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND
                                                        COMPTROLLER AWARDS PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFRL/FMA                                                              Certified by: AFRL/FM
                                                                             (Ms. Pamela Henson)
                                                                                          Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2846, Financial Management and
Comptroller Annual Awards Program. It establishes and describes the Air Force Research
Laboratory Financial Management (AFRL/FM) and Comptroller Annual and Quarterly Awards
Program. It defines the processes for nominating individuals and teams for both the Air Force
Materiel Command (AFMC) and Secretary of the Air Force (SAF) FM Comptroller Annual
Awards Programs. It outlines the policies, processes, and responsibilities for eligibility criteria,
categories, nomination, selection, and recognition. This instruction applies to all FM and
Comptroller personnel assigned to the AFRL Headquarters (HQ) and technology directorates
(TDs)/711 Human Performance Wing (HPW). This publication may be supplemented at any
level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination
prior to certification and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR), using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 through the appropriate
functional chain of command. Requests for waivers must be processed through command
channels to the publication OPR for consideration. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). This
publication requires the collection of and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this
publication are 10 U.S.C 857, Decorations and Awards, January 3, 2007. Forms affected by the
PA have an appropriate PA statement. System of records notice F036 AF PC V Awards and
Decorations (62 FR 31793) applies.
 2                                                            AFRLI36-2846 14 AUGUST 2014



1. Purpose and Scope. This program recognizes AFRL individuals and teams at all levels
whose outstanding performance exemplify the AFRL Financial Management Vision and who
have made significant contributions to the Air Force Financial Management Transformation
efforts through outstanding actions, innovations, and behaviors. This program, which also
supports the AFMC Financial Management Comptroller (AFMC/FM) and Secretary of the Air
Force Financial Management and Comptroller (SAF/FM) Awards Program, is a multi-step
process that begins with an awards call and ends with the recognition of award recipients.
AFRL/FM is responsible for administering the program.
2. Award Categories.
     2.1. Award categories and eligibility can be found in AFI 36-2846, Attachment 2.
        2.1.1. Contractors are not eligible for individual awards except for the AFRL
        Professional Support category; however, they can be included in group awards as long as
        they are part of a team with military/civilians.
     2.2. The Major General Frank R. Faykes Financial Management and Comptroller of the
     Year award category includes the AFRL Comptroller, Technical Directors (TD) Financial
     Management Comptrollers, and their deputies.
     2.3. In addition to the award categories found in AFI 36-2846, Attachment 2, AFRL will
     recognize three additional categories Budget Assistant, Trainee, and Professional Support.
     Follow individual awards instructions in AFI 36-2846, Attachment 3 for these awards.
        2.3.1. Budget Assistants are those individuals hired into the GS-561 job series or DO
        equivalent and are eligible at any grade level.
        2.3.2. Trainees are those individuals hired into a structured training program and may be
        considered a trainee until promoted to their target grade.
        2.3.3. Professional Support are those individuals hired into the following series/grade
3. Nomination Procedures. The nomination procedures listed in paragraph 3.1 through 3.3
apply to all awards except Author of the Year, Robert D. Stuart Award, and the James E. Short
Award.
     3.1. The AFRL award period covers one fiscal year, 1 October through 30 September.
     AFRL/FM will suspense the headquarters and TDs/711 HPW for nominations to arrive at
     AFRL in order to meet AFMC and SAF timelines.
     3.2. Submit nominations on AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, using the appropriate
     format (see AFI 36-2846, Attachments 3, 4, 5, 6, 7). Each nomination is limited to 30 lines
     on the front side of AF Form 1206. Use bullet format with no smaller than 10-font size.
     3.3. The nominating official for HQs nominations is AFRL/FM. Nominating officials for
     the TDs/711 HPW are the Chief’s of Financial Management for each TD/711 HPW.
     Nominating officials submit only one nomination for each award category, except for the
     Special Acts and Services Award.
AFRLI36-2846 14 AUGUST 2014                                                                  3


4. Selection Process.
   4.1. A selection panel will contain at least three members at GS-12/DO/Major or above rank.
   AFRL/FM will solicit volunteers to be on the panels.
   4.2. The selection panel will evaluate the nominee packages provided by AFRL/FM for
   Leadership and Performance in Primary Duties 70 points, Significant Self Improvement
                     20 points, and Base and Community Involvement                  10
   points.
   4.3. The selection panels evaluate group nominees for Outstanding Achievements and
   Mission Impact    75 points and Management of Resources              25 points.
   4.4. The James E. Short Award for Outstanding Contribution to Mentorship and Career
   Development and the Robert D. Stuart Award for Excellence in Financial Management only
   have one criteria to score worth 100 points.
   4.5. The selection panel evaluates Special Acts and Services nominees on the basis of
   unusual or extraordinary accomplishments, the circumstances that make an act or service
   special, and the tangible/intangible benefits to financial management and the Air Force.
   4.6. Each selection panel member forwards its recommendations to AFRL/FM for approval.
   In the event of a tie, AFRL/FM will make the tie breaking decision.
   4.7. Except for AFRL specific awards, all other AFRL award winners will be automatically
   forwarded to compete at the AFMC and SAF level.
5. Award Recognition.
   5.1. AFRL/FM announces the award winners via e-mail to AFRL HQs and TDs/711 HPW.
   5.2. AFRL annual award winners will receive a plaque, certificate, and congratulatory letter
   from the AFRL Comptroller (AFRL/FM). AFRL quarterly award winners receive a
   certificate and congratulatory letter from the AFRL Comptroller (AFRL/FM).
       5.2.1. Contractors who are selected in the Professional Support category or are included
       in a group category will be acknowledged with a certificate and a congratulatory letter
       from AFRL Comptroller (AFRL/FM) provided to their company.
   5.3. HQs and TDs/711 HPW are encouraged to recognize civilian award winners with cash
   or time-off awards and appropriately recognize military winners.




                                           THOMAS J. MASIELLO
                                           Major General, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                                    AFRLI36-2846 14 AUGUST 2014


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2846, Financial Management and Comptroller Annual Awards Program, 21 April 2010
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award. 1 July 2000
