BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                                     INSTRUCTION 61-207

                                                                        24 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                           Scientific Research & Development

                                                      AFRL PLANNING, PROGRAMMING,
                                                    BUDGETING AND EXECUTION (PPBE)
                                                                          PROCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFRL/XPO                                                           Certified by: AFRL/XP
                                                                         (Mr. Jack Blackhurst)
                                                                                      Pages: 17


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 61-1, Management of Science
and Technology, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 61-101, Management of Science and
Technology. This instruction applies to all AFRL personnel and shall be used in conjunction with
Air Force Research Laboratory Instruction (AFRLI) 61-205, AFRL Science and Technology
(S&T) Investment Hierarchy and Data Requirements. It establishes policies, procedures, and
responsibilities for AFRL management of the planning, programming budgeting and execution
of the Enterprise S&T portfolio. Informed by strategic guidance and customer requirements,
AFRL develops options and priorities in planning integrated near-, mid- and far-term S&T
investments. In addition, AFRL produces and manages USAF’s S&T input to the AF Planning,
Programming, Budgeting and Execution (PPBE) process and executes congressionally
authorized and appropriated budgets which provides technology options and capabilities to
USAF and Department of Defense (DOD) customers and supports future USAF S&T Program
Objective Memorandum (POM) decisions. This publication may not be supplemented or further
implemented/extended. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. Requests
for waivers must be submitted to the OPR for consideration and approval. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                                                AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


       1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................    2
Figure 1.     Influences on Corporate Investment Strategy ........................................................                         3
       2.     Roles & Responsibilities. .......................................................................................            3
       3.     PPBE Corporate Structure. ....................................................................................               9
Figure 2.     The Group, Board and Council structure within the PPBE process ......................                                        9
       4.     How the PPBE Process works. ..............................................................................                  12
Figure 3.     Guiding Principles flow chart ................................................................................              13
Figure 4.     Establishing Methodology flow chart ....................................................................                    14
Figure 5.     Resource Programming Adjustment flow chart .....................................................                            15
       5.     Battle Rhythm. .......................................................................................................      15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            16


1. Overview. This instruction provides detailed operating procedures for the AFRL Planning,
Programming, Budget, and Execution (PPBE) structure and process. The PPBE structure is
comprised of the PPBE Group, PPBE Board, PPBE Council and AFRL Commander (AFRL/CC)
Executive Session. Duties and responsibilities of the parties involved in the PPBE process are
described. The PPBE process drives decision quality information to adjudicate all AFRL PPBE
issues for approval by AFRL/CC. AFRL/CC issues Commander’s Intent to guide and direct the
Technology Directorates in all AFRL portfolio decisions. Supplementing the Commander’s
Intent is the Corporate Investment Strategy (CIS) guiding Future Years Defense Program
(FYDP) investments in the AFRL portfolio. The CIS is developed from several guidance
documents and inputs from Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Secretary of the Air
Force (SECAF), the Major Commands (MAJCOMs), Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) results,
and current year S&T program execution (Figure 1). The CC Intent and CIS form the basis for
PPBE decisions.
AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                3


Figure 1. Influences on Corporate Investment Strategy




   1.1. Role of PPBE Structure. The role of the AFRL PPBE Structure is to provide the
   AFRL/CC, Functional Directorate (FD) Directors and Technology Directorate (TD)
   Directors with a construct to review Enterprise-wide issues and facilitate senior leadership
   decision-making. The PPBE structure aids the transition of strategic guidance to resource
   decision making. It ensures that supporting and dissenting opinions for all major decisions
   are captured so that senior leadership can make informed decisions. PPBE members will
   represent their TDs and FDs in support of AFRL Enterprise-wide decisions. Full
   participation is required of all PPBE Group, Board, and Council members.
   1.2. Goals of the PPBE process.
       1.2.1. Enable the AFRL strategic vision.
       1.2.2. Provide a cross-TD and -FD perspective on all key PPBE decisions. Ensure cross-
       TD dependencies are addressed by cutting across organizational barriers to improve the
       Enterprise decision-making process and enhance responsiveness to the AFRL Strategic
       Plan and Air Force guidance.
       1.2.3. Develop an optimized POM position in accordance with (IAW) the CIS.
       1.2.4. Execute a process transparent to all AFRL stakeholders.
       1.2.5. Adjudicate and assess performance of S&T investments across the Enterprise .
2. Roles & Responsibilities.
   2.1. AFRL Commander (AFRL/CC). AFRL/CC is the Chair of the PPBE Council and is the
   final decision authority on all PPBE actions.
4                                                       AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


       2.1.1. Directs AFRL/XP to start the POM cycle.
       2.1.2. Issues Intent on the goals, objectives and the desired products across the
       Enterprise.
       2.1.3. Approves and signs the CIS and AFRL Strategic Plan.
       2.1.4. Approves the AF S&T POM.
       2.1.5. Approves all PPBE adjustments.
       2.1.6. Approves assessment of TDs’ Core Technical Competencies (CTC).
       2.1.7. Approves AFRL financial and execution plans at the Enterprise level.
       2.1.8. Approves attendance of personnel not already a member or advisor to the PPBE
       Council .
       2.1.9. Reviews Enterprise-wide execution.
       2.1.10. Appoints Capability Leads (CL)
    2.2. AFRL Executive Director (AFRL/CA).
       2.2.1. Assesses progress made with respect to the stated goals and objectives of the
       Enterprise.
       2.2.2. Advises AFRL/CC on the feasibility of actions proposed to resolve Enterprise
       issues.
       2.2.3. Conducts independent assessments of selected programs, mission areas, or
       functional areas of the Laboratory.
    2.3. AFRL Vice Commander (AFRL/CV).
       2.3.1. Assists AFRL/CC in executing AF S&T portfolio.
       2.3.2. Leads AFRL Headquarters (HQ) operation; executes the AFRL HQ budget.
    2.3.3. Leads the Lab Support Operations Council (LSOC) and advises AFRL/CC on LSOC
    matters.
    2.4. AFRL Chief Technologist (AFRL/CZ).
       2.4.1. Principal advisor and review authority to AFRL/CC on S&T portfolio.
       2.4.2. Chairs the AFRL Research Council and provides executive leadership to
       Technology Directorates’ Chief Scientists.
       2.4.3. Advises TD Directors and professional staff on technical program formulation and
       quality.
       2.4.4. Develops and maintains insight into relevant research conducted by industry,
       academia, and other defense and government agencies (e.g. DOD, DARPA, NASA, and
       DHS).
    2.5. AFRL Plans and Programs Director (AFRL/XP): AFRL/XP Director administers the
    PPBE process.
       2.5.1. Chairs the PPBE Board and is a member of the PPBE Council.
AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                             5


     2.5.2. Serves as the secretariat of the PPBE Council and Board.
     2.5.3. Assigns Engagement Leads (EL) and Integration Leads (IL) to Capability
     Working Groups(CWG).
     2.5.4. Reviews draft TD Planning, Programming and Budgeting (PPB) inputs; identifies
     conflicts and gaps, and recommends resolutions to the PPBE Board and Council.
     2.5.5. AFRL/XPO.
        2.5.5.1. Serves as the principal interface to HQ AFMC and SAF/AQR on all POM-
        related activities.
        2.5.5.2. Represents AFRL on the AFMC Group.
        2.5.5.3. Chairs the AFMC Corporate Structure Research Panel.
        2.5.5.4. Chairs the PPBE Group.
        2.5.5.5. Develops a draft CIS.
        2.5.5.6. Integrates TD POM inputs and CL POM initiatives.
        2.5.5.7. Ensures assigned Integration Leads’ (IL) participation in all Service Core
        Function (SCF) CWGs.
     2.5.6. AFRL/XPR.
        2.5.6.1. Serves as AFRL HQ interface for SCF Capability Collaboration Teams
        (CCT).
        2.5.6.2. Secretariat for MAJCOMs’ Applied Technology Councils (ATC).
        2.5.6.3. Conducts Program Executive Officer (PEO) gap analyses.
        2.5.6.4. Collects, analyzes, validates, communicates and integrates MAJCOM and
        PEO priorities and requirements for POM inputs.
        2.5.6.5. Leads AFRL HQ participation in and provides primary support to the CL and
        Deputy Capability Lead (DCL) during the Customer Engagement Process.
        2.5.6.6. Analyzes, validates and communicates budget exercises and POM change
        impacts to SCF needs and capability gaps.
        2.5.6.7. Documents PEO S&T needs, capability gaps and corresponding solutions.
        2.5.6.8. Ensures assigned Engagement Leads’ (EL) participation in all SCF CWGs.
     2.5.7. AFRL/XPT.
        2.5.7.1. Serves as the primary action office for AFRL strategic planning.
        2.5.7.2. Assists in development of the AF S&T Strategy and AF S&T Plan.
        2.5.7.3. Ensures CIS reflects AF strategic focus.
        2.5.7.4. Assists in development of AFRL strategic messaging.
     2.5.8. AFRL/XPP.
6                                                      AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


          2.5.8.1. Integrates AFRL strategic plan and PPBE decisions into partnering
          programs.
    2.6. Capability Leads (CL). AFRL/CC appoints CLs for each SCF who are ultimately
    accountable for all of their respective MAJCOM, strategic, and functional engagements.
       2.6.1. Lead assigned CWG in the collection of SCF needs and development of solutions
       to fill those needs.
       2.6.2. Advise the PPBE Council on the health of the Capabilities and Tech Base
       Portfolios in response to SCF Core Function Leads (CFL) needs and gaps.
       2.6.3. Propose initiatives and cross-TD programs that provide solutions to SCF
       capability gaps and S&T needs for consideration by the PPBE Council.
       2.6.4. Appoint DCLs.
       2.6.5. Deputy Capability Leads (DCL).
          2.6.5.1. Lead the day-to-day operations of the CWGs on behalf of the CLs.
          2.6.5.2. Act as principal AFRL points of contact with external agencies relevant to
          the SCF Core Function Teams (CFT)
          2.6.5.3. Act as members of the PPBE Group and Board.
          2.6.5.4. Support CL for customer engagement.
          2.6.5.5. Coordinate and submit AFRL inputs to         Core Function Support Plans
          (CFSP).
       2.6.6. Engagement Leads (EL).
          2.6.6.1. Support CLs and DCLs as members of their respective CWGs
          2.6.6.2. Serve as AFRL HQ primary points of contact for PEOs’ and Centers’
          capability gaps.
          2.6.6.3. Provide direct support to the ATCs and the AF S&T Group and Board.
          2.6.6.4. Support DCLs’ roles as principal AFRL points of contact with external
          agencies relevant to the SCF Core Function Teams (CFT).
          2.6.6.5. Collaborate with ILs to ensure breadth of S&T portfolio is leveraged against
          customer requirements.
          2.6.6.6. Act as secretariat for the CWGs.
       2.6.7. Integration Leads (IL).
          2.6.7.1. Support CL and DCL as members of their respective CWGs.
          2.6.7.2. Maintain knowledge of the breadth of assigned TD portfolios and serve as
          AFRL HQ points of contact for assigned TDs.
          2.6.7.3. Collaborate with the TD Senior Planners to support AFRL PPB processes.
          2.6.7.4. Assist DCLs in developing solutions to meet AFRL customer needs.
          2.6.7.5. Ensure options for AFRL POM inputs are consistent with the CIS.
AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                7


        2.6.7.6. Assist CWG assessments of TDs’ S&T portfolios in addressing customer
        needs.
        2.6.7.7. Recommend options for portfolio changes to AFRL/XP during budget drills.
  2.7. Capability Working Groups (CWG). CWGs form the cross-directorate support structure
  for CLs. CWGs are led by CLs with day-to-day activities chaired by DCLs and consist of
  members nominated from all TDs that support a given SCF. Leads AFRL engagement with
  MAJCOM CFLs and the Centers. Membership: CL, DCL, ELs, ILs, applicable TD Senior
  Planners, and TD Subject Matter Experts (SME).
     2.7.1. Engage the CFL CCTs to support development of actionable capability gaps,
     identify candidate capability solutions and associated technology needs, and frame high-
     level investment strategy.
     2.7.2. Ensure customer technology needs developed as part of the CCT process are made
     available to the AFRL Enterprise.
     2.7.3. Influence the planning and development of technology solutions that respond to
     the technology needs and integrate into the CCT process.
     2.7.4. Collaborate with CCTs to ensure the AF S&T portfolio is appropriately integrated
     into the CFSP and recommend CL and AFRL/CC concurrence on the final product.
     2.7.5. Support the MAJCOM Group, Board and ATC process.
     2.7.6. Collaborate with AFMC Centers, Space and Missile Center (SMC) and
     MAJCOMs to propose candidate FCCs, ATDs and JCTDs that develop technologies
     solving SCF capability gaps and S&T needs for review and decision by the PPBE Board
     and Council, respectively.
     2.7.7. Advise the PPBE Board and Council on the health of the Capabilities and Tech
     Base Portfolios in response to CFL needs and gaps, and on the health of the customer
     engagement process.
  2.8. Technology Directorate (TD) Directors. The TD Directors are responsible for
  developing and executing technology programs as well as management and resource
  decisions.
     2.8.1. TD directors are members of the PPBE Council.
     2.8.2. Allocate TD resources from an Enterprise perspective consistent with the priorities
     of the Air Force and AFRL.
     2.8.3. Provide programmatic input, feedback and impacts resulting from PPBE Council
     actions.
     2.8.4. Annually report status of TD execution review to the Research Council and PPBE
     Council.
     2.8.5. Develop a POM input.
     2.8.6. Technology Directorate Senior Planners and Functional Staff.
     2.8.6.1. Members of the PPBE Group and advisors to PPBE Board and Council.
8                                                       AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


       2.8.6.2. Senior Planners are primary points of contact with HQ FDs on all phases of
       PPBE.
    2.9. Additional HQ Functional Directorates (FD). Along with AFRL/XP, the FDs provide
    input, data, feedback and impacts to all PPBE actions across the Enterprise with respect to
    their areas of responsibility and expertise.
       2.9.1. Members of PPBE Group, Board and Council.
       2.9.2. Allocate resources from an Enterprise perspective consistent with the priorities of
       the Air Force and AFRL.
       2.9.3. Financial Management Directorate (AFRL/FM).
           2.9.3.1. Integrates and prioritizes requirements for current AFRL Budget and
           Execution processes.
           2.9.3.2. Develops and establishes AFRL HQ budget.
           2.9.3.3. Performs annual AFRL HQ budget review.
           2.9.3.4. Manages Operation and Maintenance (O&M) and unfunded requirement
           processes.
           2.9.3.5. Drives S&T Spring Program Review process.
       2.9.4. Personnel Directorate (AFRL/DP).
           2.9.4.1. Develops manpower strategies for POM inputs.
           2.9.4.2. Collects, validates and integrates AFRL manpower requirements.
       2.9.5. Engineering Directorate (AFRL/EN).
           2.9.5.1. Provides program management and System Engineering assessment and
           reviews of S&T programs.
           2.9.5.2. Supports Program Baseline Reviews and Program Management Reviews on
           ATDs and JCTDs.
           2.9.5.3. Provides advice to TDs on program initiation, technology transition,
           technical review of acquisition packages and collaborations.
           2.9.5.4. Interface between AFRL and MAJCOMs for Developmental Planning (DP)
           efforts. Coordinate with CWGs concerning DP captured in SCF Capability
           Development Roadmaps.
           2.9.5.5. Provides linkage of TD S&T programs to Air Force Life Cycle Management
           Center and Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center DP efforts and funding.
    2.10. Lab Support Operations Council. The LSOC is responsible for providing guidance and
    oversight to AFRL support operations processes and serves as a forum to disseminate best
    practices, adjudicate conflicts, and encourage a cross-flow of information concerning AFRL
    support operations processes. Applicable processes include facilities, equipment, lab test
    operations, command and control, emergency management, as well as enabling functions
    including safety, security, communications/information, operational readiness and plans. .
    Membership: CV (Chair), Deputy TD Directors, HQ Director of Staff. Advisors: HQ Staff.
AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 9


   2.11. Quick Turn Team. The Quick Turn Team (QTT) answers urgent PPBE tasks.
   AFRL/CC will direct membership and goals for QTTs. AFRL/XP will serve as the
   secretariat. The QTT will be chaired by the appropriate Functional Directorate for the
   specific action and be nominally made up of members from the Functional Directorates and
   TDs.
       2.11.1. Develops methodology to meet quick-turn deliverable and submit to AFRL/CC
       for approval.
       2.11.2. Collects data for the tasking and develops the product that satisfies the tasking
       and submits to AFRL/CC for approval.
3. PPBE Corporate Structure. The PPBE Corporate Structure uses a Group, Board and
Council construct to address Enterprise issues (Figure 2). The PPBE Group is the first level of
the review process taking an Enterprise view of the issue. The PPBE Board is the intermediate
recommendation body within the PPBE Structure. The PPBE Council is the decision-making
body in the PPBE Structure. The CC Executive Session is a closed forum for AFRL/CC to meet
with TD and/or FD Directors only.

Figure 2. The Group, Board and Council structure within the PPBE process




   3.1. PPBE Council. The PPBE Council serves as the deliberating body for AFRL and
   informs AFRL/CC on Enterprise decisions affecting strategic planning, programming,
   budgeting, execution and policies.
       3.1.1. Membership. AFRL/CC (Chair), CA, CV, CZ, Director of Staff (DS), TD
       Directors, CLs, XP, DP, FM, EN, Contracting Directorate (PK), Small Business
10                                                    AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


     Directorate (SB) and the Research Collaboration and Computing Directorate (RC).
     PPBE Council Advisors: Research Council, LSOC and HQ staff. Members may delegate
     their roles and responsibilities to a Deputy or other senior staff member.
     3.1.2. Administration. AFRL/XP is the secretariat for the PPBE Council and will
     schedule meetings, develop agendas, advise briefers of prep packages and read-ahead
     requirements, forward preparation materials to PPBE Council members, record
     attendance, take meeting notes, and track meeting action items (AIs). Presentation topics
     will be submitted to AFRL/XP one (1) week prior to the stated meeting. Briefers are
     responsible for providing read-ahead materials no later than two (2) working days prior to
     the meeting. AFRL/XP will distribute meeting minutes and AIs no later than five (5)
     working days after the meeting.
     3.1.3. Frequency and location. The PPBE Council convenes at the direction of the
     AFRL/CC, usually once per month. Members will be notified of meeting location and
     time no later than one (1) week prior to the stated meeting.
     3.1.4. Presentations. AFRL/XP will coordinate presentation topics. Guidelines and
     templates      for   briefings     are  available    on   the Team  AFRL      site
     (https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/teamafrl/default.aspx).
     3.1.5. E-Council. An alternative to a traditional Council meeting intended to address
     issues ready for approval without formally meeting. An e-Council meeting should be
     used only for routine, non-complex issues brought forward from the Group or Board. The
     briefer will prepare an e-SSS for each routine, non-complex issue. If any Council
     member has issues that cannot be resolved in the e-Council, a regular Council meeting
     will be scheduled.
  3.2. AFRL/CC Executive Session. The AFRL/CC Executive Session is a closed forum for
  AFRL/CC to meet with TD and FD Directors. The Executive Session will be scheduled on an
  as-needed basis by AFRL/CC. Membership: AFRL/CC (Chair), TD Directors, and FD
  Directors.
     3.2.1. Administration. AFRL/XP is the secretariat for the AFRL/CC Executive Session
     and will schedule meetings, develop agendas, advise issue OPRs of prep packages and
     read-ahead requirements, forward preparation materials to members, record attendance,
     take meeting minutes and list AIs. Each Executive Session briefer will submit the topic
     one (1) week before the scheduled meeting and provide read-ahead materials no later
     than two (2) working days prior to stated meeting and be immediately distributed to
     members.
  3.3. PPBE Board. The PPBE Board serves as the intermediate review and/or decision-
  making body between the PPBE Group and PPBE Council. The PPBE Board is a TD Deputy
  Director- and DCL-level forum for cross-functional review and evaluation of AFRL issues
  within the same broad categories as the PPBE Council.
     3.3.1. Membership. XP (Chair), CZ, TD Deputy Directors, DCLs, FM, DP, PK, EN, SB
     and RC. PPBE Board Advisors: Research Council, LSOC, ELs, ILs, TD Senior Planners
     and Staff, FD Staff.
AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               11


     3.3.2. Administration. AFRL/XP is the secretariat for the PPBE Board and will schedule
     meetings, develop agendas, advise briefers of prep packages and read-ahead
     requirements, forward preparation materials to PPBE Board members, record attendance,
     take meeting notes and track meeting AIs. Presentation topics will be submitted to
     AFRL/XP one (1) week prior to the stated meeting. Briefers are responsible for providing
     read-ahead materials no later than two (2) working days prior to the stated meeting.
     AFRL/XP will distribute meeting minutes and AIs no later than five (5) working days
     after the meeting.
     3.3.3. Approval. The PPBE Board shall make every attempt to reach a consensus and
     document specific recommendations before proceeding to the PPBE Council. The Board
     Chair retains final recommendation authority for issues brought to the PPBE Board for
     resolution and for determination of topic progression to the Council. Complex topics may
     require multiple Board discussions prior to a Council meeting. If consensus cannot be
     reached dissenting views will be documented and presented at the Council. All attendees
     and meeting minutes are subject to approval by the Chair.
     3.3.4. Frequency and location. The PPBE Board will meet every two (2) weeks or as
     needed. The location and time will be distributed to members no later than one (1) week
     prior to the stated meeting.
     3.3.5. Presentations. AFRL/XP will coordinate topics. Guidelines and templates for
     briefings are available on the Team AFRL site. Issues, topics and/or actions may be
     directly submitted to the Board, bypassing the PPBE Group.
     3.3.6. E-Board. An alternative to a traditional Board meeting intended to address issues
     ready for approval or elevation for Council consideration without formally meeting. An
     e-Board meeting should be used only for routine, non-complex issues brought forward
     from the Group or directly submitted for action. The briefer will prepare an e-SSS for
     each routine, non-complex issue. If any Board member has issues that cannot be resolved
     in the e-Board, a regular Board meeting will be scheduled.
  3.4. PPBE Group. The PPBE Group offers a forum for discussion, feedback and to integrate
  issues for the PPBE Board or Council and if appropriate, serve as a decision recommendation
  or issue resolution authority. The PPBE Group vets major issues requiring a corporate action.
  The Group considers all inputs and performs analysis when developing options. The Group
  Chair will make a recommendation to forward an issue or topic to the PPBE Board or
  Council based on the issue/topic impact and maturity. Dissenting opinions will be recorded in
  the minutes.
     3.4.1. Membership. XP, FM, DP, DCLs and TD Senior Planners. Chairmanship of the
     Group depends on the action before the Group but is normally chaired by AFRL/XPO.
     PPBE Group Advisors: FD staff. Members will ensure appropriate SMEs are present.
     3.4.2. Administration. AFRL/XPO is the secretariat for the PPBE Group and will
     schedule meetings, develop agendas, submit prep packages, record attendance, record
     meeting minutes, track AIs and communicate PPBE Group activity. Once issues or
     topics are submitted, a Group meeting will be scheduled within one (1) week. Preparation
     materials are due to AFRL/XPO one (1) day prior to the scheduled meeting and will be
 12                                                     AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


       posted on the Group site (https://cs2.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/1776/1/default.aspx). Meeting
       minutes and AIs will be posted no later than three (3) days after the meeting.
       3.4.3. Approval. The PPBE Group shall make every attempt to reach a consensus and
       document specific recommendations before proceeding to the PPBE Board or Council.
       The Group Chair retains final recommendation authority for issues brought to the PPBE
       Group for resolution and for determination of topic progression to the Board and/or
       Council. Complex topics may require multiple Group discussions prior to a Board and/or
       Council meeting. Dissenting views will be documented and presented at the Board and/or
       Council.
       3.4.4. Frequency and Location. The PPBE Group will meet on an as needed basis.
       AFRL/XPO will send meeting notifications.
4. How the PPBE Process works. All PPBE actions with Enterprise implications will be
brought through the PPBE Structure. This process has two (2) distinct sub-processes, the
planning, programming and budgeting sub-process and the execution sub-process. The PPBE
sub-processes are a set of responsive corporate investment and execution procedures that develop
and drive decisions and adjudicate all operational aspects of AFRL PPBE for approval by
AFRL/CC. The PPBE sub-processes will:
   4.1. Develop a plan for the allocation of resources to be responsive to near-, mid- and far-
   term Air Force needs.
   4.2. Allow for rapid decision-making to be responsive to unplanned resourcing actions.
   4.3. Develop the POM.
   4.4. Execute the AFRL portfolio. Employing a Group, Board and Council construct, all
   corporate investment actions will engage the process at the appropriate level ensuring
   transparency across the Enterprise. The following sections provide greater detail on PPB and
   E sub-processes.
   4.5. PPB sub-process: During the PPB sub-process, AFRL HQ and the TDs will employ
   three (3) process segments: Guiding Principles, Establishing Methodology and Resource
   Programming Adjustments. These segments address the ends, ways and means, respectively,
   of the AFRL POM.
       4.5.1. Guiding Principles segment. During this segment, AFRL/CC issues his Intent that
       states AFRL goals and objectives. The AFRL/CC Intent includes the Corporate
       Investment Strategy (CIS) for the forthcoming POM build. AFRL/XP drafts the CIS
       using AFRL/CC guidance and a variety of planning and programming documents. The
       PPBE Board will discuss the draft CIS and will determine data call requirements for
       additional CL, TD and FD input. The PPBE Board will adjudicate the data call inputs,
       refining the draft CIS for additional review by the CLs, TDs and FDs. The PPBE Board
       will adjudicate final inputs and forward to the PPBE Council for approval by AFRL/CC.
       Approval of the CIS is anticipated in the August-September timeframe. See Figure 3 for
       the Guiding Principles flow chart.
AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                           13


Figure 3. Guiding Principles flow chart




      4.5.2. Establishing Methodology segment. Instead of employing a rigidly defined
      process for the POM build or other programming adjustments, AFRL corporately
      develops and refines a flexible, adaptable response methodology (how AFRL will answer
      a PPBE tasking and address impacts to the S&T portfolio). The PPBE Board determines
      methodology and data collection and analysis required to develop an integrated
      Enterprise response and forwards to PPBE Council for approval. Group meetings will be
      scheduled as needed to discuss any aspect of the methodology to accomplish the PPBE
      adjustment. See Figure 4 for the Establishing Methodology flow chart.
      4.5.2.1. Quick Turn Team. Budget drills vary by urgency and impact. The QTT will
      respond to PPBE adjustments using a streamlined process. AFRL/CC will adjust the
      Establishing Methodology segment based on the time available to provide the response,
      and will determine the makeup of the QTT. This team will develop the methodology for
      AFRL/CC, who will inform the PPBE Council of the approved methodology.
 14                                                     AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


Figure 4. Establishing Methodology flow chart




      4.5.3. Resource Programming Adjustment segment. The approved methodology forms
      the basis of the tasking sent to the CLs, TDs and the FDs for the data required to build the
      POM or respond to a budget adjustment. The PPBE Board will convene to discuss the
      analysis and impacts from data received, and will recommend the POM or adjustment to
      the PPBE Council. Once approved by AFRL/CC the official response is sent to the
      tasking agency. See Figure 5 for the Resource Programming Adjustment flow chart.
      4.5.3.1. Quick Turn Team. The QTT will formulate the draft response to the quick turn
      action using the previously developed methodology. The draft response is then presented
      to AFRL/CC for his approval. Once approved the official response is sent to the tasking
      agency.
AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                 15


Figure 5. Resource Programming Adjustment flow chart




   4.6. Execution sub-process: During the execution sub-process, AFRL HQ and the TDs will
   manage the execution of the AFRL portfolio. AFRL/FM, EN and DP will conduct reviews
   and provide results and analysis to AFRL leadership.
       4.6.1. AFRL/FM conducts the AFRL HQ budget review, the S&T Spring Program
       Review, the civilian pay review and the O&M midterm review. The results of these
       reviews will be briefed to the PPBE Council.
       4.6.2. AFRL/EN facilitates program and baseline reviews for ATD and JCTD programs
       throughout the year. The results of these reviews will be provided to the PPBE Council.
       4.6.3. AFRL/DP annually conducts a manpower gap analysis with the TDs to assess the
       skill sets of AFRL personnel as a function of the S&T requirements, position vacancies,
       personnel retirement and recruiting. The results of the personnel gap analysis are briefed
       to the PPBE Council.
5. Battle Rhythm. Critical to any process is the requirement to meet on a regular basis to
discuss and exchange information. The Council will meet monthly unless directed by AFRL/CC.
The Board will meet every two weeks or at the discretion of the Chair. The Group will meet as
needed to support the issue or topic before the Board and Council.




                                            THOMAS J. MASIELLO, Major General, USAF
                                            Commander
 16                                                 AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                     Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 61-1, Management of Science and Technology, 7 Apr 93
AFI 61-101, Management of Science and Technology, 14 Mar 13
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFRLI 61-205, AFRL Science and Technology (S&T) Investment Hierarchy and Data
Requirements, 20 Nov 13
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ATC—Applied Technology Council
ATD—Advanced Technology Demonstrations
CA—Executive Director
CCT—Capability Collaboration Team
CFL—Core Function Lead
CFSP—Core Function Support Plan
CFT—Core Function Team
CIS—Corporate Investment Strategy
CL—Capability Lead
CTC—Core Technical Competency
CWG—Capability Working Group
CZ—Chief Technologist
DCL—Deputy Capability Lead
EL—Engagement Lead
FCC—Flagship Capability Concept
FD—Functional Directorate
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
HPW—Human Performance Wing
IL—Integration Lead
AFRLI61-207 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                17


JCTD—Joint Capability Technology Demonstration
LSOC—Lab Support Operations Council
PEO—Program Executive Officer
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budget, and Execution
QTT—Quick Turn Team
SCF—Service Core Function
SME—Subject Matter Expert
S&T—Science and Technology
TD—Technology Directorates

Terms
Core Technical Competency (CTC).—CTCs represent the technical foundation that is difficult
to duplicate and allows AFRL to provide unique technical leadership. They span basic research,
applied technology, and advanced technology development encompassing the people,
information, facilities, equipment, and programs allowing AFRL to solve critical AF and
national security problems.
Flagship Capability Concept. See AFRLI 61—205, AFRL Science and Technology (S&T)
Investment Hierarchy and Data Requirements, for requirements concerning FCCs.
Program Objective Memorandum (POM).—The POM is produced annually as an input to the
President’s Budget and proposes the overall AFRL budget at the PE/BPAC level.
S&T Environmental Scan—. This effort is conducted by the AFRL Research Council with
support from others. The task is assessing the S&T environment and determining what core
technical competencies are essential and those that are desirable. Furthermore, the effort ranks
the CTCs and IAW the CIS determines the appropriate CTC balance between the tech base and
capability portfolios. CTC/Technology Base Requirements are an important contribution to the
development of the CIS.
Tech Base Portfolio. See AFRLI 61—205, AFRL Science and Technology (S&T) Investment
Hierarchy and Data Requirements, for requirements and attributes of the Tech Base Portfolio.
