BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                                     INSTRUCTION 33-401

                                                                               13 MARCH 2014

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                 ENTERPRISE BUSINESS INFORMATION
                                                 TECHNOLOGY REQUIREMENTS (EBITR)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available at: https://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AFRL/XP                                                             Certified by: AFRL/XP
                                                                        (Mr. Jack L. Blackhurst)
                                                                                       Pages: 12




This instruction implements DoD Directive 8000.01, Management of DoD Information
Resources and Information Technology, AF Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information
Management, and Air Force Materiel Command Policy Directive (AFMCPD) 33-4, Centralized
Planning and Control of AFMC Information Technology (IT) Investments. It provides guidance
and procedures that AFRL personnel must use to document and submit requirements for
potential implementation in the AFRL Enterprise Business System (EBS). This instruction
applies to all AFRL personnel. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct
Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification
and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. Request
for waivers must be processed through command channels to the publication OPR for
consideration. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).


1. Overview. AFRL’s Enterprise Business System (EBS) provides the information technology
(IT) implementation for some of AFRL’s primary business processes. EBS is comprised of a
highly integrated set of tailored commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) products and interactive tools
supporting AFRL’s business and management processes. Requirements identified and managed
 2                                                              AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014


using the Enterprise Business Information Technology Requirement (EBITR) process drive
the capabilities implemented as part of EBS. The DoD definition of a requirement is: “An
established need justifying the timely allocation of resources to achieve a capability to
accomplish approved military objectives, missions, or tasks.” In the context of this instruction,
the need relates to voice-of-the-customer (e.g., functionals, end-users) input; and the objectives,
missions, or tasks relate to those requirements necessary to support the planning, execution, and
support of the AFRL enterprise. The EBITR process is a disciplined approach to ensure
compliance with Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 63-1201, Implementing
Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) And Life Cycle Systems Engineering
and Military-Handbook-61A, Configuration Management Guidance with regard to requirements
management, control, and traceability.
     1.1. Before a requirement can be managed, it must be created and fully described. The
     closer a voice-of-the-customer input (i.e. need) is to a “good” requirement directly associates
     with the likelihood of a successful implementation. To ensure user inputs mimic good
     requirements, the following characteristics should be considered as they are identified by
     submitters.    A good requirement is verifiable, unambiguous, complete, consistent,
     achievable, performance based, and represents the appropriate level of system hierarchy. A
     submitter, at a minimum, should focus on their requirement being verifiable, unambiguous,
     and complete. Once submitted by the submitter, the requirements are refined by the EBITR
     Integrated Product Team (IPT) consisting of the submitter, capability champion(s), functional
     area representative(s), AFRL/XPO, Operating Instruction (OI) owner, and EBS PMO.
     EBITR IPT members should address enterprise requirement characteristics not defined by the
     submitter including consistency, achievability, whether it is performance based and
     represents the appropriate level of system hierarchy. These characteristics are defined in
     Table 1 Once identified and defined, requirements are vetted by and enterprise Functional
     Review Board (FRB) to prioritize and schedule into future EBS implementations.
AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014                                                                   3


Table 1. Requirement Characteristic Definitions and Identification Responsibility

  CHARACTERISTIC                                                            IDENTIFIED BY
  Verifiable – The requirement should not be defined by ambiguous
  words, e.g., excessive, sufficient, resistant, minimal, etc. Expected
  performance and functional utility should be expressed in a manner
  that allows verification to be objective, preferably measureable
  quantitatively.
                                                                               Submitter
  Unambiguous – The requirement should have only one possible
  meaning so it is uniquely testable and verifiable.
  Complete – The requirement should contain all information needed to
  interpret and verify the requirement, including environmental and/or
  operational conditions relevant to the requirement.
  Consistent – Conflicts with other requirements should be resolved up
  front prior to release of a Request For Proposal (RFP) or Engineering
  Change Proposal (ECP).
  Achievable – The requirement should specifically reflect need or
  objective for which a solution is technically realistic at costs
  considered affordable.
  Appropriate Level of System Hierarchy – The requirement                     EBITR IPT
  should not be too detailed that it constrains solutions for the current
  level of design, e.g., detailed requirements relating to components
  would not normally be in a system-level specification.


  Performance Based – The requirement should be expressed in
  terms of need, not solution, i.e., it should address “why” and “what”
  of a need, not how to do it.

2. Roles and Responsibilities. EBITR uses the following roles to properly capture, vet,
approve, and execute capabilities and/or requirements. Table 2 depicts the involvement each
role has in the processes identified above. The EBITR FRB Charter details responsibilities for
effective management and execution of each review board.
 4                                                                       AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014


Table 2. Responsibility Matrix




                                                                          Champion/Func'l Rep
                                                                                                EBS PMO
                                                             Submitter
                                                       XPO




                                                                                                          FRB
     2.1 Requirement’s Identification
        2.1.1 Solicit Requirement                         R I     I I     I
        2.1.2 Describe Requirement                            R C         C
        2.1.3 Submit Requirement                          I R C           C
     2.2 Requirement’s Review and Planning
        2.2.1 Define Team                                 C C R C I
        2.2.2 Refine Requirements                         C C R C I
        2.2.3 Qualify Requirement                         C C R C I
        2.2.4 Package Requirement                         R I C C I
     2.3 Requirement’s Review and Prioritization
        2.3.1 Socialize Requirement                       C I     I I R
        2.3.2 Rank Requirements                           C I     I I R
     2.4 Requirement’s Approval
        2.4.1 Align Requirements with Strategic Plan R I C C C
        2.4.2 Propose Functional Baseline                 R I C C C
     2.5 Requirement’s Execution
          2.5.1/2/3 Allocate Resources                    C I C R C
          2.5.4 Establish Allocated/Product Baselines C I C R C
          2.5.5 Report Implementation Deviations          I I     I R I
          Responsible – The one ultimately answerable for the correct and
      R thorough completion of the deliverable or task. There must be only
          one responsible specified for each task or deliverable.
          Consulted – Those whose opinions are sought, typically subject
      C matter experts; and with whom there is two-way communications.

          Informed – Those who are kept up-to-date on progress. Often only on
      I   completions of the task or deliverable; and with whom there is just
          on-way communication.

     2.1. Office of Primary Responsibility (AFRL/XP and AFRL/XPO). Provides staffing
     and executive oversight, and chairs the EBITR process through the Functional Review Board
     (FRB) detailed in paragraph 2.5.
          2.1.1. Defines, maintains, and executes a corporate process for managing AFRL’s
          enterprise-level business information technology requirements from identification
          through handoff to the development organization and post-implementation feedback.
AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014                                                                     5


     2.1.2. Analyzes EBS architectural aspects of functional requirements ensuring
     compatibility and compliancy with AFRL and Air Force level systems. Develops and
     maintains EBS Strategic Plan and Functional Baseline.
  2.2. Submitter. Defines potential enterprise requirements for submission into the EBITR
  process.
  2.3. Requirement Champion/Functional Area Representative. Collaborates with
  Enterprise stakeholders to help construct, refine, and quantify a requirement’s business value
  and priority.
     2.3.1. Authors initial Functional Requirements Specification (FRS).
     2.3.2. Evaluates and makes recommendations on all aspects of a capability/tool through
     the entire product life cycle.
     2.3.3. Ensures requirements have consistent, high-level support within the originating
     organization or entity.
     2.3.4. Establishes review boards, IPTs and/or Working Groups with participants from all
     TDs/711 HPW to define requirements and business value.
     2.3.5. Refines potential enterprise business requirements ensuring characteristics of a
     “good” requirement are met in preparation for submission into the EBITR process.
     2.3.6. Identifies business value of requirements using quantitative (where applicable) and
     qualitative statements.
     2.3.7. Participates in the EBITR review process.
     2.3.8. Assists during development and implementation by providing details about needs
     and associated requirements; supports design reviews; provides personnel for acceptance
     testing; and provides training requirements.
     2.3.9. Determines if there are any higher headquarters directives or downward directed
     systems that will impact a requirement.
  2.4. EBS Program Management Office (AFRL/RCB). Responsible for lifecycle
  management and sustainment of EBS.
     2.4.1. Provides rough order of magnitude (ROM) estimates for implementing
     requirements.
     2.4.2. Develops and maintains allocated and product baselines.
     2.4.3. Provides progress updates and identifies significant schedule changes as soon as
     they occur.
     2.4.4. Involves stakeholders in Government Acceptance Testing (GAT)
     2.4.5. Determines if there are any higher headquarters directives or downward directed
     systems that will impact a requirement.
     2.4.6. Maintains high level EBS program models/views for compliance with the National
     Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), such as the Systems Evolution View, SV-8.
 6                                                             AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014


        2.4.7. Maintains data in the USAF Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service
        (eMASS) to ensure compliance with certification and accreditation requirements.
        2.4.8. Maintains clearing house of externally developed capabilities.
     2.5. EBITR Functional Review Board (FRB). The FRB consists of representation from all
     Technology Directorates/711th Human Performance Wing Deputy Directors or Corporate
     Information Officers (CIOs) and HQ Senior Center Functionals. The FRB validates,
     prioritizes, and approves needs and/or requirements for execution based on enterprise
     relevance and alignment with the current budget and EBS Strategic Plan.
3. Process. The EBITR process is initiated with the submission of an AFRL business
requirement by a government employee. The EBITR IPT refines the need and estimates overall
business value. Once the business value is identified, the Functional Review Board (FRB) vets
requirements. The EBS PMO receives prioritized requirements for lifecycle planning and
resource allocation for future EBS system release delivery. Figure 1 depicts this process. The
EBITR process uses the following steps to properly manage requirements.

Figure 1. EBITR Overview




     3.1. Requirement Identification. The specification and submission of business automation
     requirements for implementation consideration at the enterprise level within EBS.
        3.1.1. The AFRL Community (e.g., AFRL users, functional area representatives,
        capability champions, and others as applicable) may submit business capability
        requirements at any time. Submissions may be a concept, requirement, or capability. The
        characteristics of a good requirement identified in paragraph 1.1 should be considered for
        all submissions. Characteristics not achieved as part of the submission will be addressed
AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014                                                                     7


     during development of the FRS in the Requirements Planning and Review activity
     (paragraph 3.2).
     3.1.2. The submissions may be related to previously submitted requirements, enhancing
     existing functionality, or a new requirement.
     3.1.3. The submission should identify and describe requirements by providing a title,
     description, reason for proposing the requirement as an enterprise solution, efficiencies.
     The FRB member from the directorate submitting the requirements will validate
     submission.
     3.1.4. A     SharePoint     site    is    available  to     submit   the   information
     (https://cs2.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/1548/EBITR/Lists/Sub). The site provides samples to
     guide requirement creation. Information collected using this site becomes the basis for
     the Functional Requirements Specification (FRS) developed collaboratively during the
     Requirements Planning and Review step (paragraph 3.2). All AFRL government
     personnel have access to the site using the CAC e-mail certificate.
  3.2. Requirements Planning & Review. The initial analyses to identify, describe, and
  document individually submitted requirements into defined functional capabilities forming
  the foundation of a FRS.
     3.2.1. The FRS is an integrated capability plan prepared by a collaborative group
     consisting of a capability champion, functional area representatives, EBS PMO, and
     AFRL/XP.       Proposed capabilities described in a FRS must be based on AFRL
     community provided inputs and reviews. Review boards, IPTs, and/or working groups
     should define functional requirements and associated business value to facilitate
     awareness and acceptance both laterally and vertically within the enterprise. The level of
     detail documented in the FRS required to qualify a requirement is scope dependent. For
     example, changing the name of an existing field, or adding a data element to a report does
     not require lengthy descriptions, justification, or a BCR. However, a new automated
     capability does require a level of detail and due diligence to support the investment
     decision.
     3.2.2. Requirements should describe their enterprise value by: detailing clear and concise
     descriptions of functions and features (requirements); current and future process
     descriptions; benefits to stakeholders and users (customers); expected improvements to
     the enterprise, both quantitative and qualitative where practical (e.g., man-hour savings);
     estimated efficiencies; high-level implementation schedules; and estimated hours for
     development and implementation to include resource options.
     3.2.3. A critical component in determining business value of a defined requirement is the
     benefit/cost ratio (BCR). The BCR is the man-hour savings divided by the hours to
     implement over one year. Note: BCR does not represent Return On Investment (ROI)
     which is normally calculated over a three year period. Subject matter experts (e.g.,
     Submitter, Requirements Champion, Functional Area Representative) provide the man-
     hour savings estimate which must include the rationale for calculating the BCR value.
     The EBS PMO estimates hours required to implement the need. Each requirement should
     include a BCR; however, individual requirement BCRs may be rolled up to a higher level
     for presentation to the FRB. In addition to quantifiable measures (i.e., man-hour cost
8                                                              AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014


       avoidance and total planned hours to implement), other tangible aspects such as data
       integrity, higher headquarters directives, or policy changes can be included to justify
       business value.
       3.2.4. Once sufficiently documented in a FRS and coordinated within working groups,
       the requirement along with other requirements are packaged and prepared for FRB
       review and prioritization. Note: A FRS may include proof of concept or prototype
       documentation to allow requirements vetting and approval by the enterprise via the
       EBITR process.
    3.3. Requirements Review and Prioritization. The FRB reviews, accepts, and prioritizes
    defined requirements for the enterprise.
       3.3.1. Requirements Review. AFRL/XP submits completed FRSs and/or requirements
       defining future EBS implementations to FRB members three (3) weeks prior to a
       scheduled FRB review. This allows one (1) week for enterprise review and coordination,
       one (1) week for addressing questions, and one (1) week for updating the FRS and/or
       requirements for presentation during the formal FRB.
           3.3.1.1. Defined requirements must be applicable and beneficial to the enterprise, as
           well as compatible with EBS Strategic Plan.
           3.3.1.2. Defined requirements must not be duplicative to existing capabilities
           provided by EBS or AF mandated systems.
           3.3.1.3. Defined requirements must not violate governing policy or processes.
       3.3.2. Requirements Prioritization. FRB requirements prioritization considers a
       variety of factors to include but not limited to; relevancy to the enterprise, alignment to
       EBS strategic planning, and business value. The FRB determines whether to pursue a
       proposed requirement as an enterprise development initiative, and rank orders (1 thru N)
       all new and previously submitted capabilities. The Functional Area Representative may
       prioritize and document a defined capabilities functional requirement in the FRS for
       review and concurrence by the FRB. (Note: Requirements with less than 40 hours to
       implement are not vetted by the FRB).
    3.4. Requirement Approval. The EBS Strategic Plan establishes the focus areas (e.g.,
    capability gaps, future goals & objectives), or scope, to be funded and deployed in the
    upcoming fiscal years. Identified enterprise requirements and future requirements provided
    by the enterprise via the EBITR process support the approval process conducted by the FRB
    in meeting the agreed upon areas of focus for a given fiscal year.
       3.4.1. For the current fiscal year, the EBS Strategic Plan identifies the approved
       concentration areas. These serve to inform the development of functional baselines
       consisting of accepted requirements supporting future EBS development releases.
       3.4.2. The EBITR FRB proposes functional baselines for future EBS development
       releases and delivers them to EBS PMO for development consideration.
    3.5. Requirement Execution. Consists of the resource allocation required to deliver
    approved release requirements and monitor implementation progress.
AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014                                                                     9


     3.5.1. Resource allocation reconciles EBITR-prioritized requirements and Corporate
     approved requirements against available development resources, dependencies, and
     constraints. The end goal is to optimize the highest ranked priorities and other previously
     scheduled work into release options providing significant value to the enterprise within
     an optimal timeframe.
     3.5.2. For the current fiscal year, the EBS PMO analyzes proposed EBITR FRB
     functional baselines through their Configuration Control Board process to verify resource
     allocation and schedule obligations thereby formulating the final (approved) allocated
     and product baselines for the subsequent EBS development release.
     3.5.3. If scheduling options do not meet enterprise expectations, then negotiation of
     schedule trade space occurs between EBS PMO and identified functional area
     representative(s).
     3.5.4. Release updates resulting from implementation deviations are communication to
     AFRL/XP for communication with the FRB as necessary.




                                          THOMAS J. MASIELLO,
                                          Major General, USAF
                                          Commander
 10                                                       AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Regulation 5400.7_AFSUP1, Department of Defense Freedom of Information Act
Program, 24 June 2002
DoD Directive 5400.11, DoD Privacy Program, 8 May 2007
DoD Directive 8000.01, Management of DoD Information Resources and Information
Technology, 27 February 2002
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use, 3 February 2005
AFI 33-320, Federal Register, 15 May 2002
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition—Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 12 September 2011
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994
AFMCPD 33-4, Centralized Planning and Control of AFMC Information Technology (IT)
Investments, 22 November 2005
MIL-HDBK-61A, Configuration Management Guidance, 7 February 2001
MIL-HDBK-520(USAF), Systems Requirements Document Guidance, 5 March 2001
EBITR FRB Charter, Version 1.1, October 2011,
https://cs2.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/1548/EBITR/EBITRAll/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=
%2fsites%2f1548%2fEBITR%2fEBITRAll%2fCharter&FolderCTID=0x01200093084361
8D6FEB45B386D6533E770163&Vi
ew=%7bCEE96D3C%2d8189%2d4475%2dB8DE%2d342F7384330C%7d
EBS Strategic Plan,
https://cs2.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/1548/EBITR/EBITRAll/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=
%2fsites%2f1548%2fEBITR%2fEBITRAll%2fEBS%20Strategic%20Plan&FolderCTID=
0x012000930843618D6FEB45B386D6533E770163&View=%7bCEE96D3C%2d8189%2d44
75%2dB8DE%2d342F7384330C%7d
EBS Configuration Management Plan, 19 June 2012, Version 2.1,
https://cs2.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/EBSPO/cm/CM%20Controlled%20Documents/EBS%20No
n-
Release%20(CM)/Management%20Plans/EBS%20Configuration%20Management%20Pla
n%20(CMP).zip
Adopted Forms
AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014                                                                      11


AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMCPD—Air Force Materiel Command Policy Directive
CIO—Chief Information Officer
EBITR—Enterprise Business Information Technology Requirements
EBS—Enterprise Business System
eMASS—Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service
FRB—Functional Review Board
FRS—Functional Requirement Specification
GAT—Government Acceptance Testing
IAW—In Accordance With
IT—Information Technology
NDAA—National Defense Authorization Act
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PMO—Program Management Office
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RM—Records Manager
ROI—Return On Investment
SCR—Software Change Request
SRS—Software Requirements Specification
TD—Technology Directorate
XP—Plans and Programs Directorate

Terms
Benefit/Cost Ratio— The relative value of implementing a requirement as calculated by
comparing the estimated benefit to the cost to implement. This value does not represent return on
investment (ROI) which is normally calculated over a three year period. The standard period for
expressing the benefit is one (1) year.
Enterprise Business System— The EBS is a business mission system providing the Information
Technology (IT) implementation of the Air Force Research Laboratory’s (AFRL) centralized
business processes. It is comprised of a highly integrated set of interactive tools for the entire
spectrum of AFRL’s business and management processes.
Functional Baseline (FBL)— The initial technical baseline documenting a capability or
requirement’s performance, interoperability and interface characteristics. It is traceable IAW
 12                                                           AFRLI33-401 13 MARCH 2014


defined configuration management procedures. In the case of EBITR, the FBL is approved by
the FRB.
Proof Of Concept / Prototype— A demonstration whose purpose is to verify that certain
concepts or theories have the potential for real-world application. A proof of concept may be as
simple as a PowerPoint presentation that shows how a user interface is envisioned to operate, or
as complex as a prototype representing a more realistic operational capability. Both are
designed to determine feasibility, but do not represent deliverables. These typically occur prior
to a production build or roll-out of a major capability.
Software Change Request— Request for new functionality or service.
Telelogic— Commercial-Off-The-Shelf (COTS) software used to capture and manage SCRs.
