BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                                      INSTRUCTION 10-201
(AFRL)
                                                                             29 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                      Operations

                                                                  MATERIAL SUPPORT TO
                                                               CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFRL/XP                                                             Certified by: AFRL/CV
                                                                         (Col Roger M. Vincent)
Supersedes:    AFRLI 10-201,                                                            Pages: 9
               29 April 2004

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness. The document
establishes the process for support to warfighters to provide resource support to wartime
contingency operations (sometimes called surge, rapid response, or accelerated acquisition). This
instruction does not replace or supersede AFRL’s support to the AEF schedules. This instruction
is intended to fill the gaps to support the warfighters that come outside the AEF schedule. This
instruction applies to all of AFRL. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all
direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW       the    Air     Force     Records    Disposition      Schedule    (RDS)     located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 through the
appropriate functional chain of command.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction removes the need for an AFRL Crisis Action Team. Any AFRL-based resource
support to the warfighter will be through the AFRL Commander’s Action Group (CAG). In
addition this instruction integrates and defines a process for deploying technologies and its
support personnel as seen in section 4.3. This document has been substantially revised and must
be reviewed in its entirety. Office symbols have been revised to align with the current structure
of AFRL.
 2                                                           AFRLI10-201 29 OCTOBER 2012


1. Overview. The AFRL support to contingency operations program is a key component of
AFRL’s support to the warfighter with resource support as well as providing a communication
channel up and down the organization. AFRL will use the Commander’s Action Group
(AFRL/CCX) as the primary focal point for requesting support to contingency operations. When
tasked directly AFRL’s subordinate organizations will also provide support to contingency
operations information to the AFRL CAG. This instruction describes and defines the AFRL
support to contingency operations program goals, objectives, and standards. Figure 1 helps
illustrate the high-level view of the process, as well as communications up and down the
organization.

Figure 1. AFRL High-Level Support to Contingency Operations Process




     1.1. Goal. The following are the goals for the AFRL support to contingency operations
     program: To support wartime contingency operations with the knowledge and resources
     AFRL possesses.
        1.1.1. To respond to wartime operational commanders with recommendations, solutions,
        etc., to aid the commander’s ability to expedite operations.
        1.1.2. To collect and coalesce information from technology directorates (TDs), 711th, and
        detachments (Dets) on contingency operations support.
     1.2. Objectives. The objectives of the support to contingency operations program are to:
        1.2.1. Enhance wartime commanders’ capability by timely response to needs.
        1.2.2. Enhance effective communications up and down the AFRL chain of command.
        1.2.3. Ensure pre-coordinated plans can be executed during duty and non-duty hours.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. Air Force Research Laboratory Headquarters (AFRL HQ). AFRL HQ is the entity
     responsible for information on the AFRL support to contingency operations program. The
     AFRL support covers all types of contingencies even those funded with non-AF funding.
     2.2. AFRL Commanders Action Group (CAG).
        2.2.1. Receive requests for support to contingency operations.
        2.2.2. Determine the proper routing of requests for support to contingency operations.
        2.2.3. Track and route all requests for support to contingency operations.
        2.2.4. Route information collected through proper release approval.
        2.2.5. Provide information back to requestors of the support.
AFRLI10-201 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                 3


     2.2.6. Provide status information on support requests to HQ staff and AFRL Commander
     as needed.
     2.2.7. Maintain list of Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNET) and
     Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) email accounts to route requests
     2.2.8. Support non-duty and 24-hour operations when prior coordinated and additional
     manpower has been assigned.
  2.3. Plans and Programs Directorate (AFRL/XP).
     2.3.1. Formulate guidance for AFRL support to contingency operations program.
     2.3.2. Publish AFRL-wide support to contingency operations guidance, including this
     instruction, and ensure this AFRL guidance is reviewed and updated to agree with
     guidance in AFMCI 10-201, The AFMC Center Exercise Progress, and AFI 10-201,
     Status of Resources and Training System. Included in this guidance will be the AFRL
     support to contingency operations process.
     2.3.3. Serve as the AFRL functional point of contact (POC) for questions concerning the
     routing of support to contingency operations tasking.
  2.4. AFRL Detachments, Technology Directorate (TD) and the 711th Wing.
     2.4.1. Receive requests(s) from AFRL HQ and other higher HQs and execute the
     request(s).
         2.4.1.1. Maintain a NIPRNET workflow email account.
         2.4.1.2. Maintain a Senior Officer Communication and Coordination Electronic
         Resource (SOCCER) account.
         2.4.1.3. Maintain a SIPRNET email account.
         2.4.1.4. Maintain an email workflow account.
         2.4.1.5. Notify AFRL CAG of establishment and changes to 2.4.2.1 – 2.4.2.4.
     2.4.2. Keep AFRL CAG informed of requests that did not flow down thru AFRL HQ.
     2.4.3. Each Commander/Director will establish a line of succession, for the organizations
     leadership, to address personnel non-availability.
  2.5. All AFRL Personnel. All AFRL personnel will fully support the program outlined in
  this instruction. All applicable civilian personnel policies and instructions will apply.
  2.6. All AFRL HQ Personnel. All AFRL HQ personnel will fully support the CAG during
  surges and the need for 24-hour operations. AFRL CAG will coordinate through HQ 2ltr
  offices for support. All applicable civilian personnel policies and instructions will apply.
3. Program Guidance. AFRL/XP is designated as the OPR for the AFRL support to
contingency operations program/process.
  3.1. Security Considerations.
     3.1.1. All personnel will properly mark, handle, process, transmit, and store classified
     information under their control. Normal security marking and transmission rules apply at
     all times.
4                                                           AFRLI10-201 29 OCTOBER 2012


       3.1.2. Use the appropriate classified systems for all classified communications.
       Classified document preparation must be done on a computer with a hard drive approved
       for the processing of classified.
       3.1.3. Classified information shall be marked, handled, processed, stored, and
       transmitted IAW the following: guidance from the Controlled Access Program
       Coordination Office; AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management; and DOD
       5200.1-R, Information Security Program
       3.1.4. If any AFRL organization has any questions concerning security, security
       classification levels, or special handling, contact the local security office.
    3.2. Exercises. AFRL HQ and subordinate organizations will exercise the support to
    contingency operations processes at least annually to enhance readiness. Types of exercises
    include structured walk-through, tabletop, functional, partial full scale and full scale.
    TDs/Dets may be directed by AFRL or will be allowed to select the exercise type by
    coordinating with AFRL/XP. Annual guidance will be provided by AFRL/XP. AFRL will
    participate in AF and AFMC exercises. AFRLI 10-230, Conduct of Key Exercises and
    Experiments, will be followed where applicable.
    3.3. Logistics (including any Continuity of Operations (COOP) associated facilities).
       3.3.1. AFRL organizations with support to contingency operations responsibilities will
       establish methods to track availability and readiness of resources designated for use
       during all support to contingency operations operational phases.
       3.3.2. Communications and information, facilities, and logistics considerations.
           3.3.2.1. AFRL Operations and Support Division of the Office of the Chief of Staff
           (AFRL/CSH) will provide an on-call 24-hour focal point to AFRL/XP and AFRL
           CAG to support unscheduled computer maintenance requirements during contingency
           operations.
           3.3.2.2. AFRL/CSH will maintain an on-call facilities focal point to deal with any
           telephone, SIPRNET, or work area problems during the time period that AFRL/XP
           and AFRL CAG is supporting contingency operations or exercising the support to
           contingency operations process.
       3.3.3. Support to contingency operations facility support. To ensure maximum
       flexibility to support wartime materiel surge requirements, AFRL will maintain primary
       and secondary support to contingency operations locations. Each TD/Det will have
       access to NIPRNET and SIPRNET e-mail systems, phone, and VTC. In case of
       contingency at a TD/Det, the local COOP plan will be implemented.
    3.4. Operational Readiness Exercise (ORE) and Operational Readiness Inspection (ORI)
    Guidelines.
       3.4.1. For ORE and ORI purposes, all required actions to address a tasking short of funds
       commitment will be fully executed. Under no circumstances, however, should any
       government funds be committed to support ORE and ORI requirements. AFRL program
       managers should also not direct contractor Advisory & Assistance Services (A&AS) and
       non-A&AS resources to support ORE and ORI activities unless these activities are within
       the scope of their existing contracts.
AFRLI10-201 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    5


     3.4.2. During an ORE or ORI, TDs, 711th, detachments, and AFRL CAG will ensure all
     charts reflect the proper markings (e.g., the header and footer contains the following
     nomenclature: ―EXERCISE EXERCISE EXERCISE‖). Note: There is no such
     thing as EXERCISE or simulated classified. For ORE, ORI, and real-world situations,
     appropriate security classification markings should be clearly identifiable.
     3.4.3. If a TD or sector determines that classified information is required to support a
     tasking, the responsible organization will immediately notify the AFRL CAG. Sector,
     TD/Det personnel will properly mark, handle, process, transmit, and store classified
     information under their control. Normal security marking and transmitting rules apply at
     all times.
     3.4.4. During an ORE or ORI, the AFRL CAG will simulate the release of the daily
     contingency update to the HQ AFMC Contingency Operations Center and Secretary of
     the Air Force Science, Technology, and Engineering Directorate (SAF/AQR). The report
     will be drafted and coordinated with AFRL/XP, but will not be transmitted.
  3.5. Surges and Non-Duty Hour Support.
     3.5.1. During wartime support and exercises, AFRL may be required to provide surge
     support to its customers. Surge support may require working longer duty days, as well as
     typically non-duty hours. AFRL CAG will coordinate known surge activities with all
     AFRL organizations in advance.
  3.6. Issues Resolution.
     3.6.1. AFRL/XP will establish a Comprehensive Continuous Improvement Plan (CCIP)
     to support contingency operations program.
     3.6.2. The CCIP will use the Joint Universal Lessons Learned System (JULLS) format
     for data entry and maintenance.
         3.6.2.1. Exercise observations requiring resolution will be entered into the JULLS
         database if not resolved within 60 days of the exercise.
         3.6.2.2. As the CCIP program matures, it will be made available for command use.
         Once available, subordinate organizations will forward support to contingency
         operations JULLS inputs for items that cannot be resolved solely within the
         command. Reference CJCSI 3150.25A for JULLS guidance.
         3.6.2.3. AFRL detachments and subordinate organizations with support to
         contingency operations responsibilities will develop methodologies to resolve or
         mitigate support to contingency operations shortfalls, limiting factors (LIMFACS),
         and issues identified during the staffing process or exercises. They will also integrate
         LIMFACS and support to contingency operations issues into their remedial action
         program (RAP).
         3.6.2.4. AFRL detachments and subordinate organizations will freely share lessons
         learned and solutions around AFRL and with other Air Force elements.
 6                                                          AFRLI10-201 29 OCTOBER 2012


4. Support to Contingency Operations Execution Guidance.
     4.1. Requests for Support.
        4.1.1. AFRL CAG receives request for support (SOCCER task, email, phone call).
        4.1.2. AFRL CAG will review the request and ensure the request is in the SOCCER
        system with all the required information documented.
        4.1.3. AFRL CAG will determine if they have enough information. If the CAG does not
        have enough information, they will make contact with the requestor and retrieve the
        information needed.
        4.1.4. AFRL CAG will coordinate with AFRL Front Office Group (FOG) as necessary to
        get further guidance and approval.
        4.1.5. AFRL CAG will analyze the information received to determine who needs to work
        the request. The CAG may call upon AFRL/XP for functional guidance on what TDs
        could support the request. AFRL CAG may go back to the requestor for more
        information.
            4.1.5.1. AFRL CAG may use the AFRL Core Process 3 (CP3) process in helping
            address near- term warfighter needs through the rapid infusion, integration, and
            innovation of science and technology (S&T).
        4.1.6. AFRL CAG will task AFRL organizations (IAW standard task procedures)
        identified in the analysis step to respond to the request.
        4.1.7. AFRL CAG will collect requested information in the prescribed manner.
        4.1.8. AFRL organizations will review the request and formulate a response. Feedback
        will be provided back to AFRL CAG if suspense cannot be met.
        4.1.9. AFRL organizations will provide requested information back to AFRL CAG by
        the suspense.
        4.1.10. AFRL CAG will consolidate the requested information and make a determination
        if a release approval of the information is required. If so, the consolidated information,
        the request, and suspense will be forwarded to the approval office to provide a release
        approval.
        4.1.11. AFRL CAG will forward the requested information back to original requestor.
        4.1.12. AFRL CAG will close out the SOCCER workflow (request).
     4.2. Requests for Support – Requests Directly to AFRL TDs/Dets 711th Wing.
        4.2.1. AFRL organizations will notify AFRL CAG with all the information from the
        requests received.
        4.2.2. AFRL CAG will review the request and ensure the request is tracked appropriately
        with all the required information documented.
        4.2.3. AFRL CAG will request AFRL organizations (IAW standard task procedures)
        identified in the analysis step to respond to the request.
        4.2.4. AFRL CAG will collect requested information in the prescribed manner.
AFRLI10-201 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                     7


     4.2.5. AFRL organization will review the request and formulate a response. Feedback
     will be provided to AFRL CAG as the organization works the request.
     4.2.6. AFRL organizations will forward the requested information back to original
     requestor.
        4.2.6.1. In cases where AFRL HQ coordination is needed the AFRL organization
        will submit the information requested along with a Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) for
        AFRL HQ approval. When the SSS is approved, AFRL CAG will forward the
        completed information to the originator on behalf of AFRL.
     4.2.7. AFRL organizations will notify AFRL CAG that the request has been provided. A
     copy of the information provided will be sent to the AFRL CAG.
     4.2.8. AFRL CAG will close out the request.
  4.3. Deploying AFRL Technology and Support Personnel for the Technology (outside the
  AEF schedule).
     4.3.1. Technology directorates that receive a request or wish to offer deployed personnel
     and equipment to a combat zone must gain AFRL/CC approval before starting their
     deployment planning. All requests will be worked through the unit deployment managers
     to the AFRL CAG, reference paragraph 4.2. At a minimum, the approval request to
     AFRL needs to address the following.
        4.3.1.1. The requesting agency/service and whether they submitted a formal request
        through official channels.
        4.3.1.2. A description of the AFRL technology being requested.
        4.3.1.3. A synopsis of the system’s technology readiness level and risk.
        4.3.1.4. The desired in-place date and location.
        4.3.1.5. Number and type of AFRL personnel (military, government civilian,
        contractor) involved.
            4.3.1.5.1. When contractor contingency support is required, include a statement
            that all anticipated contractor support is within the scope of the applicable
            contracts or will be incorporated into the contract prior to contingency utilization
            of affected support contractors.
        4.3.1.6. The length of the deployment.
        4.3.1.7. Whether airlift or air freight transportation required for the requested system.
        4.3.1.8. Funding the deployment?
     4.3.2. The request must be in the form of a memorandum addressing the points from
     4.3.2 above. The memo needs to be coordinated on a staff summary sheet through DP,
     FM, XP, CAG to the CV and then to CC for approval.
     4.3.3. It is highly likely that the answers to 4.3.1 items may require the use of SIPRNET.
     Implement at a minimum Operations Security (OPSEC) measures in formulating
     responses and following the Directorates Technology Protection Program measures
     needed to protect potentially sensitive AFRL technologies.
8                                                     AFRLI10-201 29 OCTOBER 2012


    4.3.4. Any deployment to a combat theater must minimize the number of people going
    forward. Further, training of combat forces on AFRL technologies should ideally be
    done during the Continental United Stated (CONUS) training cycle just prior to the
    deployment of the gaining/using unit. In-theater training should be reserved for unique
    situations.
    4.3.5. Paragraph 4.3 applies specifically to deployment of AFRL personnel or equipment
    in support of technology requests. All Air Force (10-403 Deployment Planning and
    Execution) and DoD guidance apply and take precedence. All applicable civilian
    personnel policies, instructions and bargaining agreements will apply.




                                        WILLIAM N. McCASLAND,
                                        Major General, USAF
                                        Commander
AFRLI10-201 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                9


                                       Attachment 1
    GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, FORMS, AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training System, 13 April 2006
AFI 10-230, Conduct of Key Exercises and Experiments, 1June 2000
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 January 2008
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 41-106, Medical Readiness Planning and Training, 14 April 2008
DOD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 14 January 1997
AF PD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
AFMCI 10-201, The AFMC Center Exercise Progress, 20 December 1995
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&AS—Advisory & Assistance Services
CAG—Commanders Action Group
CCIP—Comprehensive Continuous Improvement Plan
CONUS—Continental United Stated
COOP—Continuity of Operations
JULLS—Joint Universal Lessons Learned System
LIMFACS—Limiting Factors
NIPRNET—Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
OPSEC—Operations Security
ORE—Operational Readiness Exercise
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
RAP—Remedial Action Program
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SOCCER—Senior Officer Communication and Coordination Electronic Resource
