BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                               INSTRUCTION 61-103, Volume 2

                                                                                    18 JUNE 2014

                                                            Scientific/Research and Development

                                                          AFRL TEST ACTIVITY INVOLVING
                                                                  HUMAN PARTICIPANTS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 711 HPW/XPT                                                        Certified by: 711HPW/XP
                                                                                 (Maris Vikmanis)
                                                                                          Pages: 8


This publication implements AFRL Instruction 61-103, AFRL Research Test Management. This
instruction provides guidance for review and approval of test activity involving human
participants. This AFRL Instruction pertains to all AFRL test activities that involve human
participants. The intent of this instruction is to ensure Air Force Research Laboratory
researchers and organizations conducting test activity include appropriate reviews and
documentation, assuring that risk to the human participant is minimized. In the event the activity
constitutes human subject research such activity is referred for proper further review as defined
by AFRLI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Research. All applicable civilian personnel
policies, instructions, and bargaining agreements will apply. This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW)
AFMAN 33-363, Management of records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management Systems (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional manager’s chain of command.

1. Purpose and Scope.
   1.1. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to provide safeguards to enhance human
   participant safety in the conduct of research test activities. Approval to proceed with any test
   activity will be provided to the program manager (PM) by the designated test approval
   authority (TAA) IAW AFRLI 61-103, AFRL Research Test Management. This instruction
 2                                                             AFRLI61-103V2 18 JUNE 2014


     will provide guidance for obtaining reviews, as well as instruction for the conduct of those
     reviews.
     1.2. Scope. The guidance contained in this instruction applies to all AFRL test activities
     involving human participants, including experiments and demonstrations that involve AFRL
     assets (full or part ownership) or AFRL personnel (government, military, and contractors), or
     where AFRL either holds mishap accountability or some level of liability. This guidance
     also applies to all tests executed by organizations under contract to AFRL where AFRL holds
     either mishap accountability or some level of liability.
        1.2.1. Test activities involving human participants are defined as those activities which
        involve an interaction or intervention with an individual. For example, an intervention
        can involve physical procedures or a manipulation of the subject’s environment. An
        interaction can include such activities as medical procedures, psychological testing,
        surveys, interviews, and focus groups.
     1.3. Waivers. Coordinate waiver requests with local technology directorate (TD) test leads
     for coordination/staffing to the 711 HPW Technology Integration Branch (711 HPW/XPT).
     The 711 HPW/XPT will in turn coordinate waivers with AFRL Plans and Programs
     (AFRL/XP) and AFRL Safety Office (AFRL/SE) as required.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. AFRL Detachment System Safety Personnel will:
        2.1.1. Assist the PM in developing the safety component of the test plan and help
        determine if the activity constitutes human participants or human subject research. The
        Human Subject and Exemption Worksheet (Attachment 2) should be used to aid in
        making this determination. If the activity does constitute human subject research, it must
        be reviewed by the AFRL Institutional Review Board (IRB) (see AFRLI 40-402). If in
        doubt, refer the matter to the AFRL IRB for further official and final determination.
        2.1.2. Undergo annual research reviewer training provided by the AFRL IRB. Such
        training will equip the trainee with the knowledge needed to assess whether or not a test
        plan constitutes test activity involving human participants or human subject research.
     2.2. Program Manager (PM) will:
        2.2.1. Contact the AFRL Detachment Safety Office and Directorate Test Lead early in
        the program development and activity planning stage and provide information concerning
        test requirements. The Program Manager is responsible for developing a test plan and
        coordinating that plan with the AFRL Detachment Safety Office and Directorate Test
        Lead.
        2.2.2. Ensure timely compliance with all applicable requirements and be solely
        responsible for the planning and execution of the test activity. The Program Manager
        plans, conducts, manages and documents the activity in accordance with AFRLSUP
        1/AFI 91-202, Chapter 13; AFRLI 61-103; and with this instruction.
        2.2.3. Keep the completed Human Subject and Exemption Worksheet (Attachment 2) as
        part of the case file.
AFRLI61-103V2 18 JUNE 2014                                                                         3


3. Test Process.
   3.1. AFRL Research Test Activity. All AFRL research test activity which potentially
   involves human participants will follow the determination and review process as depicted in
   Figure 1. When test activities include human participants, items related to their participation
   must be listed in the test plan as described Attachment 3. All test plans must be coordinated
   with the appropriate AFRL Detachment Safety Office prior to conducting any tests with
   human participants.
   3.2. Testing. The test should be conducted in such a way as to avoid any mental or physical
   harm or unnecessary discomfort to participants. The test plan must detail the safety aspects
   taken into account for the test. During the course of the test, the PM, scientist, or engineer in
   charge must be prepared to terminate the test at any stage, if he or she has any cause to
   believe, in the exercise of good faith, superior skill and careful judgment that continuation of
   the test is likely to result in injury, disability, or death to the participant, or is unlikely to
   produce the expected outcome through technical, Operational Risk Management (ORM),
   safety, or other analysis method. No individual under the age of 18 will be a test participant.

Figure 1. Research Test Management Process for Human Participants



       Initial             Contact AFRL Detachment
      Planning              System Safety Personnel




           Determine if             Determine if               Conduct
          test is Human    No       test involves     No       reviews                TAA
             Subject                   Human                 according to           Approval
            Research                 Participants           AFRLI 61-103

                   Yes                     Yes
                                                                                   Execution
          AFI 40-402 and          Conduct reviews
           AFRLI 40-402             according to                                   Document
              Apply.                guidance in                                     Results
            Contact IRB              section 3.0




                                                    THOMAS J. MASIELLO, Major General, USAF
                                                    Commander
 4                                                              AFRLI61-103V2 18 JUNE 2014


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 32 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 219, Protection of Human Subjects, current edition
DoD Directive 3216.02, Protection of Human Subjects and Adherence to Ethical Standards in
DoD-Supported Research, 24 Apr 2007
DoD Directive 5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, 5 May 2005
AFI 91-202, US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 Aug 1998
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFRLI 40-402, Using Human Subjects in Research, 17 Oct 2008
AFRLI 61-103, AFRL Research Test Management, 1 Nov 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September, 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRL IRB (711 HPW/IR)—Air Force Research Laboratory Institutional Review Board
CFR—Code of Federal Regulation
ORM—Operational Risk Management
PM—Program Manager
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
TAA—Test Approval Authority
TD—Technology Directorate

Terms
Generalizable Knowledge—New information that has relevance beyond the population or
program from which it was collected, or information that is added to the scientific literature.
Human Subject Research—A systematic investigation, including research development, testing
and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge, when there is
intervention or interaction with a human as the subject of the research. (For further discussion,
guidance, and related terminology see AFI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Biomedical
and Behavioral Research, and AFRLI 40-402, Protection of Human Subjects in Research).
Human Subject—A living individual about whom an investigator conducting research obtains:
(1) Data through intervention or interaction with the individual, or
(2) Identifiable Private Information.
AFRLI61-103V2 18 JUNE 2014                                                                       5


(For further discussion, guidance, and related terminology see AFI 40—402, Protection of
Human Subjects in Biomedical and Behavioral Research, and AFRLI 40-402, Protection of
Human Subjects in Research).
Human Participant—A living individual used to affect a test activity through intervention or
interaction with the individual, but whom is not the subject of the activity. Focus data collected
is not about the individual, but rather is about the object or design being tested.
Test Activity—For the purposes of this instruction, is an evaluation, demonstration,
development, research, experiment, or other effort, which is non-systematic OR is not designed
to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge, (e.g., activity that does not meet the
definition of Human Subject Research).
Test Activity Involving Human Participants—Any test activity that includes the use of
humans through intervention or interaction and is NOT Human Subject Research. This typically
applies in cases where the human being is not the focus of the test activity. For example, to use a
human to evaluate the sound quality and physical comfort of a stereo headset, the human would
not be the focus/subject of the test.
 6                                                   AFRLI61-103V2 18 JUNE 2014


                                  Attachment 2
               HUMAN SUBJECT AND EXEMPTION WORKSHEET

Figure A2.1. Human Subject and Exemption Worksheet
AFRLI61-103V2 18 JUNE 2014                                                                        7


                                          Attachment 3
  ITEMS TO INCLUDE IN A TEST PLAN INVOLVING HUMAN PARTICIPANT IN
                           TEST ACTIVITIES

NOTE: This outline contains many suggested topics to trigger your thoughts to cover all
necessary topics. However, some may not be applicable to your specific program. Tailor the
outline to fit your program.
Definition of Human Participant-A living individual used to affect a test activity through
intervention or interaction with the individual, but whom is not the subject of the activity. Focus
data collected is not about the individual, but rather is about the object or design being tested.

Figure A3.1. Items to Include in a Test Plan Involving Human Participant in Test
Activities
8   AFRLI61-103V2 18 JUNE 2014
