BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                                      INSTRUCTION 10-105

                                                                          25 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                      Operations

                                                         CRISIS COMMAND AND CONTROL


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AFRL/DS                                                              Certified by: AFRL/CV
                                                                         (Colonel Roger Vincent)
                                                                                         Pages: 12



This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-206, Operational Reporting, AFI 10-
207, Command Posts, and Air Force Materiel Command (AFMCI) 10-105, Crisis Command and
Control. This instruction standardizes the crisis and contingency Command and Control (C2)
organizational structure and processes within the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL). It
includes the AFRL Center-Level Battle Staff organization and defines organizational
responsibilities; establishes crisis and contingency C2 policy and details the tasking authorities
during AFRL crisis or contingency response operations. It applies to all AFRL personnel. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) of this publication for coordination prior to certification
and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the OPR
using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Requests for waivers must be
processed through command channels to the publication OPR for consideration. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                       AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                           Chapter 1

                                       INTRODUCTION

1.1. Overview. This instruction:
     1.1.1. Defines AFRL’s crisis and contingency Command and Control (C2) Structure;
     1.1.2. Defines AFRL organizational crisis and contingency C2 responsibilities;
     1.1.3. Outlines standard AFRL crisis and contingency C2 operating procedures;
     1.1.4. Details the lines of communication between the AFRL Headquarters (HQ) Staff,
     AFRL HQ Battle Staff, Technology Directorates (TDs)/711 Human Performance Wing
     (HPW), AFRL Command Section, and AFRL Unit Control Centers (UCCs).
1.2. General. The dynamic nature of crisis, contingency and wartime operations demands an
organizational structure tailored to support a range of military operations; flexible procedures;
and rapid, effective and coordinated communications. This structure must leverage existing
plans and practiced procedures to the maximum extent possible to provide timely, appropriate
responses to emerging requirements while assessing future needs and possible courses of action.
During crisis/contingency operations, AFRL must be capable of responding to a variety of
internal and external tasks, to include requirements levied by the Joint Staff, HQ Air Force,
United States Northern Command (USNORTHCOM) and other Combatant Commands
(COCOMs), Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and installation commanders. AFRL’s
standing C2 structure contains 24/7 C2 nodes, directly responsible to the AFRL Commander and
Directors. They serve as the focal point of operations and receipt/dissemination of orders. These
nodes also process necessary information and requests for the day-to-day C2 of assigned forces
and operations.
     1.2.1. Figure 1.1 depicts an example of the day-to-day C2 structure and communication
     between the AFRL Command Section and AFRL HQ Staff and TDs/711 HPW. Routine C2
     operations are performed IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, AFI 10-207, Command
     Posts, and Emergency Action Procedures (EAPs).

Figure 1.1. AFRL Day-to-Day C2 structure
AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   3


   1.2.2. Within AFRL, senior leadership is the decision-making body for directing
   contingency operations. Circumstances which may require AFRL to direct activation of the
   AFRL’s crisis C2 structure include, but are not limited to:
      1.2.2.1. Operations Plan (OPLAN) and Concept of Operations (CONOPS) Plan
      implementation;
      1.2.2.2. Natural disasters;
      1.2.2.3. Peacetime accidents and catastrophes;
      1.2.2.4. Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) exercises;
      1.2.2.5. Homeland Defense responses;
      1.2.2.6. Overseas Contingency Operations.
   1.2.3. The AFRL Commander (AFRL/CC) requires a tailorable C2 structure and flexible
   support staff to focus AFRL on a crisis or contingency. The structure and staff must provide
   a corporate approach to time-sensitive operations and be able to meet specific crisis
   requirements. The addition of the Battle Staff provides this centered, tailorable C2 structure.
   The Battle Staff can speed response times to contingency tasks and information
   dissemination while providing leadership, at all levels, an increased awareness needed to
   perform their missions.
      1.2.3.1. AFRL’s crisis/contingency C2 structure consists of the AFRL HQ Battle Staff
      and TD’s Emergency Management (EM) organizations. Figure 1.2 depicts AFRL HQ’s
      Battle Staff C2 structure.

Figure 1.2. AFRL HQ Battle Staff Structure
4                                                      AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


    1.2.4. The Chair of the AFRL HQ Battle Staff (AFRL/CC or designated alternate) can direct
    AFRL Battle Staff activations, as required, providing a venue to address an actual or
    expected crisis/contingency situation. This does not prevent TD/711 HPW Directors from
    activating their crisis C2/EM nodes.
    1.2.5. The Battle Staff can surge to provide           24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week
    crisis/contingency C2 through its leadership and functional area experts. The Battle Staff
    may adjust posture and/or composition depending on the type and tempo of supported
    operations. Posture adjustments are defined as a change in operating hours or employing a
    crisis response team. Composition adjustment is defined as employing more, or fewer,
    personnel as the situation dictates.
AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                              5


                                         Chapter 2

                                   RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. AFRL/CC. AFRL/CC will chair the AFRL HQ Battle Staff.
2.2. AFRL Vice Commander (AFRL/CV). AFRL/CV is the AFRL senior official designated
to:
   2.2.1. Serve as the AFRL Point of Contact (POC) to AFMC for issues related to
   crisis/contingency C2.
   2.2.2. Oversee AFRL’s crisis/contingency response program and associated activities.
2.3. AFRL Director of Staff (AFRL/DS). AFRL/DS is the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) for AFRL crisis/contingency C2 response policy. AFRL/DS will:
   2.3.1. Maintain current AFRL crisis/contingency POC data with Future Operational Plans
   Office (HQ AFMC/A3X). Data will include names, organizations, secure and non-secure
   office phones, Nonsecure Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet) and Secret Internet
   Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet), personal and organizational email addresses.
   2.3.2. Incorporate and institutionalize crisis/contingency response concepts into relevant
   AFRL doctrine, policies, strategies, programs, budgets, training, exercise and evaluation
   methods.
   2.3.3. Initiate and maintain an effective AFRL crisis/contingency response program.
   2.3.4. Serve as the AFRL enterprise level node for Air Force Personnel Accountability and
   Assessment (AFPASS) System.
   2.3.5. Represent AFRL at command-level crisis response and exercise planning meetings
   and conferences.
   2.3.6. Provide guidance and training to AFRL personnel on crisis/contingency response
   planning and execution.
   2.3.7. Coordinate with the AFRL HQ Continuity Plans Officer to ensure that Battle Staff
   facilities, equipment, communications and other relocation/reconstitution requirements are
   fully addressed in the AFRL Continuity of Operations (COOP) Plan.
   2.3.8. Direct AFRL HQ Staff and TDs to appoint in writing a crisis response POC and
   oversee the crisis response program activities in their organization.
   2.3.9. Establish the AFRL HQ Battle Staff to provide, when required, a sustained 24-hours-
   a-day, seven-days-a-week operations venue for the AFRL leadership to perform crisis action
   planning and contingency operations execution. As a minimum the AFRL HQ Battle Staff
   will:
   2.3.9.1. Include the necessary staff functions to adequately address Higher Headquarters
   (HHQ) tasks in a timely manner.
      2.3.9.2. Provide oversight for developing and maintaining        continuity guides and
      checklists.
 6                                                             AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


        2.3.9.3. Maintain the required support documentation, forms and administrative
        equipment for Battle Staff activation. At a minimum, administrative equipment will
        include the following capabilities: NIPRnet access, SIPRnet access, unclassified Defense
        Connect Online (DCO) web conferencing capability, classified DCO web conferencing
        capability, secure and unsecure Video Teleconferencing (SVTC/VTC) and standard and
        encrypted telephone communications system (Secure Telephone Equipment (STE) or
        Voice Over Secure Internet Protocol (VoSIP)).
     2.3.10. Participate in periodic training and exercises.
     2.3.11. Brief the AFRL HQ leadership and HQ AFMC Crisis Action Team (CAT) , as
     appropriate.
     2.3.12. Review and approve consolidated Center Situation Reports (SITREPs).
     2.3.13. Ensure a record of events is maintained for mission continuity and after action
     review.
     2.3.14. Notify the HQ AFMC CAT of activation, deactivation or status change.
     2.3.15. Conduct a post-operations hotwash with key participating AFRL personnel following
     activation for any exercise or operation. Hotwash results will be presented to senior AFRL
     leadership.
2.4. AFRL/XP. Director of Plans and Programs will:
     2.4.1. Appoint a Trusted Agent within AFRL/XP to support exercise planning.
     2.4.2. Support AFRL/DS as a co-architect of the AFRL Crisis Response Program (XP focus
     is on functional Science & Technology (S&T) mission support, and DS focus is on
     people/infrastructure/installations support).
     2.4.3. Provide oversight and guidance of functional S&T mission roles/responsibilities that
     support the AFRL Crisis Response Program.
     2.4.4. Develop, coordinate, publish and maintain AFRL crisis/contingency response
     guidance (AFRLI 10-208, Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program). Review annually
     and update as changes warrant.
2.5. TDs/711 HPW. TD/711 HPW Directors or their designated representative will appoint an
OPR to direct their organization’s crisis response activities and provide names, organization,
secure and non-secure office phones, NIPRnet and SIPRnet, personal and organizational email
addresses to AFRL/DS. The appointed TD/711 HPW OPRs will:
     2.5.1. Incorporate and institutionalize crisis response concepts into relevant guidance,
     policies, strategies, programs, budgets, training and exercise and evaluation methods.
     2.5.2. Initiate and maintain a comprehensive and effective crisis response program.
        2.5.2.1. Develop and maintain crisis response plans and capabilities to complement
        AFRL HQ crisis response plan.
        2.5.2.2. Develop, coordinate, publish and maintain their organizations’ crisis response
        plans. Review annually and update as changes warrant.
AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  7


   2.5.3. Represent their organizations at the AFRL HQ Battle Staff for crisis response and
   exercise planning meetings and conferences as required.
   2.5.4. Provide guidance and training to their organizational personnel on crisis response
   planning and execution.
   2.5.5. Submit SITREPs, as tasked. When SITREPs are tasked by an outside agency, include
   the AFRL HQ Battle Staff for reporting;
   2.5.6. Ensure a record of events is maintained for mission continuity purposes and to support
   after action reviews.
   2.5.7. Notify AFRL/DS of activation, deactivation or status change.
   2.5.8. Conduct a post-operations hotwash with key participating personnel within their
   organizations following activation for any exercise or operation.
       2.5.8.1. Hotwash results will be presented to the AFRL leadership. Forward a copy to
       AFRL/DS for lessons learned dissemination within the Command’s crisis response
       community.
2.6. AFRL HQ Staff. AFRL HQ Staff Directors/Chiefs or appointed OPRs will:
   2.6.1. Direct their organization’s crisis response activities and provide names, organization,
   secure and non-secure office phones, NIPRnet and SIPRnet, personal and organizational
   email addresses to AFRL/DS.
   2.6.2. Represent their organization at the AFRL HQ Battle Staff for crisis response and
   exercise planning meetings and conferences as required.
   2.6.3. Coordinate guidance and training to their organizational personnel on crisis response
   planning and execution.
   2.6.4. Submit SITREPs, as tasked;
   2.6.5. Ensure a record of events is maintained for mission continuity purposes and to support
   after action reviews;
   2.6.6. Conduct a post-operations hotwash with key participating personnel following
   activation for any exercise or operation.
       2.6.6.1. Hotwash results will be presented to the AFRL leadership. Forward a copy to
       AFRL/DS for lessons learned dissemination within the Command’s crisis response
       community.
2.7. Other Organization(s) Responsibilities.
   2.7.1. The nature of the AFRL mission necessitates receiving direct tasks from the outside of
   the AFRL command structure. Any organization/individual receiving an external task from
   an outside agency relating to crisis or contingency operations must notify their host Wing/TD
   leadership who will then notify the AFRL HQ Battle Staff. Figure 2.1 depicts the
   information flow when Wing/TD is tasked directly by an outside agency.
 8                                                AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


Figure 2.1. AFRL HQ Battle Staff Second tier Information Flow
AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                  9



                                          Chapter 3

                                           POLICY

3.1. Structure. AFRL HQ will activate the AFRL HQ Battle Staff to support crisis/contingency
operations. The AFRL HQ Battle Staff will have a reach-back capability to support operations.
3.2. Crisis/Contingency Operations. AFRL will employ AFRLI 10-201, Material Support to
Contingency Operations at the start of a crisis/contingency. The Commander’s Action Group
(AFRL/CCX) serves as the AFRL’s single point of entry and exit for all crisis/contingency
tasks/directives.
   3.2.1. In the event the AFRL HQ Battle Staff is activated, crisis/contingency tasks/directives
   will flow from the AFRL HQ Battle Staff through the AFRL/CCX to appropriate AFRL HQ
   Staff and/or TDs/711 HPW OPRs using provided NIPRNet and/or SIPRNet email account(s).
   During outside of normal duty day hours, the Battle Staff will use recall rosters to support
   operations.
 10                                                   AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                         Chapter 4

                              TRAINING AND EXERCISES

4.1. Training. AFRL HQ crisis response organizations will design crisis response training
programs to train personnel to include Air Force Emergency Management Program Course
(AFEMPC) (ZZ133131) on the Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) website. OPRs
will train crisis response personnel and provide them with training outlines. OPRs will add
information and guidance appropriate/unique to their organization. Training will include both
crisis response policies and position-specific duties and should be held within 60 days of
assignment. As minimum, refresher training will be provided semi-annually.
   4.1.1. AFRL HQ Battle Staff will be trained to perform their assigned duties in a no-
   warning execution.
   4.1.2. AFRL Commanders and Directors at all levels will be briefed by their crisis response
   OPR on their crisis response program preparation and execution responsibilities.
4.2. Exercises. AFRL HQ will exercise its Battle Staff at least annually. Exercises may be
combined with installation, command or the Joint Chief of Staff (JCS)-level exercises.
   4.2.1. AFRL will participate in an annual command-wide crisis and contingency response
   exercise. AFRL/CC’s intent is to engage AFRL at all levels (AFRL HQ down to
   squadron/branch level) during this annual event. Every effort will be made to align this
   requirement with a USNORTHCOM or United States Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM)
   joint exercise or as otherwise tasked by HQ AFMC. The HQ AFMC CAT, Center Battle
   Staffs and Wing CATs will be activated to support the exercise. Wing level exercise and
   response requirements will be coordinated and deconflicted from the existing installation
   exercise program or Inspector General directed activities.
   4.2.2. Participation in real-world events may be substituted for the annual exercise
   requirement if it is of sufficient scope and length to meet the intent of 4.2.1.
   4.2.3. Individual exercise response objectives and requirements may be combined with other
   exercise functional objectives into a single event.
   4.2.4. Annual COOP requirements will be conducted as part of the Battle Staff exercise
   program. AFRL HQ/TDs/711 HPW and Operating Locations should visit their designated
   relocation site at least annually to familiarize members with the facilities and available
   equipment.
       4.2.4.1. Battle Staff, TDs/711 HPW, and Operating Locations will collect after-action
       reports and use the information to improve/update their COOP program, plans and/or
       methodologies.




                                           THOMAS J. MASIELLO, Major General, USAF
                                           Commander
AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014                                               11


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 September 2011
AFI 10-207, Command Posts, 1 February 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMCI 10-105, Crisis Command and Control, 24 December 2013
AFRLI 10-201, Material Support to Contingency Operations, 29 October 2012
AFRLI 10-208, Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program, 2 April 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning Service
AFEMPC—Air Force Emergency Management Program Course
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPASS—Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
C2—Command and Control
CAT—Crisis Action Team
COCOM—Combatant Command
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
COOP—Continuity of Operations
DCO—Defense Connect Online
EAP—Emergency Action Procedure
EM—Emergency Management
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HQ—Headquarters
JCS—Joint Chiefs of Staff
NIPRNet—Nonsecure Internet Protocol (IP) Router Network
OPLAN—Operations Plan
 12                                                       AFRLI10-105 25 SEPTEMBER 2014


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
S&T—Science & Technology
SIPRNet—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SITREP—Situation Report
STE—Secure Telephone Equipment
SVTC—Secure Video Teleconferencing
TD—Technology Directorates
UCC—Unit Control Center
USNORTHCOM—United States Northern Command
USSTRTCOM—United States Strategic Command
VoSIP—Voice Over Secure Internet Protocol
VTC—Video Teleconferencing

Terms
Awareness— The continual process of collecting, analyzing, and disseminating intelligence,
information, and knowledge to allow organizations and individuals to anticipate requirements
and to react effectively.
Center— A named unit that performs a specialized mission. A primary characteristic is that it
performs most of its mission within a large complex at one location; for example, air logistics
centers and test centers. Usually, it has only a few subordinate units.
Command and Control (C2)— The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. C2
functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment, communications,
facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing, coordinating, and
controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.
Contingency— A situation requiring military operations in response to natural disasters,
terrorists, subversives, or as otherwise directed by appropriate authority to protect US interests.
Crisis— An incident or situation involving a threat to a nation, its territories, citizens, military
forces, possessions, or vital interests that develops rapidly and creates a condition of such
diplomatic, economic, political, or military importance that commitment of military forces and
resources is contemplated to achieve national objectives.
Hotwash— An after action review with the intent to formulate lessons learned and establish best
practices.
Laboratory— An organization that performs a research or advanced development mission.
