BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                                      INSTRUCTION 65-6

                                                                              5 AUGUST 2014

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                 BUDGET GUIDANCE AND PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFRL/FMA                                                           Certified by: AFRL/FM
                                                                            (Pamela J. Henson)
Supersedes:   AFRLI 65-6, 24 June 2011                                                 Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-6, Budget, and provides
additional instruction for AFRL. This instruction primarily applies to AFRL Headquarters
(AFRL HQ) 2-ltr organizations. This publication may not be supplemented or further
implemented/extended. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. Requests
for waivers must be submitted to the OPR for consideration and approval. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Paragraphs 2.2 and 3.2 contained the most changes. However, the changes in this instruction are
considered non-material administrative changes.
1. Introduction. This instruction is designed specifically to supplement guidelines developed
for the budget process of the AFRL HQ staff operating budgets and corporate bills. This annual
budget process includes the call for requirements; approval of the budget; tracking of
commitments, obligations, and expenditures for the entire fiscal year; monthly reconciliation of
the budgets with the program managers; and bi-annual budget execution reviews.
 2                                                                AFRLI65-6 5 AUGUST 2014


2. Procedures. The procedures for the annual HQ budget process are as follows:
     2.1. The budget process must comply with the AFPD 65-6 requirements.
     2.2. AFRL Financial Management (AFRL/FM), which consists of the AFRL/FM director,
     AFRL/FM deputy director, and affiliated AFRL/FM office staff, discuss any known budget
     changes from the previous year. These changes are then incorporated into the budget
     development call instructions. In March/April, AFRL/FM sends out the budget call to all the
     AFRL HQ 2-ltr directors to inform them of the start of the budget process and to provide
     them with guidance on how they should proceed. AFRL/FM then distributes the budget
     templates and reports (i.e., individual budget targets, input templates, prior budget
     submission data, and current year execution data) to the various HQ 2-ltr organizations. The
     2-ltr organizations submit their budgets by the designated due date to AFRL/FM.
        2.2.1. Staff budgets include civilian pay, travel, training, supplies, equipment, and
        contractor support. These funds are used to support the day-to-day activities of the HQ
        staff.
        2.2.2. Corporate bills are submitted for specific AFRL-wide requirements. They include
        projects such as the Science & Engineering (S&E) Fair, Corporate Library, Oracle, and
        Lab Demo.
     2.3. Staff budgets and corporate bill requirements are submitted by Element of Expense
     Investment Code (EEIC) (i.e., travel, training, contracts, and supplies, with detailed
     descriptions for those requirements). EEICs are referred to as cost categories in this
     instruction. Increases from designated budget targets must also be justified.
     2.4. AFRL/FM collects all the staff budget and corporate bill requirements and coordinates
     with the HQ 2-ltr directors to make appropriate adjustments to eliminate duplication.
     2.5. AFRL/FM briefs AFRL/CV and HQ 2-ltr directors in May on the size and content of the
     staff budget and corporate bill requirements.
     2.6. In June, the AFRL Commander (AFRL/CC) and AFRL Executive Director (AFRL/CA)
     are briefed on the proposed budget. After approval by AFRL/CC and AFRL/CA, the budget
     is then briefed to the AFRL Corporate Board for final approval. During the Corporate
     Board, programmatics such as Systems Engineering or Rapid Reaction programs are
     reviewed and approved for funding. These programmatics are identified to AFRL/FM to
     source along with the corporate bills and staff operating budgets. Corporate bills, HQ 2-ltr
     operating budgets and programmatics are collectively referred to as corporate-level
     assessments.
     2.7. At the beginning of October, the approved staff and corporate bill budgets are issued to
     the HQ 2-ltr organizations. Spending during the beginning of the fiscal year may be
     restricted due to limited budget authority (i.e., Continuing Resolution Authority [CRA]).
     Please note that an approved budget does not negate the need for requiring offices to acquire
     any other applicable acquisition approval (e.g., Service Requirement Approval Document).
     2.8. HQ 2-ltr directors may appoint budget focal points to monitor their staff operating
     budgets and program managers to monitor their corporate bills. Budget training can be
     provided by AFRL/FM upon request to all new focal points and program managers.
     AFRL/FM will provide monthly obligation and expenditure reports for each HQ 2-ltr office.
AFRLI65-6 5 AUGUST 2014                                                                           3


   HQ 2-ltr directors, budget focal points, and program managers are all encouraged to review
   these reports to reconcile their records and to track the execution of their respective budgets.
   2.9. During the year, staff budget and corporate bill requirements may change and require
   adjustments among the cost categories. The focal points can move funding among their
   respective cost categories (except travel) to cover higher priority requirements; however,
   their bottom line must remain the same. Corporate bills are for specific amounts and
   purposes and are not normally adjusted during the year. Adjustments among training,
   supplies, and support contractors are routine and will be worked directly between AFRL/FM
   and the HQ 2-ltr focal point. Movement of funds between HQ divisions and AFRL
   technology directorates (TDs) will be administered by AFRL/FM. As required, AFRL/CV
   can direct adjustments within the HQ budget in order to accommodate higher priorities.
   2.10. In March and August, AFRL/FM holds an execution budget review with all the HQ 2-
   ltr directors and AFRL/CV. During this review, staff operating and corporate bill budgets are
   evaluated against the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) straight-lined obligation and
   expenditure goals. Any HQ division with an underperforming budget must provide
   justification as to why it needs to retain its funds. In addition, all HQ 2-ltr organizations are
   required to submit an itemized spend plan for their remaining budget balances, including any
   projected shortfalls, or balances to return. AFRL/FM will compile a list of all the HQ
   shortfalls and balances to return for AFRL/CV to prioritize. Funds returned by the HQ
   divisions may be used for HQ shortfalls, TD-specific projects, and/or returned to the TDs for
   general use. Any funding unobligated at the end of the fiscal year will also be returned to the
   TDs.
3. Methodology.
   3.1. Funding to support the staff budget and corporate bills comes from assessing the TDs’
   programmed budgets.
   3.2. The corporate-level assessments (reference definition in paragraph 2.6.) are levied by
   program element code (PEC), but TDs are given the option of working with HQ to reallocate
   the assessment among their own PECs. The base for the assessment is the sum of the
   President’s Budget for all non-devolved PECs, less any Congressional Reductions. The total
   assessment is calculated by multiplying the assessment percentage for that given year by the
   sum of the PB. The individual PE amounts are determined similarly – the assessment
   percentage is multiplied by each proposed PEC amount as listed in the PB. Additional
   assessments are levied against specific PECs, as agreed to in the corporate board approval
   (For example, Section 219.) This provides the total corporate assessment bill for the PECs.
   3.3. Once the total bill is calculated, AFRL/FM reviews programmatics to determine that
   sufficient funding is available. When needed, the analyst works with the TDs to make
   adjustments to the PEC assessments to provide appropriate funds as needed. After
   programmatics are appropriately funded, the remaining funds are retained by AFRL/FM for
   HQ budget execution.
 4                                                             AFRLI65-6 5 AUGUST 2014



4. Policy. All funds used for staff budgets and corporate bills, although 3600 appropriations,
will be considered 1-year money. They will be obligated in the current year. Only requirements
with a bona fide need will be carried over to the second year.




                                           THOMAS J. MASIELLO, Major General, USAF
                                           Commander
AFRLI65-6 5 AUGUST 2014                                     5


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-6, Budget, 1 May 98
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CA—Executive Director
CRA—Continuing Resolution Authority
CV—Vice Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
EEIC—Element of Expense Investment Code
FM—Financial Management
HQ—Headquarters
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of Secretary of Defense
PEC—Program Element Code
S&E—Science and Engineering
TD—Technology Directorate
