BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                                       INSTRUCTION 36-211
(AFRL)
                                                                             5 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                      APPOINTING RETIRED/SEPARATED
                                                   MILITARY MEMBERS OR REEMPLOYED
                                                    ANNUITANTS TO DOD CIVIL SERVICE
                                                                          POSITIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFRL/DPDC                                                           Certified by: AFRL/DPD
                                                                             (Ms. Pamela Swann)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This instruction implements AFI 36-102, Basic Authority and Responsibility for Civilian
Personnel Management and Administration, and AFI 36-2110, Assignments. This instruction
establishes policy, responsibilities, and procedures to implement the Air Force Research
Laboratory (AFRL) policy on appointing retired/separated military members and reemployed
annuitants. This instruction applies to all AFRL organizations. This publication may be
supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.              Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

1. Overview. All retired/separated military members hired at the DR-IV/GS-15 and equivalent
level require HQ AFMC Executive Director (AFMC/CA) approval. AFRL Executive Director
(AFRL/CA) is the approval authority for all DR-III/GS-14 and equivalent level or below
positions if the military member’s retirement/separation effective date is within one year of the
proposed hiring date and the individual is being hired into the same technology directorate
(TD)/711th Human Performance Wing (711 HPW) from where the member retired/separated.
All reemployed annuitants at the DR-IV/GS-15 and equivalent level require AFMC/CA
 2                                                          AFRLI36-211 5 DECEMBER 2012


approval. Reemployed annuitants at the DR-III/GS-14 and equivalent level or below require
AFRL/CA approval.
2. Approval Process and Notification
     2.1. All packages for appointing reemployed annuitants and retired/separated military
     members when required (see paragraph 3) to DoD civil service positions must be submitted
     to the appropriate point of contact (POC) to the Personnel Director (AFRL/DP). Requests
     for reemployed annuitants and retired/separated military members must be submitted to the
     AFRL/DP program POC. Sending packages directly to AFMC is unauthorized. The
     AFRL/DP POC will route the request packages to the appropriate approval authority
     AFRL/CA or AFMC/CA.
     2.2. If AFMC/CA approval is required, the AFRL/DP POC will submit the required
     documentation to the appropriate office in AFMC who will staff and submit the
         package to AFMC/CA for approval. AFRL/DP will maintain a log of all requests on
         reemployed annuitants and retired/separated military hired civilian positions.
     2.3. To expedite processing, ensure all the documentation required is submitted
     electronically via Livelink, as separate attachments (individual files), to the appropriate
         AFRL/DP POC.
     2.4. Packages must be approved by the appropriate approval authority prior to making any
     commitments or offers of employment to the applicant. Upon approval by the appropriate
     authority (AFRL/CA or AFMC/CA) and notification by the appropriate staffing office (if
         applicable), the responsible POC in AFRL/DP will notify the affected TD/711 HPW of
     the approval.
     2.5. Civilian personnel flight has sole authority to extend an official offer of employment to
     the applicant. The selecting official does not have the authority to present any official
         offer to the applicant to fill any civilian position.
     2.6. This guidance does not negate the AFMC Commander’s (AFMC/CC) policy on DR-
     IV/GS-15 and equivalent selections/reassignments or AFRL’s guidance on announcing
     civilian leadership positions IAW AFRLI 36-105, AFRL Civilian Leadership Positions
     Assignment Procedures.
3. Hiring Retired/Separated Military Members.
     3.1. Retired/Separated Military Members at the DR-IV/GS-15 and equivalent level.
        3.1.1. Retired/separated military members hired at the DR-IV/GS-15 and equivalent
        level require AFMC/CA approval. Submit packages to AFRL/DP POC to be staffed
        through AFRL/CA to AFMC/CA.
        3.1.2. Items Required in Packages. Note: Upon AFRL/CA concurrence, AFRL/DP will
        submit the DR-IV/GS-15 and equivalent package to AFMC/A1L for staffing to HQ
        AFMC/CA for approval.
            3.1.2.1. AF Form1768, Staff Summary Sheet, signed by the two-letter director that
            consists of the following:
                3.1.2.1.1. A paragraph that includes the individual’s name, proposed pay plan-
                series-grade,   position    duty title       (not   position   classified title),
AFRLI36-211 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                   3


            section/directorate/branch/division of position; duty location; date and  rank
            individual retired/separated from the military, organization/office symbol which
            the individual retired/separated from the military; advanced degree (degree type,
            discipline, and date); Professional Military Education        (PME) completion
            (courses and dates); and proposed salary.
            3.1.2.1.2. A paragraph that explains how the position was announced; recruiting
            effort involved; number of individuals on the certificate provided by the local
            civilian personnel flight; and selection process (resume review, interview, panel
            membership, etc.) accomplished to determine the best qualified candidate for the
            position. Include selecting official’s name and phone number.
            3.1.2.1.3. A paragraph describing why the individual is the best    qualified    for
            the position.
            3.1.2.1.4. A paragraph including Acquisition Professional Development
            Program (APDP) information for the position, the individual’s certification
            information and if the individual is an acquisition corps member. If the individual
            does not have the      required certification, include the requirements that need to
            be completed. Attach any Critical Acquisition Position (CAP) or tenure waivers,
            if required.
         3.1.2.2. Resume (not-to-exceed three pages; refer to AFH 33-337, The Tongue and
         Quill).
         3.1.2.3. Statement of Duties and Experience (SDE) or Position Description (PD).
         3.1.2.4. AFMC Announcement Form.
         3.1.2.5. Organizational chart.
  3.2. Retired/Separated Military Members at the DR-III/GS-14 and equivalent level or below.
     3.2.1. AFRL/CA is the approval authority for all DR-III/GS-14 and equivalent level or
     below positions if the military member’s retirement/separation effective date is within
     one year of the proposed hiring date and the individual is being hired into the same
     TD/711 HPW from where the member retired/separated.
     3.2.2. If the package requires AFRL/CA approval, submit the package to AFRL/DP POC
     for review and staffing to AFRL/CA.
     3.2.3. Items required for packages:
         3.2.3.1. AF Form 1768 signed by the two-letter director that consists of the
         following:
            3.2.3.1.1. A paragraph that includes the individual’s name, proposed pay plan-
            series-grade,    position    duty title      (not   position    classified   title),
            section/branch/division/directorate of position, duty location, date and rank
            individual separated/retired from the military, organization/office symbol which
            the individual retired from the military, advanced degree (degree type, discipline,
            and date), .PME completed (courses and dates), and proposed salary.
            3.2.3.1.2. A paragraph that explains how the position was announced; recruiting
 4                                                             AFRLI36-211 5 DECEMBER 2012


                effort involved, number of individuals on the certificate provided by the local
                civilian personnel flight; and selection process (resume review, interview, panel
                membership, etc.) accomplished to determine the best qualified candidate for the
                position. Include selecting official’s name and phone number.
                3.2.3.1.3. A paragraph describing why the individual is the best qualified for the
                position.
                3.2.3.1.4. A paragraph including APDP information for the position, the
                individual’s certification information and if the individual is an acquisition corps
                member. If the individual does not have the required certification, include the
                requirements that need to be completed. Attach any CAP or tenure waivers, if
                required.
            3.2.3.2. Resume (not-to-exceed three pages; refer to AFH 33-337).
            3.2.3.3. SDE or PD.
4. Hiring Reemployed Annuitants.
     4.1. Reemployed annuitants will not be hired for an indeterminate period of time in AFRL.
     Please note that reemployed annuitants are to support critical mission requirements, i.e.,
     complete a special project, fill gaps in workforce until training/experience gained, or address
     short-term workforce needs. Appointments to the same position held before retirement to
     mentor less experienced employees or provide continuity will not exceed 2,087 hours.
     Reemployed annuitant actions are not solely for the benefit of the annuitant and should not
     exceed a maximum of three years.
     4.2. This authority should not preclude an opportunity for other members of the workforce
     or for developing the junior workforce.
     4.3. Reemployed annuitants at the DR-IV/GS-15 and equivalent level.
        4.3.1. Reemployed annuitants at the DR-IV/GS-15 and equivalent level require
        AFMC/CA approval. Submit packages to the AFRL/DP POC for review and staffing to
        the appropriate approval authority.
        4.3.2. Items required for packages:
            4.3.2.1. AF Form 1768, signed by the two-letter director that consists of the
            following:
                4.3.2.1.1. A paragraph that includes the individual’s name, retirement date,
                information on the position from which the individual retired to include pay plan-
                series-grade,   position     duty title         (not    position     classified  title),
                section/branch/division/directorate of position, duty location; the position for
                which the individual is being considered to include pay plan-series-grade,
                section/branch/division/directorate of position and duty location, duration of
                proposed assignment, proposed salary, and a statement that the individual is only
                mentoring/training an individual and will not exceed 2,087 hours; or; if to
                complete a project or critical skills, identify the duration of the appointment.
                4.3.2.1.2. A paragraph that explains the reason for the request; how the position
                was announced; number of individuals on the certificate provided by the local
AFRLI36-211 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                    5


            civilian personnel flight, if applicable; and selection process (resume review,
            interview, panel membership, etc.) accomplished to determine the best qualified
            candidate for the position. Include selecting official’s name and phone number.
            4.3.2.1.3. A paragraph that describes how this individual is the best qualified for
            the position.
            4.3.2.1.4. A paragraph including APDP information for the position, the
            individual’s certification information and if the individual is an acquisition corps
            member. If the individual does not have the required certification, include the
            requirements that need to be completed. Attach any CAP or tenure waivers, if
            required.
     4.3.3. Resume (not-to-exceed three pages; refer to AFH 33-337).
     4.3.4. SDE or PD.
     4.3.5. AFMC Announcement Form.
     4.3.6. Organizational chart.
  4.4. Reemployed annuitants at the DR-III/GS-14 and equivalent or below.
     4.4.1. Reemployed annuitants at the DR-III/GS-14 and equivalent or below will be
     approved by AFRL/CA. Submit packages to AFRL/DP POC for review and staffing to
     AFRL/CA.
     4.4.2. Items required for packages:
         4.4.2.1. AF Form 1768 signed by the two-letter director that consists of the
         following:
            4.4.2.1.1. A paragraph that includes the individual’s name, retirement date,
            information on the position from which the individual retired to include pay plan-
            series-grade,      position    duty title     (not   position   classified    title),
            section/branch/division/directorate of position, and duty location; position for
            which the individual is being considered, duration of proposed assignment and
            proposed salary and a statement that the individual is only mentoring/training an
            individual and will not exceed 2,087 hours; or; if to complete a project or critical
            skills, identify the duration of the appointment.
            4.4.2.1.2. A paragraph that explains the reason for the request; how the position
            was announced; number of individuals on the certificate provided by the local
            civilian personnel flight, if applicable; and selection process (resume review,
            interview, panel membership, etc.,) accomplished to determine the best qualified
            candidate for the position. Include selecting official’s name and phone number.
            4.4.2.1.3. A paragraph that describes how this individual is the best qualified for
            the position.
            4.4.2.1.4. A paragraph including APDP information for the position, the
            individual’s certification information, and if the individual is an acquisition corps
6                                                 AFRLI36-211 5 DECEMBER 2012



       member. If the individual does not have the required certification, include the
       requirements that need to be completed. Attach any CAP or tenure waivers, if
       required.
    4.4.2.2. Resume (not-to-exceed three pages; refer to AFH 33-337).
    4.4.2.3. SDE or PD.




                                    WILLIAM N. McCASLAND,
                                    Major General, USAF
                                    Commander
AFRLI36-211 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                            7


                                       Attachment 1
    GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, FORMS, AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-102, Basic Authority and Responsibility for Civilian Personnel Management and
Administration, 18 February 1994
AFI 36-2110, Assignments, 22 September 2009
AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill, 1 Aug 2004
AFRLI 36-105, AFRL Civilian Leadership Positions Assignment Procedures, 8 July 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form1768, Staff Summary Sheet, 1 September 1984
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
