BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY
AIR FORCE RESEARCH LABORATORY                                      INSTRUCTION 31-101
(AFRL)
                                                                              17 OCTOBER 2013

                                                                                          Security

                                                      SECURITY PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
                                                                AND RESPONSIBILITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFRL/DSO                                                              Certified by: AFRL/DS
                                                                                    (Col Jon Yost)
Supersedes:    AFRLPD 31-4, 15 December                                                  Pages: 14
               2005 and AFRLVA31-4, 31
               May 2006


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), AFI 31-101,
Integrated Defense (FOUO), AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, AFI 31-
501, Personnel Security Program Management, AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program
Management, AFI 33-115V2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals,
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC). It provides basic security concepts and programs
and outlines responsibilities for all levels within AFRL. This instruction applies to all AFRL
organizations and their contractors performing work for AFRL on Air Force property. In the
event of any conflict between this AFRLI and any local guidance or instructions, the local
guidance or instructions will take precedence, pending resolution; this includes units reporting to
separate authority. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct
supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification
and approval. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of
primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847 through the appropriate functional chain of command. Requests
for waivers must be processed through command channels to the publication OPR for
consideration. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                            AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013


1. Security Concept. To establish standardized security programs within AFRL to ensure
continuity of operations and protection of critical technology and personnel.
     1.1. Directors, or equivalent, will ensure security policy is established for the directorate or
     site. Security policy will be tailored to the directorate or site. Policy will be in the form of
     an operating instruction (OI). When applicable, geographically separated units (GSUs) may
     follow their parent technology directorate/ 711 Human Performance Wing (TD/711 HPW)
     OIs or plans. The director, or equivalent, will appoint a security manager (SM) to draft
     directorate or site policies, provide day-to-day management support to the directorate or site,
     and manage the overall security program. When possible, the SM will be a civilian GS-0080
     Security Specialist or a military member in the security forces career field. Parent TDs/711
     HPW will annually visit and review all GSU security programs to ensure compliance with
     this instruction and all applicable regulatory guidance.
     1.2. Division chiefs, branch chiefs, and all supervisors will ensure security processes are
     implemented within their respective areas and meet compliance requirements.
     1.3. Safe custodians will ensure security containers are maintained in good working order,
     maintenance is performed when required and unnecessary or incorrectly marked classified
     material is destroyed or corrective action is taken. Documentation of these corrective actions
     must be maintained until correct marking is accomplished.
     1.4. All AFRL personnel will take an active role in the security program and follow required
     security processes. Personnel will assure all sensitive and critical information is adequately
     protected and will utilize appropriate protection measures.             Security concerns or
     vulnerabilities will immediately be reported to the SM.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. AFRL Headquarters Security Office (AFRL/DSO). Responsibilities include:
        2.1.1. Developing and interpreting security policies and evaluating the adequacy of
        security countermeasures and procedures for all research & development (R&D)
        programs, excluding special access programs (SAP).
        2.1.2. Coordinating on all significant activities to major commands, Headquarters United
        States Air Force (HQ USAF), or Department of Defense (DoD) concerning security
        issues, waivers, deviations, or exceptions to established criteria when they affect the
        health of AFRL Security Program Management, technology protection, or any applied
        security countermeasure decisions and/or policies corporately embraced, funded, or
        utilized by AFRL.
        2.1.3. Performing as the initial laboratory conduit for AFRL security policies, practices,
        and or procedures that relate to R&D efforts. Acts as action officer for meeting and
        facilitating higher HQ or DoD, level short-notice tasking and special interest items on
        security related matters.
        2.1.4. Conducting periodic staff assistance visits (SAVs) on all AFRL TDs/711 HPW
        and GSUs, as appropriate, in support of AFRL Security Program Management and
        technology protection efforts.
        2.1.5. Assisting each AFRL TD/711 HPW with unique AFRL security support
        requirements.
AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013                                                                    3


     2.1.6. Provide technical advice to all directorate and GSU security offices, to include
     interpretation of policies and procedures.
  2.2. Director, or Equivalent, or Site Commander. The director, or equivalent, or site
  commander is responsible for implementing the security program. The director, or
  equivalent, or site commander will:
     2.2.1. Establish a close working relationship with the SM to ensure an understanding of
     the requirements and capabilities of the security program.
     2.2.2. Provide the necessary resources to support the security programs.
     2.2.3. Ensure government personnel performing security duties are trained and qualified.
     Ensure career-specific training is available to the SM.
     2.2.4. Appoint an SM in writing.
     2.2.5. Support the SM to ensure security requirements are met by all personnel. This
     includes, but is not limited to, mandatory training, suitability issues, consulting for
     security guidance, etc.
     2.2.6. Ensure security is integrated into all directorate activities, which may reveal
     sensitive information or operations. Sensitive activities may include organizing technical
     meetings or events, planning itineraries for high-level personnel, participating in
     collaborative workspaces, etc.
     2.2.7. Ensure awareness of the foreign intelligence threat is maintained in order to
     implement policy for those activities within areas of responsibility, which are, or may
     become, susceptible to foreign intelligence exploitation.
     2.2.8. Ensure SM is advised of new or changing information, technology, and operations,
     which affect security measures.
  2.3. Security Manager. The SM ensures consistent security practices are maintained
  throughout the directorate/site. The SM ensures the security program meets the needs of the
  site and the intent of higher HQ instructions. The SM will:
     2.3.1. Serve as a security advisor to the director, or equivalent, or site commander.
     2.3.2. Develop all required security OIs and plans for the directorate/site.
     2.3.3. Manage the security program.
     2.3.4. Ensure procedural requirements of this plan are implemented, as well as other
     policies and directives governing the security program.
     2.3.5. Provide technical advice to all directorate or site personnel on security matters, to
     include interpretation of policies and procedures.
     2.3.6. Ensure liaison is established and maintained with AFRL HQ Security, servicing
     information security program manager (ISPM), security forces squadron, information
     systems security officer (ISSO), Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI),
     senior intelligence officer, foreign disclosure officer, public affairs officer, and other
     offices as required.
4                                                            AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013


       2.3.7. Ensure an effective security education and training program is established,
       documented, and validated. Training programs will be tailored to the needs of the
       organization. All personnel, to include on-site contractors, require, at minimum, initial
       and semi-annual training.
       2.3.8. Establish classified and unclassified destruction procedures and schedule, at a
       minimum, annual shred days for directorate/site personnel to dispose of unneeded
       information.
       2.3.9. Provide lessons learned to the commander and senior leaders, when necessary.
       Information may be in the form of OPSEC briefings, SAV reports, electronic
       communications, staff meetings, etc.
       2.3.10. Annually inspect all security containers to ensure safe custodians are properly
       maintaining classified materials, preventative maintenance has been performed, and all
       other required documentation is current.
    2.4. All AFRL personnel will:
       2.4.1. Take an active role in the security program.
       2.4.2. Apply security rules when writing documents, utilizing information systems and
       electronic communication devices, selecting distribution statements, and discussing
       information with internal or external agencies and personnel.
       2.4.3. Ensure contract documents, such as the statement of work (SOW), statement of
       objectives (SOO), or requirements packages, contain applicable security requirements.
       2.4.4. Utilize shredders, shred-day opportunities, or established processes to destroy
       unneeded information. Ensure proper destruction of all information.
       2.4.5. When necessary, ensure the SM is notified of all non-DoD or contractor visitors.
       Sponsor must verify that all visitors are citizens and provide the SM the purpose,
       duration, location, and number of visitors.
       2.4.6. Ensure the SM is notified, at least 6 months in advance of all unclassified
       directorate/site-sponsored/co-sponsored conferences, large meetings, workshops, etc.,
       which will be conducted at locations other than military installations or DOD contractor
       facilities. In some cases, higher level approval may be required in accordance with AFI
       61-205, Sponsoring or Co-sponsoring, Conducting, and Presenting DOD-Related
       Scientific Papers at Unclassified and Classified Conferences, Symposia, and Other
       Similar Meetings.
       2.4.7. Ensure the SM is immediately notified via secure means of security vulnerabilities
       or inadvertent disclosures of classified or unclassified information, to include security
       incidents.
       2.4.8. Ensure the SM is immediately notified via secure means, if possible, of suspicious
       contacts or events where an unauthorized individual has attempted to elicit critical
       information. Contact may come in the form of e-mail, telephone, in person, conference
       attendance, etc.
       2.4.9. Ensure distribution statements are included on all technical documents, briefings,
       etc., in accordance with AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information.
AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013                                                                      5


       2.4.10. Ensure appropriate security rules are applied when participating in collaborative
       workspaces or blogs. Government e-mail addresses should never be used or posted on
       non-DoD systems/websites/etc., unless approved by ISSO and SM.
       2.4.11. Challenge unknown individuals in work areas to ensure there is a valid reason for
       their presence and they possess appropriate identification.
       2.4.12. Coordinate with the SM prior to the arrival of all summer hires or other
       temporary employees.
   2.5. Secure Internet Protocol Network (SIPRNet) Users. Users will:
       2.5.1. Protect SIPRNet passwords, to include default passwords, at the secret level.
       Passwords may be stored in properly marked and sealed envelopes in a GSA-approved
       security container.
       2.5.2. Not electronically transfer data from the SIPRNet to any unclassified system,
       regardless of the classification of the information.
       2.5.3. Ensure that “all” removable electronic media that is inserted into a SIPRNet
       terminal is marked “SECRET” and that all other required markings are applied.
       2.5.4. Only print documents when it is absolutely necessary.          Users will strive to
       maintain all classified holdings electronically.
3. Security Discipline. Security discipline involves integrity in all aspects of the process. It is
the responsibility of all personnel to comply with all written guidance to ensure protection is
afforded to information and personnel in a timely and effective manner. Supervisors are
responsible for enforcing and establishing a climate that promotes security discipline.
   3.1. Compliance Terminology. For the purposes of this instruction, the following definitions
   apply:
       3.1.1. Shall, Must, Will. Indicate mandatory requirements. (Will is also used to express
       a declaration of purpose for a future event.)
       3.1.2. Should: Indicates a preferred method of accomplishment.
       3.1.3. May: Indicates an acceptable or suggested means of accomplishment.
4. Foreign Travel.
   4.1. All personnel possessing an active DoD security clearance will report all foreign travel
   (including Canada, Mexico, Caribbean, etc.) to the SM and immediate supervisor prior to
   departure. Notification will be in writing. Contractors should report foreign travel to their
   facility security officer.
   4.2. All personnel occupying a sensitive, compartmented information position must
   additionally report all foreign travel through the SM to the servicing special security office.
   4.3. The SM will ensure all personnel receive foreign travel briefings from AFOSI.
   4.4. All personnel on official foreign travel must obtain a country clearance from the
   servicing Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO).
   4.5. All personnel must obtain supervisor, ISSO, and SM approval prior to transporting any
   data overseas (data includes laptops, blackberries, thumb drives, compact discs, etc.) All
 6                                                             AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013


     equipment must be sanitized and media must be appropriately encrypted prior to travel. A
     list of all technical data being transported on laptops or other electronic media storage
     devices must be maintained by the immediate supervisor.
5. Network/System Access.
     5.1. All personnel accessing any AF or DoD computer network or system must have, at
     minimum, a favorable national agency check (NAC) on file or submitted required paperwork
     for a NAC with inquiries. Temporary employees, less than 180 days, may access the
     installation network with director, or equivalent, or site commander approval.
     5.2. All personnel will adequately protect their common access card (CAC). CACs should
     not be left in readers when the employee is absent from their workstation. Any CACs left
     unattended in readers or on desks should immediately be turned in to the SM or ISSO. CACs
     should not be visible when individuals are not on the installation or site.
     5.3. All computer workstations must be locked when employee is absent.
6. Voluntary Emeritus Corp Personnel.
     6.1. AFRL directors have the authority to offer the voluntary emeritus corp (VEC) to retiring
     Federal government members for scientific and engineering (S&E) positions in order to
     retain corporate knowledge for mentoring purposes.
     6.2. Retiring civilian personnel who plan to return to service as a VEC personnel may have
     their security clearance updated prior to retirement, as long as it is communicated to the SM
     and civilian personnel that they will be returning as a VEC.
     6.3. Prior to civilian retirement, the SM will ensure the returning VEC is appropriately
     debriefed as a government employee, to include SAPs.
     6.4. Once the individual returns as a VEC, they must in-process and out-process through
     civilian personnel (refer to Attachment 2) and the SM (refer to Attachment 3.)
7. General Security.
     7.1. Centralized and controlled mail delivery locations must be established for each
     directorate or site. All official mail, to include express mail, will be delivered to established
     locations. All first class and express mail must immediately be inspected to ensure contents
     are not classified. If inspection is not immediately possible, mail must be continuously
     controlled or secured in a GSA-certified security container until inspection can occur. Only
     personnel possessing a secret-level or higher security clearance are permitted to inspect and
     distribute mail into directorate/site mail containers. Only contractors assigned to a classified
     contract, who possess the required level of security clearance and the SOW permits mail
     distribution, may perform this function.
7.2. Foreign Nationals. The SM must be notified in advance of all foreign national visits.
Foreign nationals are not permitted to visit or reside in AFRL facilities without the approval of
the servicing FDO. The FDO will identify approved buildings and common areas. Foreign
nationals may not visit any other buildings or areas without obtaining prior FDO approval.
        7.2.1. Permanently Assigned Foreign Nationals.
            7.2.1.1. Will be strictly controlled while on the installation and in the organization.
AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013                                                                        7


         7.2.1.2. Work areas will receive OPSEC vulnerability assessements prior to initial
         assignment and periodically thereafter.
         7.2.1.3. Sponsors will provide quarterly training on security requirements to all
         personnel working in the immediate vicinity of the foreign national.
         7.2.1.4. Will be distinctly badged while on the installation/site.
         7.2.1.5. Work areas will clearly identify the foreign national and country.
     7.2.2. Visiting Foreign Nationals:
         7.2.2.1. Will be strictly controlled while on the installation and in the organization.
         7.2.2.2. Visit areas will receive OPSEC vulnerability assessements prior to visit.
         7.2.2.3. Will be distinctly badged while on the installation/site.
         7.2.2.4. Appointed escorts will continuously observe the foreign national until
         escorted off the installation/site.
  7.3. Marking Classified Documents and Media.
     7.3.1. Classified media will be labeled with the appropriate standard form. Compact
     discs should be marked in permanent ink; however, the cases/holders should contain the
     appropriate standard form.
     7.3.2. Media that cannot be re used or overwritten will contain declassification
     instructions, if possible.
     7.3.3. Thumb drives are not authorized for classified use.
     7.3.4. Classified information should be destroyed when no longer needed and not of
     permanent historical value.
     7.3.5. Classified media will be destroyed when reader equipment is no longer available.
     7.3.6. Classified documents approaching 25 years of age will be scheduled for review to
     determine declassification or need for classification extension.
  7.4. Personnel Security.
     7.4.1. AF Form 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action, will be coordinated
     through the servicing security forces, civilian personnel, and medical center when
     available.
         7.4.1.1. When servicing offices are unavailable, the AF 2583 will be annotated as
         such.
     7.4.2. Personnel SMs will annually review the unit manning document to ensure that
     positions are coded and investigated at the appropriate security access requirement level.
8                                                        AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013



    7.5. Classified and Unclassified Destruction and Reproduction Equipment. Classified and
    uncalssified destrution and reproduction equipment will be certified by the SM and marked
    to identify approved level of use.




                                           THOMAS J. MASIELLO
                                           Major General, USAF
                                           Commander
AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013                                                                 9


                                       Attachment 1
    GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, FORMS, AND SUPPORTING INFORMAITON

References
AFPD 63-17, Technology and Acquisition Systems Security Program Protection, 26 Nov 2001
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), September 21, 2012
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 8 October 2009
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 November 2005
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005
AFI 31-601, Industrial Security Program Management, 29 June 2005
AFI 33-115V2, Licensing Network Users and Certifying Network Professionals, 14 April 2004
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC), 8 June 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
CAC—Common Access Card
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
GSUs— – Geogaphically Separated Units
ISPM—Information Security Program Manager
ISSO—Information Systems Security Officer
JPAS—Joint Personnel Adjudicative
NAC—National Agency Check
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
OPSEC—Operations Security
R&D—Research and Development
SAP—Special Access Program
S&E—Scientific and Engineering
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Network
SM—Security Manager
SSBI—Single Scope Background Investigation
SSO—Special Security Office
 10                           AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013


SOW—Statement of Work
SOO—Statement of Objectives
VEC—Voluntary Emeritus Corp
AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013                                     11


                                    Attachment 2
     AFRL IN-PROCESSING AND OUT-PROCESSING CHECKLISTS FOR VEC
                             PERSONNEL

Figure A2.1. AFRL In-Processing Checklists for VEC Personnel
 12                                                AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013


Figure A2.2. AFRL Out-Processing Checklists for VEC Personnel
AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013                                                                       13


                                          Attachment 3
   SECURITY MANAGER CHECKLIST FOR IN AND OUT-PROCESSING OF VEC
                          PERSONNEL

Figure A3.1. Security Manager Checklist for In and Out-Processing of VEC Personnel

Note: Retiring civilian personnel who plan to return to service as a Voluntary Emeritus may
have their security clearance updated prior to retirement, as long as it is communicated to the
appropriate Security Manager, Information Security Program Manager (ISPM) Personnel
Security Section, and to civilian personnel that they will be returning as a VEC.
In-Processing
Ensure VEC personnel have out-processed through the local servicing civilian personnel office.
Verification of this action can be determined by utilizing the Joint Personnel Adjudicative
System (JPAS
In-process VEC personnel into JPAS by selecting the VEC identifier in the “person category”
drop down box. Contact the appropriate ISPM Personnel Security Section if assistance is
required.
If the VEC agreement requires a security clearance and the employee requires an update, which
has not been submitted prior to retirement; ensure individual completes the required security
clearance paperwork for submission to the appropriate ISPM Personnel Security Office.
If the VEC agreement requires access to Top Secret (TS)/Sensitive Compartmented Information
(SCI), the following must be accomplished by the directorate security specialist, prior to
submitting a request for a billet to the Special Security Office (SSO) office. The VEC employee
must have a current investigation within the last 5 years and placed on a designated Emeritus SCI
billet. Identify organization within AFRL that will be the billet monitor for the VEC employee.
Verify VEC employee out-processed through Civilian Personnel and is formally retired.
   Must show as a VEC employee in JPAS.


   Must have an in-scope, Top Secret clearance investigation date.


   Must have processed into the directorate as an Emeritus employee.


   Submit the required paperwork for an initial Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI)
   or SSBI/Periodic Reinvestigation, as appropriate, to the ISPM Personnel Security Section for
   submission to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).
 14                                                          AFRLI31-101 17 OCTOBER 2013


Out-Processing
All Emeritus employees must utilize their assigned directorate’s out-processing procedures.
Schedule and debrief with SSO if Emeritus employee resides on an SCI billet.
Schedule and debrief with the directorate security specialist. Specialist must ensure:
Emeritus employee was debriefed from SCI accesses, if required.
Accomplish an AF Form 2587.
Annotate JPAS that the employee is no longer in VEC status.
