BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE                                      INSTRUCTION 24-101
(AFRS)
                                                                          27 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                               Transportation

                                                      TRANSPORTATION OF PERSONNEL
                                                              (RECRUITING SERVICE)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRS/RSXL                                                 Certified by: HQ AFRS/RSX
                                                                             (Col Kent Dalton)
                                                                                      Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 24-101, Passenger Movement, and Air
Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-1, Personnel Movement. It provides a single source of
guidance for Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) personnel who are tasked with the
responsibility of providing military personnel and applicants with transportation at government
expense. It provides for the appointment of transportation officers (TO) and transportation
agents (TA) in AFRS. This instruction does not apply to US Air Force Reserve or Air National
Guard units or members. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

1. TRANSPORTATION OFFICERS AND AGENTS
   1.1. Appointment and Responsibilities of Transportation Officers (TOs). Each
   group/squadron commander appoints the support flight commander as the TO. A copy of the
   appointment memorandum is maintained in the transportation file.
 2                                                            AFRSI24-101 27 OCTOBER 2011


1.1.1. TOs are responsible for:
            1.1.1.1. Performing as official liaison between passengers and commercial passenger
            carriers serving the activity.
            1.1.1.2. Obtaining service and furnishing travel information for persons traveling on
            official business.
            1.1.1.3. Preparing and submitting reports required by higher authority.
            1.1.1.4. Ensuring adequate commercial transportation is available to transport
            applicants from the recruiting office to the Military Entrance Processing Station
            (MEPS).
            1.1.1.5. Ensuring TAs is trained according to Chapter 6 of this regulation.
            1.1.1.6. Performing semiannual self-inspections of TA travel records.
     1.2. Transportation Agents (TAs).
        1.2.1. Recruiters, flight supervisors, MEPS Liaison Noncommissioned Officers
        (LNCO), and squadron support personnel who have a requirement to issue the necessary
        travel documents are authorized to act as TAs.
        1.2.2. Also by special reference, they designate logistic personnel the authority to receipt
        for accountable forms from the organizational Customer Account Representative (CAR)
        in the name and account of the TO.
     1.3. Cargo Movement. TOs or TAs do not arrange for the movement of military cargo or
     household goods with commercial carriers. Ask the support base Traffic Management Office
     (TMO) to provide this service.
     1.4. Staff Assistance Visits (SAV):
        1.4.1. The HQ AFRS Logistics Section (RSXLL) conducts Staff Assistance Visits
        (SAV) to groups/squadrons annually, as requested, or when necessary to ensure
        compliance with this instruction.
        1.4.2. The group/squadron logistics personnel document SAVs and make corrective
        action on findings.
2. ENTITLEMENT TO TRANSPORTATION
     2.1. Entitlements. The Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR), Volume I, establishes the
     criteria for travel and per diem entitlements. Normally, applicants are entitled to
     transportation between their residence and the Mobile Examination Testing (MET) site or
     MEPS.
     2.2. Applicants Rejected or Ordered Home To Await Further Orders. Applicants
     rejected or ordered home to await further orders are entitled to transportation. Normally, this
     is arranged by the MEPS LNCO.
     2.3. Travel to First Duty Station Upon Enlistment. The MEPS TAs are responsible for
     furnishing transportation and meals to enlistees for travel to their first duty station.
AFRSI24-101 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                         3


    2.4. Funding. The support flight commander ensures sufficient funds are available prior to
    authorizing purchase of transportation documents citing Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
    funds.
3. ROUTING AND ACCOMMODATIONS
    3.1. Authority to Provide Routing. See table 3.1.
    3.2. Selecting Mode of Transportation. Select the mode of transportation based on service
    and economy. For short daytime trips, applicants will use van, bus, or rail coach when
    available and adequate. Transport applicants by air only when other service is not available
    or the service available from other carriers requires excessive travel time or departs or arrives
    at an unreasonable hour (between 2400 and 0600).
       3.2.1. Air and Ground Carriers. Air and ground carriers are solicited on an annual
       basis to provide competitive fixed rates for safe personnel movement requirements.
       Requirements may be submitted to the DTMO via email at PSRO@dtmo.pentagon.mil
       or by phone at (703) 696-7282.
    3.3. Class of Service and Accommodations. See table 3.2.

Table 3.1. Routing Authority.

A                        B                          C                        D
When one-way             and the mode of            and the number of        then the authority to
highway mileage is       travel is                  passengers traveling     provide routing is
                                                    at the same time is      the
450 miles or less        van, bus, or rail          any number               Local transportation
                                                                             officer or agent
                         scheduled air service      20 or less
                                                    21 or more
                         charter air                any number
over 450 miles           all modes                  21 or more
                         air, van, bus, or rail     20 or less
any distance             charter air taxi service   21 or more of any
                                                    other category not
                                                    listed above
 4                                                            AFRSI24-101 27 OCTOBER 2011


Table 3.2. Class of Service and Accommodations.

A                    B                   C                   D                    E
                                         then class of service and accommodation is
If category of       and travel is       bus/van             rail                 air
traveler is          during
Applicant and        day                 (see note 1)        (see note 1)         (see note 1)
Delayed
Enlistment
Program (DEP)        night               (see note 2)        (see note 2)         (see note 2)
enlistee
Military or          day                 coach               least costly         least costly
civilian traveling                       (see note 3)        (see note 4)
on orders
                     night               (see note 3)        (see note 2)         Least costly
NOTES:
1. Applicants, rejected applicants, registrants, rejected registrants, members discharged because
of fraudulent enlistments, applicants for flight training, members discharged under other than
honorable conditions, and discharged members are entitled to day travel accommodations as
follows: the lowest cost rail accommodations available, bus transportation, or air coach class,
whichever is more advantageous because of service and (or) economy and sound traffic
judgment.
2. When overnight travel is involved, the lowest rate first-class rail accommodations will be
used in the following order: slumber coach (train), roomette, and then bedroom. If the journey
involves overnight travel of only one night, no sleeping accommodations are available, and
official requirements preclude rescheduling of travel, the TO or TA may furnish coach service if
a reclining seat is available and the total travel time (including supplemental transportation) does
not exceed 24 hours.
3. Commercial bus travel may be furnished for travel that normally can be completed between
0600 and 2400.
4. Rail accommodations for day travel will be the least costly service that meets the traveler’s
mission requirements. It is usually not necessary to reserve coach seat accommodations for trips
of less than 4 hours, but the TO or TA should consider making advance reservations to ensure
the passenger is provided a seat when traveling over heavily traveled routes. Parlor car
accommodations (a higher class than coach) on conventional trains may be used for trips of more
than 4 hours. Use of Amtrak Metroliner is limited to coach class service; reserved parlor car
Metroclub accommodations may be used only when coach class service is unavailable to meet
mission requirements.
4. PURCHASE OF TICKETS
     4.1. Travel using the Government Travel Card (GTC), Centrally Billed Account
     (CBA), to Purchase Tickets Through Available Ticket/Travel Services.
AFRSI24-101 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                    5


       4.1.1. Ticket/travel services provides tickets to recruiting group/squadrons for most
       commercial ground and air transportation carriers within the Continental United States
       (CONUS). When service is requested, ticket/travel services will issue the tickets with the
       statement “Property of US Government--Not Redeemable for Cash Except by the US
       Government.”
       4.1.2. When possible, use GTC procedures to purchase transportation tickets for any
       category of traveler. The following procedures apply when ordering tickets from
       ticket/travel services:
           4.1.2.1. E-Ticketing for Enlisted Accessions (EA) or DEP applicant’s process
           through carriers that comply with established local procedures. EA transportation
           funding is through squadron O&M funds; DEP transportation funding is through the
           use of Air Force Permanent Change of Station (PCS) funds cite.
   4.2. Processes and Responsibilities of TA, Carrier, and Group/Squadron Logistics
   Section (RSSL).
       4.2.1. TA provides to carrier:
Applicants First Initial, Last Name
Last four of SSN, depending on service provider’s requirement (becomes pax/ticket number)
Category EA/DEP ensuring this is correct
Date/time for pick-up
Their office symbol or main station ID where applicant will embark
The office symbol location/office where the applicant will disembark
       4.2.2. Carrier provides to RSSL:
A paper copy or computer generated database to match the applicable GTC transaction for
applicant(s) travel. Also, carrier processes payments which are due based on applicable GTC
transactions and matches appropriate category of \travel such as EA/DEP, weekly, or monthly
depending on carrier.
       4.2.3. RSSL:
Verifies monthly transactions by validating documentation or automated invoices against the
GTC bill. RSSL certifies the charges are correct by signing the invoice then sends to
group/squadron Support Flight Commander (RSS), or designated representative for further
payment coordination. In addition, RSSL will perform monthly audits of 10% of the Daily
Recruiter Activity Report (DRAR) received from Operations flight. RSSL will maintain these
audits as file records according to this AFRSI.
   4.3. Information of Ticket/Travel Services.
       4.3.1. Defense Travel Management Office (DTMO) will now have the responsibility of
       movement by commercial air, bus, and rental cars. Groups and squadrons will use the
       DTMO listing to make sure the carriers they use are on the approved listing. In addition,
       general information of ticket/travel services can be accessed through the service
       provider’s electronic/automated program system or by contacting the company.
6                                                             AFRSI24-101 27 OCTOBER 2011


5. CONTROL PROCEDURES, TRANSPORTATION RECORDS, AND REPORTS
    5.1. Travel Records. Travel records, such as the service providers billing records and any
    other service provider or unit related documents/forms/records, may contain date of travel,
    mode of travel, name of applicant, applicant’s last four of SSN (if used), cost of travel, ticket
    number, origin, and destination are located on service provider’s electronic/automated
    database or locally developed file plan.
    5.2. Disposing of Transportation Records.
       5.2.1. All file/travel records required by this instruction are maintained on a fiscal year
       basis.
       5.2.2. According to Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS, table 24-
       01, rule 8, group/squadron transportation records are destroyed 2 years after completion
       of project and requested travel weekly sales reports, and/or monthly bills
6. TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
    6.1. General Training. An on-going training program will be established by RSSLs to
    ensure TAs are proficient in all areas related to transportation of recruiting service personnel
    as outlined in this instruction. RSSLs will update their appointment letter at least quarterly
    documenting Transportation Officer (TO) and Transportation Agents (TA) with current
    training. Appoint TAs by name.
    6.2. Initial Training. Initial training of a TA will begin as soon as he/she is assigned to the
    group/squadron.
    6.3. Documentation of Training. For logistics/marketing personnel, use AF Form 797, Job
    Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS, along with AF Form 623a, On-the-job
    Training Record Continuation, to document all training.
    6.4. Group/Squadron Responsibilities:
       6.4.1. The immediate supervisor of the group/squadron logistics personnel ensures
       personnel under their supervision receive adequate training.
       6.4.2. Logistics personnel ensure recruiters are trained to accomplish their duties as TAs.
       In addition, the TO or designated representative will:
           6.4.2.1. Ensure all training and briefings are documented on AF Form 623a, and that
           training records for personnel being trained are properly documented.




                                              BALAN R. AYYAR, Brig Gen, USAF
                                              Commander, AF Recruiting Service
AFRSI24-101 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                  7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, 27 Oct 04
AFPD 24-1, Personnel Movement, 1 Sep 95
Adopted Forms
AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS, 1 Aug 02
AF Form 623a, On-the-job Training Record Continuation, 1 Mar 79
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CAR—Customer Account Representative
CBA—Centrally Billed Account
CONUS—Continental United States
DEP—Delayed Enlistment Program
DRAR—Daily Recruiter Activity Report
DTMO—Defense Travel Management Office
EA—Enlisted Accessions
EAD—Enlisted Active Duty
e- Publishing— the e-Publishing website (www.e-publishing.af.mil)
GTR—Government Travel Records
GTC—Government Travel Card
HQ AFRS/RSXLL—Headquarters Air Force Recruiting Service Logistics Section
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulation
LNCO—Liaison Non-Commissioned Officers
MEPS—Military Entrance Processing Station
 8                                                   AFRSI24-101 27 OCTOBER 2011


MET—Mobile Examination Testing
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSS—Group/Squadron Support Flight Commander
RSSL—Group/Squadron Logistics Section
RSXLL—HQ Air Force Recruiting Service Logistics Section
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
TA—Transportation Agent
TMO—Traffic Management Office
TO—Transportation Officer
