BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE RECRUTING SERVICE
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE                                       INSTRUCTION 33-302

                                                                                  6 JUNE 2014

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                               BUSINESS CARD PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRS/RSIOK                                                  Certified by: HQ AFRS/RSI
                                                                       (Lt Col Gary A. Gabriel)
Supersedes:   AFRSI33-302, 31 May 2006                                                 Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 33-3, Information Management, and DODD 5330.03_AFI
33-395, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document Services. It establishes and implements
business card procedures and requirements for the Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS). It
applies to all AFRS personnel; it does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve
Command units. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate
Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance
items. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Restructure of
paragraph 1, outlining more in-depth descriptions of AFRS/CC, HQ AFRS/RSI, and
Group/Squadron point of contact (POC) responsibilities. Authorizes group and squadron
commanders to appoint a business card POC; establishes per order limitations, and provides
guidance on official cell phone numbers, .mil e-mail addresses and Facebook addresses.
1. Responsibilities:
 2                                                                     AFRSI33-302 6 JUNE 2014


     1.1. AFRS Commander. AFRS/CC is the ultimate approval authority for business cards for
     AFRS personnel involved in recruiting activities. This authority may be delegated
     appropriately. Delegation will be made no lower than the squadron commander.
     1.2. HQ AFRS/RSI. HQ AFRS/RSI is the OPR for the overall direction and management
     of the business card program within AFRS.
        1.2.1. HQ AFRS/RSI will:
            1.2.1.1. Process and submit business card requests through the Defense Logistics Agency via
            Document Services Online at https://www.dso.documentservices.dla.mil/DSF/.
            1.2.1.2. Procure funding for business cards through the HQ AFRS Resource Advisor.
     1.3. Groups/Squadrons. Group and Squadron Commanders will appoint a business card
     POC and an alternate (if applicable) for their organization/unit. Business card POCs are
     appointed in writing with copies maintained at both the organization/unit and HQ
     AFRS/RSIOK. The business card POCs will oversee the business card program for their
     units and familiarize themselves with the requirements outlined in AFI 65-601, Volume 1,
     Budget Guidance and Procedures, paragraph 4.44.1 as well as this instruction.
        1.3.1. AFSC or job series is not a consideration when appointing business card POCs.
     1.4. Business Card POCs
        1.4.1. Business card POCs will:
            1.4.1.1. Ensure all authorized members are provided an adequate amount of business
            cards in accordance with paragraphs 2.1.1.1 and 2.1.2.1
            1.4.1.2. Ensure all information included on business cards is accurate, up-to-date
            information, and is in accordance with paragraphs 2.3 - 2.5
            1.4.1.3. Submit orders for new or updated business cards directly to the printer
            through the Envision website at http://shop.envisionbusinesscards.com/. Note: All
            squadron POCs will submit their business card requests to their group business card
            POC for approval via aforementioned printer’s website.
     1.5. AFRS personnel/Business Card Recipients. AFRS personnel/Business Card
     Recipients will send all requests for new or updated business cards to their respective
     squadron or group business card POC.
     1.6. HQ AFRS Resource Advisor (RA). The HQ AFRS RA will submit requests for and
     get approval of appropriate funds for the business card program. Once authorization is
     received, the RA will provide HQ AFRS/RSIOK personnel with a copy of the DD Form 448,
     Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request so that funds may be applied.
2. Procedures and Requirements:
     2.1. Personnel Authorized Business Cards:
        2.1.1. AFRS leadership:
            2.1.1.1. AFRS military and civilian leadership are authorized one box (1,000 cards)
            of business cards every 3 years. Additional/replacement cards may be requested if
            transferred to a new office/location, or a new position with a different official title, or
AFRSI33-302 6 JUNE 2014                                                                     3


         receive a new phone number. Leadership is defined as all Headquarters Division and
         Branch leadership (i.e. chief, deputy, and superintendent) as well as commander,
         deputy commander, flight commanders, superintendents, first sergeants, production
         superintendent and flight chiefs at squadron and group levels.
     2.1.2. Recruiters:
         2.1.2.1. Air Force Recruiters are authorized only one box (1,000 cards) per order and
         a maximum of six boxes (6,000 cards) per year. With group commander approval,
         they may receive additional boxes within the same year. Requests for additional
         boxes should be routed to hqafrs.ko@us.af.mil after approval.
  2.2. Only appointed business card POCs are authorized to submit requests for business cards
  through the online ordering system (ref: paragraph 1.4.1.3). Note: An appointment letter
  signed by group or squadron commander must be on file with HQ AFRS/RSIOK.
  2.3. Business cards must contain full positions and titles such as: “Commander, 333 RCS”;
  “Chief, Marketing Division”; “Flight Chief, B Flight, 311 RCS”. Note: Civilian pay grades
  are optional.
  2.4. Nicknames and/or call signs (i.e. Maverick, Iceman, Goose, Hot Shot etc.) are not
  authorized. However, shortened versions of given names, such as “Bob” for Robert and
  “Bill” for William, may be used.
  2.5. Official office and cell phone numbers as well as a *.mil email address are required on
  business cards. Official Facebook addresses are authorized and optional. Note: Personal
  phone numbers (home and/or cell), e-mail addresses and Facebook addresses are not
  authorized on business cards.




                                          JOHN P. HORNER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
 4                                                           AFRSI33-302 6 JUNE 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 5330.03, Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Document Services, 11 July 2012
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 8 September 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 65-601, V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 August 2012
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule - RDS
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AFS—Air Force Specialty Code
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RA—Resource Advisor
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
