BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                AFRS INSTRUCTION 38-201
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
                                                                                  21 FEBRUARY 2003

                                                                           Manpower and Organization

                          AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE OPERATIONAL ORGANIZATION

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the HQ AETC Publishing WWW site at
http://www.aetc.randolph.af.mil/im. If you lack access, contact your base publishing manager.

OPR: HQ AFRS/RSXXM (TSgt Jesus Garcia)                Certified by: HQ AFRS/RSX (Col James Browne)
                                                                                             Pages: 9
                                                                                      Distribution: F


This instruction implements AFPD 38-2, Manpower, and AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower
Requirements. It establishes guidance on submission of manpower authorization change requests (ACR)
and organizational change requests (OCR) within Headquarters Air Force Recruiting Service (HQ
AFRS), the four recruiting groups, and 28 recruiting squadrons. It provides directions for the completion
and submission of AFRS Form 1399, AF Recruiting Service Authorization Change Request. This
publication does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units. Maintain and dispose of records created in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition
Schedule. Attachment 1 contains a glossary of references and supporting information. This publication
replaces guidance found in AETCI 38-201, 15 February 1996, Air Force Recruiting Service Operational
Organization.
1. Purpose:
1.1. Provide guidance on submission of authorization/organizational change requests within AFRS.
1.2. Provide a detailed timeline for the submission of AFRS Form 1399.
1.3. Provide a detailed description on the completion of AFRS Form 1399.
1.4. Provide guidance on review and update of unit manning documents (UMD).
2. Organization and Manpower Requirements:
2.1. HQ AFRS/RSXXM is the office of primary responsibility for the overall direction and management
of ACRs, AFRS Forms 1399, OCRs and UMDs.
2.2. The basic organizational structure consists of sufficient personnel, offices, military entrance
processing stations, flights, squadrons, and groups to accomplish the AFRS mission.
2.3. AFRS group and squadron organizational structures are standardized. AFRS/CC, or CV must
approve any deviation from the organizational structure prior to implementation. Recruiting group and
squadron commanders will not attempt to reorganize their unit based on personalities.
2.4. Moves to accommodate personal desires are prohibited.
2                                                                AFRSI38-201       21 FEBRUARY 2003

2.5. AFRS personnel will not commit any resources (moving personnel, signing leases, and obligating
funds) until an AFRS Form 1399 has been accomplished and approved at the headquarters level.
2.6. Accomplish an AFRS Form 1399 for authorization changes in conjunction with the Real Estate
Facilities Program Call. See timeline for submission of AFRS Forms 1399 outlined in paragraph 6. All
AFRS Forms 1399 submitted outside of the timeline will be considered out-of-cycle and worked based
upon funds available. Refer to AFRSI 32-9002, Real Estate Support for Recruiting Facilities, for
procedures pertaining to real estate related matters. NOTE: Submit AFRS Form 1399 for force
relocation actions as soon as the unit is aware of the action.
2.7. Normally an approved AFRS Form 1399 precedes projected facility actions. Authorization moves
should be cost effective, and coincide with good facility planning while reacting to present and future
production needs.
2.8. The group and squadron support flight commanders (RCG/RSS and RCS/RSS) have the overall
responsibility of managing ACRs. The group and squadron personnel branches are responsible for
maintaining the UMDs, and completing and maintaining AFRS Forms 1399. However, a coordinated
and comprehensive effort by all group and squadron staff functions (for example, operations provides
production and market justification as well as prepares zone maps as applicable; logistics provides
necessary real estate, vehicle, and telecommunications information; system administrators provide
necessary information regarding computer resources, etc.) is critical to the ACR process.
2.9. Base realignments, as well as reorganization actions, upon requirements of the function and clearly
depict the management efficiencies to be realized. Need for training is not sufficient justification for an
ACR request.
2.10. An AFRS Form 1399 is not required for group and squadron headquarters forced relocations, or
relocation actions initiated by HQ AFRS/RSXL. However, an AFRS Form 1399 is required for all
relocation actions initiated by groups or squadrons. HQ AFRS/RSXXM will work requests for
movement orders for all group and squadron headquarters relocations in coordination with HQ
AFRS/RSXL. However, groups and squadrons should notify HQ AFRS/RSXXM via e-mail at AFRS
HQ RSXXM or letter to HQ AFRS/RSXXM, 550 D St West Suite 1, Randolph AFB TX 78150-4527
(as soon as possible if their unit is scheduled to move to ensure action is being worked.
3. Authorization Change Request (ACR) Objective:
3.1. An AFRS Form 1399 is used to submit an authorization change request to realign or move an
authorization from one location to another, and does not change the overall organizational structure of
the headquarters, group, squadron or flight (for example realign an enlisted accessions [EA] recruiter
authorization from 11BA, Smithvalley to 11BB, Jonesvalley, or move an authorization from one
headquarters division, branch or section to another, for example, HQ AFRS/RSO to HQ AFRS/ RSX).
3.2. Use an AFRS Form 1399 for the submission of an authorization change request to convert
authorizations from military to civilian or vice versa, Air Force specialty code (AFSC) changes, grade
changes, skill-level changes, address changes, and zip code changes when none of these change the
overall organizational structure of the headquarters, group, squadron, or flight.
3.3. HQ AFRS/RSXXM will accomplish all necessary AFRS Forms 1399 for authorization changes
directed by AFRS/CC/CV. If an ACR package involves civilian positions, HQ AFRS/RSXP will
provide current and proposed civilian position descriptions to HQ AFRS/RSXXM for inclusion in the
final ACR package. All other authorization changes will be accomplished by the requesting unit and
forwarded through the appropriate channels to HQ AFRS/RSXXM.
4. Organizational Change Request (OCR) Objective:
AFRSI38-201       21 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                   3

4.1. Organizational changes such as requests that involve group or squadron boundary changes, creation
or elimination of branches or sections, realignment of authorizations from group or squadron support
flight to operations flight, etc., do not require the submission of an AFRS Form 1399. Instead, an OCR
package outlining the proposed organizational change and justification for the change is required to be
submitted to HQ AFRS/RSXXM for review and staffing. Upon AFRS/CC/CV approval and direction,
HQ AFRS/RSXXM will work organizational change request.
4.2. As a minimum, include the following in the OCR package:
4.2.1. Letter outlying the proposed organization change to include justification for proposed action,
authorizations impacted, expected benefits (monetary or nonmonetary), potential impact on other units,
cost of request in terms of dollars and resources, any real estate actions required, and whether any
personnel (military and civilian) will be affected by the requested change.
4.2.2. Before and after organizational charts, if applicable.
4.3. HQ AFRS/RSXXM will accomplish the necessary OCR packages for all organizational changes
directed by AFRS/CC/CV. If an OCR package involves civilian positions, HQ AFRS/RSXP will
provide current and proposed civilian position descriptions to HQ AFRS/RSXXM for inclusion in the
final OCR package. All other organizational changes will be accomplished by the requesting unit and
forwarded through the appropriate channels to HQ AFRS/RSXXM.
5. Roles and Responsibilities:
5.1. HQ AFRS/RSXXM will:
5.1.1. Coordinate all ACRs (AFRS Forms 1399) it receives and approve/disapprove with applicable
headquarters staff functions.
5.1.2. Coordinate all OCRs it receives with applicable headquarters staff functions, and forward to
AFRS/CC/CV for final approval/disapproval.
5.1.3. Provide a copy of an approved/disapproved AFRS Form 1399 or OCR package to applicable
headquarters staff function, and appropriate group and squadron.
5.1.4. Return incomplete AFRS Forms 1399 without action to respective group or squadrons if all
necessary documentation is not received within 14 calendar days of the initial receipt of a partial ACR
package.
5.1.5. Provide UMDs to each group and squadron on a quarterly basis. UMDs may be provided more
frequently if a unit had numerous authorization changes.
5.2. Headquarters division staff will:
5.2.1. Submit all AFRS Forms 1399 with supporting documentation to HQ AFRS/RSXXM with the
division chief’s signature.
5.2.2. Ensure a new or revised civilian position description along with the current civilian position
description is submitted with the ACR package if the action involves a civilian position.
5.3. Recruiting group staff will:
5.3.1. Submit all AFRS Forms 1399 with supporting documentation to HQ AFRS/RSXXM within the
ACR process timeline to the maximum extent possible.
5.3.2. Ensure for zone and boundary changes, a detailed original current and proposed road map such as
Rand McNally or Universal MAP is included in the package identifying all affected areas. No
4                                                                AFRSI38-201       21 FEBRUARY 2003

photocopies or fax copies will be accepted. Ensure boundaries are clearly defined using a distinctive,
transparent marker that does not obliterate highway name, street, and/or rivers.
5.3.3. Ensure an SF52, Request for Personnel Action, is submitted with the ACR package and the
respective civilian personnel flights (CPF) are notified if the AFRS Form 1399 action involves a civilian
authorization. NOTE: Submit all actions involving a civilian authorization a minimum of 150 days prior
to the proposed effective date.
5.3.4. Maintain a copy of the submitted AFRS Form 1399 with supporting documentation in their
personnel branch until the action has been approved/disapproved.
5.3.5. Ensure their personnel branch maintains and reviews the UMDs on a quarterly basis as a
minimum, and notifies HQ AFRS/RSXXM of any discrepancies as soon as possible.
5.4. Recruiting squadron staff will:
5.4.1. Submit all AFRS Forms 1399 with supporting documentation to their respective group within the
ACR process timeline to the maximum extent possible.
5.4.2. Ensure for zone and boundary changes, a detailed original current and proposed road map such as
Rand McNally or Universal MAP is included in the package identifying all affected areas. Photocopies
or fax copies will not be accepted. Ensure boundaries are clearly defined using a distinctive, transparent
marker that does not obliterate highway name, street, and/or rivers.
5.4.3. Ensure an SF52 is submitted with the ACR package and the respective CPFs are notified if the
AFRS Form 1399 action involves a civilian authorization. NOTE: All actions involving a civilian
authorization must be submitted at a minimum of 150 days prior to the proposed effective date.
5.4.4. Maintain a copy of the submitted AFRS Form 1399 with supporting documentation in their
personnel branch until the action has been approved/disapproved.
5.4.5. Ensure their personnel branch maintains and reviews the UMDs on a quarterly basis as a
minimum and notifies HQ AFRS/RSXXM and their group personnel branch of any discrepancies as
soon as possible.
6. ACR (AFRS Form 1399) Process Timeline (dates subject to change based on current FY
deadlines):
6.1. October through January: During these months, groups and squadrons submit their next fiscal
year real estate requests through the Recruiting Facilities Management Information System (RFMIS).
6.2. February: By the end of February, an AFRS Form 1399 package must be submitted for each action
involving new offices, relocations, or office closures on the Real Estate Facilities Program Call for the
next FY. NOTE: If no AFRS Form 1399 is submitted for an action on the Real Estate Facilities
Program, the real estate action will be removed and not addressed at the Corps of Engineer (CoE)
Collocation meeting.
6.3. March through July: HQ AFRS staff reviews packages for approval/disapproval. Coordinate all
approved AFRS Forms 1399 for real estate actions with the appropriate CoE by HQ AFRS/RSXL.
Return all disapproved AFRS Forms 1399 to the respective group and squadron with the rationale for
disapproval.
6.4. August through September: HQ AFRS/RSXXM processes all approved AFRS Forms 1399 with
HQ AETC/XPM for implementation. Approved actions normally will appear in the quarter after the
approval date.
7. Procedures for Completing and Submitting AFRS Form 1399:
AFRSI38-201     21 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                5

7.1. Complete the AFRS Form 1399 according to Attachment 2.
7.2. AFRS Forms 1399 submitted outside of the ACR process timeline will be considered out-of-cycle
requests and worked based upon funds available.
7.3. Mail AFRS Forms 1399 packages to the following address:
                           HQ AFRS/RSXXM
                           550 D Street West, Ste 1
                           Randolph AFB TX 78150-4527
8. Form Prescribed. AFRS Form 1399.
9. Form Adopted. SF 52.



                                            EDWARD A. RICE, JR., Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
2 Attachments
1. GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
2. INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AFRS FORM 1399
6                                                          AFRSI38-201   21 FEBRUARY 2003

                                            Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFPD 38-2, Manpower
AFI 38-201, Determining Manpower Requirements
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACR—authorization change request
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AFSC—Air Force specialty code
ANG—Air National Guard
CoE—Corps of Engineer
CPF—civilian personnel flights
EA—enlisted accessions
FAC—functional account code
MEPS—military entrance processing station
OCR—organizational change request
PAS—personnel accounting symbol
RFMIS—Recruiting Facilities Management Information System
UMD—unit manning documents
AFRSI38-201      21 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                        7

                                             Attachment 2
                    INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AFRS FORM 1399


BLOCK                                                 ENTRY
  1A       Requesting Squadron
  1B       Squadron Control Number
           Squadron Coordination. Assign a control number to each AFRS Form 1399 initiated by the
           individual squadron (for example, an AFRS Form 1399 initiated by the 311 RCS the control
           number should be 01, the control number on the next AFRS Form 1399 initiated by the 311
           RCS should 02). Each squadron assigns its AFRS Forms 1399 control numbers starting with
           01.
  2A       Typed Name of Squadron Commander
  2B       Signature of Squadron Commander
  2C       Date Forwarded to Group
  3A       Requesting Group
  3B       Group Control Number
           Group Coordination. Assign a control number to each AFRS Form 1399 initiated by the
           individual group (for example, an AFRS Form 1399 initiated by the 360 RCG the control
           number should be 01, the control number on the next AFRS Form 1399 initiated by the 360
           RCG should be 02). Each group assigns its AFRS Forms 1399 control numbers starting with
           01.
  4A       Group Commander Recommended Approval/Disapproval
  4B       Typed Name of Group Commander
  4C       Signature of Group Commander
  4D       Date Forwarded to HQ AFRS/RSXXM
  5A       Requesting HQ AFRS Division Approval/Disapproval (used only when a request is initiated
           from HQ AFRS level)
  5B       Typed Name of Division Chief
  5C       Signature of Division Chief
  5D       Date Forwarded to HQ AFRS/RSXXM
6 (note)   Information Systems Impact. Initiating unit’s system administrator signature and
           justification/impact on the action being requested. The justification must include whether
           sufficient computer resources are available to accommodate the action requested; if not,
           indicate where and how computer resources will be obtained. System administrators should
           describe all of the resources needed that are not available and the estimated total cost.
7 (note)   Personnel Impact. Initiating unit’s personnel NCO signature and justification/impact on the
           action being requested. The justification must include whether the position is vacant or filled.
           If the position is military and vacant, indicate whether or not an inbound has been projected
8                                                                 AFRSI38-201       21 FEBRUARY 2003

BLOCK                                                  ENTRY
            for that position. If the position is filled, indicate if the action will require a permanent
            change of station move or a time-on-station waiver for the incumbent. If the position is a
            civilian position and is filled, state whether or not the civilian employees is planning on
            moving with the position and include an SF Form 52 with the AFRS Form 1399 package. In
            the justification, include the home addresses of the personnel impacted by the proposed
            action. Information will be used to help ensure commute time and quality of life are not
            negatively impacted by the proposed action. A civilian employee who is not moving with the
            position must be given 60 to 90 days notice by the servicing civilian personnel office before
            the authorization is moved. Therefore, submit all actions involving a civilian authorization at
            a minimum of 150 days prior to the proposed effective date.
8 (note)    Logistics & Real Estate Impact. Initiating unit’s logistics NCO signature and
            justification/impact on action being requested. Logistics NCOs should ensure the action
            being requested is on their approved real estate program. Real estate justification must
            include approximate mileage of move, lease termination date, estimated costs involved with
            the proposed move (real estate cost, furniture, equipment, communication cost, etc.),
            delineated maps, and whether or not the office will be closed. If the leased space cannot be
            terminated, provide plans for the disposition of the office space. Indicate if the office is
            collocated with the other services and what service (Army, Navy, Marine, or Reserves). If the
            office is collocated, indicate whether or not requesting to break collocation. Indicate whether
            a major upgrade has been accomplished within the last 18 months. If the facility is the
            primary reason for the move, ensure copies of letters to and from the CoE are included in the
            package outlining attempts made to correct the problems. Provide crime statistics, if
            applicable, for current and proposed location. Also, indicate whether additional vehicles will
            be required for the proposed location and any other pertinent information or rationale for the
            proposed action.
9 (note)    Operations Impact. Initiating unit’s operations NCO signature and justification/impact on
            action being requested. When applicable, provide at least 12 months of production statistics
            to include schools/market data for each office involved. In the justification, include each
            recruiter's current and proposed zone by county/ZIP codes. Where flight, zone, and/or market
            structure do not change, so state. Ensure justification explains how the requested action will
            maximize production potential for the affected recruiting zones. When applicable, attach
            maps showing the area's current and proposed configurations of affected zones. Show how
            recruiting offices affected will be zoned to support authorized recruiters if the request is
            approved. Ensure original road maps for zone changes are submitted with package—
            photocopies or faxed copies will not be accepted.
     10     Obtain this information from the UMD. Group and squadron personnel may recommend
            numbers for new offices; however, final approval authority of numbers for new offices is HQ
            AFRS/RSXXM.
    11-13   List the complete current address, city, and nine-digit ZIP code. If available, list address,
            city, and ZIP code for the proposed location.
     14     Obtain the Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) code from the UMD and only use the last
            four digits. If the office already exists, a PAS code is available. If the office is relocating
            within the same city, the PAS code remains the same for the new location. If the office is
            relocating to a new city, enter "new" under PAS code for the new location.
AFRSI38-201       21 FEBRUARY 2003                                                                         9

BLOCK                                                  ENTRY
   15      Obtain the functional account code (FAC) from the UMD.
   16      Obtain the organizational structure code (OSC) from the UMD.
   17      Obtain the Air Force specialty code (AFSC) from the UMD.
   18      Obtain the authorized grade from the UMD; for example, COLONEL = COL; LT
           COLONEL = LTC; CMSGT = CMS; SMSgt = SMS; MSgt - MSG. For civilian positions,
           use "CIV."
   19      Obtain the position number from the UMD (list the complete position number).
   20      Enter the date the requested action is to be implemented if approved. Use the fiscal year-
           then-quarter format; for example, 4th quarter 2002 would be listed as "024."
   21      Obtain information from the UMD. The OSC on the UMD will identify the program type of
           the position. First-line entry for a proposed action is the current location of the authorization.
           Use a minus (-) on the first-line entry indicating where the position currently is located with a
           program type identifier. Table A2.1 lists program type identifiers for field recruiter positions.
           No program type identifiers are used for AFRS headquarters, group, and squadron
           headquarters positions. The second-line entry is the proposed action and location for the
           authorization. Use a plus (+) on the second-line entry indicating where the authorization is
           proposing to be moved. Again, identify the authorization program type, if applicable.



NOTE: Blocks 6 through 9 initiate unit justification. (If additional space is required for justification, use
AFRS Form 1399 continuation sheet or plain bond paper.)

Table A2.1. Program Type Identifiers.


                                                                                       PROGRAM
 OSC                                    TYPE
                                                                                      IDENTIFIER
RSRA       Enlisted Position = Enlisted Accession (EA) Flight Chief                         FC
RSRA       Civilian Position = EA Civilian Flight Secretary                                 CIV
RSRAA EA Recruiter                                                                          EA
RSP        Officer Position = OA Flight Commander                                         FCmdr
RSP        Enlisted Position with duty title as Flight Chief = OA Flight                    FC
           Chief
RSP        Enlisted Position with duty title as Recruiter = OA Recruiter                    OA
RSP        Civilian Position = OA Civilian Flight Secretary                                 CIV
RSOL       Military Entrance Processing Station (MEPs)                                    LNCO
