BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                AIR FORCE RESERVE SERVICE
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE                                    INSTRUCTION 36-2117

                                                                     27 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                  Personnel

                                               CAREER RECRUITER FORCE: SENIOR,
                                                MASTER RECRUITER & PRODUCTION
                                             SUPERINTENDENT SELECTION PROCESS,
                                                AND COMMAND MASTER RECRUITER
                                                                      COUNCIL

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFRS/RSX                                                Certified by: HQ AFRS/RSX
                                                                   (Col Michael A. Romero)
                                                                                   Pages: 9




This instruction implements procedures for the senior, master recruiter & production
superintendent program selection process, and the Command Master Recruiter Council. It
establishes policies and procedures governing nominations, selection and required board
members. This instruction applies to all Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) personnel. This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional manager’s chain of command.
 2                                                       AFRSI36-2117 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


Section A—Purpose and Scope

1.1. Purpose:
        1.1.1. The purpose of this instruction is to establish clear guidance on criteria,
        nomination and selection procedures for production superintendent duty as well as Air
        Force Recruiting Service Senior Recruiter, Master Recruiter and Command Master
        Recruiter (CMR) designation.
     1.2. AFRS Production Superintendent, Senior and Master Recruiter expectations.
        1.2.1. Airmen serving in these key leadership positions are first expected to perform their
        core duties to the best of their abilities with an understanding and demonstration of
        AFRS's command philosophy...they are command role-models. Furthermore, they are
        expected to understand that the responsibility for the deliberate development of AFRS's
        professional recruiting force rests with them, take that responsibility seriously and apply
        leadership and mentoring in support of command strategies and goals, and the
        professional growth of AFRS's Airmen whenever and wherever needed.
     1.3. Purpose of the Senior/Master Recruiter and Production Superintendent (CCY)
     Selection Board.
        1.3.1. The purpose of the board is to ensure a standardized and transparent selection
        process is executed on behalf of the AFRS Commander. The board ensures all recruiting
        professionals meeting the minimum requirements for consideration are fairly assessed,
        hold the breadth of experience and depth of leadership necessary to meet the professional
        demands and expectations of these key leadership positions, and are rigorously evaluated
        before being approved by the approval authority.
     1.4. Selection Board Members.
        1.4.1. Senior Recruiter: Group/Division Superintendent (chair), not less than two master
        recruiters designated by the chairman.
        1.4.2. Master Recruiter: CMR Council Chairman (chair), not less than four command
        master recruiters designated by the chairman
        1.4.3. Production Superintendent: CMR Council Chairman (chair), not less than four
        command master recruiters designated by the chairman.
     1.5. Board Charge.
        1.5.1. The board is convened by the AFRS/CC with guidance from the CMR Council
        Chairman. Board members will represent the best interests of the Air Force. They will
        use the whole-person concept to assess potential to serve as Senior/Master Recruiter and
        Production Superintendent. Board members will consider breadth of experience,
        leadership potential, adaptability, track record (EPRs/PME) commander
        recommendations and fitness scores. The board may consider other factors deemed
        necessary to select the best candidates.
AFRSI36-2117 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 3


Section B—Nomination/Selection Process

2.1. Senior Recruiter Nomination/Selection Process (see flowchart, Attachment 2).
       2.1.1. Nomination will be no earlier than upon tier-2 certification. Personnel in tier-2
       positions not requiring certification will be eligible at the 12-month point.
       2.1.2. Nomination package will flow as follows: member’s supervisor, production
       superintendent, squadron superintendent (or associate), squadron commander, group
       commander/division chief. For nominees not assigned to a squadron, the package will
       flow through the member’s supervisory chain to the AFRS/RSO superintendent.
       2.1.3. Packages will be submitted to group/division superintendents for boarding.
       2.1.4. The nomination package will consist of the following: nomination authority (see
       Attachment 2) push note, last 4 EPRs, last decoration, last 3-years full production data,
       member’s AMS data SURF, and fitness history.
       2.1.5. The senior recruiter board will convene at least semi-annually.              AFRS
       Division/Group Superintendents are responsible for defining the logistics of these boards.
       2.1.6. Concur packages will be administered the Senior Recruiter test. Passing packages
       will be forwarded to division chief/group commander for approval and award of the
       senior recruiter designation.
       2.1.7. Division/group will send approved names to AFRS/RSOT to order the badge.
       2.1.8. Test failures or non-concur packages may be resubmitted every 12 months.
NOTES:
1. Members awarded senior recruiter designation at the earliest opportunity will be the
exception.
2. All recruiting personnel not assigned to AFRS Divisions, RCGs or RCSs will have their
packages submitted through their chain of command to the RSO Superintendent and will
compete for senior recruiter designation through the RSO Division process.
3. AFRS CC may deny/remove senior recruiter status when the member fails to live up to
command expectations.

   2.2. Master Recruiter Nomination/Selection Process (see flowchart,
       2.2.1. Nomination will be no earlier than upon flight chief certification.
       2.2.2. The nominating authority for this designation will be the squadron/group
       commander, division /branch chief.
       2.2.3. Submit nomination packages to member’s division chief/group CC.
       2.2.4. The nomination package will include: squadron commander/branch chief push
       memo with division chief or group commander’s endorsement, last 4 EPRs, member’s
       AMS SURF, last decoration, flight chief production data and fitness history.
       2.2.5. Concur packages will be forwarded to the CMR chairman for boarding.
 4                                                      AFRSI36-2117 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


        2.2.6. The chairman will notify AFRS RSOT on concur packages to coordinate master
        recruiter test administration.
        2.2.7. Non-concur packages may be resubmitted every 12 months.
        2.2.8. The selection board will convene annually consisting of members as per
        paragraph 1.4.2 in this instruction.
        2.2.9. Select packages will be sent to the AFRS/CC for final approval/certification. Non-
        selects may be resubmitted every 12 months.
        2.2.10. AFRS/CC awards master recruiter designation.          AFRS RSOT forwards
        badge/certificates to group/squadron commander for formal presentation.
        2.2.11. Master recruiter designation must be awarded prior to consideration for
        production superintendent.
NOTES:
1. Members awarded master recruiter designation at the earliest opportunity will be the
exception. These superior performers will be eligible for early consideration for CCY
positions…if the CMR Council determines additional Tier-3b job experience (Sq Ops Chief, Grp
Trainer, AFRS positions, etc.) is not required, the selectee will be eligible to compete on the
CCY selection board and if selected by the board, compete for available CCY positions (rank
constraints apply).
2. AFRS/CC may deny/remove master recruiter status when the member fails to live up to
command expectations.


     2.3. Production Superintendent Nomination/Selection Process.
        2.3.1. Nominees will be master recruiters.
        2.3.2. The nominating authority for this designation will be the squadron/group
        commander, division /branch chief.
        2.3.3. Submit nomination packages to member’s division chief/group CC.
        2.3.4. The nomination package will include: squadron commander/branch chief push
        memo with division chief or group commander’s endorsement, last 4 EPRs, member’s
        AMS SURF, last decoration and fitness history.
        2.3.5. Concur packages will be forwarded to the CMR chairman for boarding.
        2.3.6. Non-concur packages may be resubmitted every 12 months.
        2.3.7. The selection board will convene annually consisting of members as per
        paragraph 1.4.3 in this instruction.
        2.3.8. Select packages will be sent to the AFRS/CC for final approval/certification. Non-
        selects may be resubmitted every 12 months.
AFRSI36-2117 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 5



NOTES:
1. The list of CCY selects will be published annually upon certification by the AFRS/CC but
will be reviewed quarterly by the CMR council and updated as appropriate.
2. AFRS CC may remove CCY selects from the list when the member fails to live up to
command expectations.


Section C—Command Master Recruiter Council

3.1. Command Master Recruiter (CMR) Council.
       3.1.1. Designated master recruiters will serve on the AFRS/CC’s (10 member) CMR
       council.
       3.1.2. The council will consist of the AFRS Command Chief (CCC) (when the CCC is a
       master recruiter), the 8R career field manager (CFM), the RSO superintendent, the RSX
       superintendent/functional manager (FM) and the group superintendents. The remainder
       of the council positions will be filled based on master recruiter seniority (determined by
       time in AFRS).
       3.1.3. The AFRS/CCC will serve as the council chairman (when the CCC is a master
       recruiter). In the event the AFRS/CCC is not a master recruiter, either the RSO
       superintendent or the RSX superintendent/FM will serve as the council chairman. Of the
       two, the one chosen to serve as chairman will be determined by the AFRS/CC through an
       interview process.
       3.1.4. The council represents the senior most level of recruiting experience and expertise
       and serves as an advisory body to the AFRS/CC on recruiting issues. The council will
       meet directly with the AFRS/CC, primarily through the chairman. The following duties
       are specifically assigned to the council:
          3.1.4.1. Help the AFRS/CC shape and communicate command vision, philosophy &
          strategies.
          3.1.4.2. Provide consultation to RSO when developing the annual competition
          system.
          3.1.4.3. Conduct an annual review of command deliberate development and,
          education and training policies, procedures & processes.
          3.1.4.4. Provide consultation in the development of AFRSIs.
          3.1.4.5. Manage the command Professional Development & Mentoring team
          program.
          3.1.4.6. Provide consultation to the AFRS/CC on inspector general results, special
          interest items and inspection methodology.
          3.1.4.7. Provide consultation to the AFRS/CC on command transformation
          initiatives.
 6                                                      AFRSI36-2117 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


           3.1.4.8. Visit the AFRS Recruiting School and provide feedback to the Commandant
           on training needs.
           3.1.4.9. Periodically send communication across the command (blogs on RICky,
           articles in Behind the Badge, etc.) addressing special interest items, professional and
           deliberate development, and command philosophy and strategy.
           3.1.4.10. Develop/approve continuing education opportunities for senior and master
           recruiters.
           3.1.4.11. Monitor the development/progression of the command’s production
           superintendents (CCY).
           3.1.4.12. Conduct a quarterly review of the CCY select list and make personnel
           decision recommendations to the AFRS/CC as appropriate.
           3.1.4.13. Provide the AFRS/CC an annual “State of the Force” report.
NOTES:
1. This list is not all inclusive. The council may meet on any issue considered by the council
and or the AFRS/CC to be in the best interest of the command and provide the AFRS/CC
feedback and consultation.
2. Master Recruiters within 90 days of retirement will not be brought onto the council as a new
member.
3. AFRS/CC may deny/remove command master recruiter status when the member fails to live
up to command expectations.




                                             JOHN P. HORNER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Commander
AFRSI36-2117 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                               7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AFRSI—Air Force Recruiting Service Instruction
AMS—Assignment Data System
CCC—Command Chief
CCY—Production Superintendent
CFM—Career Field Manager
CMR—Command Master Recruiter
EPR—Enlisted Performance Report
FC—Flight Chief
FM—Functional Manager
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PME—Professional Military Education
RCG—Recruiting Service Group
RCS—Recruiting Service Squadron
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RSO—Recruiting Service Operations
RSOT—Recruiting Service Operations Training
RSX—Recruiting Service Plans and Programs
SURF—Single Unit Retrieval Format
 8                                                     AFRSI36-2117 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 2
                           SENIOR RECRUITER REVIEW

Figure A2.1. Senior Recruiter Review.
AFRSI36-2117 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                       9


                                    Attachment 3
                          MASTER RECRUITER REVIEW.

Figure A3.1. Master Recruiter Review.
