BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE                                          INSTRUCTION 10-7011

                                                                                   5 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                          Operations

                                                           AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
                                                             FORCE PROTECTION (AFRS FP)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing web site at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ AFRS/RSXLA                                                    Certified by: HQ AFRS/RSX
                                                                  (Colonel Matthew L. Hughbanks)
                                                                                         Pages: 9




This instruction establishes responsibilities and procedures for an effective force protection
program for Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) personnel and implements Air Force Doctrine
Document 3-10, Force Protection, 28 July 2011, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-245,
Antiterrorism (AT), 21 September 2012, USNORTHCOM Instruction 10-222, USNORTHCOM
FP Mission And AT Program, 30 September 2012, and Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 4-010-
01, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings, 1 October 2013. This publication
does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units.
Maintain records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with
(IAW) AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route through the appropriate
functional chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

THIS PUBLICATION CONTAINS COPYRIGHTED MATERIAL


1. Introduction.
   1.1. The Air Force defines force protection (FP) as the process of detecting threats and
   hazards to the Air Force and its mission, and applying measures to deter, pre-empt, negate, or
   mitigate them based on an acceptable level of risk. FP is a fundamental principle of all
2                                                                AFRSI10-703 5 AUGUST 2014


    military operations as a way to ensure the survivability of a commander’s forces. The Air
    Force takes an integrated approach to FP in order to conserve the force’s fighting potential.
    1.2. The AFRS FP program provides instruction for FP planning and execution by AFRS
    personnel while involved in off-installation activities. The minimum elements of this
    program are risk management, planning, training and exercises, resource management, public
    awareness, and comprehensive program review. It is not intended to replace the more
    comprehensive Air Force directives in dealing with specific acts or instances of terrorism,
    criminal activities, or natural hazards. The dispersed and highly visible nature of the AFRS
    mission makes recruiting personnel vulnerable to diverse threats and hazards.
    1.3. The information contained in this instruction is intended to provide assistance to AFRS
    commanders, supervisors, and personnel in preventing injury or loss of life, and protecting
    personal and government property. Personnel on the scene must use their best judgment
    while detecting threats and hazards to the Air Force and its mission, and apply measures to
    deter, pre-empt, negate, or mitigate them based on an acceptable level of risk. The key
    element of any response must be personnel safety, followed by the immediate reporting of all
    incidents to the local authorities and through Air Force channels.
    1.4. Every Airman is a sensor and protecting the force is everyone’s duty. Individuals
    should know the assessed threat against them and the vulnerabilities at their current location,
    along their route of travel, and at their destination. They should also know and implement
    individual protective measures. In addition, individuals should immediately report
    suspicious activities or occurrences to the nearest local law enforcement, Air Force Office of
    Special Investigation (AFOSI), and their chain of command.
    1.5. Most AFRS Airmen (military and civilian) are not on bases or installations; therefore,
    key factors must to be recognized while planning for all threats and hazards:
       1.5.1. AFRS does not have assigned security forces and relies on local, state, and federal
       law enforcement for first responder support.
       1.5.2. The first responder resources may be affected by numerous situations that
       constitute a threat to their operational capability (i.e., major crimes, terrorism, or natural
       disaster).
       1.5.3. Situations may occur with little to no warning and allow little reaction time.
       1.5.4. Terrorists, thieves, dissident individuals, or groups will have some knowledge of
       FP procedures and normal operations of proposed targets.
       1.5.5. Individuals posing a threat could be from the civilian populace or from within the
       USAF or other DoD service component.
       1.5.6. Due to AFRS operations being spread over a large geographical area, our
       personnel must be prepared to react to a terrorist/criminal act or natural disaster with
       limited assistance from DoD assets.
       1.5.7. In accordance with Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 4-010-01, DoD Minimum
       Antiterrorism Standards for Buildings, 1 October 2013, the security standards established
       by the Department of Homeland Security’s Interagency Security Committee (ISC) in The
       Risk Management Process for Federal Facilities, August 2013, shall apply to all off-
AFRSI10-703 5 AUGUST 2014                                                                     3


          installation leased space managed by DoD and all DoD occupied spaced in buildings
          owned or operated by the US General Services Administration (GSA).
2. Responsibilities.
      2.1. AFRS Commander will:
          2.1.1. Appoint an Antiterrorism Officer (ATO) and alternate to manage the AFRS FP
          program for all AFRS personnel.
          2.1.2. The minimum grade of these ATOs shall be O-3, E-7, GS-12 or equivalent.
          2.1.3. Develop and maintain a comprehensive FP plan for all AFRS elements and
          personnel.
      2.2. Group and squadron commanders will:
          2.2.1. Designate a primary and alternate Force Protection Representative (FPR). The
          FPR will be an E-5 or above or civilian equivalent, and a copy of the letter of
          appointment will be forwarded to AFRS/ATO.
          2.2.2. Ensure a unit FP continuity folder is loaded on the unit SharePoint1 site.
          2.2.3. Implement a unit Random Antiterrorism Measures (RAM) program.
      2.3. AFRS ATO responsibilities:
          2.3.1. Complete AT Level II training within 120 days of assignment.
          2.3.2. Complete Interagency Security Committee (ISC) training through the Federal
          Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Emergency Management Institute.
          2.3.3. Establish and maintain FP electronic continuity folder on the HQ AFRS/RSXL
          SharePoint2 site.
          2.3.4. Assist with the development and maintenance of a comprehensive FP plan for all
          AFRS elements and personnel.
          2.3.5. Implement the Recruiting Services Standard Operating Procedures (RS-SOP) at all
          AFRS off-installation facilities as directed by USNORTHCOM I 10-222 Chapter 16.
          2.3.6. Conduct annual program reviews on subordinate unit FP programs.
          2.3.7. Develop and conduct AFRS FPR training for all appointed unit FPRs.
          2.3.8. Publish FP awareness bulletins for AFRS personnel and their dependents.
          2.3.9. Develop and manage the AFRS FP exercise program.
          2.3.10. Participate in the DoD Recruiting Service Force Protection Working Group (DoD
          RS-FPWG) to address FP issues that affect recruiting personnel and facilities.
          2.3.11. Coordinate FP resource funding and requests.
          2.3.12. Direct the RAM program in close coordination with the AFRS commanders.


1
    ©Microsoft Corp.
2
    ©Microsoft Corp.
    4                                                              AFRSI10-703 5 AUGUST 2014


           2.3.13. Participate in the AFRS working groups such as the Force Protection Executive
           Committee (FPEC), FP/Threat Working Group (FPWG/TWG), Emergency Operations
           Center (EOC), or others as needed.
        2.4. AFRS FPR Responsibilities:
           2.4.1. Manage the FP program on behalf of their respective unit commander and serve as
           his/her advisor on all FP issues.
           2.4.2. Complete AFRS FPR training within 120 days of assignment. This training will
           be conducted by AFRS ATO.
           2.4.3. Implement the AFRS FP Plan at their unit.
           2.4.4. Gather AT Level I Awareness training statistics from their unit training managers
           (UTM) bi-annually.
           2.4.5. Maintain a unit FP continuity folder (Attachment 2) on the unit SharePoint3 site.
           AFRS ATO will be granted visitor access to the unit’s SharePoint4 site.
           2.4.6. Ensure requests for FP funding and equipment are coordinated through AFRS
           ATO.
           2.4.7. Implement and manage unit’s RAM program.
           2.4.8. Conduct annual unit program self-assessments and ensure an Air Force Recruiting
           Office (AFRO) FP self-assessment is completed at each off-installation facility.
           2.4.9. Conduct off-installation large gathering security assessments.
           2.4.10. Ensure immediate and appropriate force protection Condition (FPCON)
           implementation using the USNORTHCOM Recruiting Station FPCON Measures.
           2.4.11. Ensure all off-installation unit facilities have an up-to-date Recruiting Station
           Standard Operating Procedures (RS-SOP).
           2.4.12. Ensure that AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid, is available at all unit recruiting
           facilities.
3. Training.
        3.1. FP awareness training.
           3.1.1. AFRS recruiter-specific FP training and awareness materials will be developed by
           AFRS ATO and disseminated to AFRS personnel.
           3.1.2. All AFRS personnel will accomplish annual Level I AT Awareness Training by
           completing the FP computer-based training (CBT) course on the Advanced Distributed
           Learning System (ADLS).
        3.2. Unit FPR training.
           3.2.1. Will complete AFRS FPR training within 120 days of assignment. This training
           will be developed and conducted by AFRS ATO.

3
    ©Microsoft Corp.
4
    © Microsoft Corp.
AFRSI10-703 5 AUGUST 2014                                                                           5


      3.3. AFRS ATO training.
          3.3.1. Complete AT Level II training within 120 days of assignment.
          3.3.2. Complete Interagency Security Committee (ISC) training through the FEMA
          Emergency Management Institute. The courses are IS-00890.A: Introduction to the
          Interagency Security Committee (ISC), IS-00891: Facility Security Level Determinations
          for Federal Facilities, IS-00892: Physical Security Criteria for Federal Facilities, and IS-
          00893: Facility Security Committees.
4. Operations.
      4.1. AFRS FP establishes a system for AFRS personnel to report activities and incidents that
      do or could adversely affect the ability of AFRS to perform its mission.
          4.1.1. AFRS Recruiting Incident Reporting System allows an activity or incident to be
          electronically reported promptly and accurately via the web-based incident reporting
          system; https://ricky.rs.af.mil/apps/incidents/.
      4.1.2. If the incident or activity requires further up-channel reporting, AFRS ATO will
      submit the necessary reports.
          4.1.3. Each AFRS unit will develop a procedure to ensure immediate and appropriate
          FPCON implementation and dissemination of threat and hazard information.
               4.1.3.1. These procedures should be a unit recall by cell phone or text message, or
               other means the unit uses to disseminate information.
      4.2. Historically, suspicious mail/packages and phone calls are the most frequently reported
      suspicious incidents.
          4.2.1. Unit personnel will be kept aware of suspicious letter and package indicators,
          which are available on the HQ AFRS/RSXL SharePoint5 site.
          4.2.2. Bomb Threat Aid Card (AF Form 440) shall be at all recruiting facilities.
          4.2.3. The RS-SOP contains bomb threat and mail handling procedures.
      4.3. Emergency management and response to threats and hazards at AFRS off-installation
      facilities will be by the local law enforcement and first responders.
          4.3.1. AFRS personnel at off-installation facilities must engage with local authorities and
          become aware of the emergency notification and response structure and procedures in
          their local communities.
          4.3.2. If, in response to an emergency, the local authority orders an evacuation, AFRS
          personnel in that area will comply; however, the unit commander must initiate any travel
          orders for the member to be reimbursed by the USAF.
      4.4. Major incidents, manmade or natural, occur across the AFRS area of operations and
      there is always the possibility that AFRS personnel and/or dependents could be affected.
          4.4.1. During a major incident, AFRS units should conduct personnel accountability to
          ascertain if any personnel are affected and need assistance.

5
    © Microsoft Corp.
6                                                          AFRSI10-703 5 AUGUST 2014


    4.4.2. Personnel accountability results will be forwarded up the chain of command.




                                        MICHAEL A. ROMERO, Colonel, USAF
                                        Vice Commander
AFRSI10-703 5 AUGUST 2014                                                               7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 3-10, Force Protection, 28 July 2011
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 21 September 2012
DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, 10 February
2009
USNORTHCOM Instruction 10-222, USNORTHCOM FP Mission And AT Program, 30
September 2012
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 4-010-01, DoD Minimum Antiterrorism Standards for
Buildings, 1 October 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLS—Advanced Distributed Learning System
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
AT—Antiterrorism
ATO—Antiterrorism Officer
CBT—Computer-Based Training
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
FEMA—Federal Emergency Management Agency
FP—Force Protection
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FPEC—Force Protection Executive Committee
FPR—Force Protection Representative
FPWG/TWG—Force Protection/Threat Working Group
GSA—General Services Administration
ICS—Interagency Security Committee
RAM—Random Antiterrorism Measure
RS-SOP—Recruiting Services Standard Operating Procedures
 8                                                              AFRSI10-703 5 AUGUST 2014


Terms
Antiterrorism (AT)—Defensive measures used to reduce the vulnerability of individuals and
property to terrorist acts, to include limited response and containment by local military and
civilian forces.
AT Officer (ATO)—The principal military or civilian advisor charged with managing the AT
program for the commander or DoD civilian exercising equivalent authority.
AT Program—One of several security-related programs that fall under the overarching
combating terrorism and FP programs. The AT program is a collective, proactive effort focused
on the prevention and detection of terrorist attacks against DoD personnel and their families,
facilities, installations, and infrastructure critical to mission accomplishment as well as the
preparation to defend against and planning for the response to the consequences of terrorist
incidents. Although not elements of AT, plans for terrorism consequence management
preparedness and response measures as well as plans for continuing essential military operations
are important adjuncts to an effective AT program. The minimum elements of an AT program
are AT risk management, planning, training and exercises, resource application, and program
reviews.
Commander—Personnel assigned to command positions at all levels and the heads of the
Defense Agencies and DoD Field Activities.
Force Protection (FP)—The process of detecting threats and hazards to the Air Force and its
mission, and applying measures to deter, pre-empt, negate, or mitigate them based on an
acceptable level of risk. FP is a fundamental principle of all military operations as a way to
ensure the survivability of a commander‘s forces. The Air Force takes an integrated approach to
FP in order to conserve the force‘s fighting potential.
Force Protection Condition (FPCON)—A DoD-approved system standardizing the
Department‘s identification, recommended preventive actions, and responses to terrorist threats
against US personnel and facilities. This system is the principal means for a commander to
apply an operational decision on how to protect against terrorism. It facilitates inter-Service
coordination and support for AT activities.
Force Protection Representative—The principal military or civilian advisor charged with
managing the FP program for a unit that contains off-installation recruiting facilities.
Installation—A grouping of facilities, located in the same vicinity, which support particular
functions. Installations may be elements of a base.
Off-Installation Recruiting Facility—Leased commercial property for the purpose of
conducting recruiting activities.
Program Review—A review conducted to evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy of FP
program implementation.
Terrorism—The calculated use of unlawful violence or threat of unlawful violence to inculcate
fear; intended to coerce or to intimidate governments or societies in the pursuit of goals that are
generally political, religious, or ideological.
AFRSI10-703 5 AUGUST 2014                                                                       9


                                           Attachment 2
                        AFRS FP PROGRAM CONTINUITY FOLDER

A2.1. Responsibility. The Recruiting Group and Squadron Force Protection Representatives
(FPRs) are responsible for maintaining FP program continuity folders on the units’ SharePoint6
sites. This attachment provides a continuity folder template and defines the contents and format
for folders maintained by the unit FPRs. Folder contents are subject to review during Higher HQ
staff assistance visits (SAV), inspector general (IG) inspections, and FP program reviews.
A2.2. Continuity Folder. The folder will contain at a minimum, the following items:
      A2.2.1. Section 1. Memorandum of Appointment (update as changes occur).
      A2.2.2. Section 2. Unit Level I and AFRS FPR training. Retain a copy of AFRS FPR
      training certificates for all assigned FPRs and bi-annual Level I training reports.
      A2.2.3. Section 3. Logs.      Unit FPRs will maintain a unit RAM log.         (If maintained
      elsewhere, indicate where).
      A2.2.4. Section 4. Annual Self-Inspections. Retain the last two self-inspections.
      A2.2.5. Section 5. FP Information, Memorandums, Messages. This section contains pass-
      ons from the ATO (e-mails, memorandums, etc.) and the schedule for unit FP program
      reviews.
      A2.2.6. Section 6. AFIs. AFRSI 10-XX and AFRS FP Plan. (If maintained elsewhere,
      indicate where).
      A2.2.7. Section 7. FP Program Reviews. Unit FPRs will maintain copies of most recent and
      previous ATO reviews of unit FP programs.
      A2.2.8. Section 8. FP Exercise Reports. Maintain reports generated from FP exercises.
      A2.2.9. Section 9. Meeting Minutes. All FPWG, TWG minutes, and other related minutes.
      A2.2.10. Section 10. Facility RS-SOPs and Miscellaneous Items.




6
    © Microsoft Corp.
