BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                AFRS INSTRUCTION 84-101
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
                                                                                         7 MARCH 2003

                                                                                               History

                                                         AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE SEAL

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the HQ AETC Publishing WWW site at
http://www.aetc.randolph.af.mil/im. If you lack access, contact your base publishing manager.

OPR: HQ AFRS/RSXXM (MSgt Gerald Hires)                Certified by: HQ AFRS/RSX (Col James Browne)
                                                                                             Pages: 6
                                                                                      Distribution: F


This instruction implements AFPD 84-1, Historical Information, Property, and Art. It describes the Air
Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) seal and emblem and establishes guidance concerning its use. It
applies to all AFRS members working in the headquarters, groups, squadrons, and flights. This
publication does not apply to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units. Maintain and
dispose of records created in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.
Attachment 1 contains a glossary of references and supporting information. This publication replaces
guidance found in AETCI 84-102, 29 December 1998, Air Force Recruiting Service Seal.
1. Purpose:
1.1. Provide guidance on proper use of the AFRS seal on letterhead, facilities, business cards, and
personal items.
1.2. Provide a detailed description, proper wear, and authorized use of the AFRS seal.
1.3. Provide a detailed description of the AFRS emblem and its use.
2. Roles and Responsibilities:
2.1. HQ Air Force is the approval authority for the AFRS seal or emblem.
2.2. The AFRS commander is responsible for the design and maintenance of the AFRS seal and
emblem. The commander may delegate responsibility to AFRS/CV.
2.3. Facility managers ensure units display approved emblems on all facilities.
2.4. Information management technicians ensure the AFRS seal is properly displayed on documents,
publications, and business cards.
2.5. Commanders and supervisors will ensure the AFRS seal is properly worn on military uniforms and
civilian attire.
3. Description and Significance:
3.1. The AFRS seal symbolizes the mission of AFRS, and is used on official documents and records.
The AFRS seal was approved by AFHRC/RS on 2 February 1991. It consists of a disc with an encircling
band as follows:
2                                                                       AFRSI84-101       7 MARCH 2003

3.1.1. The disc contains 13 stars following the contour of the disc representing the 13 original colonies.
In the middle of the disc is the Air Force Coat of Arms, which has two parts.
3.1.1.1. The crest is made up of the eagle, wreath, and cloud form. The American bald eagle symbolizes
the United States and its airpower, and is depicted in its natural colors. The wreath under the eagle is
made up of six alternate folds of metal and light blue. This repeats the metal and color used in the shield.
The white clouds behind the eagle show the start of a new sky.
3.1.1.2. The shield, directly below the eagle and wreath, is divided horizontally into two parts by a
nebular line representing clouds. The top part bears an Air Force yellow thunderbolt with flames in
natural color that shows striking power through the use of aerospace. The thunderbolt consists of an Air
Force yellow vertical twist with three natural color flames on each end crossing a pair of horizontal
wings with eight lightning bolts. The background of the top part is light blue representing the sky. The
lower part is white representing metal silver.
3.1.2. The band encircling the entire design is white, edged in Air Force yellow with black lettering. The
inscription reads as Air Force on the top part and Recruiting Service on the lower part.
3.1.3. When the seal is reproduced in color, color shades must be as indicated at Attachment 2. When
the seal is reproduced in subdued colors, shades must be as indicated at Attachment 3.
3.2. The AFRS emblem is displayed on the AFRS flag.
3.3. The emblem is a shield design divided horizontally into two parts by a nebular line representing
clouds. The top part bears an Air Force yellow thunderbolt with flames in natural color that shows
striking power through the use of aerospace. The thunderbolt consists of an Air Force yellow vertical
twist with three natural color flames on each end crossing a pair of horizontal wings with eight lightning
bolts. The background of the top part is light blue representing the sky. The lower part is white
representing metal silver. Under the shield design is a paper scroll outlined in Air Force yellow with
“AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE” inscribed in ultramarine blue lettering on the scroll.
4. Policy:
4.1. Authorized Use of the AFRS Seal. The use of the AFRS seal is limited to the references in
paragraphs 4.1.1 through 4.1.12. Other uses of the AFRS seal require approval of the AFRS commander
prior to use. Submit requests to the HQ AFRS historian.
4.1.1. Printed reproduction on AFRS publications when the seal is printed as a line drawing.
4.1.2. Reproduced facsimiles on invitations and programs for official ceremonies and special occasions.
4.1.3. Worn as the AFRS badge on military uniforms as prescribed by AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal
Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
4.1.4. In conjunction with recruiting displays in commercial establishments, such as banks and
department stores, and Air Force exhibits at educational conventions, fairs, and other public or official
gatherings, as long as there is no implication of official endorsement of any commercial undertaking.
4.1.5. As backdrops for television and radio shows with an Air Force theme.
4.1.6. On signs identifying AFRS headquarters, groups, squadrons, and recruiting offices.
4.1.7. On AFRS advertising and publicity materials when specifically approved by the AFRS
commander.
4.1.8. On wall plaques and certificates.
4.1.9. On government property and equipment used by recruiting personnel in sales and publicity work.
AFRSI84-101       7 MARCH 2003                                                                         3

4.1.10. On business cards for recruiters only (as authorized by DoDD 5330.3/Air Force Supplement,
Defense Automated Printing Service [DAPS]).
4.1.11. On official letterhead paper.
4.1.12. For briefings or slide presentations.
4.2. Unauthorized Use of the AFRS Seal. The AFRS seal will not be used as described in paragraphs
4.2.1 through 4.2.4.
4.2.1. For any purpose with AFRS endorsement of an item or product.
4.2.2. In a manner which might reflect unfavorably on AFRS or the Department of the Air Force.
4.2.3. On civilian or athletic clothing except as approved by the AFRS commander.
4.2.4. On stationary as a letterhead design.
5. Requests for Recruiting Group and Squadron Emblems. Each recruiting group and squadron must
submit a request for approval of its desired emblem. Current emblem and new emblems must be
approved prior to use.
5.1. Requests for new emblems must follow procedures outlined in AFI 84-105, Organizational
Lineage, Honors, and Heraldry, chapter 3. The recruiting group or squadron logistics specialist, with the
help of the information manager, will complete the design and processing of paperwork for the emblem.
5.2. Send paperwork with a diskette copy of the emblem to the HQ AFRS historian for the AFRS
commander’s approval prior to submitting to the Air Education and Training Command historian for
processing.
5.3. The HQ AFRS historian will maintain approved emblems of recruiting groups and squadrons.
Recruiting group and squadron logistics specialists will be responsible for maintaining the paperwork
approving the emblem.




                                                EDWARD A. RICE, JR., Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Commander

3 Attachments
1. GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
2. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE SEAL
3. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE SEAL – SUBDUED COLORS
4                                                            AFRSI84-101   7 MARCH 2003

                                       Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

DODD/AF Supplement 5330.3, Defense Automated Printing Service (DAPS)
AFPD 84-1, Historical Information, Property, and Art
AFI 84-101, Historical Products, Services, and Requirements
AFI 84-105, Organizational Lineage, Honors, and Heraldry
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel
AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule

Terms

AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
DAPS—Defense Automated Printing Service
AFRSI84-101   7 MARCH 2003                              5

                               Attachment 2

                    AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE SEAL
6                                      AFRSI84-101   7 MARCH 2003

                       Attachment 3

    AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE SEAL—SUBDUED COLORS
