BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE                                      INSTRUCTION 33-301

                                                                          24 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                             Communications and Information

                                                       POSTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRS/RSIOK                                                  Certified by: HQ AFRS/RSI
                                                                        (LtCol Gary A. Gabriel)
Supersedes:   AFRSI33-301, 28 March 2008                                               Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 33-3 and DoD 4525.8-M/AF Sup 1, Official Mail Manual. It
establishes and implements postal management policy and procedures for Air Force Recruiting
Service (AFRS). It applies to all AFRS personnel. This publication does not apply to Air
National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Maintain records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-
322, Records Management Program, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
through the appropriate functional chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The first major
change is the re-structure of paragraph 3, outlining more in-depth descriptions of HQ
AFRS/RSI and Official Mail Manager (OMM) responsibilities. New information includes:
references to RSSI changed to RSS. Quarterly report suspense date changed to semi-annual.
Updated links to Mail Management Enterprise Information System sites. Updated Squadron
Headquarters and flight office postage stamp requirements. Added paragraph outlining security
clearance requirements for civilian personnel assigned to AFRS. Added AF Form 4332 to list of
adopted forms.

Section A—General Requirements and Responsibilities
 2                                                          AFRSI33-301 24 FEBRUARY 2014


1. Use of DoD Official Mail and Postal Resources. Postage paid for by appropriated funds
will be used only for official mail relating solely to the business of the United States government.
Postage will not be used to mail items specifically mentioned in DoD 4528.8-M/AF Sup 1,
paragraph C1.4 (invitations to social functions, private congratulatory letters, holiday and
birthday greetings, etc.).
2. Supplements. HQ AFRS/RSIOK must approve supplements to this instruction before they
are published. Groups and squadrons will send a copy of their proposed supplement, via email, to
hqafrs.ko@us.af.mil or US Postal service addressed to HQ AFRS/RSIOK, 550 D Street West,
Suite 1, JBSA-Randolph AFB TX 78150-4527.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. HQ AFRS/RSI. HQ AFRS/RSI is the office of primary responsibility for the overall
     direction and management of the AFRS postal management program.
     3.1.1. HQ AFRS/RSI will:
           3.1.1.1. Consolidate postage expenditure reports from AFRS staff agencies and
           submit to AETC Official Mail Manager via AETC Mail Management Program Site at
           https://eis.aetc.af.mil/hq/A6/CSS/SCO/SCOK/MMB/default.aspx.
     3.2. Groups/Squadrons. Group/Squadron Commanders will appoint an official mail
     manager (OMM) for their organization/unit. Organizational OMMs are appointed in writing
     and copies maintained at both the organization/unit and HQ AFRS/RSI. Use an AF Form
     4332, Accountable Communications Receipt Authorization, to appoint OMMs. The OMMs
     will oversee the postal program for their units and familiarize themselves with the
     requirements outlined in DoD 4525.8-M/AF Sup 1 as well as this instruction.
        3.2.1. AFSC or job series is not a consideration when appointing OMMs
        3.2.2. OMMs will:
           3.2.2.1. Ensure adequate postal products are available and postage is maintained on
           the squadron postage meter.
           3.2.2.2. Coordinate with the squadron/group resource advisor to ensure funds are
           available for payment of postal costs (to include all postal products).
           3.2.2.3. Monitor or oversee the contracted Express Mail program.
           3.2.2.4. Prepare postal reports as required by HQ AETC and DoD 4525.08_AFI33-
           365 and ensure proper distribution is made of all incoming/outgoing correspondence
           from the squadron/group.
           3.2.2.5. Submit semi-annual postage expenditure reports of charges for
           communications sent via USPS or GSA-approved small package carriers; also
           includes USPS postage charges for address correction, business reply mail, USPS
           Express Mail, merchandise return service, contractor reimbursements, permit fees,
           imprint permit mailings, postage due, requester publication rates-second-class, small
           package carriers; and other miscellaneous costs associated with Air Force official
           mail operations.
               3.2.2.5.1. OMMs will submit data to HQ AFRS Knowledge Operations
AFRSI33-301 24 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                      3


              SharePoint                                                                    at
              https://randolph.eis.aetc.af.mil/afrs/AFRSHQ/rsi/RSIO/Knowledge_Operatio
              ns/default.aspx no later than the last duty day of March and September. Note:
              OMMs will only report actual postage expenditures during the period. Do not
              report the amount simply loaded onto the meter (if applicable). OMMs will report
              expenditures as they are spent.
   3.3. Squadron/Group Resource Advisor (RA). The RA will monitor postal expenditures
   and keep the squadron/group commander apprised of all expenditures.
   3.4. Support Flight Commander. Performs periodic inventories of the organization’s on-
   hand stock to ensure the correct quantity listed on postal logs match on-hand stocks, and
   verifies receipts are kept for disseminated postal products.
   3.5. Military Entrance Processing Stations (MEPS). Liaison supervisors are responsible
   for the overall management of their postal programs.
   3.6. Flight Chiefs and Secretaries.
      3.6.1. Flight chiefs are responsible for the overall management of their postal programs.
      3.6.2. Flight secretaries will order and inventory postal products for their flight.
      Additionally, they will monitor the postal program at the flight level, and will provide
      training to all recruiters upon arrival into the squadron.
   3.7. Air Force Recruiting Office (AFRO). Recruiters will order, inventory, and monitor
   postal products as required to meet routine mail requirements.

Section B—Policies and Procedures

4. Postage Accountability.
   4.1. Chain of Receipt. A chain of receipts is required every time postage is issued. Receipts
   must be signed and maintained by the issuing activity. For squadrons ordering stamps on
   line, the shipping invoice may be used in lieu of receipts.
   4.2. Documentation. The squadron will maintain a postal product distribution log or
   spreadsheet to document all transactions taking place within the postal program.
      4.2.1. AFROs, MEPS, and flight offices possessing postage stamps will maintain a log or
      spreadsheet of products used/on-hand. At least quarterly, flights and MEPS will
      consolidate recruiter postage logs with their own, and submit to the squadron.
      4.2.2. The squadron will use the information in paragraph 4.2.1 to determine postage
      replenishment and reorder. Information will also be used to provide an accurate
      assessment of all postage used within the squadron.
   4.3. Storage/Security Containers. Maintain all postage stamps in a lockable container (for
   example, file cabinet, safe, desk drawer, storage cabinet, etc.) or a locked room. Secure the
   unit postage meter in a locked safe, locked file cabinet, or in a locked room overnight, and at
   any other time information management personnel are temporarily absent. Meters operable
   by pin number are considered secure. At a minimum, pin numbers will be changed every 6
   months and immediately when authorized personnel are no longer assigned.
 4                                                          AFRSI33-301 24 FEBRUARY 2014


5. Stamps. AFROs, MEPS, and flight offices are permitted to use postage stamps if the unit
does not generate enough mail to justify the leasing or purchasing of metering equipment and on
items not qualifying for permit postage or pre-metered postage.
     5.1. Squadrons are authorized, if needed to provide each user a serviceable postal scale
     obtained from the squadron, and a local zone chart obtained from the local post office.
     Squadrons are authorized and encouraged to establish maximum and minimum stock
     amounts based on historical data. No more than a 90-day supply of stamps will be
     maintained.
     5.2. Squadrons are authorized, if needed, to maintain no more than a 10-day emergency
     supply of postage stamps for their flight offices to be used only when metering equipment is
     not operational. This requirement does not apply to squadrons located on Air Force bases that
     do not maintain a meter.
     5.3. Do not integrate official mail stamps with USPS stamp stock and keep official mail
     funds separate from stamp stock. Note: Do not put U.S. postage on material not entering the
     USPS system. Do not apply postage on items delivered to individuals through the postal
     service center (PSC).
6. Postage Meter. The postage meter is used by the information management section or
designated squadron personnel to affix postage on squadron mail. The squadron should maintain
enough postage on the meter to accommodate its needs and accomplish the mission for the
remainder of the fiscal year. Excessive amounts must be avoided. This requirement does not
apply to squadrons on Air Force bases that do not maintain a meter. PS Form 3602-A, Daily
Record of Meter Register Readings, will be maintained to record all meter transactions.
7. Contracted Express Mail.
     7.1. Usage. Use Express Mail only when it is the most cost effective way to accomplish a
     mission within time, security, and accountability constraints (for example, the only way to
     meet a short suspense). It will not be used to meet a late suspense when adequate time existed
     or on days before weekends or holidays, unless the sender has verified that someone will be
     available on the other end to accept the package.
     7.2. Approval Authorities. The noncommissioned officer in charge (NCOIC) of the
     information management (IM) section and the support flight commander are the approval
     authorities for Express Mail packages. The commander may appoint, in writing, additional
     personnel to approve contracted Express Mail service.
     7.3. Requesting Contracted Express Mail Service. Any squadron member can use this
     service if it has been determined to be the most practical method. The squadron OMM will
     establish procedures that include adequate written justification by the member requesting
     express mail service. AETC Form 444, Request for Express/Next-Day Mail Service, is the
     preferred method for requesting express mail service. Upon approval, the requesting office
     can then request pick-up of the package from the carrier.
     7.4. Verifying Contracted Express Mail Expenditures. To prevent fraud, waste, and
     abuse, the squadron will verify all contracted Express Mail expenditures on the invoice or
     bill provided by the carrier or the Government Purchase Card statement.
AFRSI33-301 24 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                 5


       7.4.1. The verification will include the statement “All uses of contracted Express Mail
       are valid and mission essential.” This statement will be typed on the bill and signed by
       the commander or support flight commander.
8. Clearance Requirement for Accountable (Registered) Mail. AFRS does not receive
accountable registered mail containing classified material. Therefore, the required security
clearance of SECRET is not required. AFRS group or squadron civilian personnel may be
designated to receive registered mail that is addressed to their respective organization IAW
DoDM4525.8_AFMAN33-306, paragraph C8.1.1.2.




                                           JOHN P. HORNER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                    AFRSI33-301 24 FEBRUARY 2014


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 4525.8-M_AFMAN33-306, DoD Official Mail Manual, 12 October 2006
DoD 4525.08_AFI33-365, DoD Official Mail Management, 31 May 2011
AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program
Forms Adopted
AETC Form 444, Request for Express/Next-Day Mail Service
AF Form 4332, Accountable Communications Receipt Authorization
PS Form 3602-A, Daily Record of Meter Register Readings
DD Form 2825, Internal Receipt

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRO—Air Force Recruiting Office
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
ANG—Air National Guard
CST—Client System Technicians
KO—Knowledge Operations
MEPS—Military Entrance Processing Stations
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
OMM—Official Mail Manager
