BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE                                       INSTRUCTION 90-201

                                                                             27 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                            Special Management

                                                                    INSPECTION PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: AFRS/IGI                                                        Certified by: HQ AFRS/CC
                                                                     (Brig Gen Balan R. Ayyar)
Supersedes:    AFRSI 90-201,                                                          Pages: 11
               21 November 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General –
The Inspection System. It extends the guidance of AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities,
17 June 2009 (incorporating Guidance Memorandum, 20 August 2010) and the AETC
Supplement to AFI 90-201, 28 June 2010. It applies to all levels of command within AFRS. It
does not apply to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units. AFRS/IGI must
approve all subordinate unit supplements to this instruction prior to publication. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional's chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
includes inspection guidance for all units; checklist responsibilities (paragraph 5); staff
assistance visit (SAV) and self-inspection program (SIP) changes (paragraph 6); changes the
group SAV timeline from 6 months prior to an inspection to 1 year prior to an inspection
(paragraph 6.5); and details gatekeeper responsibilities (paragraph 8). In addition, it formalizes
the AFRS/IGI observer program (paragraph 9) and changes deficiency reply procedures
(paragraph 10).
 2                                                          AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS)/IGI is the designated AFRS Gatekeeper.
     1.2. The AFRS/IGI is responsible to the AFRS/CC for the command inspection program.
     IGI plans, organizes, and conducts AFRS inspections.
     1.3. The scope of inspection will include group headquarters, squadron headquarters, health
     profession programs, field recruiters, Air Force Military Entrance Processing Station
     procedures, training/marketing, operations, support functions, and commanders programs.
     1.4. A Recruiting Group trend report to AFRS/CC will be accomplished. In addition to
     required reporting, this report will include the following:
        1.4.1. A Functional Area Rating Trends visual aid of last 12 months of inspections,
        identifying ratings for each functional area, will be completed by AFRS/IGI.
        1.4.2. A Deficiency Analysis Assessment will be completed after each recruiting group
        completes its inspection cycle identifying common deficiencies within.
2. All AFRS Functional Staff Area Office of Primary Responsibility (OPRs):
     2.1. The OPR will designate a staff focal point, as required, to work with the corresponding
     AFRS/IGI functional inspector on administrative arrangements for scheduled inspections
     related to an appropriate staff area of responsibility and annual checklist review.
3. General AFRS/IGI Compliance Inspection (CI) Guidelines AFRS organizations and
activities are subject to inspection at any time as directed by the AFRS/CC.
     3.1. The AFRS/IGI CI execution plan:
        3.1.1. All subordinate AFRS units and activities are subject to inspection. For inspection
        purposes, AFRS will conduct a CI. AFRS CIs are conducted to evaluate how effectively,
        efficiently, and safely units perform their missions according to the applicable laws,
        instructions, regulations, TOs, syllabi, course charts, and plans of instruction. CIs will
        also identify potential Fraud, Waste, and Abuse as well as obstacles to mission
        accomplishment, morale, and readiness. Finally, CIs provide meaningful information to
        other units for use in improving operations.
        3.1.2. All subordinate AFRS units will be inspected approximately         every        36
        months. A typical CI lasts 6 calendar days, Sunday through Friday. All health professions
        programs will be inspected in conjunction with their respective Group CI. All group
        headquarters will be inspected at the conclusion of their subordinate squadron
        inspections.
     3.2. CI Rating System. The CI Rating system will use the “Five-tier” grading system of
     Outstanding, Excellent, Satisfactory, Marginal, and Unsatisfactory. The standard of
     performance is Satisfactory.
     3.3. All inspections will cover standards to include dress and appearance evaluations,
     customs and courtesies, and adherence to AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of
     Air Force Personnel.
AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                    3


   3.4. Program Management (PM). These programs reside at the squadron and/or group level.
   PM items are normally support programs such as Vehicle Control, Facility Management,
   Unit Fitness, Unit Deployment Managers, Security Management, Knowledge Operations
   Management, etc. All PM inspection areas can be added and deleted as applicable. The best
   place to review the most current AFRS/IGI PM checklists are on the AFRS/IGI portal at:
   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
   af/USAF/ep/browse.do?categoryId=pA1FBF31D25AE0DF201264D7715C21954&chann
   elPageId=s6925EC134BF10FB5E044080020E329A9).
   3.5. Validation. The validation process is continual as the inspection progresses. AFRS/IGI
   Team Chief and team members will provide status updates to flight chiefs, unit functional
   leads, production superintendents, and commanders. These validation sessions typically
   cover inspected areas, general observations, positive areas noted, and potential problem
   areas, but will not cover ratings. This provides the inspected units an opportunity to clarify
   issues noted. If a significant disagreement on policy/procedures occurs during validation
   sessions, the IG team member will coordinate with the AETC/AFRS functional for
   clarification. The AETC/AFRS functional will provide the response to the IG inspector in
   writing (e-mail is valid) to confirm clarification NLT the last duty day of the inspection. By
   the end of the inspection, commanders should have a complete understanding of all the facts.
   The IG leadership will offer daily updates to the senior leadership covering these same areas.
   Time and place for validation sessions will be arranged in advance with the organization’s
   inspection point of contact (POC) through the development of the inspector schedules.
   3.6. Inspection Reports. All draft reports of any type of CI will be presented to the senior
   leadership during the out brief. A draft copy will be left with the squadron upon IG team’s
   departure. All reports will be considered final upon signature of AFRS/CC. All final reports
   will be distributed to inspected units, owning groups, and AFRS approximately 30 calendar
   days after inspection. Once final, the report will be posted to the AFRS/IGI portal by
   AFRS/IGI.
4. General AFRS/IGI No-Notice and Minimal-Notice CI Guidelines:
   4.1. This program will concentrate efforts in two areas: (1) inspections “for cause” and (2)
   random sampling. “For cause” inspections will inspect unit areas that did not fully meet
   standards (marginal or unsatisfactory) during a prior inspection. Random sampling will be
   utilized to verify compliance adherence across AFRS. All units are equally susceptible to this
   inspection program component. AFRS/CC is the approval authority for all No-/Minimal-
   Notice inspections. AFRS/IGI will utilize a 3-tier grading system of In-Compliance, In-
   Compliance with Comments, or Not In-Compliance when conducting No-/Minimal Notice
   inspections. An overall grade will only be provided if entire squadron was inspected.
   4.2. Rules of engagement for the No-/Minimal Notice Inspection program. AFRS/IGI may
   notify a unit at any time prior to a No-/Minimal Notice inspection, however, the typical
   notification time is 7 days prior to the inspection. The inspection may be focused on an
   entire unit or a specific section of that unit. There are no time limitations based on the
   normal AFRS/IG inspection schedule, i.e., a return inspection can occur at any time.
 4                                                           AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011


5. Headquarters Air Force (HAF) and AFRS Checklists:
     5.1. HAF Program Management checklists standardize assessment criteria and facilitate AF,
     MAJCOM, and Numbered Air Force (NAF) inspection, evaluation, and unit self-inspection
     programs. These checklists and templates will be available on the AF Checklist site
     (https://webapps.afrc.af.mil/afia/home.aspx). AFRS-specific checklists can be located on
     the AFRS Portal site (see para. 3.4). Functional checklists are a tool available for use by
     Higher Headquarters (HHQ), AFRS, and unit personnel when conducting assessments of
     their programs or activities. The checklists do not constitute the order or limit the scope of
     any AFRS or unit self-inspection. The checklists do not limit the requirement to comply with
     any published DOD or AF policies, directives, or instructions.
     5.2. AFRS-specific checklist currency. Within 90 calendar days of an AFI, AFRSI, or
     official guidance (Technical Orders (TOs), etc. published change, the AFRS staff functional
     will modify all inspection checklists affected by the change and forward the checklists to
     AFRS/IGI. If no checklist change is necessary, the AFRS staff functional will change the
     checklist date to confirm review. Annually (NLT 31 March), the AFRS functional will
     review all inspection checklists for currency, accuracy of information, and conformance to
     the standard AF checklist template. All AFRS-specific checklists will be updated by the
     appropriate office and forwarded to AFRS/IGI for posting on the AFRS/IGI portal.
6. Staff Assistance Visit Program and Self-Inspection Program Management:
     6.1. Unless otherwise indicated, Health Professions (HP) will follow guidance as if operating
     in the capacity of a squadron.
     6.2. The Group Deputy Commander (CD) is the principal POC for the group.
     Responsibilities include coordinating all inspections throughout the group, implementing the
     group SAV program, providing SIP guidance to squadrons, and coordinating replies to
     AFRS/IGI inspection reports.
     6.3. The recruiting squadron commander (recruiting group commander for HP) is
     responsible for implementation/oversight of the unit SIP. Responsibilities include preparing
     for and responding to higher headquarters inspections; implementing the squadron SIP; and
     appointing, in writing, an inspection program officer (IPO). The squadron commander will
     provide a copy of the appointment memorandum to be maintained by the CD. A SIP can be
     conducted at any time as an entire unit inspection or by section based on squadron
     commander direction; however, all sections must be inspected annually.
     6.4. The IPO will serve as the OPR/POC for the unit SIP and for higher headquarters
     inspections. Responsibilities include coordinating inspection schedules, serving as team chief
     on SIP inspections, and monitoring responses to all SAV and AFRS/IG inspection
     deficiencies.
     6.5. The Staff Assistance Visit Program. This program involves a higher headquarters team
     visit to a recruiting squadron to evaluate problem areas, review compliance directives, help
     develop corrective actions, and provide training. A SAV will be required NLT 1 year prior
     to an AFRS/IGI inspection. Additional inspections may be conducted at the discretion of the
     group or squadron CC.
AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                   5


  6.6. The group CC/CD will determine the scope of the SAV. The SAV may encompass a
  limited number of functional areas or it may cover all programs under squadron commander
  purview. The SAV may address areas not covered during the IG inspection. However, the
  most current IG checklists will be used where appropriate. Additional guidance or checklists
  may be used at the discretion of the group CC/CD.
  6.7. The group CC/CD will approve SAV team composition. Team members may be
  functional area experts from outside the group headquarters, but not from the unit being
  visited. Team members will review prior IG reports, group SAV reports, and SIP reports in
  preparation for a SAV.
     6.7.1. The SAV team will prepare a formal report and send it to the visited squadron
     NLT 15 calendar days after SAV completion. The group commander is the approval
     authority for all SAV reports. Reports will be prepared in the AFRS/IGI format.
     6.7.2. The squadron commander or designated representative will prepare a report
     addressing each SAV deficiency and submit it to the CD NLT 30 calendar days after the
     group commander approves the SAV report. The group CC/CD may determine report
     format, but it is recommended that it parallel the AFRS/IGI format. Status reports are due
     to the CD every 60 calendar days after the initial reply until all deficiencies are closed.
     The CD may establish routine report due dates to make it easier to monitor suspense’s.
     For example, reports may be due the first Monday of the month. The level of detail and
     supporting documentation required in each deficiency reply will be determined by the
     CD.
     6.7.3. The CD will ensure the SAV deficiency replies are reviewed and commented on
     by the appropriate group officials. Written comments will be sent back to the squadron
     within 15 calendar days after the group receives the status report.
     6.7.4. The group CC/CD is the approval authority for closing SAV deficiencies. They
     will determine the degree of validation necessary for closing a deficiency based on input
     from the squadron and group staff members. Deficiencies may be validated by a follow
     up inspection, an evaluation of action reports and supporting documents, or by a review
     of performance and compliance.
  6.8. A No-/Minimal Notice AFRS/IGI inspection may substitute for any or all parts of the
  required SIP/SAV inspection if approved, in writing, by the group commander.
  6.9. The Self-Inspection Program. The SIP entails an annual internal review of each
  functional area in a squadron to evaluate organizational performance trends, ensure
  compliance with directives, and develop improvement initiatives. The SIP is a unit
  commander management tool to assess and improve unit effectiveness and efficiency. Group
  commanders will institute a SIP for the HP program that follows the same guidelines as a
  squadron SIP.
     6.9.1. The squadron IPO will organize the SIP inspection, serve as the inspection team
     chief, and ensure all functional areas and key programs are inspected. At least half of the
     enlisted accessions (EA) flights and half of the EA recruiters in each selected flight must
     be inspected.
 6                                                           AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011


        6.9.2. The group IPO will organize the group SIP inspection, serve as the inspection
        team chief, and ensure all functional areas and programs are inspected. At least half of
        the HP flights and all of the HP programs within the flight must be inspected.
        6.9.3. The unit CC will approve the SIP inspection team composition. Team members
        may come from outside the squadron. Every effort will be made to prevent team
        members from inspecting programs under their immediate control, and flight chiefs will
        not inspect their own flights. The HP production superintendent, or any current or former
        flight chief previously certified as a HP recruiter, will inspect the HP flight. Team
        members will review prior IG reports, group SAV reports, and SIP reports in preparation
        for the SIP.
        6.9.4. No more than 10 calendar days after the SIP, the IPO will prepare a formal report
        and forward it for approval to the unit commander. The format is determined by the unit
        commander, but it should parallel the AFRS/IGI format. At a minimum, the report will
        identify deficiencies requiring remedial action. The IPO will ensure the CD receives a
        copy of the approved report no later than 30 calendar days after the self-inspection report
        is signed.
        6.9.5. The IPO will name an OPR for each self-inspection deficiency and establish a
        suspense system to acquire updates every 30 calendar days on actions taken to address
        each deficiency. For ease of scheduling, the IPO may use a specific day of each month
        (i.e., the first Tuesday, etc.) as a suspense date for acquiring updates. The IPO will
        consolidate the monthly action reports, coordinate them with the superintendent and the
        operations, training and support branches, and submit them to the unit commander for
        review. The IPO should convene a monthly meeting of key staff members to review and
        discuss progress toward resolving each self-inspection deficiency, and to identify
        deficiencies that warrant closure. The squadron commander may determine the report
        format, but it should parallel the AFRS/IGI format.
        6.9.6. The unit commander is the approval authority for closing self-inspection
        deficiencies and he or she will determine the degree of validation necessary, based on
        input from the IPO and key staff members, to close a deficiency. Someone other than the
        OPR will validate deficiencies. A self-inspection finding may be closed if it duplicates or
        is part of an open SAV or IG finding.
     6.10. A group SAV covering all programs may substitute for an annual SIP if approved, in
     writing, by the group commander. If the SAV does not cover all areas, the group commander
     may still substitute the programs covered by the SAV, but the squadron must run a self-
     inspection on those programs not covered by the SAV in order to satisfy the annual self-
     inspection requirement.
7. AFRS IGI Inspector Eligibility, Training, and Certification:
     7.1. The AFRS specific initial and refresher inspector training for core IG team members
     will be conducted in conjunction with the USAF Basic Inspector Course, or, at minimum,
     annually. The AFRS/IGI will develop and provide all required specialized team, functional
     area, or command specific training.
AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                     7


8. Gatekeeper Functions:
   8.1. The AFRS/IGI is tasked as the AFRS Gatekeeper to monitor, control, and regulate
   inspection activities. Additional information concerning AFRS/IGI POC is forwarded in the
   notification letter to the inspected unit. AFRS/IGI will notify units of an upcoming inspection
   NLT 90 calendar days prior. Units will appoint a primary and secondary POC to work with
   AFRS/IGI providing pre-inspection documentation and other information required.
      8.1.1. AFRS/CCO is tasked as the gatekeeper for HQ AFRS inspections. AFRS/CCO
      will implement HQ AFRS self inspection procedures and monitor, control, and regulate
      headquarters inspection activities.
   8.2. AFRS/IGI will notify unit POC and command staff of specific inspection criteria NLT 7
   calendar days prior. This information will include at a minimum: specific field recruiters to
   be inspected, travel/flight arrangements of inspection team, any logistical requirements, and
   inspection schedule.
   8.3. The inspected units should make every effort to target their SAVs at the midpoint
   between unit IG inspections. Units will not schedule or conduct SAVs within one year before
   a scheduled IG inspection unless requested by the squadron, through their group commander,
   to AFRS/CC. SAVs are not intended to be CI preparation, however, this does not preclude
   units from asking for a SAV if there is a need, no matter the time frame relative to an IG
   inspection. Groups will coordinate with AFRS/IGI for waiver approval by the AFRS/CC for
   all initial SAVs conducted within the one year timeline. Follow-up SAVs may be conducted
   within the one year timeline without a waiver.
   8.4. Inspection Schedule. The AFRS/IGI 36 month inspection schedule is posted on the
   AFRS/IGI portal for planning purposes. This schedule and inspection results will be updated
   NLT the first workday in Jan, Apr, Jul, and Oct. Any changes to the schedule will be
   considered on a case-by-case basis. Forward requests through Chief, AFRS/IGI.
   Accommodations are considered only when changes do not cause a major impact to the rest
   of the inspection schedule.
   8.5. No-/Minimal-Notice Inspection notification will be made to the unit leadership via
   telephone. AFRS/IGI will be the notification authority. All leadership levels in the
   associated chain of command will be included in the notification.
9. Support and Inspection Process for AFRS/IGI Inspections:
   9.1. Each inspected unit will designate a Project Officer when notified of an AFRS/IG
   inspection. This officer will be the focal point who coordinates with the AFRS/IGI Project
   Officer to ensure all inspection team requirements (transportation, lodging, work areas,
   administration, communication support, etc.) are satisfied. The Project Officer should
   identify any limited team support capabilities. All requirements will be coordinated between
   the unit Project Officer and AFRS/IGI Project Officer.
   9.2. The No-/Minimal Notice Inspections process will include identification of an AFRS/IGI
   Project Officer for the inspection. A unit Project Officer will also be requested. Required
   documentation, logistical support and any associated deliverables will be coordinated
   between these two entities.
 8                                                              AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011


     9.3. Inspectors are authorized access to any material related to the inspection commensurate
     with their security clearance and special access authorization. This includes reports of audit,
     SAVs, quality control results, Privacy Act, and FOIA records or information. Inspectors are
     also authorized to review inspection reports on and agreements with, associate units to ensure
     identified deficiencies and existing support problems receive adequate command attention.
     9.4. The inspected unit will establish an IG Work Center for each inspection and must be
     fully functional prior to the inspection team arriving. The facility identified will be dedicated
     to the IG for the duration of the inspection period as well as the post-inspection, report-
     processing period. Details will be worked between the AFRS/IGI and the inspected unit
     Project Officer. Further details are outlined in the coordination letter sent to the squadron.
     The AFRS/IGI team will coordinate all lodging for inspection. Inspected units will ensure all
     AFRS/IGI inspectors have access to Internet through whatever means utilized by the
     squadron. Additionally, the work center will be equipped with one Internet connected
     computer, one printer, and a shredder. The inspected units will provide inspectors with
     vehicles when requested by AFRS/IGI.
     9.5. The arrival briefings by squadron will include at a minimum: safety briefing covering
     local conditions, a weather brief, and local threats/off-limits areas brief. The arrival briefings
     by field recruiters will be conducted upon inspector’s arrival at individual offices and will
     include at a minimum; safety briefing covering local conditions, a weather brief, and local
     threats/off-limits areas brief.
     9.6. The IGI in-brief is limited to key staff leadership. AFRS/IGI will highlight inspection
     specifics. The in-brief will normally be provided to the inspected unit’s leadership prior to
     the inspection. This briefing will be conducted by the senior IG team member.
     9.7. The IGI out-brief provides the commander and senior staff the inspection results and
     ratings for the various organizational elements and functional areas. AFRS/IGI is
     responsible for preparing the brief. The inspection out-brief will normally be provided to the
     inspected unit’s leadership at the conclusion of the inspection. This briefing will be
     conducted by the senior IG team member.
     9.8. The AFRS/CC has authorized AFRS/IGI the wear of utility uniforms during travel.
     Inspection uniform will be any combination of the blue uniform.
10. Preparing Replies to AFRS Inspection Report Deficiencies:
     10.1. The AFRS/IGI will track all Significant, Critical, and HHQ/Support Agency
     Deficiencies The AF Recruiting Group responsible for the inspected unit will track and close
     all minor deficiencies. The AFRS/IGI will provide the inspected unit with reply instructions
     for all deficiencies as part of the final report. All deficiencies assessed will be inspected
     during the unit’s next scheduled inspection.
     10.2. The basic responsibility for problem-solving and the corrective action process reside at
     the lowest appropriate command level. The AF 8-Step Problem Solving Model will be
     applied to all CRITICAL, and any MAJCOM/IG designated SIGNIFICANT and/or MINOR
     deficiencies to determine primary and, if applicable, contributing root causes.
AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                                      9


   10.3. Prepare replies using the reply template provided by AFRS/IGI. Do not use any special
   font styles or body text. Describe actions and procedures that prevent recurrence and provide
   sufficient detail so it can be determine if the corrective actions are adequate. State the means
   by which the corrective action has been validated to preclude the deficiency from recurrence.
   If the cited deficiency is beyond unit capabilities to resolve without action by the AFRS staff,
   identify the responsible MAJCOM or staff agencies and describe the actions required.
   Following the final sentence of the reply, indicate the date corrective actions were completed
   or an estimated completion date. Always indicate the rank, name, office symbol, and
   telephone number of the person responsible for monitoring corrective actions. Include a
   recommendation to either close the deficiency or keep it open.
   10.4. Deficiencies must be closed as soon as possible, but NLT 12 months after the final
   report is published. Waivers allowing exception to these timelines may be requested from the
   closure authority for circumstances that preclude issues from being resolved within the
   required time frames.
11. AFRS Staff Reply Procedures to Unit Deficiencies:
   11.1. AFRS/IGI will send copies of subordinate unit replies for Significant and Critical
   Deficiencies to appropriate AFRS staff directorates for review and comment as to the
   adequacy of corrective actions taken. AFRS staff directorates will concur or non-concur with
   the unit’s recommendation for closure or continuing the open status and provide AFRS/IGI
   their comments within 15 calendar days. If the AFRS staff non-concurs with the unit’s
   recommendation, comments should be provided in sufficient detail so the unit can determine
   what actions are required to close the deficiency. AFRS/IGI will forward one consolidated
   response to the unit.
12. AFRS Staff Reply Procedures to HHQs Deficiencies/Items:
   12.1. All deficiencies listed as HHQ/Support Agency require a written reply from the
   HHQ/Support Agency OPR, coordinated between the HHQ/Support Agency OPR, AFRS/DS
   and AFRS/IGI. AFRS/IGI will determine the appropriate AFRS directorate and/or other
   MAJCOM directorate responsible for a HHQ/Support Agency deficiency during the
   inspection. AFRS directors will be tasked through the designated command process to
   provide a response to AFRS/IGI.         Closure authority for HHQ/Support Agency
   deficiencies/items rests with AFRS/CV.
   12.2. When HHQ/Support Agency deficiencies cannot be closed within 12 months after the
   final report is published, the AFRS/DS will notify AFRS/IGI and AFRS/CC. Notification
   will include the circumstances that preclude issues from being resolved within the required
   timeframe and an estimated completion date.
13. The AFRS Observer Program:
   13.1. The AFRS Observer Program offers units an opportunity to gain a feel for how the
   AFRS/IGI team operates and to see firsthand how other units respond to inspections.
   Observers for AFRS CIs are allowed on a non-interference basis. The inspected unit and
   AFRS/IGI staff have the authority to allow, disallow, accommodate, or dismiss observers at
   any time.
10                                                       AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011


  13.2. All groups and squadrons will submit a consolidated observer request to AFRS/IGI,
  NLT 45 calendar days prior to the CI to be observed. Include name, rank, organization, duty
  phone, and e-mail address of observers. Also provide a listing of the specific areas to
  observe. AFRS/IGI will compile all observer requests, identify inspection areas where there
  are requests for more than one observer, and immediately notify squadron’s whose requests
  are denied because of conflicts or duplication. Normally only one observer will be allowed
  for each inspector. Units may submit as many requests as desired; however, AFRS/IGI will
  normally approve a maximum of 3 observers per inspection. Squadrons having a CI in the
  next 4 to 6 months will have priority.
  13.3. AFRS/IGI will notify the squadron requesting observers NLT 14 calendar days before
  the CI. Once approved, observers will make their own lodging and transportation
  arrangements. Temporary duty funding will be the observer unit’s responsibility. Observers
  will contact their assigned inspectors at AFRS NLT 5 calendar days prior to the CI to
  establish a meeting place and time at the inspected squadron. The assigned inspectors will
  issue appropriate identification (ID) to their observers at the first meeting and review
  observer rules of engagement with them. Before each observer departs, the assigned
  inspectors will collect their ID badges. Observers must not interfere with the inspection
  process under any circumstance. Observers may, however, ask inspectors questions when no
  personnel from the inspected unit are present. Observers will not be allowed to enter the IG
  Work Center unless approved by the IGI Team Chief.




                                          BALAN R. AYYAR, Brig Gen, USAF
                                          Commander
AFRSI90-201 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                   11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 90-2, Inspector General –The Inspection System, 26 Apr 06
AFI 90-201, Inspector General Activities, 17 Jun 09
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 08
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 2 Aug 06
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 09

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CD—Deputy Commander
CI—Compliance Inspection
EA—Enlisted Accessions
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HP—Health Professions
ID—Identification
IG—Inspector General
IPO—Inspection Program Officer
MAJCOM—Major Command
NAF—Numbered Air Force
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PM—Program Management
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—Staff Assistant Visit
SIP—Self-Inspection Program
TO—Technical Orders
