BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE                                     INSTRUCTION 36-2201

                                                                      13 SEPTEMBER 2012
                                                       Incorporating Change 1, 1 APRIL 2013

                                                                                   Personnel

                                              AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE (AFRS)
                                                               TRAINING PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: AFRS/RSOT                                                        Certified by: AFRS/RSO
                                                           (Brigadier General Balan R. Ayyar)
                                                                                     Pages: 23
Supersedes:   AFRSI36-2201, 27 June 2008


This instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, and AFI 36-2201 Air Force
Training Program. It establishes requirements for the AFRS Training Program and applies to all
levels of command within AFRS. It does not apply to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve
Command units. AFRS/RSOT must approve all subordinate unit supplements to this instruction
prior to publication.

Send recommendations for change or comments to this supplement using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to AFRS/RSOT. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises AFRSI36-2201 by removing the X’s from Table 1, Line 8 for EA
F/C and HP F/C as that requirement is not needed, task is handled by their Production
Superintendent and Group In-Field Training. These changes have not been integrated into the
basic publication. The reader must use this IC in conjunction with the publication and these
changes take precedence. A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material.
 2                                                                                AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012




Section A—Responsibilities                                                                                                                    2
       1.      AFRS Training Branch (AFRS/RSOT). ................................................................                             3
       2.      Group Superintendent (RCG/CCU). ......................................................................                         3
       3.      Group Training Team (RCG/RST). .......................................................................                         4
       4.      Squadron Commander (RCS/CC). .........................................................................                         4
       5.      Squadron Production Superintendent (RCS/CCY) will: ........................................                                    5
       6.      Squadron Training and Marketing Team (RCS/RST) will: ...................................                                       6
       7.      Supervisor. .............................................................................................................      8
Table 1.       Required or Supplemental Training. ......................................................................                      9

Section B—Training Process                                                                                                                    9
       8.      Overview: ...............................................................................................................      9

Section C—Certifications                                                                                                                     10
       9.      Initial Training Certification: .................................................................................             10
       10.     Task Certification. .................................................................................................         10

Section D—Exceptions to Training                                                                                                             11
       11.     General. ..................................................................................................................   11
       12.     Adjustments in Training. .......................................................................................              11
       13.     Extensions in Training. ..........................................................................................            11
       14.     Training Evaluations: .............................................................................................           11
       15.     Quarterly Training Meetings: ................................................................................                 12
       16.     Annual Training Meetings. ....................................................................................                12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               14

Attachment 2—AFRS SPONSORED WORKSHOPS AND ORIENTATIONS                                                                                       17

Attachment 3—TRAINING FOR RECRUITING SERVICE FIELD SUPPORT
             PERSONNEL                                                                                                                       18

Attachment 4—SAMPLE RECRUITING SQUADRON RTP WELCOME
             MEMORANDUM                                                                                                                      21

Attachment 5—COMMAND MASTER RECRUITER AND MASTER RECRUITER
             RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                23


Section A—Responsibilities
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                3


1. AFRS Training Branch (AFRS/RSOT). AFRS training branch personnel will:
   1.1. Develop training and inspection program policy and guidelines for AFRS.
   1.2. Serve as the AFRS office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the Air Force Recruiting
   School.
   1.3. Serve as the liaison and consultant with the Air Force Recruiting School for the Basic
   Recruiter Course to ensure the curriculum remains current.
   1.4. Serve as the liaison with Department of Defense, Air Force, and commercial agencies
   aggressively researching the latest training concepts and tools for employment within AFRS.
   1.5. Develop and coordinate HQ AFRS/IGIR (Recruiting Inspector General) inspection
   checklists.
   1.6. Develop command job qualification standards (CJQS) for all Air Force specialty code
   (AFSC) 8R000 tasks.
   1.7. Maintain and publish a master schedule of AFRS command-wide workshops and
   training meetings.
   1.8. Schedule, coordinate, and conduct workshops and training meetings. (See Attachment 2
   for further information.)
   1.9. Standardize command training and evaluation methods, training aids, evaluation,
   assessment, and training products for AFRS.
   1.10. Provide the AFRS Commander (CC) with an assessment of AFRS training, evaluation,
   and inspection programs and processes through use of the following:
      1.10.1. Conduct field SAVs as directed or necessary. Conduct field training assistance
      visits and training oversight as requested or necessary.
      1.10.2. Conduct command-wide surveys or training assessment reports to determine the
      health of the training programs. Review training-related requests for relief action
      packages.
      1.10.3. Compile training status reports for senior leadership as required or directed by
      higher headquarters.
   1.11. Provide support to recruiting groups and squadrons as requested or directed, to include
   being the OPR for training of the five essential elements of marketing.
   1.12. Online training records system and reports.
2. Group Superintendent (RCG/CCU). Each group superintendent will:
   2.1. Serve as primary consultant and mentor for squadron superintendents and production
   superintendents.
   2.2. Conduct/coordinate experienced production superintendents to conduct shadow training
   for newly designated squadron production superintendents. Note: This will be done within
   120 days prior to or after PCS.
   2.3. Conduct a visit with each new squadron production superintendent within 120 days of
   their date arrived station (DAS).
 4                                                         AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


     2.4. Conduct in-field visits with all newly assigned squadron superintendents within 120
     days of their DAS.
     2.5. Review all detail letters and establish training requirement as appropriate.
     2.6. Review all requests for relief actions.
3. Group Training Team (RCG/RST). Group training team personnel will:
     3.1. Conduct and/or coordinate initial supplemental field training for all production flight
     chiefs, standardization & training flight chiefs, military entrance processing station (MEPS)
     liaison supervisors (MLS), operations flight chiefs, recruiting service support (RSS) flight
     commanders, recruiting service operations (RSO) flight commanders within 120 days of their
     DAS.
     3.2. Conduct and/or coordinate infield financial management training as requested.
        3.2.1. Conduct and/or coordinate infield support flight and first sergeant training as
        requested per Attachment 3.
     3.3. Use the appropriate job qualification standard (JQS) or approved training checklist as
     applicable to conduct infield training.
        3.3.1. Forward AF IMT 623a to the squadron training team (RCS/RST) within 30 days
        after completion of infield training.
     3.4. Monitor squadron-training programs and provide the necessary support. Ensure quality
     and effective programs are in place that will address training needs.
     3.5. Prepare an annual workshop schedule (based on fiscal year) containing recruiting group
     workshops, seminars, SAVs, and meetings.
     3.6. Schedule, coordinate, and conduct workshops and meetings as required to support the
     AFRS mission as follows:
        3.6.1. Ensure personnel are scheduled for the earliest possible AFRS and/or recruiting
        group workshop, as appropriate.
        3.6.2. Schedule and coordinate attendance for all AFRS workshops and meetings with
        the exception of flight chief workshops which is an AFRS/RSOT responsibility.
        3.6.3. Schedule, coordinate, and conduct follow-on flight chief workshops to include
        professional sales coaching (PSC) applications for all enlisted accessions (EA) and health
        professionals (HP) flight chiefs between 4th and 8th month after training start date.
     3.7. Schedule, coordinate, and conduct professional selling skills (PSS) applications with the
     EA refresher workshop for EA recruiters between their 4th and 8th month after training start
     date.
     3.8. Review training-related relief actions for content and trends.         Provide the group
     superintendent with an assessment of the training provided.
     3.9. Review squadron training status reports for compliance with requirements.
     3.10. Conduct SAVs and supplemental training at the discretion of the RCG/CC.
4. Squadron Commander (RCS/CC). Each squadron commander will:
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                     5


   4.1. Appoint in writing individuals designated to act as certifying officials, and task certifiers
   other than the production superintendent.
   4.2. Review recruiter training evaluations and relief packages.
   4.3. Forward a welcome memorandum to recruiting school students to be assigned to the
   squadron. Welcome memorandum will inform, encourage, and motivate each new recruiter.
   (See Attachment 4 for a sample of this memorandum.)
   4.4. Ensure a sponsor package is mailed to each inbound recruiter in recruiting school. This
   must be more than a routine sponsorship program; it must be tailored to the unique needs of
   the new recruiter.
   4.5. Closely monitor activity levels of new EA recruiters throughout RTP.
   4.6. Review and approve flight quarterly training meeting agendas.
   4.7. Review and approve requests for training extensions.
5. Squadron Production Superintendent (RCS/CCY) will:
   5.1. Serve as primary trainer/mentor for recruiting flight chiefs and as the primary advisor to
   the squadron commander on all production and training matters.
   5.2. Select and appoint experienced personnel to conduct shadow training for EA recruiters
   and production flight chiefs within 60 days of training start date.
   5.3. Approve shadow training and new recruiter training checklists.
   5.4. Review flight quarterly training meeting agendas.
   5.5. Approve training processes for detailed/additional duty personnel as applicable, based
   on expected duration of detail.
   5.6. Conduct training evaluations as required. Review and approve training adjustments for
   production recruiters.
   5.7. Review training evaluations. Review and approve training plans and modify them as
   necessary. Review requests for training extensions and make recommendations to the
   squadron commander. Review training plans every 30 days.
   5.8. Approve all training plans.
   5.9. Ensure specific, realistic, measurable, and attainable expectations are levied on
   recruiters.
   5.10. Closely monitor activity levels of new EA recruiters throughout RTP and visit each
   new EA recruiter within the first 120 days of training start date to assess the new recruiters
   training progression.
   5.11. Conduct and document all certifications on AF IMT 623a for all production recruiters
   and flight chiefs. If the squadron production superintendent is unavailable a graduated flight
   chief may conduct the certification with the group superintendent’s approval. Group
   superintendent’s approval may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Use of blanket policy
   letter is prohibited. Approval may be granted using email or official memorandum and must
   be attached to the AF IMT 623a documenting the certification.
 6                                                       AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


6. Squadron Training and Marketing Team (RCS/RST) will:
     6.1. The Standardization & Training Flight Chief will manage the entire squadron training
     and marketing program. They will serve as primary trainer for all squadron training and
     marketing personnel.
     6.2. Squadron training and marketing team personnel will:
        6.2.1. Develop training process for detailed/additional duty personnel.
        6.2.2. Request assistance from the RCG/RST or AFRS/RSOT as needed.
        6.2.3. Monitor and track all squadron training programs and identify higher headquarters
        training requirements to RCG/RST. Suspense flight chiefs for updates to training plans,
        every 30 days until closed, and review updates for compliance with the training plan.
        6.2.4. Advise the commander and production superintendent of suspensed training
        requirements.
     6.3. Manage and coordinate the RTP.
        6.3.1. The objective of RTP is to provide a transition period for new EA recruiters to
        learn the basics of recruiting while adjusting to a new environment. The primary
        objective is to improve performance for recruiters during their initial assignment; the
        primary benefit is the assurance that new recruiters will be better prepared to make goal.
        Other expected benefits include improvement of initial training, focus on quality versus
        speed, and fewer training-related and stress-related relief actions.
        6.3.2. Ensure appropriate squadron leadership immediately receives a copy of AFRS
        Form 9, New Recruiter Personal Biography upon receipt from the Recruiting
        Schoolhouse.
        6.3.3. Coordinate RCS/CC welcome memorandum and sponsor packages sent to new
        recruiting school students being assigned to the squadron.
        6.3.4. Within the first 60 days of the new EA recruiter’s assignment, the supervisor (or
        someone selected by the squadron production superintendent if supervisor is not
        available) will spend at least 5 full workdays with the new recruiter, providing training.
        This training will translate the fundamentals taught in recruiting school, demonstrating
        their application in the recruiter’s unique zone using an approved checklist. Realistic
        expectations will be levied and weekly feedback will be provided.
        6.3.5. Coordinate with squadron operations and closely monitor RTP recruiter goaling.
        Ensure each new recruiter is assigned goal accordingly and look for training opportunities
        to ensure a smooth transition into recruiting.
            6.3.5.1. New EA recruiters will not be goaled for the calendar month of the DAS
            regardless of the date. The first full calendar month, give a goal of zero; the second
            full calendar month, give a goal of one; the RTP period will end at the end of the
            second full calendar month after DAS. The third full calendar month and thereafter,
            recruiters will receive a goal according to the flight goaling operating instruction
            (OI). The nine months on full goal plus the 3-month RTP period equal the 12 month
            rookie year.
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                  7


         6.3.5.2. For those recruiters who must attend mandatory formal courses, such as
         Airman Leadership School (ALS) and Noncommissioned Officers Academy
         (NCOA), a training adjustment will be completed according to paragraph 12. New
         recruiter RTP goaling will pick up from the date the recruiter returns from mandatory
         formal courses. Example: If the recruiter departs for formal school in the first full
         month (a goal of zero), then the month they return from formal school will also be
         considered the first full month (a goal of zero). Note: In the training adjustment AF
         IMT 623a, ensure the class start date and graduation dates are included for cross
         reference as needed.
  6.4. Provide infield training to newly assigned production recruiters within 90 days of their
  training start date using a squadron approved checklist.
  6.5. Provide training on the training program and training records management to all newly
  assigned supervisors within 60 days of their assignment.
  6.6. Provide/coordinate supplemental training to other personnel as requested.
  6.7. Provide marketing asset training as needed/required.
  6.8. At least annually, review all training records for all squadron enlisted personnel to
  ensure required documentation.
  6.9. Review training records not later than (NLT) 30 days after every mandatory training
  evaluation unless certification is recommended, then the record must be reviewed NLT 15
  days after the recommendation for certification or 15-month evaluation.
  6.10. Suspense appropriate responsible agents for completion of required documentation and
  brief the squadron production superintendent monthly on results.
  6.11. Act as the liaison between the squadron and host base education and training section.
  6.12. Prepare monthly training status reports (TSR) and submit them to RCG/RST to arrive
  NLT the third workday of each month. TSR will include the number of recruiters authorized,
  number of recruiters assigned, number of recruiters in training, and (or) number of EA
  recruiters in RTP.
  6.13. Review recruiter training-related relief actions, and provide an assessment of training
  to the squadron production superintendent.
  6.14. Review quarterly training meeting agendas to ensure a focus on quality training.
  Training should address squadron and higher headquarters emphasis issues and target unique
  flight production and/or training deficiencies. Use the sales performance tool kit (SPTK)
  during training meetings to reinforce PSS.
     6.14.1. Forward quarterly training meeting agendas to the production superintendent to
     review and to the commander for approval.
  6.15. Initiate training records on newly assigned enlisted personnel during in-processing.
  6.16. Schedule required supplemental training according to this instruction and as follows:
     6.16.1. Ensure the operations flight chief provides training to production flight chiefs
     within 30 days of their training start date on goal allocation, zoning, incentive awards
     programs, market surveys, and operating instruction (OI) preparation.
 8                                                          AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


        6.16.2. Develop an in-processing checklist to ensure local requirements for logistics,
        finance, knowledge operations, and computers are trained/briefed and leadership
        orientations are accomplished.
        6.16.3. Coordinate shadow training for production recruiters and production flight chiefs.
        6.16.4. Review production performance evaluations as requested or necessary, and
        analyze the evaluations to identify training needs and assist in the training process.
        6.16.5. Provide in-field marketing training to production recruiters within 120 days of
        their training start date using an approved checklist.
        6.16.6. Request in-field training for support personnel as needed per Attachment 3.
7. Supervisor. Each supervisor will:
     7.1. Conduct and document an initial orientation within 30 days of the date assigned. At a
     minimum, the orientation will cover standards, expectations, and operating procedures.
     7.2. Conduct training on all core (critical) tasks within 60 days of training start date.
     7.3. Serve as the primary trainer. If primary trainers are unavailable there may be exceptions
     when a better training option exists by assigning someone other than the immediate
     supervisor as the primary trainer. The squadron production superintendent will review
     exceptions, and the commander will approve them.
     7.4. Validate/accept training of all assigned personnel within 60 days of the supervisor’s
     arrival. This evaluation will result in either acceptance or non-acceptance of each
     individual’s previous training. If an individual’s training is not accepted, decertify tasks as
     appropriate, and establish a training plan tailored to meet the needs of the individual.
     Document the validation results and training plan (if needed) on AF IMT 623a and file in
     Tab 2 of the AF Form 623. Send training requirements to RCS/RST for review. The
     production superintendent must approve the training plan.
     7.5. Conduct and document evaluations and task certifications according to the JQS and this
     instruction. Maintain the AF Form 623. To decertify a task, cross out or erase the
     certification date and certifier’s initials. On the AF IMT 623a, annotate the specific tasks and
     subtasks decertified and a plan to retrain to proficiency. File the information in Tab 2 of the
     AF Form 623. Document all training for decertified tasks on AF IMT 623a, and file in Tab 3
     of the AF Form 623.
     7.6. Ensure all required supplemental training is provided for subordinates and is properly
     documented. Newly assigned production recruiters will receive a minimum of 5 full
     workdays of critical task training within the first 60 days of assignment from their flight chief
     (or someone selected by the squadron production superintendent if no flight chief is
     assigned).
        7.6.1. MLS. The MLS will conduct or coordinate MEPS training for one day within 60
        days of the training start date for newly assigned EA recruiters. The MLS will conduct
        MEPS orientation for newly assigned production recruiters and flight chiefs within 60
        days of their assignment. Tailor this training to the needs of each individual and
        document on AF IMT 623a.
     7.7. Meet all responsibilities of the RTP.
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                       9


Table 1. Required or Supplemental Training.
 Training                          Due Date          EA     LO     HP     EA     HP Ops RST              RSS /
                                   (from TSD)                             F/C    F/C F/C F/C             RSO
                                                                                                          CC
 1. Operations                     30 Days                                 X      X

 2. RST Initial Training           30 Days            X      X      X      X      X
 Orientation

 3. Supervisor’s Initial           30 Days            X      X      X      X      X      X       X        X
 Orientation
 4. 5 Day Core Task Training       60 Days            X      X      X      X      X
 5. Shadow Training                60 Days            X      X      X      X      X
 6. MEPS Training/Orientation      60 Days            X
 7. Acceptance/Validation of       60 Days            X      X      X      X      X
 Training
 8. RST Infield Training           90 days            X      X      X
 9. Marketing Infield Training     120 Days           X      X      X
 10. Production                    120 Days           X
 Superintendent Validation
 11. RCG Infield Training          120 Days                                X      X      X       X        X
 12. PSS Applications/EA           120-240            X
 Refresher                         Days
 13. PSC Applications/FC           120-240                                 X      X
 Refresher                         Days

Section B—Training Process

8. Overview:
   8.1. Initial training is defined as all training for recruiters placed in production duty positions
   (that is, EA and HP recruiters and EA and HP flight chiefs). The supervisor will use the JQS
   and be responsible for certifying each task and conducting the training evaluations. The
   process is as follows:
      8.1.1. Together, the JQS and AF IMT 797, Job Qualification Standard
      Continuation/Command JQS, serve as the basic training plan for conducting training of
      each recruiting position (production and nonproduction). (AF IMT 797 is prescribed by
      AFI 36-2201, Volume 3. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)
      8.1.2. JQS tasks are time phased according to the critical nature and mission impact each
      task carries. In time-phasing, the first number indicates the earliest a task may be closed;
      the second number indicates the time when the task must be rated satisfactory. For
 10                                                      AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


       example, a task time phased as (4-8) means the earliest the task may be closed is the
       fourth month, and a satisfactory level must be achieved by the eighth month. Tasks
       identified as critical tasks will have documented training within the first 60 days
       regardless of the time phase of the task.
       8.1.3. For production recruiters and flight chiefs, the primary trainer will concentrate on
       providing critical task training until the satisfactory level is reached according to the time
       phases in the JQS. The trainee will initial the appropriate JQS task each time training is
       conducted on that task. The primary trainer will initial and date the task when the
       satisfactory level is reached.
       8.1.4. For AFSC 8R000 personnel in nonproduction positions (task certification
       training), the supervisor and (or) primary trainer will ensure training and task certification
       are accomplished per the appropriate JQS.
       8.1.5. To decertify a task, simply cross out or erase the certification date and certifier’s
       initials on the JQS. On AF IMT 623a, annotate specific tasks and subtasks decertified and
       a plan to retrain to proficiency. Document all training for decertified tasks on AF IMT
       623a.
       8.1.6. Document and track required training evaluations, required supplemental training,
       and RTP activities on AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training,
       and file them in Tab 1 of AF Form 623. Document all supplemental training (training
       conducted by someone other than the primary trainer) on AF IMT 623a, and file under
       Tab 3 of AF Form 623. (AF IMT 1098 is prescribed by AFI 36-2201, Volume 3. Refer to
       that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)
   8.2. The training period will normally last no more than 12 months. Refer to Table 1. for
   required or supplement training due dates.

Section C—Certifications

9. Initial Training Certification:
   9.1. Conduct certification evaluation on all production recruiters in training within 45 days
   after recommendation by the flight chief and/or primary trainer. Individuals may be certified
   any time after the eight-month training evaluation. Note: Document all certifications on AF
   IMT 623a.
   9.2. If the production superintendent or designated certifying official does not concur with
   the recommendation and/or does not certify the recruiter, the reasons will be documented on
   AF IMT 623a. Initiate a training plan identifying areas of concern and a plan to fix them. If
   the training plan was created by someone other than the production superintendent, the
   production superintendent must approve the plan.
10. Task Certification. Nonproduction recruiting personnel are considered to be in task
certification training. This certification will be conducted by the production superintendent or a
designated graduated flight chief, previously certified in the task. The task certification training
process may come to a close any time after completion of the sixth month and must be closed by
the twelfth month of training. The tasks must be performed at the satisfactory level prior to
certification.
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                    11


Section D—Exceptions to Training

11. General. Under unusual circumstances, squadrons may request an AFSC 8R000 individual
be exempted from attending a scheduled higher headquarters workshop. AFRS/RSO is the
approval/disapproval authority.
12. Adjustments in Training. Use an adjustment when either the primary trainer or the trainee
is unavailable for training for periods totaling 30 consecutive days or more. Adjust training for
whatever period the primary trainer and/or trainee is unavailable. The flight chief (or person
appointed by the production superintendent if no flight chief is assigned) will request
adjustments in writing from the production superintendent through the RCS/RST. The
production superintendent is the approval authority for all training adjustments. Document
approval on AF IMT 623a, and file it in Tab 2 of AF Form 623.
13. Extensions in Training. The flight chief (for EA and HP recruiters) and the production
superintendent (for EA and HP flight chiefs) may request a 90-day training extension as a result
of an unsatisfactory 12-month training evaluation or failure to be certified. The RCS commander
is the approval authority for this extension. Not counting adjustments in training, the total time in
training will normally not exceed 15 months. However, under unusual circumstances, extensions
beyond 15 months may be requested. Forward these requests to the RCG commander for
approval. The 15-month evaluation and training plan must accompany the request and arrive at
RCG/RST NLT 30 days after the evaluation.
14. Training Evaluations:
   14.1. Training evaluations are mandatory for production recruiters and production flight
   chiefs as follows:
       14.1.1. Conduct a 4-month training evaluation no earlier than (NET) 90 days but NLT
       150 days after the training start date.
       14.1.2. Conduct the 8-month training evaluation NET 210 days but NLT 270 days after
       the training start date. This is the earliest evaluation in which a recruiter may be
       recommended for certification.
       14.1.3. Conduct the 12-month training evaluation (if required) NET 335 days but NLT
       395 days after the training start date.
       14.1.4. Conduct the 15 month evaluation (if required) NET 455 days but NLT 485 days
       after the training start date.
   14.2. Evaluate each task using the following proficiency levels: (1) satisfactory—this level
   indicates the recruiter can do all parts of the task, needs only a spot check to complete work,
   and meets local demands for speed and accuracy while meeting production requirements; (2)
   unsatisfactory—this level means the trainee is unable to do simple parts of the task and needs
   to be shown how to do most of the task. Trainers will demonstrate each task and then observe
   trainee performance until the satisfactory level is reached, as follows:
       14.2.1. Any core (critical) task rated unsatisfactory on the JQS will result in the entire
       evaluation being rated unsatisfactory. The evaluator must adhere to time phases identified
       for each task. They will ensure the supervisor has properly identified the training
 12                                                        AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


       deficiencies and prepared an effective training plan to correct those deficiencies. The
       squadron production superintendent must approve all training plans.
       14.2.2. For unsatisfactory training evaluations, the supervisor prepares a plan to correct
       identified deficiencies and obtains approval by the production superintendent. (Note:
       Forward the recruiter’s AF Form 623, evaluation, and training plan to RCS/RST NLT 10
       days after the evaluation date.) Concentrate training on the deficient tasks until the
       satisfactory level is reached. Document all training conducted as a result of an
       unsatisfactory training evaluation on AF IMT 623a, route through RCS/RST and the
       squadron production superintendent every 30 days until complete, and file under Tab 3 of
       AF Form 623. The supervisor may continue to train on deficient tasks and reevaluate on
       the next time-phased evaluation or annotate the satisfactory level has been reached for
       each task and close the training plan. The closing action must state that proficiency in the
       previously deficient area has been achieved and that no further training in the area is
       required. This must be documented on AF IMT Form 623a and filed under Tab 3 of the
       AF Form 623. Production superintendent must approve closing of the training plan.
       14.2.3. If a production recruiter’s cumulative net reservation production while in training
       (training start date) is less than 100 percent, the flight chief will justify and the production
       superintendent will review any training evaluation rated satisfactory.
       14.2.4. Document training evaluations for recruiters on an overprinted AF Form 623a
       provided by AFRS/RSOT. Supervisors should document task closure from the JQS onto
       the appropriate training evaluation AF IMT 623a as training progresses, instead of
       attempting to evaluate all required tasks at one time.
15. Quarterly Training Meetings:
   15.1. These are formal, mandatory, training meetings held by production flights to provide
   training on PSS and identified deficiencies. They are also held to motivate recruiters and
   instill esprit de corps. The SPTK must be used during training meetings to reinforce PSS.
   Flight chiefs will prepare and forward agendas through RCS/RST for the production
   superintendent to review and forward to the commander who will approve or disapprove it.
   Joint meetings between flights are highly encouraged. Ensure a copy of the agenda is
   forwarded to each representative invited to attend the training meeting.
   15.2. The total length of training to include lectures (briefings) will be at least one-half of
   the total number of normal duty hours devoted to the meeting. Recruiting groups may
   conduct training meetings as deemed necessary by the RCG/CC.
   15.3. When possible, a representative from the squadron training team will attend each
   quarterly training meeting. Other recruiting squadron and group representatives are
   encouraged to attend to provide different perspectives on issues and training concepts.
   Document training provided during these meetings on AF IMT 623a. Note: One all-inclusive
   AF IMT 623a may be used for all training conducted.
16. Annual Training Meetings. These meetings are a mandatory portion of the recruiting
squadron’s annual training. The total length of training to include lectures (briefings) will be no
less than one-half of the total number of normal duty hours devoted to the meeting. Document
training provided during these meetings on AF IMT 623a. Note: One all-inclusive AF IMT 623a
may be used for all training conducted.
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                             13




                                 BALAN R. AYYAR, Brigadier General, USAF
                                 Commander
 14                                                   AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008AFPD 36-26, Total Force
Development, 27 September 2011AFRSI 36-2101, Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) Military
Personnel Programs, 26 May 2004
AFI 36-2201, Air Force Training Program, 15 September 2010, Incorporating Change 1, 8
March 2011
AFRSI 90-201, Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) Inspection Programs, 27 October 2011
Prescribed Form
AFRS Form 9, New Recruiter Personal Biography
Adopted Forms
AF Form 623, Individual Training Record Folder
AF IMT 623a, On-the-Job Training Record Continuation Sheet
AF IMT 623b, Individual Training Record Label
AF IMT 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS
AF IMT 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AFRS Form 1374, Recruiter Evaluation
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AFSC—Air Force specialty code
ALS—Airman Leadership School
CC—commander
CCU—superintendent
CCY—production superintendent
CFETP—career field education and training plan
CJQS—command job qualification standard
DAS—date assigned station
DCO—Defense Connect Online
EA—enlisted accessions
FC—flight chief
HP—health professions
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                           15


IM—information management
JQS—job qualification standard
LO—line officer accessions
MEPS—military entrance processing station
MLS—MEPS liaison supervisor
NCO—noncommissioned officer
NCOA—Noncommissioned Officers Academy
NET—not earlier than
NLT—not later than
OI—operating instruction
OPR—office of primary responsibility
PCS—permanent change of station
PSC—professional sales coaching
PSS—professional selling skills
RAP—Recruiter Assistance Program
RCG—recruiting group
RCS—recruiting squadron
RSI—Recruiting Service Information Technology Division
RSO—recruiting service operations
RSOT—Recruiting Service Training Branch
RSS—recruiting service support
RSSF—recruiting group financial management
RSSI—recruiting service support information management
RSSL—recruiting service group or squadron logistics
RSSP—recruiting service support personnel
RST—recruiting service training and marketing branch
RSXL—recruiting service logistics
RTP—recruiter transition program
SAV—staff assistance visit
SPTK—sales performance tool kit
TSR—training status report
 16                                                     AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


Terms
Core (Critical) Task—Those tasks essential to a production recruiter’s success. Refer to
applicable JQS.
Date Assigned Station (DAS)—The date the recruiter signs into the squadron.
Initial Training—All training for recruiters placed in production duty positions (that is, EA, LO,
and HP recruiters and EA and HP flight chief positions).
Job Qualification Standard (JQS) and AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard
Continuation/Command JQS—These documents serve as the training plan for conducting the
training of each recruiting position (production and nonproduction).
Production Supervisor—All production flight chiefs and production superintendents.
Recruiter Transition Program (RTP)—A comprehensive program designed to improve the
initial Training process. (quality training is the program’s main objective)
Supplemental Training—Training provided by someone other than the primary trainer.
Task Certification Training—Training for recruiters placed in nonproduction duty positions
(MEPS, operations, marketing, and squadron training).
Training Needs Assessment—Initial evaluation of the skills and knowledge of each recruiter
(whether in training or certified) assigned to a flight or section to be conducted by newly
assigned supervisors within 60 days of DAS.
Training Start Date—The DAS (PCS involved) or date assigned duty position (no PCS
involved). This is the same date entered in the Military Personnel Data System (MilPDS).
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                              17


                                          Attachment 2
               AFRS SPONSORED WORKSHOPS AND ORIENTATIONS

A2.1. Objective. The objective of AFRS-sponsored workshops is to enhance professional
development by providing training, guidance, mentoring and/or orientation to AFRS personnel.
As a minimum, new personnel assigned to specific AFRS positions will attend workshops or
participate via DCO. All workshops are mandatory unless waived by AFRS/RSOT.
A2.2. AFRS/RSOT Responsibilities and Attendance Guidelines. AFRS/RSOT will schedule and
coordinate with RCG/RST, and will:
   A2.2.1. Conduct a workshop for new squadron commanders.
   A2.2.2. Conduct an orientation (HQ immersion) for new production superintendents.
   A2.2.3. Conduct a workshop for new group and squadron flight commanders (RSS, and
   RSO).
   A2.2.4. Conduct a workshop for new operations flight chiefs.
   A2.2.5. Conduct a MEPS workshop for new MLS and new MEPS liaison NCOs.
   A2.2.6. Conduct an initial flight chief training workshop for all new EA and HP flight
   chiefs. This will be scheduled by AFRS/RSOT upon receipt of assignment and all attempts
   will be made for members to attend prior to PCS, if this is not possible the losing group
   superintendent must approve.
   A2.2.7. Conduct an initial HP recruiter training workshop for all new HP recruiters to
   include advanced HP PSS training. This will be funded by the unit the member is attached to
   while attending the workshop.
   A2.2.8. Conduct a train-the-trainer workshop for new squadron trainers. This workshop is
   mandatory for all newly assigned squadron trainers, and squadron standardization & training
   flight chiefs. Note: If any former squadron trainer attended the workshop in the past and is
   now assigned to a duty position as a senior trainer, attendance to this workshop is not
   mandatory.
   A2.2.9. Coordinate and host all PSS facilitator/instructor certifications.
   A2.2.10. Coordinate PSS core facilitator/instructor certifications for new recruiting school
   instructors.
 18                                                    AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                        Attachment 3
      TRAINING FOR RECRUITING SERVICE FIELD SUPPORT PERSONNEL

A3.1. Objective. The objective of this training is to provide regulatory guidance to ensure
timely, quality training for newly assigned RSS personnel, including information management,
systems administration, finance, logistics, and personnel NCOs.
A3.2. AFRS Responsibilities. The appropriate HQ AFRS division will provide and oversee
training as outlined in this attachment. Training may be onsite, video teleconferencing, or
computer-based as required or available. Program responsibilities are shown in Table A3.1.

Table A3.1. HQ AFRS Program Responsibilities.
Program                                           HQ AFRS OPR
Military and Civilian Personnel                   RSX
Security Management                               RSI
Emergency Management                              RSX
Antiterrorism/Force Protection                    RSX
Operations Security (OPSEC)                       RSX
Furniture & Equipment                             RSX
Vehicles                                          RSX
Support Agreements                                RSX
Reports of Survey                                 RSX
ADPE                                              RSI
Long-Haul Telecommunications                      RSI
Real Estate                                       RSX
Leased Family Housing                             RSX
Resource Management                               FM
Marketing                                         RSM
Safety                                            SE
A3.3. Group Responsibilities. RCG/RST will coordinate and track training to ensure
compliance with this instruction. The appropriate group functional area will provide training as
requested and as outlined in this attachment. Training may be onsite, video teleconferencing, or
computer-based as required or available.
A3.4. Squadron Responsibilities. RCS/RST will ensure the appropriate AF IMT 797 is
included in the AF Form 623 for all newly assigned RSS flight enlisted personnel (non-AFSC
8R000).
A3.5. Client Systems Managers (RSSI):
   A3.5.1. All client systems managers will complete the mandatory training requirements as
   determined by HQ AFRS/RSI.
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                               19


A3.6. Financial Management NCO (RSSF). HQ AFRS/FM or RCG/RSSF will provide
training to newly assigned group finance NCOs as requested.
A3.7. Logistics/Marketing NCOs (RSSL):
   A3.7.1. RCG/RSSL or an appointee from a RCS/RSSL will provide training to newly
   assigned squadron logistics managers as requested.
A3.8. Personnel NCOs (RSSP):
   A3.8.1. HQ AFRS/RSXP or an appointee from a RCG/RSSP will provide training to newly
   assigned group personnel NCOs as requested.
   A3.8.2. RCG/RSSP or an appointee from a RCS/RSSP will provide training to newly
   assigned squadron personnel NCOs as requested.
A3.9. Group and Flight Secretaries:
   A3.9.1. RCG or an appointee from a RCS will provide training to newly assigned Group and
   Flight Administrators as requested.
A3.10. Recruiting Support Managers:
   A3.10.1. RCG or an appointee from a RCS will provide training to newly assigned
   Recruiting Support Managers (Logisticians) as requested.
A3.11. Unit Program Coordinators:
   A3.11.1. RCG or an appointee from a RCS will provide training to newly assigned Unit
   Program Coordinator as requested.
A3.12. First Sergeant (CCF):
   A3.12.1. Each newly assigned first sergeant will participate in shadow training. The
   orientation will be with an AFRS first sergeant with at least one year of AFRS first sergeant
   experience. While this will usually be at the location of the first sergeant providing the
   training, the RCG/CCU has the discretion to authorize the first sergeant providing the
   training to travel to the new first sergeant’s location. The orientation length will be
   determined by the needs of the facilitator and attendee, and should be accomplished within
   the first 60 days after the new first sergeant’s DAS. As a minimum, use the following as a
   basis of discussion topics:
      A3.12.1.1. TRICARE issues – medical and dental, locating providers (if available, new
      first sergeants should attend the TRICARE orientation course within their first 12 months
      of assignment to AFRS.)
      A3.12.1.2. Relief packages – process and procedures.
      A3.12.1.3. Geographically separated units challenges – urinalysis, PFT, PHA, dental.
      A3.12.1.4. Malpractice issues to include unprofessional relationships.
      A3.12.1.5. Integrity issues with recruiters; for example, use of vehicles, phones, stamps,
      prequalifying applicants, travel card, etc.
      A3.12.1.6. Relationship to host base as well as other military bases within recruiting
      zones.
 20                                                     AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


       A3.12.1.7. Tips on conducting effective office visits.
       A3.12.1.8. Professional military education scheduling and obtaining funding for ALS—
       scheduling intricacies; for example, how many from EA at a time, and scheduling MEPS
       at the end of the year, etc.)
       A3.12.1.9. OPREP reporting for personnel accidents, injuries, and/or suicide attempts.
   A3.12.2. The first sergeant providing the training shall forward an AF IMT 623a, or a
   memorandum for record to RCG/RST within 15 calendar days of completing the training.
   RCG/RST will maintain the AF IMT 623a and use this method to track accomplishment of
   the orientation and maintain oversight of this program.
A3.13. Squadron Superintendents (CCU):
   A3.13.1. Each newly assigned squadron superintendent who has never served in an 8R000
   duty position will participate in a shadow orientation. The orientation will be with an AFRS
   squadron superintendent with at least 1 year of AFRS squadron superintendent experience.
   While this will usually be at the location of the superintendent providing the training, the
   RCG/CCU has the discretion to authorize the superintendent providing the training to travel
   to the new superintendent’s location. The orientation length will be determined by the needs
   of the facilitator and attendee and should be accomplished within the first 60 days after the
   new superintendent’s in-processing.
   A3.13.2. The superintendent providing the training shall forward an AF IMT 623a, or a
   memorandum for record to RCG/RST within 15 calendar days of completing the training.
   RCG/RST will maintain the AF IMT 623a and use this method to track accomplishment of
   the orientation and maintain oversight of this program.
A3.14. Providing Onsite Training. In two-person-deep group positions, the appropriate HQ
AFRS division OPR will determine if in-place NCOs have sufficient knowledge and experience
to provide onsite training. In two-person-deep squadron positions, the RCG/RSS will determine
if in place NCOs have sufficient knowledge and experience to provide onsite training.
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                                  21


                                          Attachment 4
       SAMPLE RECRUITING SQUADRON RTP WELCOME MEMORANDUM

                                                                                           (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR (GRADE/NAME)
FROM: XXX RCS Commander
       Street
       City State ZIP
SUBJECT: Welcome to the XXX Recruiting Squadron!
1. Congratulations on your upcoming assignment to Air Force Recruiting Service and welcome
to the XXX RCS! We are looking forward to adding you to our team of professionals. Even as
you’re beginning to appreciate recruiting’s challenges and rewards, we understand you may have
some questions. In the XXX RCS, we want to ensure you get the information needed to make
your upcoming transition as smooth as possible.
2. We do not wish to intrude on your studies, but we definitely want to make ourselves available
should you have any questions or just want some advance information on what to expect.
Toward that end, your sponsor is _______________, DSN___-____. His/her job is to find
information, help solve problems, meet you when you arrive, and make it easier for you to in-
process and get settled. Please keep him/her advised of your plans and relocation needs.
Additionally, here is some contact data we encourage you to use at your convenience:
Sponsor: _______________________ Phone: ___________ e-mail: _______________________
Flight Chief: ____________________ Phone: ___________ e-mail: _______________________
First Sergeant: ___________________Phone: ___________ e-mail: _______________________
Production Superintendent: _________________ Phone: ___________ e-mail: ______________
Superintendent: __________________________ Phone: ___________ e-mail: ______________
Commander: __________________ Phone: ___________ e-mail: ________________________
3. Up to 8 days of permissive leave are authorized for house hunting, and it begins after you sign
into the squadron. If you take permissive leave for house hunting prior to signing in, it counts as
regular leave. If, after graduating from recruiting school, you decide to make an advance trip to
the area for house hunting, you can take up to 10 days. However, you will have to return to your
current unit before being released from the base. Be sure to check with the base housing office or
applicable point of contact before you sign a housing contract; this is an Air Force requirement.
4. You will be able to get some things done before you sign in, but certain items such as travel
pay can only be done afterward. I encourage you to sign in as soon as possible. Remember, your
sponsor and flight chief are here to help you through the first few weeks—be sure to use them.
 22                                                     AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012


5. Once you’re on board, we have a number of programs to help acclimate you and your family
(if applicable). These include programs such as Lifeworks, a 24-hour toll-free calling system to
get immediate information and help; TRICARE Prime Remote; and other helpful squadron
programs.
6. Again, welcome! I invite you to contact me directly if there is anything I can do to make your
move better. I’m at DSN ___-_____, COMM (___) ___-_____.




                                             XXXXXX X. XXXXX, Grade, USAF
                                             Commander
AFRSI36-2201 13 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                              23


                                        Attachment 5
          COMMAND MASTER RECRUITER AND MASTER RECRUITER
                        RESPONSIBILITIES

A5.1. AFRS Master Recruiters (MR).
   A5.1.1. AFRS MRs are expected to understand that the responsibility for the deliberate
   development of AFRS’ professional recruiting force rests with them, take that responsibility
   seriously, and apply leadership and mentoring in support of command strategies and goals,
   and the professional growth of AFRS’s Airmen whenever and wherever needed.
   A5.1.2. AFRS MRs will serve on command professional development and mentoring teams.
A5.2. AFRS Command Master Recruiter (CMR) Council.
   A5.2.1. The AFRS CMR council represents the senior most level of recruiting experience
   and expertise and serves as the primary advisory body to the AFRS CC on all recruiting
   issues. The council will report directly to the AFRS CC, primarily through the chairman.
   A5.2.2. AFRS CMRs will conduct an annual review of command deliberate development
   and training policies, procedures and processes, manage the command Professional
   Development & Mentoring team program, visit the AFRS Recruiting School and provide
   feedback to the Commandant on training, develop continuing education opportunities for
   Senior and Master Recruiters, and monitor the professional development/progression of the
   command’s CCYs. Additionally, the council may meet on any issue considered by the
   council and or the AFRS CC to be in the best interest of the command and provide the AFRS
   CC feedback and advice. (See AFRS supplement to AFI-2117).
