BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE                                       INSTRUCTION 65-601

                                                                                 30 JUNE 2010

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                     AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
                                                BUDGET AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFRS/FM                                                      Certified by: HQ AFRS/FM
Supersedes: AFRSI65-601, 29 October                                       (Mr. Shelton Smith III)
            2002                                                                       Pages: 43


This instruction implements AFPD 65-6, Budget, 1 May 1998. This publication does not apply to
Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. It establishes Air
Force budget management requirements and procedures prescribed in AFI 65-601, Volume 1,
Budget Guidance and Procedures, and AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for
Operations; it describes the financial management process as it applies to Air Force Recruiting
Service (AFRS). Use this instruction according to the Financial Management Community of
Practice website located at: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-
FM-RS-A1.

The reporting requirements in this instruction are exempt from licensing according to AFI 33-
324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program; Controlling Internal,
Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, (paragraphs 2.11.7 and 2.11.11).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained
according to AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of according to the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule available at                     https://www/my.af.mil/gcss-
af61/afrims.afrims. Attachment 1 provides a glossary of references and supporting information
used in this publication. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                             AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This publication
updates the Financial Management (FM) Program responsibilities and guidance for AFRS;
establishes squadron and resource advisor FM general responsibilities (paragraphs 2.1 through
2.11); updates program element codes (PEC) (paragraphs 3.5.1 through 3.5.3), funds
management and budget allowances; provides current professional references and the process for
submitting various FM reports; describes guidance and procedures for managing element or
expense identification code (EEIC) accounts; deletes Recruiting Monthly Vehicle Report, RCS:
AETC-LGT (M) 7601, no longer required (paragraph 6.4.3) and updates Special Interest
Program responsibilities and limitations (paragraphs 7.1 through 7.8).
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                     3



                                          Chapter 1

                                         GENERAL

1.1. Overview. Financial management (FM) is the process of determining requirements,
obtaining resources, and efficiently applying those resources to meet the AFRS direct mission
and support responsibilities. Group and squadron commanders are responsible for the FM
program.
1.2. Applying This Instruction. All activities that prepare, justify, and execute Air Force
appropriations, must follow this guidance. Use this guidance in conjunction with the AFRS
Community          of         Practice       (CoP)         website         located       at:
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-RS-A1.
1.3. Financial Management Checklist. The FM checklist is the guide to a successful financial
management program. It identifies minimum duty requirements - from financial management
boards (FMB) to reconciliation of accounting records; if used properly, it helps identify areas
that need extra attention. The Squadron Resource Advisor checklist is used to support squadron
level operations and the group FM checklist is used to support Group level operations. Maintain
a current version of the FM checklist in the continuity book at all times. The current FM
checklists      are        available    at      the       AFRS       CoP        located      at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-RS-A1.
 4                                                                   AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


                                             Chapter 2

     GROUP FM AND SQUADRON RESOURCE ADVISOR (RA) RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Group FM General Responsibilities. Operates as a mini-comptroller squadron, requires
functional knowledge of all areas of FM and comptroller career field; responsible for daily
budget execution and resource consumption of the group. Group FM has FM oversight of
assigned squadrons and primary responsibility of decision support to group and/or squadrons
responsible for maintaining a control log of all documents forwarded to group FM. Group FM
must initiate weekly reconciliation of documents received and provide followup and/or feedback
to group and squadron commanders. To minimize document flow, government purchase card
(GPC) use is directed to the highest extent possible. Note: Applicant travel tickets, vehicle repair
estimates, communications bills (bills that could not be paid via GPC) and meals & lodging
(M&L) require unit level validation. Once documents are validated at squadron level, all
documents are forwarded to Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) for processing via
group FM.
2.2. Group FM Analysis Responsibilities. The following responsibilities listed are not all-
inclusive, but provide a foundation for a solid FM program:
     2.2.1. Assist group CCs establish spending priorities, set policies that achieve desired results
     at an acceptable cost, obtain required resources (fiscal and logistical), prepare execution
     plans (EP), and provide resource management training for RAs quarterly at a minimum.
     2.2.2. Monitor and prepare budget estimates for inclusion into the group EP.
     2.2.3. Develop obligation and expense targets and monitor the use of resources in daily
     operations.
     2.2.4. Serve as the primary focal point during fiscal year-end closeout.
     2.2.5. Know the details of the organization’s cost, program, and fiscal requirements;
     understand the relationship between output and cost.
     2.2.6. Understand management reports produced by the accounting system for operations
     and materiel management system. Interpret the management reports and recommend
     necessary actions to the commander.
     2.2.7. Conduct analysis; determine how changes, additions, or revisions to programs affect
     requirements; and advise the staff.
     2.2.8. Read and apply AFIs and directives pertaining to management of the responsibility
     center or cost center (RC or CC).
     2.2.9. Receive and review annual and quarterly budget allowances.
        2.2.9.1. Determine proposed distribution of the budget allowance.
        2.2.9.2. Receive FMB approval of final funds distribution.
        2.2.9.3. Ensure approved program is loaded correctly by host accounting activity.
        2.2.9.4. Establish a plan to ensure highest priority requirements are funded within the
        allowance received.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                       5


       2.2.9.5. Institute controls to prevent fraud, waste, abuse (FWA).
       2.2.9.6. Institute controls to stay within the group’s annual funding.
       2.2.9.7. Perform monthly execution analysis:
          2.2.9.7.1. Compare actual expenses with targets.
          2.2.9.7.2. Analyze target deviations and determine causes.
          2.2.9.7.3. Reprogram funds (if necessary) with FMB approval.
          2.2.9.7.4. Fine-tune plan to stay within annual funding.
          2.2.9.7.5. Submit unfunded requirements to AFRS.
2.3. Accounting Responsibilities. Accounting responsibilities are listed as: Note: Other tasks
may be required by group, host, or DFAS-operation location (OPLOC).
   2.3.1. Is the focal point with the host base Financial Management Accounting Liaison Office
   (FMALO) and DFAS-OPLOC.
   2.3.2. Be familiar with the accounting system for operations.
   2.3.3. Ensure adequate fiscal controls are maintained and accounting techniques are
   employed to properly account for appropriated funds.
   2.3.4. Be familiar with and/or have access to the operating system to accomplish FM
   mission: commanders resource integration system, speed pay web bill, electronic document
   management, electronic data access, electronic file room, general accounting and finance
   system (BQ), automated business services system (ABSS), and the standard base supply
   system.
   2.3.5. Be the group’s focal point for inputting documents into the accounting system.
   2.3.6. Ensure adequacy and correctness of reports.
   2.3.7. Correct system errors and resolve problems.
   2.3.8. Ensure host FMALO books and OPLOC records are accurate. Note: These are the
   official Air Force accounting records and the source of the official status of funds received.
   2.3.9. Process all accounting documents promptly.
   2.3.10. Perform monthly reconciliation and validation of all accounts.
   2.3.11. Continually prepare for end-of-month, end-of-quarter, and end-of-year closeouts.
2.4. Reconciliation and Validation Requirements. Financial analysts are responsible for
managing squadron funds effectively and ensuring accounting records are accurate. The
following reconciliation and validation requirements must be met:
   2.4.1. The annual obligation authority reflected on the operation budget ledger (OBL) must
   agree with the operating budget allowance document (OBAD).
       2.4.1.1. Research discrepancies immediately. Use selective transaction history listing in
       the Commander Resource Integrated System (CRIS) to locate posting errors and out-of-
       balances.
 6                                                                   AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


        2.4.1.2. Coordinate with host FMALO; valid OBAD.
        2.4.1.3. Document errors immediately.
        2.4.1.4. Notify AFRS of any problems.
        2.4.1.5. Ensure current and prior year targets are loaded properly.
     2.4.2. Refer to funding guidance to determine appropriate element or expense identification
     code (EEIC) level.
        2.4.2.1. Ensure RC/CC and EEICs are authorized for use with program element code
        (PEC).
        2.4.2.2. Take notice to specific ―allowances and fences‖ stated in OBAD.
     2.4.3. Maintain documentation files for all open items with a balance identifier of ―C,‖ ―O,‖
     or ―U.‖
        2.4.3.1. Maintain hard copy documentation in files.
        2.4.3.2. Reconcile host FMALO open document listing (ODL) to unit files at least
        monthly.
        2.4.3.3. Document discrepancies and follow-up actions.
        2.4.3.4. Transfer documentation to permanent historical files following finalization of
        the transaction and a balance ID ―E‖ is reflected on the OBL/ODL. Beware of straight
        pay transactions and irregularities in host accounting system.
     2.4.4. Update miscellaneous obligation reimbursement documents (MORDS), and records
     only current and/or validated obligation data.
        2.4.4.1. Update estimates when actual costs are known.
        2.4.4.2. Ensure current estimates are input timely to reflect accurate status of obligations.
2.5. Squadron RA General Responsibilities. The focal point for squadron level FM
requirements, and liaison between squadron and group FM. Must have a general knowledge of
FM in order to manage the daily budget execution and resource consumption at the squadron.
The RA maintains a control log of all documents forwarded to group FM. Reconciles with group
FM weekly ensuring all documents are received and processed. Works closely with group FM
ensuring all documents are processed through the accounting system in a timely manner. To
minimize document flow, GPC use is directed to the highest extent possible. Defense Travel
System (DTS), government travel card (GTC) individual billing accounts, out-of pockets, centers
of influence (COI), and GPC programs are managed at squadron level. Note: Applicant travel
tickets, vehicle repair estimates, communication bills (bills that could not be transferred to GPC),
M&L require squadron level validation. Forward to group FM for processing at DFAS once
documents are validated at the squadron.
     2.5.1. Squadron RA Responsibilities:
        2.5.1.1. Assist commanders establishes spending priorities, enforces policies that will
        achieve desired results at an acceptable cost, obtains required resources (fiscal and
        logistical), and prepares financial plans.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                     7


     2.5.1.2. Monitor and assist preparation of budget estimates for inclusion into the group
     execution plan.
     2.5.1.3. Assist development of obligation and expense targets, monitors the use of
     resources in daily operations (such as quarter temporary duty (TDY) projection list, GPC
     program execution rates and reconciliation, marketing, and applicant travel, etc.).
     2.5.1.4. Is the primary focal point for the group during fiscal year-end closeout.
     2.5.1.5. Determine proposed distribution of the budget al1owance.
     2.5.1.6. Institute internal controls to prevent FWA.
     2.5.1.7. Enforce controls to stay within the squadron’s annual funding.
     2.5.1.8. Assist group FM analyze target deviations and determine cause.
     2.5.1.9. Submit unfunded requirements to group FM.
  2.5.2. Accounting or Reconciliation Responsibilities:
     2.5.2.1. Ensure adequate fiscal controls are maintained and accounting techniques are
     employed to properly account for appropriated funds.
     2.5.2.2. Ensure adequacy and correctness of reports.
     2.5.2.3. Validate all accounting documents promptly and forwards to group FM for
     processing.
     2.5.2.4. Perform monthly reconciliation and validation of all accounts with group FM.
         2.5.2.4.1. Government Purchase Card (GPC) use is directed to the highest extent
         possible in order to simplify programs and the payment process.
         2.5.2.4.2. Cardholders and approving officials are required to maintain accurate
         and/or updated GPC logs.
         2.5.2.4.3. All accounts must be reconciled monthly by cardholders, approving
         officials, and group FM.
  2.5.3. Unit Budget Status Report (UBSR). The squadron resource advisor will report all
  GPC charges for the month by completing page 2 of the UBSR.
     2.5.3.1. Provide feedback to group FM on variances and/or fluctuations in the
     operational budget.
     2.5.3.2. Complete page 4 of the UBSR listing prioritized unfunded requirements.
     2.5.3.3. Complete page 5 of the UBSR listing civilian personnel actions.
     2.5.3.4. Examples of UBSRs, UBSR Job Aid, and UBSR instructions are located on
     AFRS           CoP          in       the        UBSR         folder          at
     https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-RS-A1.
 8                                                                   AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


2.6. Group and Squadron Participatory Financial Management. FM is a function of
command, decentralized to the maximum extent possible. As a rule, financial responsibility is
delegated to managers who have control and knowledge of daily operations of functional areas.
The primary goal of participatory FM is to ensure effective use of Air Force resources. Key
command staff and functional area managers are included in attaining this goal.
2.7. Financial Management Board (FMB). The FMB is a vital part of the overall management
process. It is a means for organizational personnel to voice financial needs and assist in
managing squadron's financial resources. More importantly, through the FMB, the commander
can make decisions concerning competing interests for limited financial resources. The group
CC may appoint additional FMB members by a memorandum.
     2.7.1. FMB Members. Each group FM team is made up of the following:
        2.7.1.1. Commander - chairman.
        2.7.1.2. Operations flight commander - member.
        2.7.1.3. Superintendent - member.
        2.7.1.4. Production superintendent – member.
        2.7.1.5. Support flight commander - member.
        2.7.1.6. First sergeant - member.
        2.7.1.7. Squadron commanders - members.
        2.7.1.8. Group financial analyst - recorder.
     2.7.2. FMB Responsibilities. Principal duties and responsibilities of the FMB are listed
     below. This list is not all-inclusive. All members must be aware of the responsibilities as an
     FMB member.
        2.7.2.1. Develop, review, and approve requirements for inclusion in annual EP and/or
        spend plans identified by EEIC.
        2.7.2.2. Review fund distributions received from higher levels and make distribution of
        funds to lower organizational levels. Identify programs deferred, reduced, eliminated, or
        moved to the unfunded portion of the operating budget until additional funding is
        received.
        2.7.2.3. Review and approve status of financial programs funds constantly relating these
        funds to remaining requirements.
        2.7.2.4. Identify and brief planned versus unplanned obligations.
        2.7.2.5. Approve target adjustments and reprogramming actions.
        2.7.2.6. Ensure financial data is in appropriate detail to permit effective oversight.
        2.7.2.7. Maintain program balance among all activities competing for available
        resources.
        2.7.2.8. Fund programs on a sound priority basis to permit accomplishment of mission
        objectives.
        2.7.2.9. Maintain an up-to-date prioritized list of unfunded requirements.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                    9


       2.7.2.10. Conduct FMB meetings once each quarter at a minimum. Provide agendas to
       FMB members prior to the meeting. Depending on the financial situation of the squadron,
       additional frequent meetings may be required. Maintain meeting minutes of all FMB
       meetings. Note: Any out-of-cycle or mini FMB actions (CC approved reprogramming,
       CC approved emergency equipment purchase, etc.) must be formally briefed at the next
       FMB meeting.
2.8. Commander. Group and squadron commanders are responsible for the development of
financial plans and executing in the most cost efficient manner. The commander also will:
   2.8.1. Appoint a resource advisor in writing.
   2.8.2. Set the tone through demonstration and encourage efficient use of resources in daily
   activities and decisions.
   2.8.3. Support the participatory FM philosophy, and encourage all assigned personnel to be
   actively involved in the resource management process.
   2.8.4. Consider all resource demands, and ensure the financial programs are balanced and
   prioritized.
   2.8.5. Ensure valid unfunded requirements are communicated to the AFRS via group.
2.9. Flight Commander, Recruiting Support Division (RSS) Responsibilities. RSS is
responsible for FM and ensures the FM continuity in the absence of the FM or RA. Appoints the
alternate RA in writing and documents all training.
2.10. Finance and OPLOC Liaison Responsibilities. An important task is acting as a liaison
between the various support agencies and the group. Ensuring and providing top quality
customer service to our customers.
2.11. Customer Service. Squadron personnel must contact their local financial services office
to coordinate basic allowances for subsistence (BAS), basic allowance for housing (BAH), cost
of living allowance, and family separation allowance.
 10                                                              AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


                                          Chapter 3

                                  FUNDS MANAGEMENT

3.1. Funding Procedures. HQ AFRS/FM issues annual funding guidance to group CCs. Each
group is issued a fund authorization on an OBAD. HQ AFRS/FM authorizes funds for current
quarter and fiscal year and identifies any specific allowances and/or fences.
   3.1.1. The OBAD lists allowances for all quarters. Documents only need to list current
   quarter cumulative and annual allowances. Note: Quarterly targets are not effective until the
   first day of the applicable quarter.
   3.1.2. Authorizations are based on annual financial plans, quarterly phasing reports,
   historical data, and approved programs. Continually analyzes approved funding to ensure the
   proper program execution and alignment.
   3.1.3. If funding is inadequate to accomplish the mission, an unfunded requirement must be
   identified to the FMB, approved, prioritized, and submitted to AFRS on the monthly UBSR.
   Note: Explore reprogramming as a first option. The lowest priority items may have to be
   deferred into the following fiscal years.
   3.1.4. Each funding document issued by AFRS to the group will either be supported by a list
   of cumulative targets or a statement in the remarks column when there are only a few
   changes.
   3.1.5. Annual targets for EEIC 47102 leased unaccompanied housing (LUH), EEIC 75637
   M&L and PEC 81712F are fenced programs. Reprogramming requires AFRS approval. All
   other targets may vary from AFRS distribution, but units must have documented FMB
   authority on hand to allow reprogramming and management of programs consistent with Air
   Force policy.
   3.1.6. Load targets in even hundred dollar increments where obligations are incurred.
   3.1.7. The total operating budget allowance (OBA) each quarter is a limitation. The
   limitation must not exceed the bottom line (total OBA) of the funding document, and must be
   reconciled monthly with the hard copy source document.
   3.1.8. When funding documents are received, ensure all targets are loaded into the general
   accounting funds system.
3.2. Forecasting. A critical task of resource management is forecasting financial requirements
and updating those forecasts monthly as the fiscal year progresses. This regulation covers
specific rationale for tracking and forecasting execution and funding requirements in the
programs. Make liberal use of every financial or resource management product made available
from your host FMALO, OPLOC, or other support agencies.
3.3. Budget Execution. After initial distribution is performed, budget execution (the systematic
consumption of approved programs) begins. Financial managers have a key role in ensuring
approved programs are used for intended purposes.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                   11



3.4. Reprogramming. A liberal reprogramming policy is necessary to allow units to meet
changing mission requirements or emergencies. Groups may transfer funds among EEICs, unless
specifically prohibited in the funding document. Recruiting groups are allowed maximum
flexibility within certain administrative constraints in reprogramming actions; however, these
actions must be logical, defendable, FMB approved, and reported accurately on the monthly
UBSR.
   3.4.1. Significant reprogramming actions may signal a change in the way the group is doing
   business, or may be the result of a major price change in a critical squadron program.
   3.4.2. If reprogramming generates an unfunded requirement, cite the circumstances causing
   the reprogramming in your narrative statement supporting the unfunded requirement.
3.5. Program Element Codes. PECs listed below are authorized for use within Recruiting
Service.
   3.5.1. PEC 81711F. Use PEC 81711F (Recruiting Activities) with the following EEICs:
       3.5.1.1. EEIC 39X, Civilian Pay.
       3.5.1.2. EEIC 409, TDY Travel.
       3.5.1.3. EEIC 40962, Applicant Travel.
       3.5.1.4. EEIC 43504, Vehicle Rental.
       3.5.1.5. EEIC 435ZZ, Vehicle Repairs.
       3.5.1.6. EEIC 44X, All Comm (fixed, tolls, cells, internet service providers).
       3.5.1.7. EEIC 446, Postal.
       3.5.1.8. EEIC 46X, Transportation.
       3.5.1.9. EEIC 473, Leased/Rental Equipment.
       3.5.1.10. EEIC 480XX, Utilities.
       3.5.1.11. EEIC 50X, Print (non-advertising).
       3.5.1.12. EEIC 553, Training.
       3.5.1.13. EEIC 56X, Equipment Maintenance.
       3.5.1.14. EEIC 75637, M&L.
       3.5.1.15. EEIC 75638, Base Support Costs.
       3.5.1.16. EEIC 55950, Contract Physicals.
       3.5.1.17. EEIC 40983, Road Tolls.
       3.5.1.18. EEIC 55921, Out-of-Pocket.
       3.5.1.19. EEIC 55920, Center of Influence.
       3.5.1.20. EEIC 559XX, Miscellaneous Contract Services.
       3.5.1.21. EEIC 59800, Suggestion Awards.
 12                                                                AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


       3.5.1.22. EEIC 61950, GPC.
       3.5.1.23. EEIC 6XX, Supplies and Equipment.
   3.5.2. PEC 81712F. Use PEC 81712F (Advertising and Promotion) with the following
   EEICs:
       3.5.2.1. EEIC 50X, Printing (directly related to advertising).
       3.5.2.2. EEIC 50401, Advertising.
       3.5.2.3. EEIC 6XX, Supplies and Equipment (directly related to advertising).
   3.5.3. PEC 88744F. Use PEC 88744F (Leased Family Housing) with the following EEICs:
       3.5.3.1. EEIC 47102/3, Lease Family Housing.
       3.5.3.2. EEIC 480ZZ, Purchased Utilities.
   3.5.4. PEC 39999F. Use PEC 39999F for all summary EEICs (39X, 6XX). Use during
   interfaces and with EEIC 409 for recording travel advances. Note: Use PEC 89999F with all
   prior year EEICs (except prior year pre-obligation authority in 609 and 618 use PEC
   81711F).
3.6. Fund Code (FC) 30 – Operations and Maintenance, Air Force. Funding for the
recruiting mission falls under FC 30, Budget Activity Code 03, Training and Recruiting. AFRS
manages all programs that fall under this FC with the exception of FC 3Y.
3.7. Fund Code 3Y – Family Housing Operation and Maintenance. For military family
housing (MFH) lease payments use PEC 88744F, Project Code 725, FC 3Y. For repairs, with
specific approval from AFRS, use Project Code 726. See the AFRS for general payment
guidance on this program at https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-
FM-RS-A1.
3.8. Obligation of Quarterly and Annual Budget Allowance. The group budget is provided
with both annual and cumulative quarterly allowances specified. Recruiting groups must plan to
operate throughout the fiscal year on the annual program, and manage the quarterly program the
same as the annual program.
   3.8.1. It is important to understand quarterly allowances. Units are required to closeout the
   quarter with no more than a $3,500 balance. Follow the methods listed to accomplish the
   closeout:
   3.8.2. Review data and re-accomplish forecasts for each EEIC.
   3.8.3. If expenses are projected larger than the allowance, contact AFRS, who may be able
   to provide additional quarterly funding.
   3.8.4. If additional quarterly allowance cannot be obtained, reduce expenses. Fixed costs
   must be covered; identify variable or discretionary expense areas for these reductions.
   3.8.5. Fixed costs are those items necessary for accomplishing the basic mission, such as,
   vehicle rental, recurring communication services, travel (TDY necessary to produce a set
   level of production), and miscellaneous front loaded contracts.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                      13


   3.8.6. Variable costs are items that are affected by changes in levels of production, such as,
   increases in vehicle mileage, telephone prospecting, and miscellaneous front-loaded
   contracts.
   3.8.7. Discretionary expenses are items that can be controlled by management actions, for
   example supply and equipment expenditures, and certain types of contracts.
   3.8.8. Monitoring funds is an ongoing process; forecasts must be updated frequently. At the
   end of each month, reevaluate progress towards both quarterly and annual targets. Forecast
   requirements from present position through the end of the quarter, and continue the forecast
   through the end of the fiscal year.
3.9. Commitments. A commitment is a specific amount of current available funds reserved for
funding specific obligations.
   3.9.1. The primary commitment documents utilized in AFRS are:
   3.9.2. AF IMT Form 9, Request for Purchase.
   3.9.3. AF Form 4009, Government Purchase Card Fund Cite Authorization.
   3.9.4. AFRS Form 1406, Request/Approval for Expenditure of COI Funds.
   3.9.5. All commitments must be obligated in the accounting system prior to the end of the
   fiscal year. Public law prohibits carrying committed funds forward, and unobligated funds of
   this nature will be withdrawn by AFRS.
   3.9.6. Submit purchase request (PR) for annual requirements early enough to be effective 1
   October of the upcoming fiscal year, contact the FMALO for submission deadlines.
   3.9.7. Closely monitor commitments to prevent over obligation of your budget authority.
3.10. Obligations. Obligations are orders placed, contracts awarded, services received, and
similar transactions during a given period requiring payments during the same or a future period.
A general review of obligation processing at a recruiting group are:
   3.10.1. The basic forms of obligations within a recruiting group are materiel (supply and
   equipment) interfaces, travel orders, toll tickets, contracts, MORDS, and GPC billing
   statements. Detailed information will be explained later when discussing each EEIC.
   3.10.2. MORDS are established in the host base accounting system for estimates of
   obligation on commodities, such as leased vehicles and telephone fixed and/or recurring
   charges. Mandatory: Utilize the standardized HQ AFRS/FM spreadsheets to track costs.
   Spreadsheets      are        located       in      the       AFRS        CoP         at:
   https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-RS-A1.
   3.10.3. When a known obligation cannot be entered into the host accounting system prior to
   the end of the month, establish a MORD to reserve the funds. Enter all known reductions
   and/or refunds in obligations as identified to the group by the squadron prior to the end-of-
   month in which it was received.
   3.10.4. Verify all obligations against the ODL at least monthly and adjust all incorrect
   amounts. High level management decisions are made based on information contained in the
   accounting system.
 14                                                              AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


3.11. Prior Year. Review all prior year obligations monthly to verify their validity. Supporting
documentation must be on hand to substantiate prior year obligations. If the gross obligations
exceed prior year program, request additional funds from HQ AFRS/FM. (specifically, do not
reduce a valid obligation to free up funds).
   3.11.1. Ensure bottom line prior year targets are in agreement with the latest funding OBAD.
   3.11.2. Take note of specific allowances and/or fences as stated on the OBAD. Operation
   within guidance is Mandatory.
   3.11.3. Accomplish followup on outstanding obligations on a recurring basis to ensure
   outstanding obligations are closed out in a timely manner.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                       15


                                           Chapter 4

                              PROFESSIONAL REFERENCES

4.1. Required Directives. Ensure the following directives, instructions, and regulations are
accessible at all times (or users have reasonable access to them):
   4.1.1. AETCI       32-6001,    Government     Leased             Quarters        (http://www.e-
   publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI32-6001.pdf).
   4.1.2. AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures (http://www.e-
   publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/AFI65-601V1.pdf).
   4.1.3. AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations (http://www.e-
   publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/afi65-601v2.pdf).
   4.1.4. DODFMR        Volume       9,      Travel            Policy         and      Procedures
   (http://www.dod.mil/comptroller/fmr/09/index.html).
   4.1.5. DODFMR      Volume    10,    Contract   Payment            Policy     and    Procedures
   (http://www.dod.mil/comptroller/fmr/10/index.html).
   4.1.6. DODFMR Volume 14, Administrative Control of Funds and Antideficiency Act
   Violations (http://www.dod.mil/comptroller/fmr/14/index.html).
   4.1.7. JFTR, Volume. 1, Joint Federal Travel Regulations – Uniformed Service Members
   (http://perdiem.hqda.pentagon.mil/perdiem/trvlregs.html).
4.2. Continuity Folders. An excellent source of job information is a continuity folder: Include
an updated list of important telephone numbers in all continuity folders; all group FMers and
RAs are required to maintain a collective source of references outlining basic duties and listing
examples of routine and recurring documentations; use the HQ AFRS/FM CoP as an excellent
source         for     examples         and       updated       specific       guidance         at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-RS-A1.                   Continuity
folders are living documents requiring continued updating to ensure currency and effectiveness.
 16                                                                AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


                                            Chapter 5

                                           REPORTS

5.1. Unit Budget Status Report. To streamline the reporting process, one report was
developed to consolidate all AFRS monthly requirements. The UBSR consists of the status of
funds, manual obligation tracks, unfunded requirements, civilian personnel work hours, and the
quarterly fund target requirements. This five-page report is due to HQ AFRS/FM, via HQ
AFRS/FM CoP or e-mail, no later than the 8th workday of each month with data from the
preceding month. The UBSR eliminates a separate tasking for unit unfunded requirements and
ensures AFRS have up-to-date financial information needed to respond to HQ AFRS/CC, AETC,
and any Air Staff taskings. Refer to the HQ AFRS/FM CoP located at
https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-RS-A1 for detailed
instructions on completing the UBSR.
5.2. Execution Plan (EP). Each fiscal year in December - January, units are tasked to develop
an operations and maintenance (O&M) execution plan. A ―Call‖ will be issued by HQ AFRS/FM
for the next fiscal year requirements. The EP is used to identify all projected requirements. Early
identification of requirements will assist AFRS in developing a comprehensive EP for
submission to AETC. Later in the fiscal year, July - August time frame, an additional tasking for
fact-of-life (FOL) updates will be requested. The FOL is a review of the EP submission and
identifies known changes that have a financial impact.
   5.2.1. EP Overview. Provide a look ahead at the requirements for the next fiscal year.
   5.2.2. Specific Preparation Guidance. AFRS will provide specific preparation guidance each
   fiscal year. The following are some general characteristics of an EP:
       5.2.2.1. The Call. Provide call memorandums from AFRS requesting submission of EPs.
       Include guidelines, detailed instructions, assumptions, and samples for preparing the EP,
       provide due dates, specific formats and exhibits in the call. Send the call out to recruiting
       groups after initial distribution. The groups will then call their respective squadrons.
       5.2.2.2. Commander's Statement. Summarize mission objectives, addresses unique
       problems, and discusses the impact of funding limitations. This statement gives the
       commander an opportunity to address concerns about proposed funding, mission changes,
       or any other factors affecting unit financial requirements.
       5.2.2.3. Computation and Narrative Justification. Provide the substance for reviewers to
       draw conclusions and make decisions concerning the budget request. The narrative is the
       heart of the EP. Provide concise, informative, and factual justifications.
       5.2.2.4. Effective EP Preparation. Prepare the EP as a primary spending plan for the
       upcoming fiscal year: The EP contains 3 years of operating plans and supporting
       financial data; the EP year, current fiscal year, and prior fiscal year. Develop plans for
       each successive year to ensure mission accomplishment in constantly changing recruiting
       and funding environments. The plan must be represented in the EP.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                   17



5.3. GTC Delinquency Reporting. Submit the GTC delinquency report monthly to HQ
AFRS/FM. Conduct a 10 percent squadron audit quarterly of all accounts using the transaction
activity report.
   5.3.1. Individually Billed Accounts. Delinquency reports are due to FM by 1400 CST on the
   last workday of the month.
   5.3.2. Past Due Accounts. Reference all past due accounts with an explanation listed on the
   spreadsheet.
       5.3.2.1. Centrally Billed Accounts (CBA). Pay CBAs upon receipt of the bill. Inform HQ
       AFRS/FM of account payment status of all accounts listed on the CBA delinquency
       report, forwarded from HQ AFRS/FM.
       5.3.2.2. Suspended Accounts. If the account is suspended, the unit must complete the
       FACT sheet and return to HQ AFRS/FM before account can be reinstated. Regardless if
       the CBA has received an extension, forward a new updated FACT sheet to HQ
       AFRS/FM indicating actions taken to bring the account current.
 18                                                                  AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


                                            Chapter 6

                 EEIC DESCRIPTION AND ACCOUNT MAINTENANCE

6.1. EEIC 39X - Civilian Pay. Centrally track this EEIC. Costs do not go through the group
budget. However, the RA must keep the group FM updated with the information on page 5 of the
UBSR:
   6.1.1. Date of assignment of new civilian.
   6.1.2. Date of termination of any civilian.
   6.1.3. Any periods of leave without pay.
   6.1.4. Current vacancies listing the flight and efforts to fill the vacancy.
6.2. EEIC - 409 Mission Travel. Account for all TDY travel expenses under EEIC 409.
Information in this section should not be construed as modifying the Joint Federal Travel
Regulations (JFTR), the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), and the DoDFMR, Volume 9 that
controls under all circumstances.
   6.2.1. Guidance and Procedures. AFI 65-114, Travel-Policy and Procedures for Financial
   Services Offices and Finance Offices-Reserve Component, provides guidance on
   supplemental procedures for processing travel orders and claims for the Air Force as
   authorized in the DoDFMR, Volume 9, Chapter 1.
   6.2.2. Authorized Expenses. Appendix ―O,‖ of JFTR and JTR regulates expenses authorized
   for DTS.
   6.2.3. TDY Program Administration. All reviewers and approving officials must verify
   itinerary, travel and expenses, estimates and validate the letter of offer and acceptance (LOA)
   prior to stamping the TDY authorization and/or order. To accurately verify estimates, review
   the following:
       6.2.3.1. Travel Days. Include the total number of TDY and travel days.
       6.2.3.2. Appropriate TDY Locations. TDY locations are appropriate on base, in the city
       they are conducting official business or training. Servicing airports or closest major cities
       are not appropriate TDY locations.
       6.2.3.3. Government Facilities. Use M&L facilities when available. Use is mandatory for
       all military members. See AFMAN 34-255 Directory of Government Quarters and
       Dining Facilities to check what M&L’s are available close to the base. Note: The DTS
       approving official will make a determination if proportional Per Diem (government
       messing - all, some, or none) is applicable. See AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders,
       Attachment 2, for additional information.
       6.2.3.4. Government Transportation. Use government transportation whenever possible.
          6.2.3.4.1. Privately Owned Vehicle (POV). The use of POVs for TDYs must be
          limited to the government travel request (GTR) constructive cost comparison, for
          long distance trips, only.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                      19


        6.2.3.4.2. The servicing commercial travel office (CTO) must be used to arrange
        airfare.
            6.2.3.4.2.1. It is mandatory to use the travel module in DTS to arrange airfare
            under the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) contract schedule.
            6.2.3.4.2.2. The servicing CTO should be contacted only when the itinerary
            changes while traveling, arranging airfare for invitational travel orders ITO, or
            during fiscal year crossover when travel starts on or a short period after 1
            October.
            6.2.3.4.2.3. Tickets purchased directly from a non-contract travel agent or
            common carriers are not reimbursable when the trip is cancelled. Use of unit
            funds is not authorized to reimburse travelers under these circumstances.
     6.2.3.5. Special Authorizations. Authorizations must have a valid cost comparison and
     approval by the DTS approving official.
        6.2.3.5.1. Include the appropriate authorization statement DTS under Additional
        Authorizations. Examples of special authorizations are: rental car, non compact rental
        car and POV limited to constructive GTR costs.
        6.2.3.5.2. Actual expense allowance (AEA) for lodging. The JFTR and JTR allow the
        approving official to authorize up to 300 percent AEA.
     6.2.3.6. Nurse and/or Doctor Tours. Tours are funded at the discretion of the squadron
     commander. Commanders may authorize all or part of expenses (such as, per diem,
     travel, billeting, etc.). If authorized, issue the applicant ITOs. Refer to the JTR, Volume,
     2, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel, Chapter 7, Reserved. These are manual
     orders and not processed through DTS. Follow-up on unresolved orders with host
     FMALO and document all actions.
     6.2.3.7. Health Professions Applicant Travel (HPAT). Applicant travel is funded with
     unit funds to tour their first permanent change of station assignment. Squadrons issue
     ITO’s for travelers after following coordination procedures with AFRS. Contact your
     officer accessions team members for additional information on this program.
     6.2.3.8. Travel to Medical Appointments. Personnel that must travel to a base for
     medical and/or dental appointments or physicals are funded by the servicing medical
     treatment facility (MTF). Coordinate with the MTF’s resource management flight for
     current guidance on obtaining orders and/or DTS funding authorization and LOA.
     6.2.3.9. Conference or Registration Fees. Fees in conjunction with AFRS conferences,
     meetings, or squadron annuals are not authorized. AFRS conferences and/or workshops
     do not meet the criteria established for authorized conference or registration fee
     reimbursement.
     6.2.3.10. Professional Military Education (PME). Coordinate PME, squadron officer
     school, non commissioned officer (NCO) academy, senior NCO academy, and airman
     leadership school) through Military Personnel Flight formal training. Fund all TDY costs
     from a central account maintained at AETC. Government or rental car approval is not
     authorized.
20                                                             AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


  6.2.4. PME Graduation Ceremonies. The commander’s, first sergeant’s, and command
  CMSgt’s duty requirement is to represent the squadron or the command at PME graduations.
  Funds for TDYs are authorized for them or their designated representative. Per AFI 36-3003,
  Military Leave Program, Table 7, Item 37, and paragraph 12.8.5; permissive TDY (PTDY) is
  authorized for the individual’s supervisor or their representative.
  6.2.5. Defense Travel System Administration. Administer and maintain the DTS program as
  follows:
     6.2.5.1. Organizational DTS Administrator (ODTA). The ODTA must be someone not
     responsible for reviewing, certifying, or approving official duties. The primary
     responsibility of the ODTA is to maintain administrative records in the defense travel
     administrator maintenance tool.
     6.2.5.2. Approving Official (AO). The AO is limited to a three letter office symbol, such
     as the RSS, RSO, etc. The primary responsibility of the AO is to approve all orders and
     vouchers submitted for payment.
     6.2.5.3. Reviewer. Review documents in DTS for validity of claim. Assign each unit
     different reviewers for each type of claim. Note: Examples would be the marketing NCO
     reviews COI local vouchers; flight chiefs review field recruiters TDY’s and out-of-pocket
     expenses (OPE), etc. The primary responsibility of the reviewer is to ensure that the
     claims are valid for payment before it is forwarded to the approving official.
     6.2.5.4. Certifier. Certifiers review documents for propriety of funds. The primary
     responsibility of the certifier is to ensure that correct funds are used for payment of
     vouchers. The AO may complete this function making this level unnecessary.
     6.2.5.5. Budget Authority. If the echelon grants this permission, assign to the squadron
     RA. Do not exceed the quarterly or annual authority granted for the TDY program.
         6.2.5.5.1. Maintenance of travel accounting records is vital to group FM and the
         squadron RA operations, and is necessary for the success of the travel program. There
         are several steps that must be taken into account to ensure proper program
         management.
         6.2.5.5.2. All units will develop a TDY plan. The plan is reviewed and approved by
         the FMB on a quarterly basis. Planned vs. unplanned must be analyzed to ensure a
         sound program.
         6.2.5.5.3. All vouchers are required to be filed within 5 duty days, using established
         DTS training aids. Maintain a spreadsheet of all orders and/or vouchers while
         reviewing and approving all orders and/or vouchers. This allows completeness and
         accuracy of all travel vouchers and provides the ability to establish and maintain a
         viable tracking system.
         6.2.5.5.4. Review vouchers to ensure that meals provided by COI events have been
         claimed as a deductible meal expense while TDY. The marketing NCO must provide
         the approving official a list of military members with a deductible meal for COIs.
         6.2.5.5.5. Ensure vouchers are stamped Signed within 5 days after completion of
         TDY. In the event the voucher is not signed by the 5th day, the squadron RA will
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                       21


           contact the member for completion of voucher or cancellation if TDY was not
           performed. The squadron RA will then annotate their spreadsheet accordingly.
       6.2.5.6. The Group FM. The group FM will reconcile the travel program on a monthly
       basis. group FM will suspense the squadron RA for resolution of overdue travel orders
       and/or vouchers. Perform the following to reconcile the travel program:
           6.2.5.6.1. Query the order by travel authorization number or social security account
           number in DTS. The travel tracking spreadsheet may also be used for status. Use the
           host base Financial Services Office (FSO) to follow up on overdue ITOs.
           6.2.5.6.2. An order in the accounting system not reflected in DTS is called an
           unmatched record. If the record is invalid, contact the host FMALO and have the
           order removed from the accounting system.
       6.2.5.7. The Squadron RA. The Squadron RA is required to forecast mission travel
       requirements. Squadron leadership and flight chiefs generally require travel by squadron
       personnel; they are the major points of contact when creating travel requirements.
       Historical data and known mission changes are essential when identifying requirements.
       If there are no known major mission changes in the current year and future years, the
       expenses should remain relatively stable.
       6.2.5.8. The Unit Commander. Has approval authority for conferences, workshops, and
       annual training meetings conducted in government facilities. All conferences and/or
       meetings held in non government locations due to non availability or non accessibility of
       government facilities are routed through the group CC and approved by HQ AFRS/CV, if
       any cost are incurred.
6.3. EEIC 40962 - Applicant Travel Bulk Purchases. Use this EEIC to pay transportation
expense for applicant processing. This program is divided into two parts: non-prior services
(NPS) applicants and delayed entry program (DEP) applicants. Costs associated with NPS
applicant travel are paid using unit funds. Costs associated with DEP applicants are paid using a
centrally managed allotment (CMA). These purchases are made using a CBA, invoiced by the
bank holding the account and paid for by SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services
Other Than Personal.
   6.3.1. AF IMT 406. AF IMT 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document,
   MORD subject matter area (SMA) is established at the beginning of October for NPS and
   DEP for the quarter based on estimates and increased on a quarterly basis or as needed for
   the costs associated with NPS. The NPS MORD will cite recruiting funds; the DEP MORD
   will cite the CMA account: 57X3500 32X 5841.0M 525725.
   6.3.2. Applicant Travel Process. Recruiters request tickets within the transportation carrier’s
   online system to arrange transport or manually through the squadron logistics. Logistics
   personnel will approve the request online or make the purchase manually. Squadron logistics
   personnel will maintain a log of tickets purchased each month for reporting and
   reconciliation purposes. The logistics section must reconcile the invoice monthly to the
   record of transportation requests. Research and resolve any discrepancies by logistics to
   correct the problem as soon as possible. Annotate the monthly expense on the applicant
   travel spreadsheet for tracking and reporting to group FM for update and/or completion of the
   UBSR.
 22                                                                 AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


   6.3.3. Applicant Travel Payments. This program is paid on a ―pay and confirm‖. The
   squadron RA will forward a copy of the bill each month to group FM. The squadron logistics
   will work with the vendors to correct any billing errors. Corrections will be present in future
   billings. Group FM will attach required DFAS information, and submit invoice to DFAS for
   payment.
6.4. EEIC 43504 – GSA Vehicles. Use this EEIC to charge for leased vehicle rental and
mileage costs. Charge all other vehicle costs, such as accidents or damages, EEIC 43301. Bill
charges automatically each month through the intra-governmental payment and collecting
(IMPAC) system. Establish a MORD in post code G in anticipation of these charges. Establish
the MORD amount based on historical data, mileage reports, and any known mission or price
changes. Establish MORD increases quarterly and adjust after actual amounts are known.
   6.4.1. Vehicle Maintenance Payments. Each organization has a billing office account code
   assigned by GSA. This number is referenced by all systems used for the vehicle maintenance
   payment and/or billing process.
   6.4.2. Fleet Speed Pay. Fleet speed pay was established to alleviate delinquent billings
   between GSA and Department of Defense Agencies. Use this system to apply the correct line
   of accounting and MORD number to post payments by DFAS through IPAC. Speed Pay also
   provides the ability to download billing information, copies of billing statements, and
   generate reports. Access at http://drivethru.fss.gsa.gov/drivethru/drivethru/. Speed pay is
   a component of the GSA fleet drive-thru system which also offers two other applications:
          6.4.2.1. Reports Carryout. Provides an inventory of vehicles assigned.
          6.4.2.2. Collision, Repair, Accident and System. History allows GSA fleet customers to
          track accident activity.
   6.4.3. GSA Billings. View GSA billings through GSA Web-Bill: http://finance-
   kc.gsa.gov/webbill/. See attached breakout by vehicle number of all the charges. See Table
   6.1 for billing code and description. Each vehicle number will have a billing code specifying
   what the charges are for. This program is paid on a ―pay and confirm basis.‖ Logistics must
   contact GSA to have errors corrected on a later billing.

Table 6.1. GSA Fleet Management Billing Codes.

      I                     A                                         B
      T
      E
      M      Billing Code                   Description
      1      A1                             Regular vehicle
      2      D1                             Temporary vehicle
      3      V3                             Accidents
      4      X1/X2                          Unauthorized charges (note)
 Note: Unauthorized charges must be validated by RSSL.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                       23


6.5. EEIC 435ZZ – Vehicle Repair/Miscellaneous Charges. Charge this EEIC for the cost to
repair vehicles for damages incurred by accidents, vandalism or theft. Bill charges automatically
each month through the IPAC system. Establish a MORD in PC G in anticipation of these
charges. The group FM must ensure that the vehicle repairs MORD is loaded into the Fleet
Speed Pay system so that charges are completed electronically. Identify these costs separately
under billing codes V3, X1, or X2. GSA is responsible for acts of nature damage. Logistics
should verify all repair costs.
   6.5.1. Vehicle Repairs Process. GSA notifies logistics of repairs via GSA Form 2556,
   Miscellaneous Charges and Adjustments. Logistics forwards GSA Form 2556 to group FM
   immediately. The group FM establishes and/or increases the vehicle repair MORD for the
   amount of damages listed on the GSA Form 2556. Once the obligation is established the
   group FM requests funding from AFRS on the next UBSR. If a paper copy is received for
   vehicle damages, prepares the invoice for DFAS citing the funds and number of the pre-
   established MORD.
   6.5.2. Reports of Survey for Vehicle Repairs. If the squadron receives a refund as the result
   of a Report of Survey, the group FM must credit the accounting classification that was used
   to make payment. Refunds may be collected via DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher,
   or by payroll deduction. In cases of payroll deductions, complete a DD Form 139, Pay
   Adjustment Authorization, and send to servicing finance for processing.
6.6. EEIC 435ZZ – Part-time Vehicle Rental. Use this EEIC for renting vehicles on a part-
time basis from civilian sources. Coordinate with GSA and the contracting office for the rental of
commercial vehicles on a part-time basis. Do not use this for GSA vehicles rented on a part-time
basis. Utilize this EEIC to rent a bus for a squadron sponsored tour at a local Air Force base.
6.7. EEIC 44600 – Postal and Express Mail Service. Use postal and express mail services for
all expenses and overnight mail charges (examples, FedEX®, UPS™, and © 2009 DHL
Worldwide GmbH).
   6.7.1. Express mail and overnight delivery are authorized expenditures when pre-approved
   by the commander. The individual charges are debited to the GPC card after an account is set
   up with the company. The squadron’s information manager (IM) or designee will reconcile
   the expenses monthly against the log of authorized expenditures and research and/or resolve
   any discrepancies.
   6.7.2. Do not use personal funds to pay for the mailing or delivery of official documents.
   Exception: Under extreme circumstances when official mail services, postage metering, or
   contract service with the government are not available, the commander must give prior
   approval to an individual to expend personal funds. The IM will assign a control number for
   each item or package. This process should not be used for convenience. Make claims for
   reimbursement via SF 1034 or local voucher in DTS depending on host base procedures.
   Annotate the control number for the approved expenses on the claim form. Use EEIC 462 on
   SF 1034 and EEIC 55921 in DTS.
6.8. EEIC 46X – Other Transportation Charges. Cover local drayage, handling, transfers of
supplies and equipment and other charges incurred due to relocation of recruiting offices.
   6.8.1. Methods for obtaining transportation for relocations:
 24                                                               AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


       6.8.1.1. Truck rental from GSA is permitted on a daily basis. A fuel card may be
       requested at the time of rental.
       6.8.1.2. GPC may be used to rent commercial vehicles through a local vendor if
       approved by the servicing contracting office. All governing GPC guidelines apply.
       6.8.1.3. Another option is to process a purchase request AF IMT 9, Request for
       Purchase, through ABSS, routed through the servicing contracting office to hire local
       movers.
   6.8.2. Costs for do-it-yourself-moves for the leased unaccompanied and family housing
   programs are charged to the squadron. This expense must be identified on page 4 of the
   UBSR for reimbursement.
6.9. Leased Housing and Purchased Utilities. There are two types of leased housing: LUH
and MFH. Squadron logistics personnel will maintain all leased housing contracts. The group
FM will manage all payments concerning leased and utility payments.
   6.9.1. EEIC 47102 - Leased Unaccompanied Housing. Use this EEIC for the monthly rental
   charges incurred under the LUH program under fund code 30 O&M. AETCI 32-6004,
   Unaccompanied Student Officer Quarters Management, governs the program. Prior to any
   payment, a lease must be negotiated and let by the Army Corps of Engineers (ACoE). Since
   leases are fully funded, HQ AFRS/FM must be contacted if changes occur.
   6.9.2. EEIC 47103 - Military Family Housing. Use this EEIC for the monthly rental charges
   incurred under the MFH program – FC3Y. AETCI 32-6001 governs this program. Before
   any payment is issued, a lease must be negotiated and let by the ACoE. These leases are fully
   funded via a FC 3Y-funding document. If there are changes to your MFH program, contact
   HQ AFRS/FM for funding adjustments.
       6.9.2.1. Funding for LUH and MFH are fenced. Take careful action to ensure the LUH
       costs are properly charged to FC30 and MFH costs are properly charged to FC3Y. The
       unit will receive additional funding as needed (new leases or rent increases). Likewise, if
       leases are terminated before the end of the fiscal year, funding will be withdrawn by HQ
       AFRS/FM.
       6.9.2.2. Under both programs, the member is responsible for notifying the unit of
       changes in his or her status in a timely manner.
       6.9.2.3. For governing instructions for funding use AFI 65-604, Appropriation Symbols
       and Budget Codes (Fiscal Year 2009), AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Chapters 3 and 21; and
       payment guidance in DoDFMR 7000, title 14-R, Volume 10.
          6.9.2.3.1. Recruiting Support Squadron Logistics (RSSL) will complete the Housing
          Office/Billeting Official section of AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to
          Start, Stop or Change Basic Allowance for Quarters (BAQ) or Dependency
          Redetermination, by annotating the assignment or termination of housing, sign, and
          date the form, and forward to the squadron RA. The squadron RA will ensure the
          member’s BAH is stopped effective the day before to effective date of the lease by
          forwarding the AF Form 594 to the servicing FSO.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                       25


          6.9.2.3.2. HQ AFRS/RSX will administer funding for ACoE overhead and/or
          administrative costs incurred in negotiating leases. Please refer inquiries for these
          costs to HQ AFRS/RSX.
          6.9.2.3.3. Establish MORDs for payment of rent and utilities on a quarterly basis
          according to https://dfas4dod.dfas.mil/library/pubs/dfasde70004r.pdf (Interim
          Guidance on Accounting for Obligations). Lease terms and amounts are specifically
          spelled out in the lease. Each lease is reviewed to determine the duration of the lease,
          the termination clause, and if utilities are included in the lease payment.
          6.9.2.3.4. Payment processing for all leases is initiated via letter to the appropriate
          payment office. The letter must arrive no later than the 20th of the month to ensure
          payment is made prior to the last day of the month. These procedures may have to be
          adapted to meet local host requirements. In October of each year ensure the respective
          payment office has a copy of each lease and any amendments in their file as
          supporting documentation for payments against each MORD. Squadron logistics must
          also maintain a copy of the lease.
          6.9.2.3.5. Payment to lesser is always in advance as stipulated in the lease agreement
          signed by the lessee. Ensure the payment is received before the beginning of the
          month or by the date indicated in the lease agreement.
   6.9.3. EEIC 480XX – Purchased Utilities. If utility charges are not included in the lease, use
   this EEIC to cover any utility charges associated with the LUH FC30 and Leased Family
   Housing FC3Y programs.
      6.9.3.1. For GPC payments the group must establish a GPC checking account for utility
      payments. Establish an AF IMT 4009 based on estimated costs for the quarter. Payments
      are made for current monthly charges only. Annotate the check number used to pay each
      invoice and maintain a copy in the cardholder’s file. Charges for a time period beginning
      in one fiscal year (FY) and ending in the subsequent FY are charged to FY of the
      statement date of the invoice.
      6.9.3.2. Send the invoices for the utility payments directly to group FM. All accounts
      must identify the Air Force as the billing office; not the member.
6.10. EEIC 559ZZ – Contracts. AF IMT 9 is used for single purchases of items exceeding
$3,000 and services exceeding $2,500, annually. GSA schedules are limited to $25,000.
   6.10.1. Contact group FM to verify host contracting office procedures.
   6.10.2. Include type of contract, required forms, and renewal procedures. The three types of
   contracts and their definitions are:
      6.10.2.1. Requirement Contract: A contractual agreement to provide an unspecified
      quantity at a set price for a fixed period of time. The established rates are charged by a
      vendor during the life of the contract. No funds may be expended directly on this
      document, and no order can be placed on it. Contracting issues a blanket delivery order
      (BDO) against a requirement contract in response to an expressed need in order to make a
      purchase.
 26                                                               AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


      6.10.2.2. Blanket Delivery Order: A BDO is placed against a requirements contract. At
      the beginning of each quarter, a PR is processed to increase the funds on the current BDO
      or establish a new BDO for the current quarter.
      6.10.2.3. Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA): A BPA does not lock vendors into a set
      price. As a requirement arises, an order is placed with a vendor, but the price will not be
      guaranteed. Normally several BPAs are cut at the same time to ensure fair competition
      among vendors.
   6.10.3. For guidance concerning purchase orders of single purchases for services, use EEIC
   559XX, Miscellaneous Contractual Services (paragraph 6.24). See the appropriate EEIC
   guidance for single purchases of bulk supplies (619); equipment or furniture (628); or
   computers (637).
   6.10.4. AFRS authorizes furniture replacement and computer purchases. These are normally
   purchased by AFRS on an attrition basis.
   6.10.5. For additional guidance, contact the host group contracting office.
6.11. EEIC 473 - Equipment Rental. This EEIC covers rental of equipment costs that do not
fall under any other category.
   6.11.1. Rental of equipment to include:
      6.11.1.1. Postal meter heads.
      6.11.1.2. Copiers through GSA.
   6.11.2. Equipment rentals should be procured using GPC. Contracts through host contracting
   office for annual cost exceeding $3,000 for non-GSA schedule companies.
   6.11.3. Whenever possible, items are rented annually and a lease vs buying analysis is
   accomplished.
   6.11.4. Recruiting Squadron Support Information Systems (RSSI) and/or RSSL provide
   estimates of projected squadron equipment rental requirements during the FY.
   6.11.5. For vehicle rental use:
      6.11.5.1. Part-time vehicle rental, see EEIC 434.
      6.11.5.2. Rental vehicle while TDY, see EEIC 409.
   6.11.6. Booth rentals fall under EEIC 47101.
   6.11.7. Rental of a moving truck for transportation of supplies and relocation of Air Force
   recruiting offices (AFRO) fall under EEIC 46X.
   6.11.8. For additional guidance, go to AFI 65-601, Volume 1.
6.12. EEIC 44X – Communications. This area includes all commercial telephone,
DSL/Internet, FTS-2001 contracts, and cellular phone costs. Note: EEIC 6XX outlines
procedures for purchasing phones, dialers, and code-a-phones, etc. AETCI 33-101,
Telecommunication Services Management for Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) and Air
Force Reserve Officers Training Corp (AFROTC), governs this program. All communications
contracts are done through RSSL. For commercial phone charges, a communication services
agreement is done through RSSL with an AF IMT 1218, Request for Communications Service.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                     27


There are two ways to pay for services, MORD and GPC. Establish one MORD for each vendor
in October based on estimates and increased each quarter or as needed. Monitor bills and
payments through use of standardized MORD tracking sheet.
   6.12.1. EEIC 442 – Defense Metropolitan Area Telephone System (DMATS). DMATS
   provides telephone service to DoD components through a single manager. Use this EEIC for
   common use communications services purchased only from DMATS. These charges are paid
   through a miscellaneous interdepartmental purchase request (MIPR), MORD, or GPC
   depending on the base.
   6.12.2. EEIC 442 – Administrative Telephone Rental Charges, Commercial Recurring
   Charges, Installation and Relocation Charges or Commercial Toll Charges. These charges
   appear on the commercial phone bills. Bills are received at the squadron RSSL, certified, and
   sent to the group FM by the squadron RA. Direct any questions concerning bills to squadron
   RSSL.
   6.12.3. EEIC 443 – Cellular Phone. Covers the cost associated with cellular phone expenses.
   There are Air Force BPAs available for several cell phone companies. Invoices are received
   by RSSL, then certified and forwarded to the group FM by the squadron RA.
   6.12.4. EEIC 44800 – FTS-2001 Fixed Charges and Common Distributable Charges. This
   EEIC covers GSA fixed monthly rental charges for FTS phones, to include equipment and
   rental. This also covers common distributable charges, which appear on the FTS phone bill
   from GSA. This cost is usually billed monthly in arrears.
6.13. EEIC 44600 – Postal. This EEIC covers the cost of official mail, post office box rental,
postal meter charges, and postal stamps for recruiter generated mail (RGM). This program is
administered by the squadron IM. Charges are normally paid with the GPC.
6.14. EEIC 50X – Printing. Printing costs of non advertising items are charged to PEC
81711F; printing costs for advertising items are charged to PEC 81712F and must be pre-
approved by HQ AFRS/RSM.
   6.14.1. Non advertising is defined as administrative in nature and cannot be identified
   directly to an item that will be used by marketing personnel, such as, printing of training,
   informational packages, mass mail outs and other authorized reproduction requirements of an
   administrative nature.
   6.14.2. Use EEIC 501(00) for local purchase printing and EEIC 502(00) for GSA.
       6.14.2.1. Local Vendor for Printing. The squadron IM will submit the request to the local
       vendor. Use GPC for local vendor print jobs.
       6.14.2.2. GSA. Requests for printing services are submitted by the IM on the appropriate
       form determined by the local printing office. Note: In some cases, the host base will
       require request for reproduction support be forwarded through them. If they cannot
       provide support, they will forward it to another GSA printing office for completion. Upon
       completion of the print job, your squadron IM will receive a copy of the print request
       with the finished product. The request with the finished product will reflect the actual
       cost of the print job, and the amount due. Use GPC for printing payments.
 28                                                              AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010



6.15. EEIC 56X – Purchased Maintenance of Computer Equipment. Use this EEIC to cover
the cost of maintenance for memory typewriters, computer systems, and peripherals.
   6.15.1. Refer questions about maintenance on your desktop computers to your squadron or
   group systems administrators (SA).
   6.15.2. For maintenance that cannot be performed by the SA, pay-as-you-go with GPC or it
   may be more cost effective to purchase new equipment.
6.16. EEIC 569XX – Contract Maintenance. Fund maintenance contracts by the servicing
base under the current support agreement. Fund all costs not covered by the support agreement
with unit funds.
   6.16.1. Support Agreement Funded Costs. Refer to the current support agreement, and
   coordinate with the host budget office to determine what repairs they will cover.
   6.16.2. Unit Funded Costs. The squadron logistics office is the starting point for equipment
   maintenance request. All maintenance must be procured through the servicing contracting
   office via group FM. Each type of maintenance contract will have its own EEIC shred; they
   can                  be                 found                     online                  at
   https://afdd.afbudsys.disa.mil/afdd/query/coderst.cfm?stid_value=EL-191.
6.17. EEIC 75637 - Meals and Lodging. This program covers cost for the meals & lodging
costs for all applicants processed through each military entry processing station (MEPS).
   6.17.1. Each squadron has a dedicated CBA for this program. Payments for this program are
   on a pay and confirm basis.
   6.17.2. The process for the M&L program is completed as follows and is accomplished
   every month:
       6.17.2.1. The MEPS liaison logs applicants on the MEPCOM Form 727-E, Processing
       List (PL).
       6.17.2.2. At the end of the month, the MEPCOM budget personnel provides the MEPS
       liaison two MEPCOM verification of monthly charges (one for lodging and one for
       meals) with a sum log (Daily Worksheet for M&L) of the total number of people who
       were charged for M&L based on the MEPCOM Form 727-E.
       6.17.2.3. The MEPS liaison certifies the MEPCOM verification of monthly charges with
       the total amount due to the vendor (the total sum of applicants multiplied by rate per the
       pre-price agreement) are correct.
       6.17.2.4. The MEPS liaison provides a signed copy of the MEPCOM daily worksheet for
       M&L and a letter with the totals to the squadron RSO point of contact.
       6.17.2.5. The RSO validates charges and logs them into the HQ AFRS/FM tracking
       spreadsheet     located      on      the      HQ      AFRS/FM      CoP       at
       https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-RS-A1.
       6.17.2.6. The RSO provides a copy of the MEPCOM daily worksheet for M&L, and
       verification of monthly charges letter to HQ AFRS/FM as soon they are validated or by
       the 15th of the following month, whichever comes first.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                          29


       6.17.2.7. The squadron RA receives the billing statement.
       6.17.2.8. The squadron RA provides the billing statement to RSO for verification of
       charges and sends a copy to group FM.
       6.17.2.9. The group FM creates a receiving report and forwards to DFAS for payment.
   6.17.3. The squadron RSO ensures charges are billed in an expedient manner and will
   inform the squadron RA of any problems (such as, over and/or under billings, charges not
   billed, etc.) and the actions taken to correct the problem. If bills have not been charged after a
   couple of months, RSO will call the vendor to identify the problem and have the vendor bill
   the account as soon as possible.
6.18. EEIC 75638 – Base Support. This addresses the cost of support provided under inter-
service support agreements by host bases and/or posts. HQ AFRS/FM should review all support
agreements prior to the commander signing as the approving official. Review the cost
periodically to ensure charges are in line with the agreement. The group FM will include these
estimated costs in the squadron’s execution plan.
6.19. EEIC 55950 – Contract Physicals. This EEIC covers the cost of physicals required for
medical applicants. Normally, physicals are performed at the MEPS or a local Air Force base at
no charge; however, if services cannot be performed by MEPS or Air Force base, the services
will be performed by a civilian physician. AFRSI 36-2001, Recruiting Procedures for the Air
Force, outlines the procedures for attaining these services. Note: AFI 36-2001, Officer Training
Program Examining Centers (OTPEC), explains the responsibilities for bases with the capability
to perform physicals. Unit funds may be used to pay for M&Ls. To obtain contract physicals,
program managers and flight chiefs must contact the squadron RA for funds approval. The
civilian physician will send the invoice to the squadron RA and payment will be made by GPC.
6.20. EEIC 50401 - Local Advertising. The local advertising campaign takes the interest
generated by the national program and promotes action by prospective applicants. This should
result in leads and increased recruiting office traffic. Coordinating and integrating the national
and local ad campaigns conveys a consistent, unified message and image. It ensures that we
speak with a single voice in the most consistent, cost-effective manner possible.
   6.20.1. HQ AFRS/FM, in conjunction with HQ AFRS/RSM publishes squadron advertising
   funds policy and guidance letter, annually. All advertising expenses are charged to PE
   81712F. For additional guidance on local advertising, consult AFRSI 36-2001, Chapter 8.
   6.20.2. Local advertising accomplished by squadrons includes:
       6.20.2.1. Local radio advertisements.
       6.20.2.2. Newspaper advertisement not available through the national program.
       6.20.2.3. Billboard advertisement not available through the national program.
       6.20.2.4. Sales promotional items (SPI); not available or above the distribution allowed
       through the HQ AFRS/RSMA order program.
       6.20.2.5. Lead lists with cost greater than $25. Lead lists $25 and lower may be
       purchased by recruiters and reimbursed as an OPE.
   6.20.3. HQ AFRS/RSM must approve all purchases other than lead lists.
 30                                                             AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


6.21. EEIC 40983 – Road Tolls. Used to purchase advance tickets and/or tokens to pay toll
charges for highways and bridges used by government owned vehicles (GOV) only.
   6.21.1. The squadron purchases toll tickets and/or tokens for a set dollar amount in advance
   via GTC/SATO purchase card, GPC card or checkbook; there is no after-the-fact billing.
   Since these tickets and/or tokens are pre-purchased, the squadron ensures all unused tickets
   are returned for credit.
   6.21.2. Some states offer a convenient pass device to be kept inside the GOV to
   electronically charge the toll toward a pre-established account whenever the vehicle passes
   through a checkpoint.
      6.21.2.1. Squadron logistics personnel will maintain an inventory log and periodically
      reconcile the list.
      6.21.2.2. Convenient pass invoices are sent to squadron logistics personnel for payment
      by GPC/SATO card or check.
6.22. EEIC 55921 – Out-of-Pocket Vouchers. The OPE program is designed to reimburse
authorized individuals for expenses incurred while conducting official recruiting duty.
Expenditures are governed by United States Code 428 and reimbursement is authorized by JFTR
Volume 1, Uniformed Service Members, Part C, Reimbursement for Recruiting Expenses,
paragraph U7030. All expenses will be charged to EEIC 55921 regardless of the expense.
   6.22.1. Recruiters must be briefed on reimbursement limits and their responsibilities for
   filing an out-of-pocket voucher when they in-process the squadron and on a yearly basis
   thereafter. The commander support staff will brief procedures during the squadron in-
   processing and annually during the annual training meets.
      6.22.1.1. Request for reimbursement should be via a DTS local voucher and will be
      limited to $75 per month for authorized expenditures, except where there are unusual
      circumstances. The squadron commander or support flight commander should authorize
      these unusual circumstances in advance through e mail, DTS comment, MFR or any
      other documented means.
      6.22.1.2. GTC Out-of-Pocket expenditures over $75 are not authorized for
      reimbursement without the prior approval of the unit commander; each authorization
      must be approved on a case-by-case basis. If members do not have prior authorization
      from the unit commander, the GTC is not authorized for use.
   6.22.2. OPE vouchers must be submitted within 5 duty days after the month being claimed.
   Per DoD Financial Management Regulation, Volume 9, Chapter 3, Department of Defense
   Government Travel Card ANNEX 1 (Statement of Understanding – Government Travel
   Charge Card Program) states, ―Pay all charges upon receipt of the monthly billing statement
   through prompt filing of vouchers and election of split disbursement.‖ Only expenses for one
   calendar month can be submitted on each voucher. Ensure that receipts and other sufficient
   information are provided to justify claims submitted (such as, lunch provided for applicant,
   or etc.).
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                      31


  6.22.3. All receipts must be submitted with the claim regardless of cost. If the receipt is not
  available, member must submit a memorandum in lieu of receipt. A sample memorandum is
  located          on           the         HQ            AFRS/FM               CoP            at
  https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-RS-A1.
  6.22.4. Meal purchases should not exceed the following:
     6.22.4.1. Limit $10 per person for enlisted accession events (includes ROTC).
     6.22.4.2. Limit $20 per person for officer accession and influencer events.
     6.22.4.3. Limit $40 per person for critical officer specialty one-on-one events
     (determined by squadron commander), normally one single one-on-one event is
     authorized per prospective critical officer applicant.
  6.22.5. All OPE expenses must be annotated in the recruiter’s daily planning guide.
  6.22.6. The SQ/CC or designee appointed in writing has approval authority for claims at
  squadron level.
  6.22.7. The support flight commander may approve the SQ/CC’s claims.
  6.22.8. When approving claims, the AO must review the local voucher for completeness,
  reasonableness of items claimed, and accuracy. Any non-reimbursable item must be
  corrected, by stamping the local voucher RETURNED through DTS with comments as to
  why the local voucher was returned.
  6.22.9. The following is a list of AUTHORIZED out-of-pocket expenses:
     6.22.9.1. Adminstrative Fee Charges. Recruiters are authorized to obtain cash from
     ATMs for expenses required to perform official duties. Reimbursement of the
     administrative fee charge, presently 3 percent (or $2, whichever is greater); of the total
     amount of the advance is reimbursable on the monthly voucher submission.
     Reimbursement of administrative fees is limited to withdrawals for out-of-pocket
     expenses only.
     6.22.9.2. DEP Commander’s Calls. A DEP Commanders Call Log is required with the
     voucher to verify the number of DEP personnel and guests. The recruiter must ensure
     only authorized guests are provided meals at DEP commander’s calls.
         6.22.9.2.1. Because military members receive BAS or subsistence in-kind, food
         consumed by the recruiter and other military personnel cannot be claimed and must
         be deducted from the total bill.
         6.22.9.2.2. If there is a combined DEP Commander’s Call between recruiters, each
         recruiter will only be reimbursed for the cost of their respective applicants.
         6.22.9.2.3. Only occasional meals for DEPPERs are authorized. It is the
         commander’s discretion to establish criteria for occasional meals.
     6.22.9.3. Donuts and Snack Trays Provided to Counselors, Influencers, and Media
     Personnel. Recruiters can drop off items on the way to work without requiring a list of
     attendees who consumed the food.
32                                                               AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


        6.22.9.3.1. Because this program is not to provide a reward for past performance, but
        to assist in future endeavors, exercise care to ensure the process is not abused.
        6.22.9.3.2. If an Air Force presentation is given when these items are provided, out-
        of-pocket reimbursement is inappropriate; COI funds must be utilized.
        Documentation must be processed per established COI guidelines.
     6.22.9.4. Meals and Snacks Provided for Commissioning Ceremonies (either before or
     after the actual ceremony).
        6.22.9.4.1. The commissioned member is considered an applicant until EAD.
        6.22.9.4.2. The claim must state who consumed meals and/or refreshments and their
        status.
        6.22.9.4.3. Rank insignia for presentation to the individual is not an authorized
        expense.
     6.22.9.5. Bulk Items. When purchasing bulk items for AFRS offices, a list of individuals
     is not required; however, show the percentage purchased for applicant’s consumption.
     Bulk items include, but are not limited to, coffee, coffee supplies, soda, juice, candy, and
     other light snacks.
     6.22.9.6. Fees for Certified Birth Certificates, Vital Statistics, and School Transcripts. It
     is the applicant’s responsibility to furnish required substantiating documents in an
     original or notarized form. If an applicant is unable to provide the required
     documentation, obtaining certified copies of birth certificates or vital statistics is
     authorized. Officer’s accession (OA) recruiters can be reimbursed for obtaining certified
     or raised seal copies of school transcripts for HP applicants. This does not grant recruiters
     blanket authority to pay for all required documentation. Reimbursement will be
     considered on a case-by-case basis.
     6.22.9.7. Valid Fax Expenses.
     6.22.9.8. Police Record Checks. DD Form 369, Police Record Check, are authorized
     according to DoDI, 1304.2, Instruction Pre-enlistment Forms, unless an applicant
     discloses disqualifying offenses, and is requesting a waiver, he or she must bear all
     expenses incurred for police record checks. In all other cases, reimbursement is
     authorized when the agency charges a fee for release of the information.
     6.22.9.9. Parking, Parking Meter, and Toll Road Fees for Government Vehicles. Ensure
     the reason for the stop and actual location of the stop is annotated in the event purpose in
     DTS. The amount claimed falls under JFTR, Volume 1, paragraph U7025, rules and does
     not count towards the recruiters’ monthly $75.00 out-of-pocket limitation.
     6.22.9.10. Applicant Parking Fees and Incidents to Application Processing. This includes
     parking at or near the Air Force Recruiting Office. Recruiters are authorized to pay the
     applicant’s parking fee and claim the fee on a separate monthly out-of-pocket voucher.
     The amount claimed falls under JFTR, Volume 1, paragraph U7025, rules and does not
     count towards the recruiters’ monthly $75 out-of-pocket limitation.
     6.22.9.11. Miscellaneous Reimbursable Expenses Incurred by an Applicant Incident to
     Processing in the Air Force. (See JFTR, Volume l, U7025.)
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                   33


     6.22.9.12. Official Phone Calls made from a Personal Telephone or the Recruiter’s
     Residences. A copy of the itemized bill must accompany the claim and recruiters may
     claim itemized official calls only. All production recruiters are issued cell phones so
     reimbursement for official phone calls made from a personal cellular phone is not
     authorized.
  6.22.10. The following are unauthorized out-of-pocket expenses, and may not be reimbursed
  under any circumstances:
     6.22.10.1. Out-of-pocket usage for a prospective applicant and/or influencer on a tour
     where a COI event is planned.
     6.22.10.2. Reimbursement for snacks for influencers on an AFRS-sponsored
     ―Distinguished Educator Tour‖.
     6.22.10.3. Meals provided to military members, regardless of circumstance.
     6.22.10.4. Purchase of alcoholic beverages.
     6.22.10.5. Fuel for the applicant’s (or family) vehicle.
     6.22.10.6. Parking tickets or towing fees for government vehicles.
     6.22.10.7. Locksmith fees when locked out of GOV or POV.
     6.22.10.8. Promotional or incentive gifts.
     6.22.10.9. Purchasing, to include printing or engraving of mailing, calling, or seasonal
     greeting cards. Do not use government printers to generate or overprint greeting cards
     and do no use official postage (RGM); to mail greeting cards.
     6.22.10.10. Rental of facilities.
     6.22.10.11. Recreational activities such as bowling, skating, miniature golf, paint ball,
     movies, or rental of recreational equipment (bowling shoes, roller skates, ice skates).
  6.22.11. The following are not authorized through the out-of-pocket program; however,
  there are other avenues available to possibly procure these items:
     6.22.11.1. Purchase and/or maintenance of cellular phones to include special fixed fees
     calling plan charges. These costs are covered through the communications program.
     6.22.11.2. Hotel rooms for applicants. The M&L program was established for this
     purpose.
     6.22.11.3. Transportation cost for applicants.
     6.22.11.4. Office supplies for AFROs. These items should be procured with RSSL
     coordination through routine supply channels.
     6.22.11.5. Office keys for AFROs. The Lessor will provide a sufficient number of keys.
     6.22.11.6. Gas for government vehicles. Contact RSSL for established GSA
     reimbursement procedures.
     6.22.11.7. Car washes for government vehicles. Car washes must be procured using
     government credit card issued with the vehicle, not to exceed $20 per month.
 34                                                               AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


      6.22.11.8. Lead list costing more than $25 Contact the marketing NCO for purchasing
      procedures for lead lists. Personal reimbursement procedures may be utilized.
      6.22.11.9. Business cards must be requested through your squadron RSSI who forwards
      the request to HQ AFRS/RSI.
      6.22.11.10. Items purchased for formal COI events, such as, paper plates, napkins,
      cutlery, sodas, etc. Use EEIC 55920, not 55921 for any COI costs.
      6.22.11.11. Contact the squadron marketing NCO for coordination of local
      advertisement.
      6.22.11.12. Booth rentals and related services, transportation costs for tours and bands,
      auditorium rental for Air Force bands, etc. Contact the squadron marketing NCO for
      coordination.
   6.22.12. The Sq or CC or support flight commander have approval authority for specific
   items not listed. Advance authorization of expenses meeting extenuating circumstances may
   be approved for emergency purchases of items normally procured through RSSL.
6.23. EEIC 55920 - Center of Influence (COI). HQ AFRS/RSM is the OPR for this program,
and the governing directive is AFRSI 36-2001, paragraph 8.11, for a complete description of
COI events.
   6.23.1. For COI presentations, the recruiter authorizes reimbursed for their meal.
   6.23.2. Meals purchased should not exceed the following:
      6.23.2.1. Limit $10 per person for enlisted accession events (includes ROTC).
      6.23.2.2. Limit $20 per person for officer accession and influencer events.
      6.23.2.3. Limit $40 per person for critical officer specialty one-on-one events
      (determined by Sq or CC), normally one single one-on-one event is authorized per
      prospective critical officer applicant. The commander can designate certain critical OA
      programs that would garner up to $40 per person. Under no circumstance should the COI
      exceed the per person amount.
   6.23.3. Funding and approval for authorized COI events are requested on an AFRS Form
   1406.
      6.23.3.1. The marketing section will complete AFRS Form 1406 and have the RA sign
      off with the fund cited for the COI.
      6.23.3.2. The GPC card or convenience checks are the most convenient payment method
      for this program, as they are automatically tax exempt.
      6.23.3.3. Recruiter reimbursement for an approved COI event is authorized. The
      recruiter is authorized to use his or her GTC (to include ATM withdrawals) to pay for the
      event and request reimbursement on a local voucher through DTS. Reimbursement of
      ATM fees is authorized and listed as a separate line item below of the unit cost
      information.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                      35


   6.23.4. Taxes are not paid for COI events. Recruiters must use the standard tax exempt form
   to receive tax exemption. If the vendor does not honor the tax exemption, a full explanation
   of the attempt to use the tax exemption must accompany the claim through DTS in order to
   be paid for the taxes.
6.24. EEIC 559XX – Miscellaneous Contractual Services. This EEIC includes contracts for
services not specifically covered by the above categories, such as, fitness contracts, rental of
meeting rooms or contract quarters. All orders in this area will normally be generated on a PR.
Depending on guidance from the servicing contracting office via group FM – GPC can be used
for fitness contracts. Note: Refer to AFI 65-601, paragraph 4.44 for guidance on memberships in
professional or civic organizations.
6.25. EEIC 598 – Awards. This covers Innovative Development through Employee Awareness
(IDEA) Awards; also known as the suggestion award program.
   6.25.1. IDEA awards are approved based upon submission through the IDEA site accessible
   through the Air Force Portal.
   6.25.2. The Recruiting Group is responsible for payment of amount awarded once approved.
   6.25.3. Prepare and submit a SF Form 1034, according to host base ALO and DFAS
   procedures. Do to the nature of the IDEA program; submit an unfunded requirement for
   amounts paid in this EEIC during the year.
   6.25.4. For mission accomplishment awards, see paragraph 6.27.2 EEIC 61908.
   6.25.5. For additional guidance, see AFI 38-401, The Air Force Innovative Development
   through Employee Awareness (IDEA) Program; AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian
   Performance Program; AFI 36-1004, Managing the Civilian Recognition Program, to provide
   guidance pertaining to civilian performance awards; and AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Chapter 4,
   Section 4L.
6.26. EEIC 60X – Supplies. This EEIC is used to purchase supplies through the base supply
system. Contact the base supply customer service office and the local FMALO if items must be
purchased through the supply system (such as, deployment items).
6.27. EEIC 619XX – Non-AFSF Supplies. This EEIC is used for the procurement of supplies
or supply type items not bought through base supply. Examples of purchases are toner, paper,
awards, and subscriptions. Use shred-outs to identify cost in the appropriate area. The following
shred-outs are authorized:
   6.27.1. EEIC – 61905 Subscriptions or Periodicals. Request for subscriptions and periodicals
   are routed through the host base library. Air Force Times subscriptions are procured using
   this EEIC. Funding for Air Force Times is included in the initial supply and equipment
   distribution. Coordinate with the squadron IM personnel to procure these items. If purchased
   using the GPC program, use EEIC 61950.
   6.27.2. EEIC – 61908 Awards. Air Force policy states appropriated funds may be used to
   obtain trophies and awards for mission accomplishments. Trophies and awards are defined as
   trophies, plaques, emblems, organizational coins, or certificates designed, engraved,
   inscribed, or printed only for display purposes. Awards must be of nominal value. For
   additional guidance refer to AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards; AFI 65-601,
   Volume 1; and AFRSI 36-2801, Air Force Recruiting Service Awards Program.
 36                                                             AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


       6.27.2.1. The recommended amount for the awards budget is based on the total
       authorized manning as of 1 Oct of the current fiscal year multiplied by $45.00. Track
       costs associated with enhancement (framing; engraving, and certificates) and include
       them as part of the individual awards funding.
       6.27.2.2. Refer to AFRSI 36-2801, for specifics in running your awards program.
       Familiarity with this program is paramount. If awards are purchased using the GPC
       program, use EEIC 61950. Coins may be purchased only for mission accomplishment.
   6.27.3. EEIC – 61950 Government Purchase Card. The GPC program is designed to
   supplement contracting methods utilized under small purchases procedures for supplies and
   services. Since the host group contracting office governs the program, guidance on
   authorized and unauthorized purchases is provided to each unit by the host group contracting
   office. All items purchased with GPC are charged to 61950.
       6.27.3.1. (Mandatory) Squadrons must maintain the GPC program according to
       guidance from the group contracting office. In addition to this guidance, the following
       rules apply:
          6.27.3.1.1. Squadron cardholders must maintain a ―GPC Purchase Request Form‖ for
          each line item on the purchase control log for all purchases made with the GPC. A
          sample of the purchase request form and control log can be found on the AFRS CoP
          website at: https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/EntryCoP.asp?Filter=OO-FM-
          RS-A1. Charges are categorized according to page 2 of the UBSR.
          6.27.3.1.2. (Mandatory) Squadron RA will report monthly GPC charges to group
          FM for UBSR completion.
          6.27.3.1.3. (Mandatory) Cardholders and AO must ensure all transactions for the
          month are documented on the standardized GPC tracking spreadsheet to ensure all
          transactions are accounted for accurately reported on the UBSR at end-of-month.
          Refer to the local contracting office for access and instructions for the GPC program
          system.
   6.27.4. 61990 is for non-AFSF Other.
6.28. EEIC 628 – Equipment. This EEIC covers the cost of purchasing furniture and other
equipment (such as, calculators, typewriters, and copiers, etc.). Most equipment purchases will
be supported by the GPC program.
   6.28.1. Equipment purchases for deployed members. If there is a requirement to purchase
   equipment items through the base supply office, contact base supply customer service
   department.
   6.28.2. Purchase copiers through GSA as opposed to leasing the equipment, but a cost
   analysis must consider the future turnover of the model and the advancement of technology.
   6.28.3. Furniture is purchased at AFRS level through logistics for the standard recruiter
   package. The squadron logistics office identifies furniture as unsatisfactory and HQ
   AFRS/RSX distributes the necessary replacements. Furniture not identified as part of the
   standard package can be purchased new before approval from HQ AFRS/FM with unit funds.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                       37


       6.28.3.1. If HQ AFRS/FM issues funding to the squadron for replacement furniture, the
       unit will make purchases using the GPC through Unicor™.
       6.28.3.2. Request a single purchase limit and limit increase as well as a raised max
       purchase limit through the host contracting office. If the cost does not exceed $3,000 then
       the normal purchasing guidelines apply (such as, three sources).
6.29. EEIC 637 – Computer. This EEIC covers the cost of purchasing of computers, printers,
monitors, cables, etc. Computer equipment for production use is normally purchased at AFRS
level and delivered to the squadron. Purchases of computer equipment for headquarters and non-
production use should be purchased through Air Force web-based information technology (IT)
purchasing program AFWAY at the squadron level after prior approval from HQ AFRS/RSI (see
https://afway.af.mil).
 38                                                                AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


                                           Chapter 7

                             SPECIAL INTEREST PROGRAMS

7.1. Medical Recruiter Assistance Program. This program allows TDY travel to recruit
health professionals by active duty Air Force health professionals. The active duty TDY
personnel may be used at state and local health profession conventions, recruiting dinners, and
school career days.
7.2. Health Professions Applicant Travel (HPAT). According to the JTR, Volume 2,
Department of Defense Civilian Personnel, paragraph C6200, fully qualifies applicants for health
professions programs who are designated as critical fill positions by HQ AFRS/RSOC and have
been offered an assignment to an Air Force MTF. They are authorized fully funded travel to
preview the prospective assignment additionally an applicant's spouse may accompany the
applicant on these trips. Only trips to continental United States MTFs are authorized, and the
applicant's spouse is authorized funded travel only (no per diem) according to JTR, Volume 2,
Appendix E, paragraph A.
   7.2.1. Applicants must be selected and offered an assignment by HQ AFRS/RSOC.
   7.2.2. The Air Force Personnel Center Medical Service Officer Management Branch
   requests applicants have personal interviews with Air Force consultants (who are being
   considered for academic, training, or unique specialties) coordinated through HQ
   AFRS/RSOC.
   7.2.3. If the HPAT requires an interview with an Air Force consultant, HQ AFRS/RSOC
   will notify the appropriate unit personnel. Interviews may be requested before selection.
   Recruiters should accompany HPAT candidates on MTF tours and consultant interviews at
   unit expense. Spouses are not authorized funded travel to attend consultant interviews.
7.3. National and Local Convention Attendance. These events (booth rentals) complement
other recruiting efforts to reach target audiences. Using local funds, unit representatives attend
the conventions to enhance the recruiting process.
7.4. Educator Tours. This program provides an important link between the educational
community and the Air Force environment. Squadrons arrange tours in coordination with AFRS.
Funding supports:
   7.4.1. Commercial transportation to visit selected Air Force training centers.
   7.4.2. Billeting fees incurred during a stay on an Air Force base.
   7.4.3. TDY expenses for two military escorts.
   7.4.4. Invitational travel orders for TDY travel of educators outside the local area.
       7.4.4.1. Reimbursement of travel expenses is based on applicable locality rate.
       7.4.4.2. Educators are not authorized travel orders for visits within their local domicile
       area.
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                        39


7.5. Recruiter Assistance Program (RAP). This program is designed to allow recent
graduates of basic military training and technical training schools to work with enlisted accession
recruiters while home on leave. Procedures for RAP are outlined in AFI 36-3003. This is a
permissive TDY program (non-chargeable leave). Funded travel and per diem is not authorized.
7.6. Role Model TDY Program. A unit funded TDY program for squadrons to use outstanding
airmen from local Air Force installations assists in the recruiting effort. These individuals speak
at high schools, COI events, or various other types of events.
7.7. Recruiting Activity Conferences. The unit commander has approval authority for onbase
(government facility) conferences, workshops, and meetings. Units requiring off-base (non
government facility) locations must forward requests through the group CC to AFRS/CV for
review and approval, if any costs are incurred.
7.8. Providing Light Refreshments at Conferences and/or Workshops. The authority to
provide light refreshments, as outlined in AFI 65-601, Volume 1, is limited to $2 per attendee
per day.
7.9. Forms and IMTs Adopted: DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization
DD Form 369, Police Record Check
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
AF IMT 9, Request for Purchase
AF IMT 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
AF Form 594, Application and Authorization to Start, Stop or Change Basic Allowance for
Quarters (BAQ) or Dependency Redetermination
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 1218, Request for Communications Service
AF IMT 4009, Government Purchase Card Fund Cite Authorization
AFRS Form 1406, Request/Approval for Expenditure of COI Funds
GSA Form 2556, Miscellaneous Charges and Adjustments
SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal
MEPCOM Form 727-E, Processing List (PL)




                                             MICHAEL D. BRICE, Colonel, USAF
                                             Vice Commander
 40                                                             AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports Management Program: Controlling
Internal, Public, and Interagency Air Force Information Collections, 1 June 2000
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS), 17 June 2002
AFMAN 34-255, Directory of Government Quarters and Dining Facilities, 1 January 1998
AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program, 1 July 1999
AFI 36-1004, Managing the Civilian Recognition Program, 16 September 2004
AFI 36-2001, Officer Training Program Examining Centers (OTPEC), 14 September 1998
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 June 2001
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 20 October 2005
AFI 38-401, The Air Force Innovative Development Through Employee Awareness (IDEA)
Program, 21 November 2007
AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders, 5 August 2005
AFI 65-114, Travel-Policy and Procedures for Financial Services Offices and Finance Offices-
Reserve Component, 26 August 2005
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFI 65-601, Volume 2, Budget Management for Operations, 21 October 1994
AFMAN 65-604, Appropriation Symbols and Budget Codes (Fiscal Year 2009), 1 October 2008
AFPD 65-6, Budget, 1 May 1998
AFRSI 36-2801, Air Force Recruiting Service Awards Program, 24 August 2007
DFAS-DE 7010.1-R, General Accounting and Finance Systems at Base Level, 15 February 1991
DFAS-DE 7010.3-R, Interim Guidance, Travel Transactions at Base Level, 3 October 1991
DFAS-DE 7010.2-R, Commercial Transactions at Base Level, 3 January 1996
DFAS-DE 7200.1-R, Interim Guidance, Procedures for Administrative Control of
Appropriations and Funds Made Available to the Department of the Air Force, September 1999
DoDFMR, Volume 9, Chapter 3, Department of Defense Government Travel Card, March 2005
DoDFMR, Volume 10, Contract Payment Policy and Procedures, May 2008
DoDFMR, Volume 14, Administrative Control of Funds and Anti-deficiency Act Violations,
January 2009
DoDI 1304.2, Instruction Pre-Enlistment Forms, March 14, 1975
JFTR, Volume 1, Joint Federal Travel Regulations, Volume 2, Uniformed Service Members,
June 1, 2009
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010                                                                   41


JFTR, Volume 2, Joint Travel Regulations, Volume 2, Department of Defense Civilian
Personnel, February 1 2005
JTR, Volume, 2, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel, Chapter 7, Reserved, 1 January
2009
AETCI 32-6001, Government-Leased Quarters, 25 April 2007
AETCI 32-6004, Unaccompanied Student Officer Quarters Management, 13 May 1999
AETCI 33-101, Telecommunication Services Management for Air Force Recruiting Service
(AFRS) and Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corp (AFROTC), 15 September 2004

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABSS—automated business services system
ACoE—Army Corps of Engineers
AEA—actual expense allowance
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—approving official
BAH—basic allowance for housing
BAS—basic allowance for subsistence
BPA—blanket purchase agreement
BDO—blanket delivery order
CBA—centrally billed accounts
CDC—career development course
CMA—centrally managed allotment
COI—center of influence
CTO—commercial travel office
DAPS—Defense Automation and Printing Service
DEP—delayed entry program
DFAS—OPLOC—Defense Finance and Accounting Service Operating Location
DoD—Department of Defense
DTS—defense travel system
ECI—extension course institute
EEIC—element or expense identification code
EP—execution plan
 42                                                    AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010


FM—financial management
FMALO—Financial Management Accounting Liaison Office
FMB—financial management board
FWA—fraud, waste, abuse
GPC—government purchase card
GSA—General Service Administration
GTC—government travel card
GTR—government travel request
HPAT—health professions applicant travel
IM—information manager
ITO—invitational travel order
JTR—Joint Travel Regulation
LOA—letter of offer and acceptance
LUH—leased unaccompanied housing
M&L——meals and lodgings
MEDRAP—Medical Recruiter Assistance Program
MFH—military family housing
MORD—miscellaneous obligation reimbursement document
MTF—medical treatment facility
NPS—non-prior services identify
OA—officer accession
OBA—operating budget allowance
OBAD—operating budget allowance document
OBL/AL—operating budget ledger/allotment ledger
ODL—open document list
ODTA—organizational DTS administrator
O&M—operations and maintenance
OPE—out-of-pocket expenses
OPLOC—operating location
PCS—permanent change of station
PEC—program element code
POV—privately owned vehicle
AFRSI65-601 30 JUNE 2010           43


RA—resource advisor
RAP—recruiter assistance program
RSS—Recruiting Support Division
TDY—temporary duty
UBSR—unit budget status report
