BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             AFRS INSTRUCTION 36-2202
AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE
                                                                                    9 JANUARY 2009

                                                                                            Personnel


                                                                             ANNUAL TRAINING
                                                                         CONFERENCE PROGRAM

                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: HQ AFRS/RSOT                                                         Certified by: HQ AFRS/RSO
                                                                          (Lt Col Angelo T. Haygood)
Supersedes: AFRSI36-2202, 1 March 2005                                                      Pages: 15

This instruction implements AFPD 36-22, Military Training. It complements AFRSI 36-2801, Air Force
Recruiting Service Awards Program, and AFRSI 36-2201, Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS)
Training Program. It establishes and implements the Annual Training Conference Program for AFRS. It
provides guidance to help commanders organize and execute an effective annual training conference
(routinely referred to as the “annual”) by providing general guidelines, minimum requirements for
training, and considerations for conducting formal awards presentations at luncheons and banquets.
This publication does not apply to Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve Command units. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
according to Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include deleting 314 RCS and adding 319 RCS as overseas squadrons (paragraphs 3.4 and 10.2); deletes
the requirement for a video teleconference between HQ AFRS/RSO, squadron project officers, and
NCOs (previously in paragraph 4.13); and updates the Web site link for the squadron annual checklist
(paragraphs 5.1 and 15.2).
1. Purpose. The Annual Training Conference Program is designed to:
1.1. Afford all recruiting squadrons an opportunity to assemble squadron members at least once annually
to receive sales, recruitment program, ancillary, and functional training.
1.2. Afford squadron commanders an opportunity to conduct commander calls, lead team-building
activities, develop production strategies, and provide recognition to superior performers.
1.3. Provide AFRS senior leadership an opportunity to address field personnel on command issues,
provide recognition to outstanding performers, and facilitate professional development of AFRS-
assigned personnel.
2                                                                AFRSI36-2202       9 JANUARY 2009

2. Responsibilities:
2.1. AFRS/CC will provide broad guidance to this instruction, provide substitute guidance at his or her
discretion, and approve an HQ AFRS representative for each squadron’s annual banquet.
2.2. AFRS/CV will approve the annual location, guest speakers, and facility.
2.3. HQ AFRS/CCE will develop the schedule for HQ AFRS representation at each squadron’s annual
in coordination with AFRS/CV for AFRS/CC approval.
2.4. HQ AFRS/FM will provide additional funding guidance to field commanders and HQ AFRS staff
(as required) for the annual, provide electronic spreadsheets to be used for cost-benefit analyses
(Attachment 2), coordinate cost-benefit analyses of location nominations, provide AFRS/CV with
group-commander recommendations location nominations no later than 1 April annually, and provide all
squadron afteraction reports and summary of costs associated with annuals for AFRS/CC review not
later than 28 February annually.
2.5. HQ AFRS/PA will provide biographical sketches on AFRS personnel to squadrons on request.
2.6. HQ AFRS/RSO will maintain and update this instruction as OPR. HQ AFRS/RSOT personnel will
assist at each squadron annual and provide 1 hour of training on command wide training issues, provide
squadrons with audiovisual equipment requirements for AFRS representative presentations, and ensure
AFRS-level annual production awards are available at each squadron’s annual.
2.7. Each group commander will:
2.7.1. Approve subordinate squadron dates and agendas for annuals.
2.7.2. Approve squadron cost-benefit analyses and nominations for annual location and facility.
2.7.3. Consolidate and forward all squadrons analyses and location nominations to HQ AFRS/FM no
later than 1 March annually.
2.7.4. Approve squadron requests for non-AFRS or nonmilitary banquet speakers and forward the
requests to AFRS/CV for final approval by AFRS/CC.
2.7.5. Approve group personnel travel to annuals for the minimum number necessary to support a
squadron’s annual.
2.7.6. Be responsible for consolidating squadron commander annual training conference afteraction
reports and submitting them to HQ AFRS/FM by 15 January annually.
2.8. Each squadron commander will:
2.8.1. Appoint a project officer, noncommissioned officer, and planning team.
2.8.2. Select potential locations for the annual.
2.8.3. Provides a cost-benefit analysis (Attachment 2).
2.8.4. Make recommendations to the group commander to ensure his or her recommendation arrives at
HQ AFRS/FM not later than 1 March annually.
2.8.5. Approve the annual agenda for forwarding to the group commander for approval.
2.8.6. Ensure annual planning and execution complies with higher headquarters instructions and
guidance.
2.8.7. Complete an annual afteraction report (Attachment 3) in time to permit group commander review
and submit the report to HQ AFRS/FM no later than 15 January annually.
AFRSI36-2202       9 JANUARY 2009                                                                       3

2.8.8. Maintain continuity information to support future annual planning.
2.9. Each squadron annual training conference project officer will oversee every aspect of the annual
planning to include potential site selection, cost summaries, agendas, invitations, awards presentations,
banquet and other event organization, very important person (VIP) transportation and lodging, protocol,
safety considerations, and risk management assessment. For help in planning, see the checklist and
timeline located at the AFRS Training page on the AF Portal.
3. Scheduling of the Annual:
3.1. Unless otherwise directed, the annual will be scheduled each year to begin not earlier than the
Tuesday following the Columbus Day holiday and to end not later than the day before the start of the
Veterans Day holiday. Note: If Veterans Day falls on a weekend or a Monday causing a three-day
weekend, the annual must end on the day before the beginning of the holiday weekend.)
3.2. Scheduling the annual after the Columbus Day holiday allows time to complete selection of annual
competition award winners and prepare and deliver awards to appropriate squadrons. Ending the annual
before Veterans Day ensures that recognition for achievements in the past fiscal year is not
unnecessarily delayed into the new fiscal year, enhances command-wide long-range planning, and
permits AFRS personnel to participate in Veterans Day activities and enjoy the holiday period.
3.3. The annual will be scheduled to avoid any conflict with other commitments of the squadron (such as
air shows and conventions) where squadron personnel must be present to represent recruiting interests.
Applicants being shipped to basic military training will not be rolled without permission of HQ
AFRS/RSOP and coordinated through the respective group.
3.4. The annual’s agenda should be planned for an approximate period of 48 hours to include the arrival
day, two nights of lodging, and the departure day. For example, Day 1 includes lodging check-in with
the formal agenda beginning at 1300. Day 2 continues the formal agenda. Day 3 concludes the formal
agenda by 1300. Squadron commanders will obtain their group commander’s approval for any squadron
member to be billeted at the annual location for more than two nights (except for 319 RCS, 333 RCS,
361 RCS, and 369 RCS members traveling from outside of the contiguous 48 states).
4. General Requirements and Procedures:
4.1. An annual is a military event, and all activities will comply with traditional military decorum,
policies, protocol, and safe practices. Military customs and courtesies will be observed throughout the
annual, to include saluting when appropriate and calling the room to attention when a senior officer
enters or departs.
4.2. The annual’s agenda must include time for the AFRS/CC (or designated representative) presentation
(1 to 1.5 hours), required ancillary training, and an awards banquet. (HQ AFRS/RSOT will provide the
squadron with information on audiovisual equipment requirements for the AFRS representative’s
presentation.)
4.3. The AFRS/CC (or designated representative) presentation will be scheduled as a mandatory general
session for all squadron members, military and civilian. Dress for scheduled activities will be the normal
duty attire. EXCEPTIONS: Banquet dress will be mess dress or semiformal service dress for all military
attendees and semiformal or business attire for civilian attendees. Social or team-building activity dress
may be civilian casual or athletic attire as determined by the squadron commander.
4.4. In addition to general sessions, the annual’s agenda may include breakout training sessions for
attendees. Examples include sales training for enlisted accession recruiters, officer accession program
review for officer accession recruiters, computer training for flight secretaries, and supervisor training
for flight chiefs. However, breakout training sessions should not conflict with general sessions. To the
4                                                                AFRSI36-2202        9 JANUARY 2009

maximum extent possible, all training and meeting sessions will take place at the establishment
approved as the annual location.
4.5. Banquet speakers will normally be assigned from the HQ AFRS staff. AFRS/CC will attend as
many banquets as possible. When AFRS/CC attends a banquet, he or she will be the banquet speaker
unless prior arrangements are coordinated with the group commander and approved by AFRS/CC. When
AFRS/CC is unable to attend a banquet, one of the following members of the AFRS leadership team will
attend on AFRS/CC’s behalf as the speaker (unless a preapproved guest speaker is scheduled) and as the
presenter of AFRS-level awards: HQ AFRS/PA, CV, MA, CCC, RSI, RSM, RSO, or RSX.
4.6. Squadrons will make requests for guest speakers and HQ AFRS representatives by memorandum to
AFRS/CV no later than 1 July annually. All requests will be consolidated and presented to AFRS/CC for
final approval. For military speakers, the speaker’s organization must fund the temporary duty (TDY) or
nonmilitary speakers, invitational travel orders will be required. Note: Non-AFRS and nonmilitary guest
speakers are best suited for awards luncheons or other awards assemblies; AFRS and military guest
speakers are best suited for the awards banquet.
4.7. Squadron commanders will ensure appropriate attention to detail so guest speakers are afforded
appropriate courtesies at all times. A guest speaker’s presentation should be motivational and related to
sales, recruiting, or overcoming personal obstacles. Guest speakers may take part in the awards
presentation (optional).
4.8. A token gift may be presented to the speaker provided the monetary limits and appropriate funding
restrictions for gift purchases are observed. A gift for an AFRS speaker is optional. If one is given, it
should be a simple memento. Plaques, large framed pictures, large figurines, etc., should be avoided.
4.9. Training agendas may require higher headquarters support. Squadron commanders may request this
support from the group staff or HQ AFRS, with group commander approval. Group commanders will
request HQ AFRS staff support via the appropriate division chief or AFRS/CV. By-name requests for
assistance from higher headquarters’ staffs are discouraged. Squadron commanders are encouraged to
invite military installation functional staff to support ancillary training sessions. Group commander
approval for this support is not required.
4.10. Squadron commanders are encouraged to invite non-squadron guests to all annual activities. Local
military entrance processing station (MEPS) commanders, sister service recruiting commanders, Air
Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) detachment commanders, host installation
commanders, command chief master sergeants, and United States Air Force Academy liaison officers
are examples of affiliates for consideration. Courtesy invitations may be extended to other AFRS
personnel, but no AFRS commander, division chief, or supervisor may authorize TDY or permissive
temporary duty for the sole purpose of attending or observing the event or to receive awards or
recognition if he or she recently had a permanent change of station from a squadron.
4.11. HQ AFRS-assigned officers who have never attended an AFRS-sponsored annual may attend one
squadron annual during the first 12 months of their assignment. HQ AFRS/CCE will schedule these
officers in coordination with squadron and group commanders. To the maximum extent possible, no
more than two such officers will be allowed at any one annual. These officers will participate in all
squadron annual general sessions and observe as many breakout training events as possible. The intent
of this effort is to expose HQ AFRS staff officers to field issues and challenges. Group commanders are
encouraged to allow this same opportunity for group-assigned officers. Note: This is a single
opportunity program. Neither HQ AFRS nor group-assigned officers are authorized to attend an annual
each year of their assignment unless directed by the appropriate commander to do so for the specific
purpose of supporting of a squadron’s training agenda.
AFRSI36-2202       9 JANUARY 2009                                                                       5

4.12. Anyone from HQ AFRS who participates at any squadron’s annual (and remains overnight the
night of the squadron’s awards banquet) will attend the squadron’s annual awards banquet.
4.13. Awards presented at the annual banquet are limited to those prescribed in AFRSI 36-2801. Other
awards not listed in this instruction should be presented at other events (for example, commanders calls,
breakfasts, luncheons, etc.). Military decorations will not be presented at the annual banquet.
4.14. In accordance with AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, Air Force personnel will not smoke
in facilities except in designated areas that nonsmokers do not frequent. Squadron commanders may
designate a smoking area to include outdoor areas, empty rooms, and infrequently used hallways in
agreement with the annual facility manager. This policy exists for commercial establishments. Squadron
commanders will resolve conflicts in favor of the nonsmoker.
4.15. Registration and conference fees for annuals are not authorized.
4.16. Per AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, appropriated funds may be used to
provide light refreshments (for example, coffee, tea, milk, juice, soft drinks, donuts, bagels, fruit,
cookies, chips, muffins, and similar items) during training days.
4.16.1. Disposable serving items (plates, cups, and utensils) may also be provided to support the annual.
A maximum of $2 per person per day (excluding travel days) may be expensed to provide attendees with
light refreshments.
4.16.2. Serving of refreshments is optional. The authority for serving refreshments does not extend to ice
breakers or socials.
4.16.3. Retirement ceremonies, promotions, pinning on ceremonies, commanders calls, and similar
events are specifically excluded from using appropriated funds to provide refreshments to attendees.
(Note: Authority exists within AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs), to use special
morale and welfare funds for those purposes.) Appropriated funds may not be used to support visiting
VIPs.
4.17. A hospitality fee may be assessed to cover additional social amenities, mementos, souvenirs, etc.
Payment of any hospitality fee by attendees is voluntary. Reimbursement of the hospitality fee is not
authorized, and travel orders will not authorize such a fee.
5. Preparing for the Annual:
5.1. Attention to detail from the very beginning is fundamental to a successful squadron annual. See the
checklist and timeline at the AFRS Training page on the AF Portal to help with the annual planning
process. This material is not all inclusive, but provides the direction necessary for a solid annual
program. Preparation and execution of an annual require a team effort in long-range planning,
preparation, and follow-up.
5.2. Every commander is encouraged to adopt a theme for the annual and relate every event to the
theme. The squadron commander will appoint a project officer and planning team members for the
entire conference 8 to 10 months prior to date of the planned annual.
5.3. For initial planning, the squadron commander, project officer, and planning team will thoroughly
review this instruction and the squadron’s previous year’s annual afteraction report, critiques, and other
continuity information.
5.4. The project officer will delegate the numerous tasks to planning team members and provide
frequent updates to the commander on planning the status of the annual. Commanders will provide
guidance as necessary to keep the planning on track and ensure the spirit and intent of the planning
complies with AFRS policies.
6                                                                  AFRSI36-2202        9 JANUARY 2009

6. Examples of Planning Team Makeup. The following is an example of members of a planning team:
6.1. The operations flight commander might be considered as the overall project officer.
6.2. The marketing section might be responsible for the awards banquet, including the evening’s agenda,
printing of programs (optional), menu selection, selection of the master or mistress of ceremony,
reservations, seating chart, and presentation music for the awards (if desired).
6.3. The support flight commander and staff might be responsible for conference and banquet facilities,
lodging, transportation, per diem, and all other logistical requirements.
6.4. Training section personnel might be responsible (preferred) for developing a training agenda
tailored to the needs of the squadron.
6.5. Operations section personnel might be responsible (preferred) for the selection, ordering,
preparation, and presentation of awards.
7. Nominated Locations:
7.1. Cost is a major consideration in selecting a location for the annual. Squadron commanders will
submit a minimum of three bids through their respective group commander to HQ AFRS/FM for a cost
analysis (paragraph 8). Once HQ AFRS/FM sends the cost analysis back to the squadron commander, he
or she will forward the analysis through the group commander to the AFRS/CV for review and final
approval. Military installations within 4 hours of squadron headquarters should be considered as
potential location. Air Force policy is to use Air Force facilities for conference sites whenever possible.
7.2. Off-base sites being considered should be in good taste with adequate facilities reflecting a
professional and comfortable environment to handle all of the conference requirements, ideally in a
single complex. To the maximum extent possible, locations under consideration should minimize travel
and per diem costs.
7.3. Before committing to or signing any documentation with a commercial annual location, contact the
host-base contracting office or legal office and HQ AFRS/JA for a review of the vendor’s proposal to
prevent possible ratification actions or personal liability.
8. Financial Planning. Each squadron will provide cost estimates to HQ AFRS/FM for three possible
locations for the annual. No later than 31 December annually, HQ AFRS/FM will electronically transmit
a cost analysis spreadsheet (similar to the sample in Attachment 2) back to the squadron to be used for
analyzing each location. The following points should be considered in the planning process:
8.1. Military and civilian members are considered TDY if they are stationed outside the corporate city
limits of the event location. Consult the local chamber of commerce for a map of the corporate city
limits when making the decision of who will be authorized TDY funds. Appropriated funds may not be
used to pay for meals of non-TDY personnel.
8.2. If it is more cost-effective, contract for lodging and/or meals for TDY personnel. Meals may only be
contracted for TDY personnel on the stationary days. Ensure cost estimates reflect deductions for
contracted meals on stationary days.
8.3. Data for annual location nominations must include separate lodging, per diem, transportation, and
miscellaneous costs for squadron, group, and other attendees.
9. Visits of Senior AFRS Representative and Other VIPs. For these visits:
9.1. Develop a plan and follow it closely to ensure a positive squadron image is reflected. All AFRS
representatives will work to meet and interact with as many squadron personnel as possible. These visits
AFRSI36-2202        9 JANUARY 2009                                                                        7

should be considered an opportune time for open dialogue and questions on Air Force and AFRS issues
of interest to squadron members.
9.2. Designate a squadron point of contact (POC) to escort the senior AFRS representative. This POC
will ensure the AFRS representative is appropriately met and transported from arrival at the airport (or
other meeting point) to pertinent annual events and to his or her point of departure (as appropriate) in
coordination with the AFRS representative.
9.3. Provide an advanced copy of the annual agenda to the senior AFRS representative (or the
representative’s secretary).
9.4. Provide a welcome package to include the following:
9.4.1. Welcome letter and pertinent safety information.
9.4.2. Agenda of events.
9.4.3. Official biographies or personal talker on squadron commander, superintendent, production
superintendent, first sergeant, and distinguished guests.
9.4.4. List of squadron management personnel, positions, and phone numbers.
9.4.5. List of award winners for luncheon and banquet, as well as a list of winners of Operation Blue
Suit or other major competition awards.
9.4.6. List of dress requirements by day and event.
9.4.7. Anecdotal remarks on select squadron members or human-interest items the senior AFRS
representative should be aware of.
9.4.8. List of rooms and phone numbers of key personnel and other guests.
9.5. Ensure squadron commanders meet the senior AFRS representative unless alternative arrangements
have been previously agreed on. Squadron superintendents should meet HQ AFRS/CCC. Appoint a
person of appropriate grade to meet other AFRS representatives supporting annual activities.
9.6. When using a military staff car for the AFRS/CC or another flag officer, ensure there is an
appropriate star plate available. When using a General Services Administration vehicle (preferred in
metro areas), no star plate is required. Preplan the route of travel, and prepare alternative routes in case
of unforeseen circumstances.
9.7. Ensure the driver of the vehicle is familiar with the area and the route to the annual location.
Arrangements will include reserved parking (where possible), private waiting areas (if required),
welcome signs (at base operations, main gates, etc.), and baggage assistance (if required).
10. Transportation:
10.1. Squadron members will normally travel to the annual in a government vehicle (GOV). Spouse
travel to and from annuals in GOVs is authorized, but neither dependent children or significant others
may travel in GOVs. Use of car-pooling with GOVs is encouraged to reduce costs. See AFRSI 24-301,
Management and Operation of Air Force Recruiting Service Motor Vehicles, for further guidance.
10.2. Overseas squadrons (319 RCS, 333 RCS, 361 RCS, and 369 RCS) requesting spouses be
authorized to travel to the annual from an overseas location will be included in the annual location
request (due to HQ AFRS/FM not later than 1 March annually), and HQ AFRS/FM will provide spouse
travel information to HQ AFRS/RSOT.
8                                                                   AFRSI36-2202       9 JANUARY 2009

10.3. No later than 1 May annually, HQ AFRS/RSOT will consolidate all squadron spouse travel
requests for overseas squadrons and forward them to AETC/CV for approval. Note: There is no blanket
authority for any spouse to travel to a squadron annual at government expense.
11. Lodging. Military installation lodging should be used to the maximum extent possible. When
possible, billet VIP guests in distinguished visitors lodging, Preregistering VIP guests and pre-checking
VIP rooms are encouraged. A welcome package (paragraph 9.4) with a personal note from the squadron
commander is appropriate. Welcome packages might include small quantities of snacks or beverages,
but large snack or beverage assortments, large fruit baskets, or floral bouquets are discouraged. Because
visitors will normally spend only one night and normally travel by air, oversized gifts are impractical
and the funds might be better applied to other squadron needs.
12. Photography. Arrange for photographs to be taken at appropriate opportunities; for example,
recognition ceremonies, awards banquet, commanders calls, squadron functions, etc. The marketing
team should plan to use the unit camera for this purpose, although the squadron’s support base may be
able to support some functions. Note: A commercial photographer may be used for banquet photos, but
may not be paid with appropriated funds.
13. Annual Training Agenda:
13.1. Because the principal reason for the annual program is training, a robust training agenda is
essential for a successful conference. Typically, there are about 16 duty hours during an annual period,
excluding the awards banquet. At least half of these duty hours will be devoted to training. This time
does not include, meals, award presentations, commanders calls, or team-building activities. A well-
defined agenda will be developed indicating all activities to be conducted during the conference. Social
events should be included on the agenda. Generally, breaks should be taken every 1 to 2 hours when
natural breaks occur in the training agenda, rather than in every 50-minute block of training.
13.2. An effective training agenda is best developed by reviewing mission accomplishment data to
determine what needs emphasis via training. Suggestions from the supervisors and other squadron
personnel should be considered. Training block presentations must be effective, interesting, timely, and
professionally done. At will speakers from the civilian sales world, HQ AFRS, group headquarters,
MEPS, AFROTC, etc., are encouraged.
13.3. Group commanders will review and approve all squadron annual training conference agendas.
Courtesy copies will be forwarded to HQ AFRS/RSOT by 30 September annually. For every squadron,
the minimum training agenda should include appropriate ancillary training (OPR is the squadron first
sergeant), sales training (OPR is the squadron training team), MEPS and operations process issues (OPR
is the operations flight commander), support process issues (OPR is the support flight commander), and
an HQ AFRS update briefing. Judicious use of time will permit adequate coverage of these various
topics.
13.4. The following options will be considered in developing the training agenda:
13.4.1. Task out presentations well in advance of the conference.
13.4.2. Include quality of life issues affecting squadron and family members.
13.4.3. Encourage guest speakers from outside agencies or professions; for example, state troopers for
driving safety, civilian sales leaders for sales presentations, motivational speakers for luncheons or other
venues.
13.4.4. Break the squadron into small groups and rotate the groups around different training blocks (15
to 20 members per group).
AFRSI36-2202       9 JANUARY 2009                                                                     9

13.4.5. Employ quality training techniques and supplement briefings and slide presentations with
interactive programs. For example, use game show formats to invigorate participation, training, and
esprit de corps.
13.4.6. Include sales fundamentals and time management refresher training by employing role-playing,
videos, or expert advice from exceptional (or highly experienced) recruiters.
13.4.7. As a source of reference, provide a consolidated booklet for each attendee with key training and
other information presented at the annual.
13.4.8. Gather feedback with critiques of each presentation and the function in general. Early critiques
may be useful for midcourse corrections, and they are invaluable for developing plans for subsequent
years.
14. Awards Banquet. The awards banquet is the culminating event for any annual. The atmosphere
should be celebratory, but still remain professional. Complementary decorations and music are
encouraged. The banquet format (buffet) is most suited to the awards program. Commanders will
comply with the guidance on presentation of awards and funding limits for individual awards outlined in
AFRSI 36-2801. Other programs (induction ceremonies, promotion and retirement ceremonies, military
decoration, or periodic recognition presentations) are not authorized.
15. Afteraction Reporting:
15.1. Annual costs are an integral part of the AFRS TDY program. Accurate cost data is essential for
routine reporting and long-range planning. HQ AFRS/FM will provide additional information for
reporting requirements annually, as required. Afteraction reports (Attachment 3) must arrive at HQ
AFRS/FM not later than 15 January annually. The squadron afteraction report will be completed and
forwarded through the group commander in time to meet the HQ AFRS/FM suspense.
15.2. The checklist at the AFRS Training page on the AF Portal is useful for compiling the data needed
to complete this report. Do not include costs associated with HQ AFRS attendees in the squadron
submission. Cost data must include a separate breakout for group and squadron personnel. Group
financial managers must report their costs, using the format in Attachment 2.




                                                               EARL S. CHASE, Colonel, USAF
                                                               Vice Commander
10                                                          AFRSI36-2202      9 JANUARY 2009

                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-22, Military Training, 22 March 2004
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Fund (CLF) Program, 10 May 2004
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 3 June 2002
AFI 65-601, Volume 1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 20 January 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFRSI 24-301, Management and Operation of Air Force Recruiting Service Motor Vehicles, 16 May
2000
AFRSI 36-2201, Air Force Recruiting Service (AFRS) Training Program, 27 June 2008
AFRSI 36-2801, Air Force Recruiting Service Awards Program, 24 August 2007
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRS—Air Force Recruiting Service
AFROTC—Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps
GOV—government vehicle
MEPS—military entrance processing station
NAF—non appropriated funds
OPR—office of primary responsibility
POC—point of contact
RSSF—recruiting service support finance
TDY—temporary duty
VIP—very important person
AFRSI36-2202        9 JANUARY 2009                                                                       11

                                               Attachment 2
           SAMPLE COST ANALYSIS MEMORANDUM (WITH A SPREADSHEET)

MEMORANDUM FOR (3XX RCG/CC)                                                                     (Date)

FROM: (3XX RCS/CC)

SUBJECT: 20XX Off-Base Annual Training Meetings

1. The attached annual sales training meeting package is forwarded for your review. We have complied
with AFRSI 36-2202 and have attached cost information on the following off-site locations in order of
preference:

    a.   Location #1
         Place:
         Dates:
         Total Cost: $

    b.   Location #2
         Place:
         Dates:
         Total Cost: $

    c.   Location #3
         Place:
         Dates:
         Total Cost: $

2. (Include a brief narrative, justifying your reasons for requesting one site versus the others.)

3. POC for our annual training meeting is ___________, DSN XXX-XXXX.

                                                       _____________________________
                                                       (Squadron Commander’s Signature)

Attachment:
3XX RCS Annual Training Meeting Cost Analysis

1st Ind, 3XX RCG/CC                                                                             (Date)

TO: HQ AFRS/FM

(Recommendations—approved/disapproved)

                                                       ___________________________
                                                       (Group Commander’s Signature)
Attachment:
3XX RCS Annual Training Meeting Cost Analysis
12                                                                AFRSI36-2202        9 JANUARY 2009

                            3XX RCS ANNUAL TRAINING MEETING
                                COST ANALYSIS LOCATION #1

(Note: This is a sample for Location #1. For more than one location, include a cost analysis for each.)

1. Location                  Name:                      XXX

                             Address:                   (Include county)

                             Telephone                  (Phone
                             Number:                    number for
                                                        hotel listed
                                                        above)

                             Point of                   (Name of
                             Contact:                   POC at
                                                        hotel listed
                                                        above)

                             Per Diem
                             Rate:                      $109.00        $71.00      $38.00
                                                        (Total)        (Lodging)   (Meals)

2. Total Attending (Number - Including Guests)          153

3. Personnel               To Attend                                             In TDY Status
                  Squadron    Group           Guest                     Squadron    Group    Guest
Enlisted             75         3              53                          56         3        0
Officer               5         1               6                           0         1        0
Civilian              7         0               3                           3         0        0

Totals                87           4            62                         59            4         0

4. Cost of Lodging Per Night

Double Rooms:                $59.00        (Use this rate if two recruiters are sharing a room.)
Single Rooms:                $49.00

5. Cost of Lodging                                    $ Cost Per
                               # Rooms       # Nights    Night
Double Rooms:                     14            2        59.00         =             $1,652.00
Single Rooms:                     31            2        49.00         =             $3,038.00
Single Rooms:                      4            1        49.00         =             $ 196.00
Total Lodging Cost:                                                                  $4,886.00
AFRSI36-2202      9 JANUARY 2009                                                             13

6. Cost of Per Diem
Day 1                        Number     X              $ Per Diem
Enlisted                       59                         28.50   =              $1,681.50
Officers                       1                          28.50   =                 $28.50
Civilians                      3                          28.50   =                 $85.50

Days 2 and 3      # Days     Number     X              $ Per Diem
Enlisted             2         59                         38.00   =              $4,484.00
Officers             2         1                          38.00   =                 $76.00
Civilians            2         3                          38.00   =                $228.00

Day 4                        Number     X              $ Per Diem
Enlisted                       59                         28.50   =              $1,681.50
Officers                       1                          28.50   =                 $28.50
Civilians                      3                          28.50   =                 $85.50
Total Per Diem                                                                   $8,379.00
Cost:

7. Miscellaneous Costs
Civilian Overtime:                                                                  $0.00
Meeting Rooms:                                                                    $550.00
Other Costs:                                                                        $0.00
Total Miscellaneous Costs:                                                        $550.00

8. Cost of Transportation Squadron      Group        Guest
GOV Mileage Cost              $550.00   $70.00       $0.00    =                    $620.00
Commercial Air Cost:        $3,300.00    $0.00       $0.00    =                  $3,300.00
Other Travel Costs:           $180.00    $0.00       $0.00    =                    $180.00
Total Transportation Costs:                                   =                  $4,100.00

9. Event Cost Summary
Lodging Costs:                                                                   $4,886.00
Meal Costs:                                                                      $8,379.00
Miscellaneous Costs:                                                               $550.00
Transportation Costs:                                                            $4,100.00
Total Cost of Event:                                                           $ 17,915.00

Event Cost Summary:                     Squadron        Group     Total
Lodging Costs:                          $ 4,494.00      $392.00    $4,886.00
Meal Costs:                             $ 8,075.00      $304.00    $8,379.00
Miscellaneous Costs:                      $ 550.00        $0.00     $ 550.00
Transportation Costs:                   $ 4,030.00       $70.00    $4,100.00
Total Cost of Event:                    $17,149.00      $766.00   $17,915.00
14                                                                  AFRSI36-2202        9 JANUARY 2009

                                               Attachment 3
                      FORMAT FOR AN ANNUAL AFTERACTION REPORT
A3.1. Afteraction Report. See Figure A3.1 for a 20XX annual training meeting afteraction report,
Figure A3.2 for questions about the afteraction report, and Figure A3.3 for a sample memorandum for
group travelers.
Figure A3.1. Format for an Annual Training Meeting Afteraction Report.
                                    2004 AFTERACTION REPORT

                                   3XX RECRUITING SQUADRON

                                                            PER
                             ATTENDEES TRVL                 DIEM       CONTRACT MISC            TOTAL
LOCATION DATES              TDY/NON-TDY COST                COST       COST     COST            COST
Squadron
Group                                /          $           $          $               $        $
Other                                /          $           $          $               $        $
(Specify)                            /          $           $          $               $        $

Actual Totals                        /          $           $          $               $        $

Approved Costs (as previously established)      $           $          $               $        $

Cost Difference                                 $           $          $               $        $

Explanation of Differences (See notes 1, 2, and 3):

Notes:
1. Provide a detailed explanation of any major cost increase and/or decrease.

2. If actual costs exceeded the total approved costs, provide justification.

3. If contract costs or miscellaneous costs were incurred, specify the nature of these costs.


Figure A3.2. Questions About the Afteraction Report.
1. Have cost figures been compiled for an afteraction report?

2. Is the report submitted in the correct format?

     a.   Are the location and inclusive dates of the meeting annotated?
     b.   Is the total number of attendees listed (both TDY and non-TDY status)?
     c.   Have travel costs been identified? (Ensure GOV mileage costs are included.)
     d.   Have per diem costs been identified?
     e.   Have contract costs been broken out separately?
     f.   Have civilian overtime costs been identified?
     g.   Have any remaining costs been identified?
AFRSI36-2202        9 JANUARY 2009                                                                         15

3. If actual figures differ greatly from the original cost estimate, has specific justification been provided?

4. Have any additional costs been identified that were not in the original package submission? (If so,
explain.)

5. Has detailed justification been provided if total costs exceeded the approved amount?

6. Has the afteraction report been coordinated with the squadron recruiting service support finance
(RSSF)?

7. Has the squadron commander signed the final report?

8. Was the afteraction report submitted to HQ AFRS/FM by the established due date?

Figure A3.3. Sample Memorandum for Group Travelers.
MEMORANDUM FOR 3XX RCS/RSSF                                                                          (Date)

FROM:          3XX RCG/RSSF

SUBJECT:       Actual Costs for 3XX RCS Annual

1. The following information is provided to help you complete your afteraction report to HQ AFRS/FM:

     a.   Name of Traveler:

     b.   Dates of Travel:

     c.   Mode of Travel:

     d.   Travel Cost (TR, reimbursement for plane ticket, POV mileage, or GOV miles X $.10/mile):

     e.   Per Diem Cost:

     f.   Total cost:

2. Direct questions to (financial analyst, DSN XXX-XXXX, Commercial [XXX] XXX-XXXX).



                                                           ________________________
                                                            (Signature of RCG/RSSF)
