BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     AIR FORCE SUSTAINMENT CENTER
AIR FORCE SUSTAINMENT CENTER                                                              INSTRUCTION 61-101

                                                                                                                      14 MARCH 2014

                                                                                     Scientific Research and Development

                                                                                        TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                           AND INSERTION PROCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: AFSC/ENSI                                                                                            Certified by: AFSC/ENS,
                                                                                                                  (Greg C. Hughes)
                                                                                                                          Pages: 27


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 61-1, Management of Science
and Technology and defines the process that the Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC) will use
to develop and implement new technologies into its mission. This process is collectively named
the Technology Development and Insertion Process (TDIP). This instruction applies to all AFSC
military and civilian members managing processes with capability gaps requiring new
technology, overseeing technology development, or implementing the resulting solutions. It
does not apply to the Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard units; or the Capital Investment
Program (CIP) investments. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form
847s through the appropriate chain of command to AFSC/EN. This AFSCI may be
supplemented at any level, but all supplements that directly implement this Instruction must be
routed to AFSC/EN for coordination prior to certification and approval. Send comments and
suggested improvements through channels to AFSC/EN, 3001 Staff Dr, STE 2AF69A, Tinker
AFB OK 73145.


       1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................   2
Figure1.      Figure1. ........................................Technology Development and Insertion Process                               3
       2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................            3
 2                                                                                      AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


        3.      Individual Technology Need. .................................................................................        5
Figure 2.       AFSC Single Need Technology Development and Insertion Process ...................                                    6
        4.      TDIP Management. ................................................................................................   11
Figure 3.       Technology Development and Insertion Process Management .............................                               12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      15

Attachment 2—TECHNOLOGY NEED REQUEST SUBMISSION                                                                                     19

Attachment 3—LETTER OF COMMITMENT                                                                                                   23

Attachment 4—TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION PLAN (TTP)                                                                                       24

Attachment 5—TECHNOLOGY READINESS LEVEL & MANUFACTURING
             READINESS LEVEL                                                                                                        26


1. Overview. The TDIP provides the method AFSC will use to identify and prioritize its
technology needs (TNs), as well as to fund, develop, and mature technology solutions for
transition and implementation. Valid technology solutions are to be implemented by the
sponsoring organization. While AFSC/EN will facilitate obtaining funding for development and
transition, the sponsor will champion implementing the technology into an AFSC mission in a
cost-effective manner with managed risk. While this process is primarily focused on the mission
executed by AFSC organizations, it will also be an avenue for other organizations that have new
technical requirements that impact processes related to the AFSC mission.
     1.1. Vision. The TDIP will provide AFSC a recognized, strategic methodology
     incorporating a Systems Engineering approach to identify, fund, develop, transition, and
     implement AFSC’s supply chain, maintenance, and infrastructure innovations. TDIP will be
     essential to ensuring that AFSC’s limited resources are used strategically to control
     sustainment costs while increasing availability, reliability, maintainability, and
     supportability—cost-effective readiness.
     1.2. Process Description. The TDIP (shown in Figure 1. Technology Development and
     Insertion Process) is the standardized process across AFSC. This process provides the
     methods AFSC will use when it chooses to foster new technology development, insertion,
     and implementation, as a means to better accomplish its mission. A capability gap manifests
     when an organization identifies requirements which cannot be satisfied with a current or
     projected capability solution. The capability gap may require further technical actions to
     obtain a solution. Capability gaps can be identified in a top-down manner by: 1) AFSC
     future workload planners and strategic efforts specifically intended to identify future
     technology gaps in the mission and 2) through Complex and/or Supply Chain leadership
     identifying inefficiencies in their processes or equipment that hinder production of a quality
     product. Gaps can also be identified in a bottom-up approach by working-level employees
     executing the current mission. Additionally, new technology developments by outside
     entities may highlight a previously unrealized capability gap, which could then be identified
     by upper management (top-down) or by working-level employees (bottom-up).. As defined
     in CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                    3


   Process, the solution space for a given gap should consider solutions involving any
   combination of Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education,
   Personnel and Facilities (DOTMLPF). While gap sponsors should consider the spectrum of
   DOTMLPF alternatives, this instruction applies to organizations requiring a materiel
   solution. Analysis of alternatives for these materiel gaps will result in some needs being
   candidates for gap closure by new technology development/insertion. Paragraph 3.0 defines
   the process of maturing an individual technology need (TN). Paragraph 4.0 defines the
   process AFSC/EN utilizes to manage the entire portfolio of technology needs.

Figure1. Technology Development and Insertion Process




2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Commander, Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC/CC).
       2.1.1. Provides strategic plan for sustainment used to guide strategic technology
       initiatives.
   2.1.2. Approves AFSC Strategic Technology Needs (TNs) via the Corporate Council
   process, if required.
       2.1.3. Advocates for the AFSC Strategic TNs, capability gaps, and priorities through the
       AFMC enterprise Sustainment Technology Process (STP) and to Air Force senior
       leadership, as required.
   2.2. Engineering Director, Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC/EN).
       2.2.1. Provides technical leadership direction and oversight of sustainment technology
       process from identification of technology gap, defining TN, through development,
       transition, and implementation of technology solution.
       2.2.2. Ensures TNs are linked to an AFSC capability gap and addresses near, mid, and
       long term sustainment technology challenges.
       2.2.3. Chairs Technology Governance Board.
4                                                              AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


    2.3. Engineering Directorate Staff, Air Force Sustainment Center (AFSC/EN).
       2.3.1. Reviews and validates candidate technologies; assesses future technology needs;
       provides oversight of technology development; periodically revalidates the Technology
       Needs Portfolio and currency of related documentation; and provides oversight for the
       AFSC portion of the various technology programs, where appropriate.
       2.3.2. Encourages TN identification using various methods; conducts future visioning
       exercises; identifies TN synergies and resource utilization opportunities.
       2.3.3. Develops, maintains and tracks TN status metrics; performs periodic reviews and
       continuously improves the technology development and transition processes.
       2.3.4. Establishes and applies TN prioritization criteria for ranking TNs.
       2.3.5. Pursues internal and external funding sources up to implementation.
       2.3.6. Manages technology needs portfolio; reviews, and tracks project status through
       lifecycle.
       2.3.7. Supports project reviews to assess TN progression thru the TDIP lifecycle.
       2.3.8. Maintains information on all available technology funding programs and
       respective evaluation criteria to fund TN development, insertion, and implementation;
       assists project managers with completion of submission packages; submits prioritized
       lists and packages to technology funding programs.
       2.3.9. Establishes and oversees Technology Needs Integrated Product Teams (TNIPTs)
       to ensure knowledgeable Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) are available when required to
       perform disciplined and rigorous TN/project evaluations to ensure shortfalls are
       minimized.
       2.3.10. Performs TDIP Roadshows, advising organizations regarding TN generation,
       TDIP life cycle progression activities, and organizational roles and responsibilities.
    2.4. AFSC Sponsor Organizations.
       2.4.1. Identifies and documents potential technology needs as identified in paragraph 3.1
       2.4.2. Sponsor leadership will support TDIP with the following:
          2.4.2.1. Advocates for technologies that support near, mid, and long term technology
          needs.
          2.4.2.2. Appoints a project manager for each new project from within the
          organization.
          2.4.2.3. Appoints a Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) if required and any required
          Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) for each new TN from the organization. The TPOC
          can be the project manager.
          2.4.2.4. Approves and signs a commitment letter for each new technology need.
          2.4.2.5. Approves and signs a Technology Transition Plan (TTP) for each technology
          project from the organization.
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                         5


          2.4.2.6. Plans for and allocates implementation funding and resources IAW project
          plans.
          2.4.2.7. Oversees organization’s technology insertion efforts; participates in
          Technology Governance Board as required and provides any updates to active TNs.
          2.4.2.8. Implements successfully transitioned technologies into operations.
       2.4.3. The project manager for a given need will manage the assigned technology project
       from Development to Implementation with assistance from the TNIPT and:
          2.4.3.1. Performs TN analysis in concert with the TNIPT.
          2.4.3.2. Completes TN submittal packages for programs; obtains leadership approval.
          2.4.3.3. Develops the TTP with assistance from the TNIPT.
          2.4.3.4. Performs required project reviews and updates as required by both
          technology funding programs and/or the AFSC Technology Governance Board.
          2.4.3.5. Collects and reports information to validate the benefits of the technology.
          2.4.3.6. Ensures solutions will meet the technical requirements/needs of the
          organization.
          2.4.3.7. Performs TN analysis in concert with AFSC/EN.
          2.4.3.8. Writes the TTP with assistance from the TNIPT.
3. Individual Technology Need. This paragraph defines the method for developing,
transitioning and implementing a materiel solution to meet a unique need within AFSC
including: (1) Identify and articulate the need, (2) Analyze the need to ensure new technology
development is required to solve this gap, (3) Prioritize the need within AFSC’s current
Technology Needs Portfolio, (4) Match technology need to technology funding programs, (5)
Develop the technology with Research and Development (R&D) resources, (6) Transition the
technology to a working capability, and (7) Implement the technology in an AFSC mission area.
Figure 2. AFSC Single Need Technology Development and Insertion Process depicts the single
need TDIP.
 6                                                               AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


Figure 2. AFSC Single Need Technology Development and Insertion Process




     3.1. Identify Technology Need: A Technology Need (TN) is identified when a new
     technology materiel solution is required to close a capability gap within AFSC. For the
     purpose of this instruction, the AFSC organization responsible for executing the portion of
     the mission with the identified capability gap is identified as the sponsor organization.
        3.1.1. Identification Methods: Below are four methods for identifying technology
        needs:
            3.1.1.1. Current Process Needs (Gap, looking for a Solution): During normal
            execution of current workload, organizations will identify capability gaps using
            current metrics based on data and requirements preventing efficient and effective
            sustainment or regulatory compliance validated with solid Root Cause Analysis. If
            technology can be developed to close the gap, a TN is identified.
               3.1.1.1.1. EXAMPLE: As the AF continues to extend platforms beyond their
               originally projected service life, unanticipated part/structure failures are occurring
               and parts once available are becoming obsolete. This has created a capability gap
               to rapidly acquire parts for depot support not readily available through the supply
               system.     A new technology opportunity is to develop Rapid/Additive
               Manufacturing technologies within the depot. This capability would reduce
               flowdays by allowing acquisition of parts/structures faster than currently available
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                      7


        3.1.1.2. Future Workload Needs (Future Gap, looking for a Solution): During the
        process of planning future workload, responsible organizations will analyze the
        workload requirements and identify capability gaps that prevent activation in an
        efficient and effective manner. If technology can be developed to close the gap, a TN
        is identified.
            3.1.1.2.1. EXAMPLE: Low Observable (LO) Technology. Potential new
            workload of B-2, F-22 and other aircraft/components with LO requirements
            generate new capability gaps for the Depots. More efficient and sustainable LO
            detection of flaws, repair, and corrosion protection treatment processes will be
            required to maintain LO integrity. This new aircraft technology will generate
            several TNs.
        3.1.1.3. Future Visioning (Future Gap, looking for a Future Solution). AFSC will
        perform various exercises to set the long term (20 – 30 years) vision for AFSC
        mission capabilities. Teams analyzing these future mission capabilities will identify
        future TNs.
            3.1.1.3.1. EXAMPLE: Whole Aircraft Non-Destructive Inspection (NDI).
            AFSC as part of its strategic activities has an effort called “Complex of the
            Future” (CoF) that identifies the art of possibilities (attributes) up to a 30-year
            horizon. One of the COF attributes defines a capability to perform a complete
            aircraft NDI scan and flaw detection without any structure removal required. This
            vision will generate several TNs.
        3.1.1.4. Candidate Technologies (Solution looking for a Gap). Industry, academia
        and or other government agencies have developed or are developing new
        technologies which may be of interest to AFSC. Those technologies come to AFSC
        via multiple avenues, such as “industry days,” Broad Area Announcement (BAA),
        Request For Information (RFI), Technology Conferences, unsolicited proposals or
        White Papers, Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC), etc. It is imperative
        these potential technology improvements and perceived needs are adequately
        evaluated for application to an existing capability gap. When topics of interest are
        solicited to potential sponsors for consideration, and interest is generated, the sponsor
        organization will submit a TN.
            3.1.1.4.1. EXAMPLE: Sensors that detect corrosion or fatigue. An academia
            interest is developing sensor technology for placement under aircraft skins or
            structures in high risk, low detection areas with capability for maintenance.
            Sensor data would determine if skin removal is necessary for corrosion removal
            and repair or if further NDI is needed to detect potential crack damage. This new
            candidate technology will generate an awareness of capability gap previously
            unidentified to improve current NDI capabilities.
     3.1.2. Document the Need. Sponsors will submit documentation required to initiate a
     TDIP action.       TNs are submitted to AFSC/EN Technology Insertion Branch
     (afsc.en.tech@us.af.mil). AFSC/EN will assist the submitter in completion of the
     required documentation. (Please note: The documentation may be minimal for new or
     small efforts to very detailed for more mature technologies progressing through the TDIP
 8                                                               AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


        life cycle.) Attachments 2 and 3 provide an example TN Submission template and format
        and a Letter of Commitment. Key information includes:
            3.1.2.1. Clear description of the need and “need date”.
            3.1.2.2. Letter of Commitment (see Attachment 3).
            3.1.2.3. Acquisition funding strategy (appropriate for Technology Readiness Level
            (TRL)).
            3.1.2.4. Documented coordination between stakeholders (i.e., program offices,
            maintenance organizations, and supply chain management offices, as applicable).
     3.2. Analyze Tech Need. Once the need is documented, AFSC/EN will lead the effort to
     analyze the need, ensuring full understanding of the technical requirement, identifying any
     potential technologies available to meet the need and the level of effort required to close the
     need. Before finalizing the analysis phase, the TN should have clear sponsorship.
        3.2.1. Analysis Process. AFSC/EN will lead the analysis process and ensure the level of
        analysis is commensurate with the complexity of the need.      The TNIPT will define
        technical requirements, assess current technology, identify TRL and Manufacturing
        Readiness Level (MRL), and garner sponsor support and leadership validation. The
        TNIPT, described in paragraph 4.2.2, is comprised at a minimum of AFSC/EN, the
        sponsoring organization’s project manager (hereafter known as the project manager) and
        a representative of the cognizant engineering authority. Key elements of the analysis
        process include:
            3.2.1.1. Technical Requirement Definition. To properly identify potential
            technology solutions, the sponsor must clearly define a technical requirement. The
            technical requirement includes the scope and specifications of the need (e.g. height,
            width, depth, operational environment, etc.).
            3.2.1.2. Current Technology Assessment. AFSC/EN will lead the TNIPT in
            performing technical searches to identify potential technologies available to meet the
            need. This analysis will determine what benefit(s) the potential technologies could
            provide and which technology funding programs the TN/project can be submitted to
            and what phase of Development-Implementation process the TN/project will enter.
            Potential outcomes include:
3.2.1.2.1. Development Phase (paragraph 3.5.). No/infant technologies exist – TNs are
submitted to technology funding programs focused on developing low TRL technologies.
3.2.1.2.2. Transition Phase (paragraph 3.6.). Technologies exist – Potential projects
submitted to transition focused technology funding programs to mature solutions for
implementation.
3.2.1.2.3. Implementation Phase (paragraph 3.7.). A current solution exists – The sponsor
organization will acquire funding and implement the solution.
            3.2.1.3. Current Technology Readiness Level (TRL). If potential technologies are
            available to meet a TN requirement, the project manager with guidance from
            AFSC/EN will conduct a TRL analysis before a project can be submitted to
            technology programs for further support/funding. See Attachment 5 for instructions
            on TRL analysis.
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                   9


         3.2.1.4. Current Manufacturing Readiness Level (MRL). If potential
         technologies are available to meet a TN requirement, the project manager with
         guidance from AFSC/EN will conduct an MRL analysis before a project can be
         submitted to technology programs for further support/funding. See Attachment 5 for
         instructions on MRL analysis.
         3.2.1.5. Sponsor Support. Sponsors must commit to providing project management
         and technical support during development, transition and implementation of the
         technical solution. Sponsors must also commit to seeking and advocating for
         implementation funding and resources at an appropriate lead time away. The sponsor
         has already provided a Letter of Commitment when the TN was identified.
         3.2.1.6. Leadership Validation. Once analysis is completed the Technology
         Governance Board will validate the TN/project on behalf of AFSC, as described in
         paragraph 4.2.1. Endorsement from the Technology Governance Board validates the
         need, then AFSC/EN adds the TN to the Technology Needs Portfolio. The validated
         need is ready to begin the Prioritize phase.
  3.3. Prioritize the Technology Need. The analyzed and validated TNs are prioritized with
  current needs in the AFSC Technology Needs Portfolio by AFSC/EN for submission to
  applicable technology funding programs per process identified in paragraph 4.3.
     3.3.1. Prioritization Process. AFSC/EN will use established prioritization criteria to
     rank the new validated TN with the existing (had been previously ranked) TNs.
  3.4. Match Technology Need to Resources. Once the TN is prioritized, AFSC/EN will
  submit the TN/project to the applicable technology funding program(s) for funding. Based
  on the technology maturity and technology program(s) selected, the TN/project will enter one
  of three phases:
     3.4.1. Development Phase – No/infant technologies exist – Proceed to paragraph 3.5.
     3.4.2. Transition Phase – Technologies exist – Proceed to paragraph 3.6.
     3.4.3. Implementation Phase – A current solution exists – Proceed to paragraph 3.7.
     3.4.4. Package Generation & Submittal. The project manager and TNIPT will
     complete the package(s) and obtain sponsor organization leadership approval for
     submission to technology programs. AFSC/EN will assist the project manager by
     providing instructions and timelines where necessary for completing packages and by
     submitting the package to the applicable technology funding program(s).
  3.5. Develop Technology (TRL 1-6). Once a technology program funds a TN/project to
  proceed, the project manager with support from the TNIPT will manage the technology
  research and development.
     3.5.1. Initiation. The sponsor organization will provide a project manager responsible
     for the execution of research and development. If early research is required (TRL under
     4) it may be agreed that Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) is the project manager;
     however, this will not remove the requirement or the responsibility from the sponsor
     organization to continue to manage the development effort as part of their overall effort
     to close the capability gap in their mission. AFSC/EN will assist by providing templates
10                                                           AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


     or past examples of documents required to initiate a project under a given technology
     program.
     3.5.2. Technology Transition Plan. The project manager and the TNIPT will create a
     Technology Transition Plan (TTP) before technology development is completed to
     identify potential funding with the goal of beginning the transition phase with limited to
     no delay after development is completed. The TTP is a living document and will be
     updated as needed as the TN progresses through TDIP. The TTP document (see
     Attachment 4) will include the following as a minimum:
        3.5.2.1. A clear and concise definition of the solution, and how it supports the
        technical requirement to close a capability gap.
        3.5.2.2. Key stakeholder organizations (e.g., the technology developer, cognizant
        engineering authority, implementing organization, impacted Major Command, etc.).
        3.5.2.3. An analysis of the benefit(s) the solution can provide; detail commensurate
        with the complexity of the need and solution.
        3.5.2.4. High-level schedule from which to build projected funding requirements.
        3.5.2.5. The signed Letter of Commitment submitted with the TN identification. If
        one does not exist, the sponsor organization will prepare and staff the Letter of
        Commitment.
     3.5.3. Development Reviews. The project manager provides the Technology
     Governance Board with quarterly project reviews (unless otherwise directed by the
     Board), with support from the TNIPT, to monitor the cost, schedule, performance and
     risk of the project. AFSC/EN will post the required content of the review on a shared
     location. Upon approval by the Technology Governance Board (reference paragraph
     3.2.1) that the technology has matured to TRL 7, the project will proceed to the
     Transition phase.
  3.6. Transition the Technology (TRL 7-8). Technology efforts TRL 7 or higher are ready
  to transition. The Technology Governance Board will review the technology’s level of
  success in meeting user needs and determine whether the technology should proceed.
     3.6.1. Update Technology Transition Plan. The TTP prepared during the development
     phase now becomes the critical document for managing the transition of the TN. Before
     proceeding with Transition, the project manager and TNIPT will update and refine the
     TTP.
     3.6.2. Transition Execution. The project manager executes transition of the technology
     IAW the TTP, ensures the technology solution continues to meet the sponsor’s needs, and
     performs final assessments. The project manager validates all requirements are being
     met IAWthe TTP.
     3.6.3. Transition Reviews. The project manager provides the Technology Governance
     Board with quarterly status reports (unless otherwise directed by the Board) and identifies
     any change in technical or project risk. AFSC/EN will post the required content of the
     review on a shared location. All significant changes must be approved by the
     Technology Governance Board.
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                     11


   3.7. Implement the Technology (TRL 9). After transitioning new technology, it is critical
   for the sponsor organization to successfully implement the technology into operations. The
   project manager and TNIPT will develop an implementation plan and provide the plan to
   AFSC/EN. This plan will include the acquisition strategy, timeline, measures of success, and
   required resources. The plan will track successful implementation of the new technology and
   support reporting requirements for technology programs and congressional inquiries.
       3.7.1. Implementation Execution. The project manager implements the technology
       solution to provide an Initial Operational Capability and a Full Operational Capability of
       the technology solution that meets the requirements of the sponsor organization and the
       responsible engineering authority. The project manager and TPOC collect the necessary
       data to validate project performance requirements are being met.
       3.7.2. Implementation Reviews. The project manager provides the Technology
       Governance Board with quarterly reviews (unless otherwise directed by the Board) and
       identifies any change in technical or project risk until technology is implemented.
       AFSC/EN will post the required content of the review on a shared location. All
       significant changes must be approved by the Technology Governance Board.
   3.8. Metric Reporting. One year and five years after Full Operational Capability (FOC),
   the project manager will provide AFSC/EN with resulting project benefits to show that the
   overall project and technology implementation met original TN goals, objectives and desired
   savings/benefits. Many technology programs, such as Rapid Innovation Funding (RIF) or
   other congressional efforts, require metrics to show that final implementation met original
   expectations of the program. These results are documented in the Technology Needs
   Portfolio.
4. TDIP Management. AFSC/EN is the process owner for TDIP and is the facilitator for each
step in the process. This paragraph defines the process AFSC/EN will utilize to manage the
entire technology needs portfolio. For information regarding the process for a single need, see
paragraph 3.0. Major processes include: (1) Encourage technology need identification, (2)
Analyze TNs, (3) Manage and prioritize the Technology Needs Portfolio, (4) Submit TNs to
technology funding programs, and (5) Support Transition/Implementation. Figure 3 depicts the
TDIP Management.
 12                                                           AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


Figure 3. Technology Development and Insertion Process Management




   4.1. Encourage TN Identification. AFSC/EN facilitates the capturing of TN candidates.
   Identification is a continuous process, ensuring all known TNs are available for submittal to
   technology funding program data calls throughout the year. AFSC/EN will encourage TN
   identification in the following ways:
   4.1.1. Formally request new TNs on an annual basis from AFSC organizations.
      4.1.2. Perform roadshows at various times each year to communicate present AFSC
      capability gaps and guide organizations on the methods for identifying technical gaps,
      formulating technical needs and generating required documentation, as stated in
      paragraph 3.1.
   4.1.3. Engage regularly with AFSC Science & Technology leadership, project managers and
   TNIPTs to identify new TNs and maintain currency and relevancy of identified TNs.
   4.2. Analyze TNs. AFSC/EN leads the analysis of TNs. In addition to managing the
   governance process and formation of TNIPTs, AFSC/EN identifies TN synergies. Synergies
   include cross-Complex efforts, combining similar TNs and other ways to develop optimal
   solutions to total requirements with most efficient resource utilization.
      4.2.1. Technology Governance Board Process. The Technology Governance Board will
      guide the overall technology process for AFSC. The AFSC/EN Director will chair the
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                     13


     board and appoint other board members. The chairman makes all decisions with
     consultation from the other board members. The board will review and approve the
     method and criteria used to prioritize AFSC’s TNs; oversee technology development,
     transition and implementation; conduct project reviews on a regular basis; and approve
     the process of submitting TNs to data calls from various technology funding programs.
     4.2.2. Technical Needs Integrated Product Teams. TNIPTs support project managers
     and provide subject matter expertise throughout the TN lifecycle. The TNIPT is
     comprised at a minimum of AFSC/EN, the project manager and a representative of the
     cognizant engineering authority. A TPOC (if different from the project manager), SMEs
     within AFSC, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC), Air Force Nuclear
     Weapons Center (AFNWC), AFRL, Department of Defense (DOD) labs, Industry and
     Academia may be members as well.
  4.3. Manage and Prioritize the Technology Needs Portfolio. AFSC/EN will manage the
  Technology Needs Portfolio, which is the single list of TNs and projects for AFSC. The
  portfolio will contain all current TN-required data, prioritization results, technology funding
  program eligibility and current project funding.
     4.3.1. Prioritization Criteria. AFSC/EN will establish prioritization criteria and apply
     to all AFSC TNs, using a defined, repeatable methodology. The prioritization criteria
     will be approved by the Technology Governance Board annually. The criteria will
     incorporate AFSC strategic plan goals and objectives and will be based upon AFSC
     mission priorities, as well as potential benefits and risks.
  4.4. Submit Tech Needs/Projects to Technology Funding Programs. Technology
  Funding Programs are funding sources (e.g., Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR),
  Manufacturing technology (MANTEC), RIF, etc.) that are available to fund development,
  transition and implementation of successful TN projects into AFSC Complexes or supply
  chain operations. AFSC/EN will maintain information on such technology funding programs
  as a ready reference to assist TDIP efforts.
     4.4.1. Matching Process. AFSC/EN will apply specific technology funding program
     filtering criteria to the prioritized needs in the Technology Needs Portfolio and approval
     by the Technology Governance Board before submission. AFSC/EN will submit lists
     and packages, as required for each technology funding program.
  4.5. Support Transition – Implementation. AFSC/EN will provide instructions and
  timelines to project managers and TNIPTs in transitioning and implementing new
  technologies. Additionally, AFSC/EN will perform the following supporting activities:
  provide standardized contract templates and recommended Contract Data Requirements Lists
  (CDRLs), review Performance Work Specifications (PWS) or Statements of Work (SOWs),
  define phase exit criteria/milestones and provide consultation, as requested by project
  managers and TNIPTs. AFSC/EN will support proposal evaluations, status reporting
  requirements and project reviews as required.
     4.5.1. Facilitate Post Project Reviews. AFSC/EN will assist project managers with
     instructions and timelines necessary to document actual costs and benefits after
14                                                          AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014



      successful implementation of new technologies in preparation for the metrics reporting
     to AFSC/EN (see section 3.8). Continued Congressional reporting metrics may be
     required to document actual savings that accrued as a result of the developed technology.
     These metrics must be identified early in the TN program planning phase to ensure
     relevant data is captured.




                                          ANGELA L. TYMOFICHUK, SES
                                          Director, Engineering & Technical Management
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                            15


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 61-1, Management of Science and Technology, 18 Aug 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 Jan 12
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFNWC—Air Force Nuclear Weapons Center
AFRL—Air Force Research Laboratory
AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center
AFSCI—Air Force Sustainment Center Instruction
BAA—Broad Area Announcement
CDRL—Contract Data Requirements List
CEA—Cognizant Engineering Authority
CoF—Complex of the Future
DoD—Department of Defense
DOTMLPF—Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel,
and Facilities
DTIC—Defense Technical Information Center
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
IAW—In Accordance With
LO—Low Observable
MAJCOM—Major Command
MRL—Manufacturing Readiness Level
NDI—Non-Destructive Inspection
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
 16                                                            AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


PWS—Performance Work Statement
R&D—Research and Development
RFI—Request for Information
RIF—Rapid Innovation Funding
S&T—Science and Technology
SBIR—Small Business Innovative Research
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SOW—Statement of Work
TDIP—Technology Development and Insertion Process
TN—Technology Need
TNIPT—Technology Need Integrated Product Team
TPOC—Technical Point of Contact
TRL—Technology Readiness Level
TTP—Technology Transition Plan

Terms
Capability Gap— Mission requirement which cannot be satisfied with current or projected
capability solutions.
Cognizant Engineering Authority— Person or organization that has the authority to make
engineering decisions for a given component or weapon system.
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS)— is the formal United
States Department of Defense (DoD) procedure which defines acquisition requirements and
evaluation criteria for future defense programs. JCIDS was created to replace the previous
service-specific requirements generation system, which created redundancies in capabilities and
failed to meet the combined needs of all US military services. In order to correct these problems,
JCIDS is intended to guide the development of requirements for future acquisition systems to
reflect the needs of all four services (Army, Navy, Marines, and Air Force) by focusing the
requirements generation process on needed capabilities as requested or defined by one of the US
combatant commanders. In the JCIDS process, regional and functional combatant commanders
give feedback early in the development process to ensure that their requirements are met.
Manufacturing Readiness Level— A measure to assess the maturity of manufacturing
readiness serving the same purpose as Technology Readiness Levels serve for technology
readiness
Project Manager— The designated individual with responsibility for and authority to
accomplish objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user's
operational needs. The PM will be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance.
Science and Technology (S&T)— Focuses on developing and understanding technologies, and
also focus on rapidly transitioning technology to affordable products, and teaming with
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                     17


acquisition and sustainment program managers to address user needs. To accomplish their goals,
the S&T community uses programs and processes such as Advanced Technology
Demonstrations (ATDs), Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations (JCTDs), Joint and
Service experimentation, Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR), and Independent
Research & Development (IR&D).
Sponsor— An individual or organization that owns and identifies a TN, manages the technology
solution(s) through implementation and ultimately implements the new technolog(y/ies).
Stakeholder— An individual or organization that stands to gain or lose from the success or
failure of a program.
Sustainment— Involves the supportability of fielded systems and their subsequent life cycle
product support. Sustainment begins when any portion of the production quantity has been
fielded for operational use.
Technical Point of Contact (TPOC)— Primary subject matter expert and advocate for a
technology need. The TPOC has a primary responsibility to ensure a solution will meet the
technical requirements/needs of the organization.
Technology Development— Is the process of research and development of technology.
Emerging technologies/cutting edge developments are expected to become generally applied
from it in the future.
Technology Governance Board— Engineering review board chaired by AFSC/EN Director.
The board will review and validate candidate technology needs, approve prioritization criteria,
and approve technology program submittals.
Technology Insertion— Technology insertion is the process of incorporating new technologies
into components or subsystems of weapon systems or sustainment systems to improve
performance, reliability, or to reduce cost. Usually, the process is planned based on the
anticipated availability or maturity of technologies.
Technology Need (TN)— A need for new technology solution to close a capability gap.
Technology Needs Portfolio— The single list of TNs and projects for AFSC containing all
current TN required data, prioritization results, technology funding program eligibility and
current project funding.
Technology Funding Programs— Funding programs outside of AFSC that facilitate
technology insertion (e.g., SBIR, RIF, etc.).
Technology Readiness Level— A measure used to assess the maturity of evolving technologies
(devices, materials, components, software, work processes, etc.) during its development and in
some cases during early operations.
Technology Transition— The process of applying critical technology in military sustainment
systems to provide an effective process — in the quantity and quality needed by the user to carry
out assigned missions and at the “best value.” Successful technology transition requires strong
collaboration and proactive actions from many stakeholders: laboratory, acquisition, sustainment,
security, industry, academia, and others. Technology transition provides a ready to implement
technology solution to a technology need/capability gap.
 18                                                       AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


Technology Transition Plan (TTP)— Each TN/project requires a TTP, which documents the
agreed upon plan between AFRL, the acquisition community, and the end user to successfully
transition new technology to a user. It outlines specific tasks, achievements and resources
required for the successful execution and transition of a technology solution.
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                         19


                                         Attachment 2
                    TECHNOLOGY NEED REQUEST SUBMISSION

A2.1. General Instructions. The requesting shareholder organizational representative shall
prepare a technology need request submission using a MSWord document (New Times Roman,
12 pitch font) format and addressing the paragraph element shown in Table A2.1; providing as
much information as possible prior to submitting it to AFSC/EN. Use as much space as
necessary to describe the need. Note that additional information will be required prior to
submittal to funding sources; AFSC/EN will coordinate this with the requestor.
   A2.1.1. Paragraph elements 1 – 5 below are required with best information available before
   Technical Need Candidate can be processed.
   A2.1.2. Paragraph elements 6-15 are only applicable if one or more potential solutions to
   fulfill the Technology Need are initially known. The information is not required to initiate a
   technology need, but will be required once approved to proceed to obtain AFSC/EN
   validation and before project funding.

Table A2.1. Technology Need Request Submission Format
             Paragraph Element                                           Description

1. Technology Need Request Submission.           Insert project title.
              <Project Title>


2. Sponsoring Organization Contacts.             Include title, grade/rank, contact info,
                                                 organization & office symbol.

       a. Technical Point of Contact (TPOC).     Who will be the technical SME for this need.

       b. Project Manager.                       Who will assist with overall project management
                                                 (performs data collection, funding, contract
                                                 management, etc.; is the TPOC in many cases).

       c. Organization Decision Authority.       Person who can speak for organization
                                                 requirements and would be able to implement
                                                 solution once proven in production capability.


3. Stakeholder Organizations Contacts.           Include title, grade/rank, contact info,
                                                 organization & office symbol for all that apply.

       a. Cognizant Engineering Authority

       b. System Program Office Chief
          Engineer

       c. Supply Chain Manager
 20                                                           AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014



       d. Like organizations at other AFSC
          sites

       e. Other Organizations same/other
          AFSC sites

       f. Other


4. Problem / Opportunity.                       Provide a complete description of the
                                                problem/opportunity, including a description of
                                                the current state of process/activity/product, and
                                                details of the problem (why it is no longer
                                                acceptable).

                                                Connect the need, piece by piece, back to a gap
                                                in a capability that is required to accomplish a
                                                portion of the AFSC mission.


5. Is the need environmentally related? (Y/N)   If yes, specify one of the following
                                                environmental topic areas:
                                                1.       Pollution Prevention
                                                2.       Environmental Compliance
                                                3.       Environmental Restoration
                                                4.       Munitions Management
                                                5.       Weapon Systems & Platforms
                                                6.       Sustainable Infrastructure


6. Priority.                                    Specify whether this technology need has a
                                                priority of low, medium, or high to the
                                                Group/Division. Briefly explain rationale for
                                                priority. General guidelines:

                                                1.      High priority: meets a mission-critical,
                                                        safety, or environmental issue
                                                2.      Medium priority: delivers a significant
                                                        capability/improvement or has a large
                                                        ROI.
                                                3.      Low priority: delivers a moderate
                                                        improvement or moderate ROI.


7. Strategic Description:                       AFSC Strategic Alignment: Does this need align
                                                with Center/Complex strategic goals? If so, state
                                                which ones and describe how they are aligned.
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                        21




8. Prior efforts.                                 If work has been done on solving this
                                                  technological need, such as previous projects or
                                                  studies, briefly explain these efforts and any
                                                  resulting solution(s).


9. Added Impact/Benefit/Technical                 Discuss impacts, such as how the solution(s)
Capability.                                       will:
                                                  1.      Improve Warfighter Capabilities
                                                  2.      Improve Safety of Flight
                                                  3.      Increase Weapon System/Commodity
                                                          Availability
                                                  4.      Increase Service Life of Weapon System
                                                  5.      Improve Throughput
                                                  6.      Improve Maintainability
                                                  7.      Improve Supportability
                                                  8.      Improve Reliability
                                                  9.      Improve Quality
                                                  Include discussion of negative impacts if not
                                                  implemented.


10. Financial Benefit of solutions (in terms of   Include as much cost benefit information as
cost savings/avoidance).                          possible to support a business case.


11. Enterprise Application..                      Discuss how the solution(s) can be applied to
                                                  multiple weapon systems/commodities, multiple
                                                  Centers/Complexes, and/or other DoD services.


12. Are solutions dual-use? (Y/N).                Describe. (Dual-use means Commercial and
                                                  Military use)


13. Execution Schedule.                           Show expected deliverables (hardware, software,
                                                  reports, etc.) and expected year required for
                                                  implementation (need date). Include phases such
                                                  as development, integration, test, transition, and
                                                  demonstration. Include other phases as
                                                  appropriate and project through full
                                                  implementation of technology. Include projected
                                                  allocations and schedules for manpower, floor
                                                  space, etc., required to spin-up and field the
                                                  technology. Tie in with existing plans, as
                                                  appropriate. Give expected timeframe for
 22                                                        AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


                                             technology to be transitioned to end user.


14. Funding Profile / Spend plan (proposed   Show funding sources and amounts by year, in
commitment, obligation, and expenditures).   column format. As with the execution schedule,
                                             project funding through full implementation of
                                             the technology. (Sponsoring office has budgeted
                                             for implementation or plans to budget?)


15. Risk Description.                        Describe technical, funding, and schedule risk.
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                            23


                                          Attachment 3
                                 LETTER OF COMMITMENT

A3.1. General Instructions. The sponsor will submit a letter of intent stating their organization
will plan for implementation funding, will provide necessary infrastructure, training, etc., to
implement the technical solution, if it is successfully developed. The sponsor will prepare the
letter in MSWord (Times New Roman, 12 pitch font) using a simple format shown in Figure
A3.1. Standard letter format using Air Force Communication standards (ie The Tongue and
Quill), is an acceptable alternative.

Figure A3.1. Sample Letter of Commitment

Letter of Commitment
This letter identifies a commitment by the sponsoring Group/Division to adequately plan for
implementation funding of the solution to the technology need should it prove successful.
Additionally, the sponsoring Group/Division will allocate necessary floor space/infrastructure,
interface with affected cognizant engineering authorit(y/ies), provide training, etc. necessary to
implement the new technology

All parties make this commitment within the restraints imposed by mission requirements,
funding and other resource availability, system schedules and other factors beyond their control.
Therefore, this is not a binding funding commitment.


Sponsoring Group/Division
Commander/Chief     ______________________________________                   Date ____________


Sponsoring Group/Division
Lead Engineer       ______________________________________                   Date ____________


Project Manager        ______________________________________                Date ____________
 24                                                             AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 4
                          TECHNOLOGY TRANSITION PLAN (TTP)

A4.1. General Instructions. The TTP will outline the strategy to acquire and use the
technology. The TTP is necessary to begin preparing for any long-lead items. These long-lead
items could be POM/budget inputs, training, amending technical orders, facilities requirements,
interfacing with other programs/systems, working with Information Technology (IT), etc. The
TTP will also identify how (and how long) the benefits of the solution to the technology need
will be collected, measured, and verified. The TTP document will be prepared using MSWord
(New Times Roman, 12 pitch font) and structured IAW the format outlined in Table A4.1.

Table A4.1. Technology Transition Plan Format
     Paragraph                                           Description
   Headings/Format

Table of Contents


1. Title and
   Leadership
   Signature Page


2. Other Coordination
   Signature Page


3. Transition Strategy.     Who are they and what are their roles and responsibilities?

   3.1. Technology
Participants.
1.     Transition           Who needs to help you in order to transition the technology? For
       agents               example, equipment specialists, trainers, facilities engineers, etc.)?
2.     Technology
       recipient

   3.2. Technology          When do you expect the technology to transition?
    Availability Dates.

   3.3. Deliverables.       What will be delivered at time of transition? For example,
                            prototype, final product, training manuals, technical orders,
                            software, etc.
4. Acquisition Strategy.
                            Explain your plan to ensure a successful transition. Consider the
                            following:
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                         25


      1.                                                                               I
           T Issues.   8.             Do you need to work with IT before installing the
                                  technology?

      2.               9.             How and from where will you get funding to transition
                                                                                     F      the
           unding.                technology? What about during operations and support?

                       10.            Will you need to train people to use or maintain the
      3. Training.                technology? Where, by whom, how much will it cost, who
                                  pays?

      4. Facilities  11.              Where will you put the technology? Do you need to
         Requirements.            rearrange equipment? Consider HVAC, electrical, plumbing,
                                  network connections, etc.

      5. Maintenance 12.              Will you need maintenance support to sustain your
         Support.                 technology? When, how and for how long? Will you need to
                                  train the maintainers? Consider IT/software support,
                                  inspections, paying for the maintenance support.
                       13.            Will you need Metrology calibration support to sustain your
                                  technology? Do they have the equipment to support this? Will
                                  new equipment need to be purchased and coordinated with
                                  AFMETCAL?

      6. Environmental14.            Will any permits (i.e., air) be required? Will hazardous
         Impact                   material be used or hazardous waste be generated? What level
                                  of environmental assessment, will be required?

      7. Approval.     15.           Will a T.O. change be required? Does another organization
                                  outside your own need to approve the use of the new
                                  technology?



5. Benefits.                 1.      What are the benefits of the technology? How and how long
                                     will you collect and verify those benefits to know the benefit
                                     was realized?
 26                                                         AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014


                                        Attachment 5
  TECHNOLOGY READINESS LEVEL & MANUFACTURING READINESS LEVEL

A5.1. Current Technology Readiness Level (TRL): The TRL is the primary way to assess the
maturity of the technology. TRL less than or equal to 6 is considered research and development
(R&D). Technologies that have been demonstrated in a relevant environment and met the
necessary exit criteria are at TRL 7 ready for transition. TRLs are shown in Figure A5.1.

Figure A5.1. Technology Readiness Level




A5.2. Current Manufacturing Readiness Level (MRL): The MRL is the primary way to
assess the manufacturing maturity and risk of the technology. MRL less than 6 is considered
research and development (R&D). An MRL of 6 or greater documents the manufacturing
capability is ready to produce a prototype in a production relevant environment. MRLs are not
intended to be an absolute requirement for proceeding into the next phase of TN development
and should be tailored for the specific circumstances. MRL levels are shown in Table A5.1.
AFSCI61-101 14 MARCH 2014                                                                    27


Table A5.1. Manufacturing Readiness Level
  MRL                                         Description

MRL 1       Basic Manufacturing Implications Identified

MRL 2       Manufacturing Concepts Identified

MRL 3       Manufacturing Proof of Concept Developed

MRL 4       Capability to produce the technology in a laboratory environment

MRL 5       Capability to produce prototype components in a production relevant
            environment

MRL 6       Capability to produce a prototype system or subsystem in a production relevant
            environment

MRL 7       Capability to produce systems, subsystems, or components in a production
            representative environment

MRL 8       Pilot line capability demonstrated; Ready to begin Low Rate Initial Production

MRL 9       Low rate production demonstrated; Capability in place to begin Full Rate
            Production
