BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                             COMMAND INSTRUCTION 10-1201
COMMAND
                                                                                23 APRIL 2013

                                                                                     Operations

                                                               AFSOC SPACE OPERATIONS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 623 AOC/STN                                                      Certified by: 623 AOC/CC
                                                                         (Col Charles H. Myers)
                                                                                        Pages: 11
Supersedes:   AFSOCI10-1201,
              5 November 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-12, Space, and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 10-1201, Space Operations. It provides guidance for the integration of space
operations capabilities and personnel to support Air Force Special Operations Command
(AFSOC) missions. This guidance applies to all AFSOC units to include AFSOC units in the
Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This supplement has been updated to reflect current AFSOC guidance and policy regarding HQ
AFSOC and field unit POC responsibilities.
 2                                                            AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013


1. General. The primary objective of the instruction is to provide guidance to AFSOC forces on
the integration of space operations capabilities at the tactical and operational level of conflict,
and to guide the preparation of AFSOC space personnel to support exercise and contingency
requirements.
     1.1. Space Personnel Responsibilities. AFSOC has space personnel assigned to the 623rd
     Air and Space Operations Center (AOC), and AFSOC active duty wings and groups. These
     space personnel ensure the proper integration of space capabilities to enhance AFSOC
     combat operations. Additionally, these space personnel educate and train Special Operations
     Forces (SOF) on space system capabilities available to enhance mission accomplishment.
        1.1.1. The Chief of the Space Specialty Team (623 AOC/STN) will act as the AFSOC
        Director of Space Forces (DIRSPACEFOR), and facilitates coordination, planning,
        execution, and assessment of space operations impacting Air Force Special Operations
        Forces (AFSOF) for AFSOC. Additionally, day-to-day, the DIRSPACEFOR will serve
        as the AFSOC space subject matter expert (SME) and will be the coordinating official for
        all space support to AFSOC at the MAJCOM level.
        1.1.2. The Chief, 623 AOC/STN will act as AFSOC’s Space functional area manager
        (FAM) and will coordinate requisitions for personnel, space officer training and all
        deployments for space officers within AFSOC.
        1.1.3. The Chief, 623 AOC/STN will coordinate with the Air Force Personnel Center
        (when appropriate) for requisition of space officers for AFSOC units, upon request.
     1.2. Home Station Personnel Recovery (PR) Support. Space support to home station PR
     can be requested through unit space and/or intelligence personnel or by contacting the 623
     AOC/STN at Defense Switched Network (DSN) 579-4612/3254 or via the 623 AOC
     Operations Floor at DSN 579-8900.
     1.3. Home Station Friendly Force Tracking (FFT) Support. AFSOC’s growing
     command and control (C2) requirements have increased the need for global, secure, accurate,
     and timely situational awareness; thus, driving a greater reliance on FFT devices. The 623
     AOC/STN executes management and acquisition of the AFSOC FFT program on behalf of
     the 623 AOC/CC and 23 AF/CC, as delegated from AFSOC. The 623 AOC/STN will
     facilitate coordination, planning, and execution of force tracking operations to include
     overarching FFT device management. The 623 AOC/STN office will also act as the
     command’s liaison with outside agencies regarding FFT operations.
        1.3.1. AFSOC units will request device development and procurement to meet emerging
        needs by submitting a detailed request and justification for new FFT devices through the
        HQ AFSOC/A3. 623 AOC/STN will be the HQ AFSOC/A3 point of contact (POC) for
        all FFT requirements.
        1.3.2. AFSOC units will contact their respective unit’s space personnel regarding the
        FFT program. Units that do not have a permanent party space officer can contact the 623
        AOC/STN at DSN 579-5710/7823 or via the 623 AOC Operations Floor at DSN 579-
        8900 for technical support relating to FFT device operation, troubleshooting, and/or data
        dissemination. Reference AFSOCI 10-1202, AFSOC Friendly Force Tracking (FFT)
        Operations, for additional information.
AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013                                                                3


2. Space Officer Roles and Responsibilities. Space officers assigned to 623 AOC/STN will
act as space SMEs on behalf of HQ AFSOC. These individuals are familiar with AFSOC
operations and will be prepared to support AFSOF deployment requirements for exercises and
contingency operations with the concurrence of the unit commander. This also applies to
civilian personnel assigned to the 623 AOC/STN, when permitted by position descriptions.
   2.1. Space officers assigned to 623 AOC/STN. As well as the space officers assigned to
   other AFSOC units, space officers assigned to 623 AOC/STN, will identify and integrate
   space capabilities and space-related tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) to improve
   AFSOF operations.
   2.2. Contingency Planning. Space personnel assigned to 623 AOC/STN and select AFSOC
   units will serve as SMEs to identify and integrate space capabilities required to support
   AFSOF during contingency planning.
   2.3. Deliberate Planning. Space officers assigned to 623 AOC/STN, acting as space SMEs
   on behalf of HQ AFSOC, and space officers assigned to AFSOC units will review and be
   familiar with their applicable theater Operation Plan (OPLAN) and the space support
   specified for OPLAN execution (i.e., Annex N, Space Operations). Space personnel will
   serve as SMEs for space-based combat support to theater, home-station, and 623 AOC
   operations in support of (ISO) theater OPLAN execution.
   2.4. Space TTPs. Space officers assigned to 623 AOC/STN and space officers assigned to
   AFSOC units will serve as their respective unit’s SME for space capabilities, the unit’s
   employment of space capabilities ISO AFSOF operations, and related TTPs.
      2.4.1. Space officers assigned to 623 AOC/STN, acting as space SMEs on behalf of HQ
      AFSOC, and space officers assigned to AFSOC units will support the AFSOC tactics
      program as defined in AFSOCI 11-207, AFSOC Tactics Program.
      2.4.2. Unit space officers will assist the unit Weapons and Tactics Flight with the
      development of TTPs for the proper integration of space capabilities in order to (IOT)
      support AFSOF operations.
      2.4.3. The Space Weapons Officer (SWO) assigned to 623 AOC/STN will serve as the
      AFSOC SWO and will support HQ AFSOC/A3TW with all space-related TTP
      development, validation and testing. The AFSOC SWO will also participate in all
      AFSOC Tactics Review Boards (TRBs) and will support other TRBs for space-related
      AFSOC issues when applicable.
      2.4.4. Space officers assigned to the 623 AOC/STN, acting as space SMEs on behalf of
      HQ AFSOC, and space officers assigned to AFSOC units will (if and/or when able)
      attend AFSOC and Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) Weapons and Tactics
      conferences to remain knowledgeable of emerging and developing TTPs to ensure these
      space capabilities are incorporated into AFSOC TTPs when applicable.
   2.5. Space Doctrine, Policies, and Instructions. Space officers assigned to the 623
   AOC/STN, acting as space SMEs on behalf of HQ AFSOC, and space officers assigned to
   AFSOC units will serve as the SMEs to review and coordinate space-related doctrine,
   policies, and instructions.
 4                                                           AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013


     2.6. Space Technologies. Space officers assigned to 623 AOC/STN, acting as space SMEs
     on behalf of HQ AFSOC, will identify existing and emerging space technologies that could
     enhance AFSOC operations. Additionally, they will provide subject matter expertise for the
     proper development, testing, and fielding of new space capabilities and technologies to
     support AFSOC operations.
     2.7. AFSOC Unit Space Education and Training. The AOC/STN, acting as space SMEs
     on behalf of HQ AFSOC, and space officers assigned to AFSOC units will educate and train
     AFSOC forces on the proper employment and integration of space capabilities.
        2.7.1. Space personnel assigned to AFSOC will receive initial space training from 623
        AOC/STN. Initial space training, within an AFSOC context, is defined as training that
        presents current space capabilities (i.e., IBS, GPS, SATCOM, Missile Warning, etc.) that
        enhance AFSOC missions. This training will be coordinated by the 623 AOC. All other
        training courses designed to improve the space personnel’s knowledge of space and
        AFSOC operations and to better prepare them to integrate space capabilities with AFSOC
        assets/missions, will be coordinated and funded by their respective unit.
        2.7.2. Unit space officers must coordinate with unit Operations Training Flights and
        Weapons and Tactics Flights to incorporate space training into unit training programs.
        2.7.3. All space education and training will be tailored to the specific unit and/or
        platform being supported to ensure unit personnel are knowledgeable of how space
        capabilities enhance their combat operations.
        2.7.4. Unit space officers will support Combat Mission Training (CMT) in accordance
        with (IAW) AFSOCI 11-207, AFSOC Tactics Program.
        2.7.5. Units that do not have a permanent party space officer may request space
        education and training through 623 AOC/STN at DSN 579-4612.
        2.7.6. AFSOC space SMEs may be tasked to support joint SOF operations at the Joint
        Forces Special Operations Component Command (JFSOCC) or the Joint Special
        Operations Task Force (JSOTF) when force augmentation is required. Tasking
        requirements for AFSOC space personnel will be coordinated with the AFSOC Space
        FAM at DSN 579-3254, and formally requested through the 623 AOC Operations Center
        at DSN 579-8900.
3. Space Support Mission Areas. AFSOC benefits from leveraging space capabilities to
improve combat operations and capabilities. This instruction is not intended to limit the space
support provided to AFSOC forces; however, it is necessary to define the baseline space
capabilities, products, and support that each AFSOC space officer must be prepared to employ
during exercise and contingency operations. The baseline space support will include:
     3.1. Theater Missile Warning (TMW). Space officers assigned to AFSOC units will
     provide timely and accurate TMW to SOF C2 nodes for passive defense. In most cases, this
     support will occur while forward deployed ISO on-going contingency operations; however,
     there may be instances when increased tensions in a particular region may require a space
     officer at home station to conduct TMW. In either case, the space officer assigned to SOF
     units will provide the SOF commander with an architecture that captures indications and
AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013                                                                     5


  warnings of theater missile events affecting all SOF forces assigned to or attached within that
  commander’s authority.
  3.2. Personnel Recovery (PR)/Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR). Space officers
  assigned to AFSOC units often support personnel recovery operations by serving as the
  primary liaison with national assets; requesting national overhead signals intelligence
  (commonly referred to as national technical means [NTM]) support for PR/CSAR events;
  and providing survivor location data to the rescue force. This coordination includes, but is
  not limited to, coordinating NTM coverage to support exercises. All NTM support requests
  will be in coordination with the efforts of the local intelligence agency (e.g., ISRD, A2, or J2
  collection manager).
     3.2.1. While deployed, the space officer will coordinate with the SOF unit’s Personnel
     Recovery Coordination Center C2 (if applicable) to determine when NTM support is
     required to support PR/CSAR operations. Typically, NTM support to a PR scenario will
     be requested once the theater’s Joint Personnel Recover Center (JPRC) determines a
     PR/CSAR event has occurred. Upon JPRC declaration of a PR/CSAR event, the space
     officer assigned to the SOF unit will coordinate NTM support per the guidance given in
     theater special instructions (SPINs), applicable concepts of operations (CONOPs), or
     operations plans (OPLANs).
         3.2.1.1. Space officers assigned to SOF units will familiarize themselves with all
         applicable SPINs, CONOPs, and OPLANs applicable to their organization.
  3.3. Space Control. Space officers assigned to AFSOC units will plan and integrate
  offensive and defensive counterspace measures to gain and maintain space superiority, as
  appropriate.
  3.4. Friendly Force Tracking (FFT). Space officers assigned to AFSOC units will
  coordinate integration of FFT capabilities into AFSOC platforms and individual equipment
  suites. They will ensure FFT capabilities are appropriate to support unit requirements and
  are included in the C2 element’s Common Operational Picture (COP) for unit leadership
  Situational Awareness (SA). Reference AFSOCI 10-1202, AFSOC Friendly Force Tracking
  (FFT) Operations.
  3.5. Force Enhancement Planning. The Global Positioning System (GPS), space
  weather, friendly space systems and adversarial space systems can all effect the enhancement
  of AFSOF operations. Therefore, the space officer must have the ability to provide force
  enhancement planning and space situational awareness by accomplishing the following:
     3.5.1. Analyze the Global Positioning System (GPS) interference environment, predict
     the impact to AFSOC operations, and develop a plan to mitigate GPS interference effects.
     3.5.2. Provide navigation accuracy predictions and determine the impact to AFSOC
     operations.
     3.5.3. Support local weather personnel with efforts to integrate data, analysis, and
     products from the Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA), 23d Weather Squadron (WS),
     and Special Operations Weather Teams to support space situational awareness (reference
     AFI 15-128, Air and Space Weather Operations - Roles and Responsibilities). Determine
     the impact of space weather on space systems (i.e., GPS, SATCOM, Missile Warning
 6                                                             AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013


        satellites, etc.), and determine the impact of any space system degradation (e.g., radio
        frequency interference, spacecraft charging, particle bombardment, etc.) to AFSOF
        operations.
        3.5.4. Maintain situational awareness of blue-force space system capabilities and
        determine the impact of adversary space capabilities to AFSOF operations in
        coordination with HQ AFSOC/A2A.
        3.5.5. Maintain situational awareness of red- and grey-space system capabilities and
        determine the impact of adversary space capabilities to AFSOF operations in
        coordination with HQ AFSOC/A2A.
     3.6. Special Technical Operations (STO). Space officers assigned to AFSOC units will
     provide subject matter expertise as a STO planner and in select cases as the STO Chief for
     planning and execution of special technical capabilities.
     3.7. Communications. Space SMEs do not work traditional satellite communication
     (SATCOM) functions. While space personnel can work unique SATCOM issues (e.g.,
     Interference, Special Comms, etc.), the A6 community is responsible for traditional
     SATCOM.
     3.8. Intelligence, Reconnaissance, and Surveillance (ISR). Space SMEs do not work
     traditional ISR functions. While space personnel can work unique ISR requests such as GPS
     and/or link interference and operational use of ISR capabilities (i.e., PR, etc.), the A2
     community is responsible for traditional ISR.
4. Exercise and Contingency Operations Support. Space capabilities and personnel should
be integrated into AFSOC exercises and contingency operations, when appropriate.
     4.1. AFSOC Space Support for Exercises. AFSOC units should incorporate space
     operations into exercises to the greatest extent possible in order to normalize space
     integration into the AFSOC culture. The AFSOC space officer’s participation in exercise
     planning and execution is crucial to ensuring that appropriate space capabilities are leveraged
     IOT support AFSOF exercise requirements. During AFSOC exercises, the space expertise
     will be provided by the space officer assigned to the exercising AFSOC Wing or Group.
     Units that do not have a permanent party space officer assigned or if that individual is
     unavailable (e.g., deployment), space officer support can be requested and should be
     coordinated with the AFSOC Space FAM (623 AOC/STN) at DSN 579-3254.
     4.2. AFSOC Space Support for Contingency Operations. Space personnel participation
     in contingency planning is critical to ensuring appropriate space capabilities are leveraged
     IOT support AFSOF operations. Unit space personnel will support unit contingency
     planning groups to identify space support requirements and determine if deployment of an
     AFSOC space SME is required. If additional space officer support is required, units will
     coordinate with the AFSOC Space FAM (623 AOC/STN) at DSN 579-3254.
5. Space Support Requirements. HQ AFSOC and AFSOC units requiring direct space support
must provide and maintain the equipment and software for space SMEs to perform the space
support mission area functions. Due to the classification of some mission areas, the unit must
also ensure access to appropriately cleared facilities for space personnel to perform their tasks.
AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013                                                                     7


   5.1. Space Software Applications. AFSOC units will ensure the SOF Air Mission Suite
   (SAMS) software load is loaded on the Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET)
   for their space personnel to utilize. This will ensure their space personnel are capable of
   providing the support required to enhance their mission. The 623 AOC/STN will coordinate
   with HQ AFSOC/A6 to ensure the correct software applications are included in the most
   current SAMS load.
   5.2. Computer Equipment. Each unit must ensure deployable computers are available for
   unit space personnel to support exercises and contingency operations.
      5.2.1. One deployable computer must be configured to receive the Integrated Broadcast
      Service’s intelligence broadcast, either via transmission control protocol/internet protocol
      or directly from the satellite’s downlink (e.g., Air Force Tactical Receive Suite [AFTRS]
      or equivalent). This computer is required to provide accurate and timely support to
      TMW, PR/CSAR, and FFT operations.
      5.2.2. A second deployable computer must be configured to support force enhancement
      planning and space situational awareness. This system must be configured with the
      standard software load for Joint Special Operations Air Component (JSOAC)/Joint
      Special Operations Air Detachment (JSOAD) joint operations centers and have the space
      software application installed. This computer requires SIPRNET connectivity and access
      to the SIPRNET-fed COP. This computer must be part of the deployed Tactical Local
      Area Network (TACLAN).
      5.2.3. Unit space personnel require access to the Joint Worldwide Intelligence
      Communications System (JWICS) or equivalent Top Secret/Special Compartmented
      Information (SCI) network.
   5.3. Facilities. To provide space force enhancement to AFSOC, space personnel require
   access to a SCI facility. Additionally, these personnel require access to a Special Access
   Program (SAP) facility if SAP capabilities are utilized in the operation or training event.
   Access to these facilities (with SCI/SAP communications equipment) is required at the
   deployed AFSOF C2- node and at the AFSOC units. This requirement is satisfied if the host
   base is willing and able to provide such facilities.
   5.4. Training. Each unit will ensure space personnel are properly trained to operate the
   space application software. Training will be completed IAW the HQ AFSOC Space
   Operations Training Plan.
6. AFSOC Space Personnel Readiness.
   6.1. Deployable Status. To support AFSOC space SME deployment requirements, AFSOC
   space personnel must maintain worldwide deployable status.
      6.1.1. Members will coordinate with their Unit Deployment Manager (UDM) and ensure
      all mobility requirements remain current.
      6.1.2. The AFSOC Space FAM (623 AOC/STN) manages the deployment schedule for
      all space officers assigned to AFSOC units. UDMs will notify 623 AOC/STN if there is
      a change in mobility status (i.e., member is removed from/returned to worldwide
      deployment eligibility status).
 8                                                              AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013


     6.2. Minimum Security Clearance. To effectively support AFSOC space SME
     requirements, AFSOC space personnel must maintain a current Top Secret clearance with
     SCI indoctrination.
7. AFSOC Space Personnel Training. AFSOC space officers will have at least one
operational space assignment prior to their assignment to an AFSOC unit. While it is highly
desired for each space officer to have two operational space tours and some experience directly
supporting AFSOF or other theater operations, some billets are coded for O-2 or O-3, limiting
the experience level of potential personnel. Due to their varied backgrounds (i.e., satellite
command and control, space-based missile warning, space surveillance, space launch,
intercontinental ballistic missile operations, etc.) and varied experience levels, each space officer
must complete the AFSOC space training requirements to fully support AFSOF space integration
efforts.
     7.1. Training Plan. AFSOC space personnel training will be completed IAW the HQ
     AFSOC Space Operations Training Plan. The Chief, 623 AOC/STN will approve the HQ
     AFSOC Space Operations Training Plan for implementation.
     7.2. Training Plan Deviations. Requests for deviations from the HQ AFSOC Space
     Operations Training Plan must be submitted to 623 AOC/STN via an official memorandum.
     The 623 AOC/STN will monitor all training requirements and will be the approval authority
     for deviation requests.
     7.3. Theater Training. AFSOC space personnel should complete theater training
     requirements as defined by the supported Combatant Command. Space officers will
     coordinate with the unit deployment manager for all theater specific training requirements.
8. Staff Assistance Visit (SAV). The Chief, 623 AOC/STN will ensure that all AFSOC units
with a permanent party space SME receive an annual SAV to assist units with the integration of
space personnel and capabilities into AFSOC operations. As necessary, the unit may request
additional SAVs by submitting a request to 623 AOC/STN for Chief, Space Specialty Team
approval.




                                              TIMOTHY J. LEAHY, Maj Gen(s), USAF
                                              Director of Operations
AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013                                                   9


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-12, Space, 01 Feb 1996
AFDD 3-05, Special Operations, 16 Dec 2005
AFDD 3-50, Personnel Recovery, 01 Jun 2005
AFI 10-1201, Space Operations, 25 Jul 1994
AFI 15-128, Air Force Weather Roles and Responsibilities, 07 Feb 2007
AFSOCI 10-1202, AFSOC Friendly Force Tracking (FFT) Operations, 07 Feb 2007
AFSOCI 11-207, AFSOC Tactics Program, 29 Jun 2009
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed in this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSOCI—Air Force Special Operations Command Instruction
AFSOF—Air Force Special Operations Forces
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
AFTRS—Air Force Tactical Receive Suite
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air and Space Operations Center
C2—Command and Control
CSAR—Combat Search and Rescue
CMT—Combat Mission Training
 10                                                        AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013


CONOP—Concept of Operation
COP—Common Operational Picture
DIRSPACEFOR—Director of Space Forces
DSN—Defense Switched Network
FAM—Functional Area Manager
FTT—Friendly Force Tracking
GPS—Global Positioning System
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IOT—In Order To
ISO—In Support Of
ISRD—Intelligence, Surveillance, Reconnaissance Division
JFSOCC—Joint Forces Special Operations Component Command
JPRC—Joint Personnel Recover Center
JSOAC—Joint Special Operations Air Component
JSOAD—Joint Special Operations Air Detachment
JSOTF—Joint Special Operations Task Force
JWICS—Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System
MAJCOM—Major Command
NTM—National Technical Means
OPLAN—Operation Plan
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OWS—Operational Weather Squadron
POC—Point of Contact
PR—Personnel Recovery
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SA—Situational Awareness
SAMS—Special Operations Forces Air Mission Suite
SAP—Special Access Program
SATCOM—Satellite Communications
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SCI—Special Compartmented Information
AFSOCI10-1201 23 APRIL 2013                       11


SCoReS—Space Combat Receive Suite
SIPRNET—Secret Internet Protocol Router Network
SME—Subject Matter Expertise
SOF—Special Operations Forces
SPINS—Special Instructions
STO—Special Technical Operations
SWO—Space Weapons Officer
TACLAN—Tactical Local Area Network
TMW—Theater Missile Warning
TRB—Tactics Review Board
TRS—Tactical Receive System
TTP—Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
UDM—Unit Deployment Manager
WS—Weather Squadron
