BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                         AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                                                        COMMAND INSTRUCTION 33-202
COMMAND
                                                                                                                       11 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                           Communications and Information

                                                                        PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE (PED)
                                                                                               SECURITY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A6OI                                                                                Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A6O
                                                                                                      (Lt Col Charmaine Martin)
Supersedes:   AFSOCI 33-202,                                                                                          Pages: 17
              31 March 2004


This instruction implements DODI 5200.1-R, DoD Information Security Program and
Protection of Sensitive Compartmented Information, 9 Oct 2008; AFI 33-112, Information
Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 Apr 2006; AFI 33-219, Telecommunications
Monitoring and Assessment Program, 1 May 2006; AFI 33-322, Records Management Program,
7 Oct 2003; AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication, 6 Jul 2006; and AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, 8 Mar 2008. This instruction applies to active duty AFSOC units
and all individuals working on an AFSOC installation. It does not apply to the Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) or the Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the AFSOC policy and guidance concerning portable electronic device
security.

       1.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................   2
 2                                                                                        AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011


        2.     Scope. .....................................................................................................................    3
        3.     Applicability. .........................................................................................................        3
        4.     Background. ...........................................................................................................         3
        5.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................         3
        6.     Facility Policy. .......................................................................................................        4
        7.     PED Policy. ............................................................................................................        4
        8.     Waivers/Exceptions. ..............................................................................................             10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                12

Attachment 2—SAMPLE ENTRY/EXIT POINT SIGN                                                                                                     15

Attachment 3—SAMPLE PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE (PED) SECURITY TRAINING
             INFORMATION                                               16


1. Purpose. This instruction provides AFSOC personnel guidance on the proper use of PEDs.
The guidance includes security measures to ensure the integrity and security of AFSOC
information and systems. The policy incorporates directives from DOD, USSOCOM, and AF
into a single directive to reduce the number of policies users must access to locate applicable
guidance.
     1.1. PEDs include:
        1.1.1. Personal Digital Assistants (PDA).
        1.1.2. Tablet Personal Computers (PCs).
        1.1.3. Laptop/netbook computers.
        1.1.4. Cellular telephones (CT).
        1.1.5. Two-way pagers.
        1.1.6. Digital imagery/recording cameras devices (still and/or video).
        1.1.7. Wireless PDA/email                       devices          (e.g.,       Research           in      Motion’s            Blackberry
        devices/Smartphones).
        1.1.8. Secure Mobile Environment Portable Electronic Devices (SME PEDs)
        1.1.9. Any other devices of similar capability or design.
     1.2. PEDs exclude:
        1.2.1. Land mobile radios (LMRs).
        1.2.2. Emergency radios.
        1.2.3. Tactical radios.
        1.2.4. One-way, receive-only devices (such as receive-only pagers).
        1.2.5. Devices that only play prerecorded media.
AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011                                                                       3


   1.3. This policy will be reviewed and updated, as required, to address technology changes
   that may provide practical application for the command without introducing unacceptable
   security risks and vulnerabilities.
2. Scope. This policy is applicable to all PEDs used within AFSOC facilities/organizations
regardless of the type, classification, or functionality. References to PEDs are government
procured/owned, unless otherwise specified.
3. Applicability. This instruction applies to active duty AFSOC units and all individuals
working on an AFSOC installation. It does not apply to the Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) or the Air National Guard (ANG). AFSOC units/geographically separated units
(GSUs)/bases will augment this policy with local policy. Organizations may make their policy
more restrictive, but in no case less restrictive. When AFSOC policy is in conflict with AFIs or
USSOCOM/local policy, the more restrictive policy will be followed. Failure to adhere to the
provisions of this instruction may result in termination of network access to all AFSOC and/or
DOD supported networks and in other disciplinary and legal penalties, as appropriate.
4. Background. The proliferation of PEDs within the AFSOC Enterprise is expanding rapidly.
While providing productivity benefits, the ability of these devices to store and transmit classified
information through both wired and wireless networks poses potential risks to an organization's
security. Particularly, their potential use in and around areas where classified information may
be discussed or processed creates new risks of which commanders and users must be made
aware. PEDs providing wireless capabilities pose even greater challenges by increasing the risk
of compromising emanations. A balance between security and functionality is required to
maximize the benefits derived from PEDs while preserving the ability to conduct secure
discussions, meetings, and communications. This instruction establishes a minimum standard
security posture for PEDs and provides AFSOC Designated Approving Authorities (DAA), Unit
Commanders, and Information System Security Officers (ISSOs), a framework from which local
PED policy and directives can be derived.
5. Responsibilities.
   5.1. HQ AFSOC/A6O. Serves as the OPR for this instruction and updates it when required.
   5.2. Building Facility Managers. Posts signs at strategic entry/exit locations where PED use
   is not authorized. See Attachment 2 for an example sign.
   5.3. Unit Commanders.
       5.3.1. Designate facilities or rooms where PED use is unauthorized.
       5.3.2. Except for cellular telephones with no PDA capability, purchase only PEDs that
       have received an AFSOC CTO.
       5.3.3. Ensure an ISSO is appointed to facilitate processing/handling PED security
       requirements.
   5.4. Unit ISSOs.
       5.4.1. Provide PED users security training utilizing Attachment 3 as a guide. Units may
       develop local training material, but must include the topics in Attachment 3 as a
       minimum.
       5.4.2. Provide PED users periodic updates on security issues.
 4                                                            AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011


        5.4.3. Act as the unit's single focal point for handling/resolving PED security issues.
     5.5. Client Systems Technician (CST). The following statements apply only to government
     owned PEDs that process or store data (e.g., PDAs or cellular phones with PDA capabilities)
     or connect to the base network either directly or indirectly through "hot-syncing" with a
     desktop workstation.
        5.5.1. Are the user's focal point for resolving any technical issues/problems.
        5.5.2. Configure PED operating systems and applications to ensure compliance with this
        policy.
        5.5.3. Install antivirus software, when applicable, on PEDs and associated workstations.
        5.5.4. Notify PED users when a software upgrade or maintenance is required.
        5.5.5. Provide antivirus and security software sourcing information and initial technical
        support for government owned PEDs (e.g., assisting a user accessing e-mail using
        Outlook Web Access (OWA)).
     5.6. Meeting/Conference hosts/OPRs. Responsible for reminding users to appropriately
     secure PEDs prior to the start of meetings where classified information may be processed,
     discussed, or viewed.
     5.7. Base Equipment Control Officer (BECO)/ Equipment Custodians.
        5.7.1. Centrally track and account for PED device ownership in accordance with AFI 33-
        112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, and local BECO policies.
6. Facility Policy. Those facilities/rooms commanders have identified as PED restricted must
identify which types of PEDs are prohibited and coordinate with Facility Managers to post signs
accordingly.
7. PED Policy. Effective immediately, any new PEDs used within AFSOC shall be in
accordance with the following policy. Exception: Those individuals/units who are already
using PEDs shall comply with this policy where technically possible and must develop and
execute a conformance plan to ensure 100% compliance within 90 days.
     7.1. General. Policy for all classes of PEDs.
        7.1.1. PEDs that connect to the base network (via direct or wireless access, through a
        docking station, or via any other connection means) must use operating systems and
        applications that have been approved, certified, and accredited by the Chief Information
        Officer (CIO) and DAA to ensure they meet minimum technical and security
        requirements for the supported business or mission and are compliant with AFSOC and
        host base's certification and accreditation rules.
        7.1.2. Wireless PEDs will not be used for storing, processing, or transmitting classified
        information unless specifically authorized by the cognizant authority (DAA for data
        devices and unit commander for voice-only devices). If approved by the DAA, then only
        assured channels employing National Security Agency (NSA) approved, Type-1 end-to-
        end encryption will be used to transmit classified information. PEDs (and any connected
        storage media) shall be safeguarded in accordance with DOD Instruction 5200.1-R, DOD
AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011                                                                   5


     INFORMATION SECURITY PROGRAM AND PROTECTION OF SENSITIVE
     COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION
     7.1.3. AFSOC personnel:
        7.1.3.1. When utilizing PEDs, users shall use good operations security (OPSEC),
        shall protect classified data from disclosure to unauthorized parties, and shall refrain
        from any practices that might jeopardize, compromise, or render useless any garrison
        and/or tactical AFSOC data, system, or network.
        7.1.3.2. Are individually responsible and liable for any disclosures of classified
        information if the member/employee sends such information through a PED.
        7.1.3.3. Shall not transmit classified data or information through a PED unless
        specifically authorized by the cognizant authority. Note: All classified data transfers
        shall be performed only on fully accredited, classified systems.
        7.1.3.4. Shall not use the PED to access the Internet or E-mail services that are not
        provided by the host base when it is connected to an AFSOC workstation (e.g., the
        PED’s wireless capability is still on and providing a back-door network connection to
        a commercial web site).
        7.1.3.5. May not use unofficial E-mail services for official business without the
        expressed permission of the DAA.
        7.1.3.6. Shall notify the Wing Information Assurance Office (WIAO) immediately
        upon discovery or suspicion of classified compromise on PEDs or operation of PEDs
        counter to the security provisions of this instruction that could result in compromise
        of classified information.
     7.1.4. PEDs that process and store data are considered Information Systems (IS) and
     must be configured, managed, and controlled in accordance with local IS procurement,
     inventory, control, and disposition policy and procedures.
     7.1.5. Operation of PEDs with radio frequency (RF)/wireless, Infrared (IR), and
     audio/video record capabilities is not permitted within 5 meters of Continental United
     States (CONUS) and 10 meters of Outside the Continental United States (OCONUS)
     (hereto after referred to as “exclusion zones”) designated AFSOC organizations/spaces
     where classified information is processed, discussed, or transmitted unless specifically
     authorized by the cognizant authority. If approval is granted, the device's RF/wireless,
     IR, and audio/video record capabilities shall be disabled while inside of these areas.
     7.1.6. No PEDs, regardless of government or private ownership, or wireless/non-wireless
     capability, will be permitted within any AFSOC permanent, temporary, or mobile
     Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIF), Special Access Program (SAP),
     or Special Access Required (SAR) facilities without prior written approval of the
     cognizant Senior Intelligence Officer (SIO) or SAP/SAR Security Manager respectively.
     If approval is granted, RF, IR, and audio/video capabilities must be disabled. All PEDs
     will be declared to the SSO or SAP Security Manager, respectively, before entry into a
     SCIF, SAP, or SAR facility.
     7.1.7. All PED software (operating system, applications, etc.), must have a valid
     Certificate to Operate (CTO) and authority to connect (ATO) (DAA approval). This
6                                                            AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011


       ensures they have been determined to be compliant with applicable National
       Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and Federal
       Communications Commission (FCC) requirements and have the technical ability to
       comply with this AFSOCI.
       7.1.8. Users should not attempt to block sending and receiving features using any
       method that has not been approved by the DAA.
       7.1.9. AFSOC members/employees shall ensure that their use of such devices does not
       lead to loss or exposure of classified information.
       7.1.10. PED users shall exercise positive physical security over their devices to minimize
       the risk of compromising information resulting from the loss or theft of such devices.
       7.1.11. PED users shall report any suspicious activity involving their devices to their
       respective ISSO.
       7.1.12. Information maintained on PEDs (e.g., original copies of E-mail messages, Word
       documents, Excel spreadsheets, etc), like all electronic documents, may be considered
       official records and may be subject to the provisions of AFI 33-322, Records
       Management Program. Note: The original copy of official records should not be stored
       on the PEDs.
       7.1.13. Only AFSOC procured third party network services subscriptions (e.g., AT&T
       Wireless data network access via a Global System for Mobile Communications
       (GSM)/Global Packet Radio Service (GPRS) modem and approved application software)
       will be permitted on government PEDs.
    7.2. PED Use within Exclusion Zones. In addition to paragraph 7.1., the following are the
    minimum requirements when using PEDs inside exclusion zones or inside of AFSOC
    organizations/spaces that store, process, or transmit classified information. Disabling
    techniques are listed from most to least secure.
       7.2.1. Disable IR Port. The IR port of all PEDs will be disabled using at least one of the
       following methods in order of precedence. Perform multiple steps simultaneously where
       possible.
           7.2.1.1. If the PED is equipped with a manual switch, position the switch to the
           disable or off position.
           7.2.1.2. Use the PED software feature to turn off the IR port.
           7.2.1.3. Cover the IR port completely with aluminum or copper foil tape.
           7.2.1.4. If feasible, have the IR capability physically disabled at the factory by the
           manufacturer.
       7.2.2. Wireless Capability. Disable wireless capabilities within the previously defined
       exclusion zones. PED’s wireless capabilities must be disabled in one of the following
       methods in order of precedence. Perform multiple steps simultaneously where possible.
           7.2.2.1. Physically remove any devices (e.g., compact flash cards, multimedia cards,
           expansion sleeves, memory sticks, etc) that provide wireless capabilities.
           7.2.2.2. Turn off the wireless capability using a built-in hardware switch.
AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011                                                                 7


         7.2.2.3. Turn off the wireless capability using a software function controlled with a
         password.
     7.2.3. Record Capability. Most PEDs have audio or video record capabilities either
     built-in or via the use of optional expansion devices. Use at least one of the following
     methods in order of precedence to disable the record capability. Perform multiple steps
     simultaneously where possible.
         7.2.3.1. Physically remove any devices (e.g., compact flash cards, multimedia cards,
         expansion sleeves, memory sticks, etc) that provide audio or video recording (either
         moving picture or still shot photo) capabilities.
         7.2.3.2. If the PED is equipped with a manual switch, position the switch to the off
         position to disable the microphone/camera.
         7.2.3.3. Deprogram PED ―hot keys‖ to avoid accidental audio or video recording.
         7.2.3.4. Use the PED software feature to turn off the recording capability.
         7.2.3.5. Purchase a PED that does not have a record capability.
     7.2.4. Control Procedures. All PEDs that process and store government data (e.g.,
     PDAs) will be centrally managed by unit workgroup managers to ensure each device has
     been loaded with the most current anti-virus and encryption software and is properly
     configured in accordance with this policy for use in an AFSOC facility. The following
     procedures must be followed when acquiring new PEDs:
     7.2.4.1. Only government procured, certified, and accredited PDA devices may be
     connected to AFSOC unclassified or classified computers/networks after being reviewed
     and approved by the cognizant ISSO.
         7.2.4.2. Where possible, affix a standard form classification label (SF 706 – SF 710)
         to government PEDs and any external storage devices (e.g., compact flash cards,
         multimedia cards, memory sticks, expansion sleeves, etc.) to identify the highest
         classification level of the data processed/stored on the PED. Note: The label should
         be affixed so as to not draw any unnecessary attention to the device.
  7.3. Policy for private/corporate owned PEDs. In addition to requirements outlined in
  paragraph 7.1., and paragraph 7.2., privately owned PEDs must meet the following
  requirements:
     7.3.1. Users are not authorized to connect a private/corporate PED to any AFSOC
     network. Note: This restriction does not apply to users accessing e-mail via Microsoft’s
     Outlook Web Access (OWA) application.
  7.4. Policy for Personal Digital Assistants (PDA). In addition to the requirements outlined
  in Paragraphs 7.1., 7.2., and 7.3., PDAs must meet the following additional requirements:
     7.4.1. The SME PED is the only PDA authorized to be connected to a classified
     computer/network or process/maintain classified information. Under no circumstances
     will synchronization software be loaded onto computer systems processing classified
     information.
8                                                           AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011


       7.4.2. PDA devices cannot connect wirelessly while connected to the enterprise network.
       Users will only connect to commercial internet service provider (ISPs) for the explicit
       purpose of creating a secure connection to the AFSOC enterprise network (i.e. via a
       Virtual Private Network (VPN)). Additionally, third-party commercial e-mail accounts
       such as GMail, Hotmail, etc., are not authorized on government furnished PEDs.
       7.4.3. Information can be synchronized between a PDA and government
       workstation/laptop by using an NSA approved tether. The only authorized connection
       through a PDA modem is to an official Air Force account protected by an authorized
       Network Control Center firewall.
       7.4.4. The following applies to handling and controlling of PDAs:
           7.4.4.1. PDAs must identify and authenticate users in accordance with AFMAN 33-
           223, Identification and Authentication, if technically possible. If the PDA is
           technically unable to use a password, increase physical access controls to prevent
           unauthorized access.
           7.4.4.2. Turn off PDA when not in use.
       7.4.5. All government-owned PDA devices will:
           7.4.5.1. Utilize ―password-locking‖ utilities or file system encryption software to
           protect against the loss of sensitive information in accordance with AFM 33-223.
           7.4.5.2. Have DOD-approved anti-virus software installed. To ensure consistent
           levels of protection against viruses, PDAs will maintain up-to-date signature files
           used to profile and identify viruses, worms, and malicious code. Anti-virus software
           and updates are available from the DOD Computer Emergency Response Team
           (CERT) web site (http://www.cert.mil).
           7.4.5.3. Identify and authenticate users in accordance with AFM 33-223. Where
           technically capable, passwords will not include words found in the dictionary and will
           be at least eight characters including upper and lower case letters, numbers, and
           special characters. Passwords will be changed at least every 90 days on unclassified
           devices or every 60 days on classified devices in accordance with AFM 33-223. The
           password protection feature will not permit its bypass without zeroing all data stored
           on the device.
           7.4.5.4. Not be connected at any time (either wired or wireless) to privately owned
           computer equipment.
           7.4.5.5. Where technically capable have a DOD logon banner in accordance with
           AFI 33-219.
    7.5. Policy for Cellular Telephones (CT) and other radio frequency (RF) emitting PEDs. In
    addition to the requirements outlined in paragraphs 7.1., 7.2., and 7.3., cellular/mobile
    telephones and RF transmitting PEDs must meet the following additional requirements:
       7.5.1. Nonsecure CTs and other RF emitting PEDs are not authorized within exclusion
       zones unless specifically authorized by the cognizant authority. If approval is granted,
       the device's RF/wireless, IR, and audio/video record capabilities shall be disabled while
       inside of these areas. Note: Only NSA-approved Type 1 cellular phones, satellite
AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011                                                                  9


     phones, or SME PEDs will be used for classified data, voice, or wireless telephone or
     data transmissions. The classification level of information transmitted will not exceed
     the classification level approved for the device.
  7.6. Policy for two-way wireless PDA/e-mail devices (e.g., Research in Motion’s (RIM)
  Blackberry devices/smartphones). In addition to the requirements outlined in paragraphs
  7.1., 7.2., 7.3., 7.4., and 7.5., two-way wireless PDA/e-mail devices must meet the following
  additional requirements.
     7.6.1. Devices will not be connected to any AFSOC classified computer/network unless
     specifically approved by the local DAA to meet a specific mission critical need.
  7.7. Policy for Two-way pagers. In addition to the requirements outlined in paragraphs 7.1.,
  7.2., 7.3., and 7.5., two-way pagers must meet the following additional requirements.
     7.7.1. Government procured two-way pagers must operate in a receive-only mode or be
     turned off while in designated AFSOC organizations/spaces where classified information
     is discussed or processed unless specifically authorized by the cognizant authority.
     7.7.2. Privately owned or corporate two-way pagers, approved for use by the cognizant
     authority, can only be used in a receive-only mode or turned off when in an AFSOC
     facility/space where classified is discussed or processed.
     7.7.3. Two-way pagers will not be permitted in AFSOC permanent, temporary, or mobile
     SCIF or SAPF unless specifically authorized by the cognizant SIO or SAP Security
     Manager respectively.
  7.8. Policy for SCIFs. The use of PED's in an SCI environment presents an additional risk
  for the compromise of classified information. PED's will only be used to fulfill mission
  requirements. Specific handling procedures contained within Concept of Operations for HQ
  AFSOC, Special Security Office, Revision 3, must be strictly adhered to. The Agency in
  charge of any given SCIF is the authority for the procedures to move PED's in or out of their
  facilities. In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraphs 7.1., and 7.2., specific
  requirements/ procedures that must be satisfied prior to approving the use of portable
  electronic devices within SCIFs are:
     7.8.1. Government owned PED's.
         7.8.1.1. Hardware, software, and storage media must be controlled when
         entering/exiting a SCIF.
         7.8.1.2. Are prohibited from operating within a SCIF unless authorized and
         accredited by the agency granting the SCIF accreditation or delegated authority such
         as the ISSO. As part of the accreditation requirements, the user of these devices and
         his/her supervisor must sign a statement acknowledging that they understand and will
         adhere to the restrictions identified below.
         7.8.1.3. Connection to any IS within a SCIF must be approved by the ISSO in
         writing.
         7.8.1.4. PED's with wireless, Radio Frequency (RF), Infrared (IR) technology,
         microphones, or recording capability will not be used unless these capabilities are
         turned off or physically disabled.
 10                                                        AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011


          7.8.1.5. If approved, the PED and associated media must be transported and stored in
          a manner that affords security sufficient to preclude compromise of information,
          sabotage, theft, or tampering. Procedures for handling the PED in a SCIF must be
          available and provided to the user.
       7.8.2. Handling Procedures. When it has been determined that the use of PED's is
       absolutely necessary to fulfill mission requirements, and the requirements set forth in
       paragraph 7.8.2., are satisfied, the following procedures must be implemented and
       followed:
          7.8.2.1. The responsible organization must develop a case specific Standard
          Operating Procedure (SOP) and/or ensure procedures are addressed in the site
          Concept of Operations (CONOP). The following information must be considered
          and, where applicable, included in the SOP:
              7.8.2.1.1. The SOP must include the organization and name of the ISSO and
              Special Security Officer (SSO) responsible for the issue and control of PED's.
              7.8.2.1.2. Specific PED's (e.g. Laptop Computers) may be used to process
              classified information. In addition, these PED's may be granted approval to
              connect to IS on a case-by-case basis in writing by the ISSO. Specified PED's
              approved to process classified information must meet minimum technical security
              requirements.
              7.8.2.1.3. All programs, equipment or data diskettes used with the PED must be
              marked with a label identifying the appropriate classification. Labeling
              exemption for operational security (OPSEC) requirements may be granted within
              local policy with DAA/DAA Rep/SCO concurrence.
              7.8.2.1.4. If unauthorized classified information is identified on a PED,
              established procedures for handling suspected compromises shall be followed.
              For example, classified information on an unclassified PED may result in
              confiscation of the device as an incident.
              7.8.2.1.5. Every effort should be made to ensure that security control features are
              implemented when possible (e.g., access control through userid/password).
          7.8.2.2. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) Approval. The organization requesting
          the use of PED's must submit the SOP to the ISSO/SSO for coordination and
          approval.
   7.9. Contractor/Business owned PEDs. Work centers/units/individuals are responsible for
   ensuring compliance with this instruction by contractor or business representatives that they
   are sponsoring.
       7.9.1. Non-government PEDs are prohibited for entry into AFSOC buildings where
       classified or controlled unclassified information is processed, stored, or discussed-no
       exceptions will be granted.
8. Waivers/Exceptions. Exceptions to this policy must be based on operation/mission need.
The procedures for requesting an exception to this policy is to submit a PED Exception Request
Form (Attachment 3) signed by commander/director to the respective information protection
office (Wing/Major Command (MAJCOM)) for approval/disapproval.                       Prior to
AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011                                                                    11


approval/disapproval, by the Wing/MAJCOM information protection office, requests will be
coordinated with the corresponding Emission Security (EMSEC) office (Wing/MAJCOM). If a
request is approved, a letter will be issued that must be carried by persons utilizing PEDs under
the exception to policy. Exceptions will be specific in that they will authorize a specific person
to operate a specific or multiple PED(s).
   8.1. All EMSEC restrictions will be adhered to by those operating under exceptions to the
   PED policy. As a general rule, all devices with a RF signal will be kept 3 meters from
   classified processing devices.
   8.2. First responders (e.g., Fire/Rescue, Security Forces), while executing emergency duties
   are automatically exempt and do not require an approved exception request to operate job
   related government PEDs in any AFSOC building where classified or controlled unclassified
   information is processed, stored, or discussed. However, they should attempt to minimize
   the duration of PED use.




                                             VON A. GARDINER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Director, Communications and Information
 12                                                     AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 5200.1-R, DOD Information Security Program and Protection of Sensitive
Compartmented Information, 9 Oct 2008
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 Apr 2006
AFI 33-219, Telecommunications Monitoring and Assessment Program, 1 May 2006
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 Oct 2003
AFMAN 33-223, Identification and Authentication, 6 July 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 8 Mar 2008
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
ANG—Air National Guard
ATO—Authority to Connect
BECO—Base Equipment Control Officer
CERT—Computer Emergency Response Team
CIO—Chief Information Officer
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CONUS—Continental United States
CST—Client Systems Technician
CT—Cellular telephones
CTO—Certificate to Operate
AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011                                       13


DAA—Designated Approving Authorities
DIA—Defense Intelligence Agency
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DOD—Department of Defense
EMSEC—Emission Security
FCC—Federal Communications Commission
GSM—Global System for Mobile Communications
GSUs—Geographically Separated Units
HQ AFSOC—Headquarters Air Force Special Operations Command
IR—Infrared
IS—Information Systems
ISSO—Information System Security Officers
ISP—Internet Service Provider
LAN—Local Area Network
LMR—Land Mobile Radios
MAJCOM—Major Command
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPSEC—Operations Security
OPR—Office of Responsibility
OWA—Outlook Web Access
NSA—National Security Agency
NTIA—National Telecommunications and Information Administration
PCMCIA—Personal Computer Memory Card International Association
PCs—Tablet Personal Computers
PDA—Personal Digital Assistants
PED—Portable Electronic Devices
SAP—Special Access Program
SAPF—Special Access Program Facility
SAR—Special Access Required
SCIF—Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities
SIO—Senior Intelligence Officer
SME PED—Secure Mobile Environment Portable Electronic Device
 14                                                     AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011


SOP—Standard Operating Procedure
SSO—Special Security Office
STIG—Wireless Security Technical Implementation Guide
RAS—Remote Access Server
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RF—Radio Frequency
RIM—Research in Motion’s
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command
VPN—Virtual Private Network
WIAO—Wing Information Assurance Office
AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011                            15


                                     Attachment 2
                        SAMPLE ENTRY/EXIT POINT SIGN

Figure A2.1. Sample Entry/Exit Point Sign.
 16                                                         AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011


                                         Attachment 3
      SAMPLE PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE (PED) SECURITY TRAINING
                           INFORMATION

A3.1. Overview. Although Portable Electronic Devices (PEDs) provide users more efficient
ways of accomplishing work, many of the inherent features of the devices, when used
improperly, can lead to the unauthorized discloser of sensitive or classified information. The
information below includes excerpts from recent National Security Agency (NSA) advisories
highlighting the major security issues with PEDs.
A3.2. Security Risks. The introduction or use of PEDs in areas where classified information
may be discussed or processed should be carefully managed and controlled. In order to increase
functionality and user convenience, today's PEDs include built-in features such as infrared (IR),
radio frequency (RF), audio recording, and telephone modem communication capabilities. These
same features, which are implemented to allow easy connectivity between a PED and other
devices for performing data exchanges, along with their expanded memory and processing
ability, create new avenues for potential attacks. Attempts to temporarily disable these features
by external means may not actually be solutions and, in some cases, may even increase risk from
the associated vulnerabilities. Some of the features that pose the greatest risk to information or
information systems in a classified environment include:
A3.3. Infrared (IR) Ports. Since most units are capable of both sending and receiving data
without indication to the user, this feature poses a high security risk and should always be
disabled as a default measure. Simply covering the IR emitter/detector with an opaque covering
is not adequate due to variability in effectiveness and inability to readily determine the
characteristics of the covering by simple visual inspection. The only tape shown to be effective
in preventing unauthorized activity through the IR port is metallic tape, such as aluminum or
copper foil tape.
A3.4. Wireless Radio Frequency (RF) Communications. This capability is normally
provided in one of two ways: Wireless local area network (LAN) or cell-phone type medium-
speed data access. The frequency ranges of these two systems differ, as do the data rates and
therefore the quantity of data that can be transmitted and received in a given period of time. In
both cases, the data handling capabilities are nontrivial and present a security risk. Removal of
the antenna is not a suitable countermeasure to eliminate RF operations, since some systems can
communicate with the antenna removed. In some cases, removal of the antenna requires the
antenna to be raised, which activates the RF transceiver.
A3.5. Backdoors. Unauthorized wireless solutions may create backdoors into LANs. If a
device receives information via an unapproved wireless technology and that device allows that
information to be placed directly into the LAN at the workstation level, then all perimeter and
host-based security devices have been bypassed.
A3.6. Electromagnetic Radiation. The electromagnetic radiation from the device can allow
the user to be geolocated. Wireless PEDs are susceptible to interference, interception, and can be
jammed. When using wireless PEDs, Operational Security (OPSEC) and force protection should
be a compelling consideration.
AFSOCI33-202 11 AUGUST 2011                                                                    17


A3.7. Additional Security Concerns. The following areas also cause familiar security
concerns in PEDs and need to be recognized and handled consistent with existing security
policies and procedures.
A3.8. Removable Peripheral/Expansion Devices [e. g., Personal Computer Memory Card
International Association (PCMCIA) and Smart Card devices]. Many expansion cards in
this category have independent processing capability from the host equipment and therefore may
create vulnerabilities even where none are present in the host unit.
A3.9. Audio Recording Capability. Some of these devices are capable of recording up to six
hours of audio. Additionally, some microphones are capable of picking up normal office
conversation from a distance in excess of 50 feet. Vulnerabilities from this capability should be
well understood and appreciated. While much emphasis is placed on the audio recording
capabilities of handheld devices, most laptop computers also organically provide audio recording
capabilities that must be understood and properly configured to avoid unintentional compromise.
A3.10. Ease of Upgrade and Availability. An extensive library of programs has allowed users
to have access to software features such as operating system extensions, utilities, and built-in
features. These programs were created for users to configure their PEDs to their liking, but they
also allow easy staging of attacks. Users should be aware that malicious code could just as easily
be uploaded.
A3.11. Connectivity of external device applications such as external modems and IR
hubs. External modems left connected to a phone system, whether live or idle, may allow a
covert connection to an external source. Connections to a phone network should never be left
unattended. IR hubs may open an easy route of attack. PEDs and other devices should not be
left connected via IR for extended periods of time as an external party could gain access
remotely. Care should be taken to not only guard against unauthorized access to the PED, but
also devices that may connect or download via IR.
A3.12. Remote configuration and activation. Many cell phones can be remotely configured
and powered-on by the cellular telephone service provider. This capability can be exploited by
an adversary to gain access to sensitive or classified conversations.
A3.13. Remote Viewing. Techniques exist that permit an adversary to view what is displayed
on the PDA screen from greater than expected distances. Users are cautioned not to display
classified data on their PED when in the vicinity of untrusted parties.
