BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                             COMMAND INSTRUCTION 90-1101
COMMAND
                                                                               7 AUGUST 2014

                                                                           Special Management

                                                          STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A8XP                                               Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A8X
                                                                   (Mr. Billy W. Montgomery)
                                                                                     Pages: 19


This Air Force Special Operations Command Instruction (AFSOCI) implements Air Force
Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-6, Capability Requirements Development, AFPD 90-11, Strategic
Planning System, U.S. Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) Directive 10-10, USSOCOM
Strategic Planning Process, USSOCOM Directive 71-4, Special Operations Forces Capabilities
Integration and Development System (SOFCIDS), and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
Instruction (CJCSI) 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS).
It defines and establishes procedures for accomplishing strategic planning for the Command.
This instruction applies to all AFSOC wings, groups, gained units, and operating locations. It is
applicable to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and
members. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The reporting requirements in this publication are exempt
from licensing in accordance with AFI 33-324, The Information Collections and Reports
Management Program; Controlling Internal Public, and Interagency Air Force Information
Collections. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Requests for waivers for non-tiered compliance items must be submitted to the OPR
listed above for consideration and approval. Wings may supplement this instruction. Send
proposed supplements to this instruction to Headquarters (HQ) Air Force Special Operations
Command (AFSOC) Strategic Planning Division, Long Range Plans Branch, HQ
AFSOC/A8XP, Hurlburt Field, FL 32544; Email: AFSOC.A8XP.SP@hurlburt.af.mil.
 2                                                                                         AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014




        1.      Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Roles & Responsibilities. .......................................................................................              2
Figure 2.1.     AFSOC AFR/ANG Partnering Initiative Process. .................................................                                 4
        3.      Procedures. .............................................................................................................      5
Figure 3.1.     AFSOC SPP Timeline. ..........................................................................................                 5
Figure 3.2.     AFSOC SPP CBA. .................................................................................................               6

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                11

Attachment 2—INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTING PRIORITIZED GAP LIST (PGL)
             ACCESS                                                                                                                           16

Attachment 3—SOLUTION PROVIDER SUBMISSION FORM                                                                                                18

Attachment 4—SOLUTION SUBMITTAL QUADRANT CHART                                                                                                19


1. Purpose. This instruction provides an overview and directs the execution of the AFSOC
Strategic Planning Process (SPP). It defines the process; assigns roles and responsibilities;
establishes timelines, products, and deliverables; and institutes the governance and decision
process.
     1.1. Scope. The function of HQ AFSOC is to present properly organized, trained, educated,
     and equipped Air Force Special Operations Forces for employment by Combatant
     Commanders. AFSOC’s SPP is vital to the command’s long-term capability and force
     structure development in meeting this objective. Within the SPP, successful execution of a
     comprehensive capability based assessment, with support from the entire AFSOC staff and
     operational units, identifies the command’s most critical specialized capabilities, any gaps
     associated with successful performance of those capabilities, and operational capability
     requirements to address these gaps. A key component of gap management/resolution is the
     AFSOC SPP Gatekeeper Program. The program is defined in AFSOC HOI 64-103,
     Contractor Visits, Technology Reviews, and Presentations (Gatekeeper).
2. Roles & Responsibilities. Roles and responsibilities for the AFSOC SPP are defined below.
     2.1. AFSOC/CC. AFSOC/CC provides commander’s intent, strategic vision, command
     priorities, and other commander guidance to set the planning baseline for a particular
     strategic planning cycle.
     2.2. AFSOC/CC or Designated Representative. AFSOC/CC, or his/her designated
     representative, chairs the AFSOC Planning Council and provides direction to the staff,
     guidance updates, and issue resolution, as required, in support of the AFSOC SPP.
     2.3. AFSOC/CV. AFSOC/CV appoints Core Mission Team Leaders and approves
     Prioritized Gap List Item Managers (PGLIM) assignment/reassignment for each capability
     gap.
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                 3


  2.4. AFSOC Corporate Structure. The AFSOC Corporate Structure provides
  recommendations to AFSOC/CC on planning, requirements development, programming,
  acquisition, and budget execution issues and initiatives. The Corporate Structure is
  composed of two bodies, the AFSOC Board and AFSOC Council, and is governed by
  AFSOC HOI 16-501, AFSOC Corporate Structure Process.
  2.5. HQ AFSOC A5/8. HQ AFSOC/A5/8 oversees and manages the AFSOC SPP.
     2.5.1. HQ AFSOC/A8X is the command OPR for the AFSOC SPP, capability gap
     solutions and Gatekeeper (not to be confused with the AFSOC Inspector General (IG)
     Gatekeeper program) contractor visits process which is captured within AFSOC HOI 64-
     103, Contractor Visits, Technology Reviews, and Presentations (Gatekeeper), 12 April
     2013. HQ AFSOC/A8X facilitates all AFSOC SPP and Gatekeeper activities and
     provides an interface between those two processes to capture potential solutions relating
     to AFSOC capability gaps.
     2.5.2. HQ AFSOC/A8X works with Core Mission Team Leads (CMTL) to identify
     required Subject Matter Expertise (SME) and request owning directorate, staff agency, or
     operational units to support the appropriate CMTs via AFSOC Chief of Staff (CoS)
     direction.
     2.5.3. At the onset of each SPP cycle, and/or as required, HQ AFSOC/A8X will provide
     SME/ PGLIM training to include understanding of the command’s SPP and supporting
     tools.
     2.5.4. AFSOC uses a core mission construct to categorize and describe its required
     capabilities. AFSOC core missions are Specialized Air Mobility (SAM), Precision Strike
     (PS), Battlefield Air Operations (BAO), Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
     (ISR), Aviation Foreign Internal Defense (AvFID), Agile Combat Support (ACS),
     Command and Control (C2), and Information Operations (IO).
  2.6. HQ AFSOC Directorates or Command-level Agencies. All HQ AFSOC directorates
  or command-level agencies provide the following support, as required, in response to written
  direction from the AFSOC Command Section.
     2.6.1. Core Mission Team Lead (CMTL). At minimum, an O-4 or civilian equivalent
     responsible for the composition, continuity, and overall workflow of the Core Mission
     Team. The CMTL identifies expertise that can best support capability analysis through
     Prioritized Gap List (PGL) development for a specific strategic planning cycle.
     2.6.2. Core Mission Team (CMT). Core Mission Teams will be comprised of staff
     SMEs and support the CMTL in validating command capabilities, identifying capability
     gaps, and assisting with solutions analysis.
     2.6.3. Subject Matter Experts (SME). Military or civilian personnel knowledgeable in
     specific weapon systems or support functions. SMEs assigned via CoS will support
     CMTs as required throughout the duration of the strategic planning cycle. During
     extended TDY or PCS, SMEs will recommend an alternate to their director and the
     CMTL.
     2.6.4. Capability Prioritized Gap List Item Managers (PGLIM). AFSOC Council
     assigned gap OPR designates military or civilian action officers to track and manage
 4                                                          AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014


        capability gaps throughout their life-cycle to resolution. As a minimum, PGL gaps will be
        revalidated and PGLIM assignments will be reviewed every 2 years. Gap OPR and
        PGLIM responsibilities can switch between HQ AFSOC directorates in response to
        AFSOC Council direction supported by justification, e.g. Council decision to proceed to
        requirements development supports a transfer of PGLIM responsibility to HQ
        AFSOC/A5/8. If an appointed PGLIM is unable to perform this function due to
        circumstances beyond their control, e.g. deployment, training, PCS; they will recommend
        an alternate to their directorate to provide continuity on the gap and advise HQ
        AFSOC/A8X of changes in PGLIM assignment.
     2.6.5. Air Reserve Command and Air National Guard. AFSOC operational requirements
     may offer opportunities for Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
     (ANG) partnering. To this end, AFSOC has established a process (Figure 2.1) for ARC
     partnering or remissioning submissions which ensures senior leader authorization and staff
     coordination. AFSOC/A8P will be the HQ AFSOC office of primary responsibility (OPR)
     for ARC submissions.

Figure 2.1. AFSOC AFR/ANG Partnering Initiative Process.
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                       5


3. Procedures.
   3.1. Capabilities-Based Assessment (CBA). The capabilities-based assessment (CBA) is
   the engine that drives the AFSOC SPP. The CBA provides the foundation for required
   capabilities, requirements generation, programming, acquisition, and/or research and
   development. It forms the basis for the long-term command investment strategy and resource
   allocations across all AFSOC core missions. The AFSOC process supports both the AF
   Strategic Planning System and the USSOCOM Strategic Planning Process throughout a 20-
   year planning horizon. The SPP relies on Commander’s Intent, a Strategic Estimate of the
   Future Operating Environment, operating concepts, wargame results, and various Office of
   the Secretary of Defense (OSD) planning scenarios viewed through the SOF airman’s lens to
   underpin the CBA. The CBA employs a strategy-to-task methodology that describes core
   mission responsibilities, identifies required capabilities to successfully execute those
   responsibilities, assesses required capabilities to identify gaps and shortfalls, and produces an
   approved list of gaps to initiate and facilitate a solution data call to potential solution
   providers. Responses to the solution data call provide a venue to transition planning efforts
   into requirements development, programming and acquisition, or further research and
   development. The SPP is normally executed on a 3-year cycle to allow resultant
   requirements development/approval efforts to reach or near completion prior to the start of a
   subsequent planning cycle. The major activities and timeline of the AFSOC SPP are
   presented in Figure 3.1.

Figure 3.1. AFSOC SPP Timeline.
6                                                         AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014


    3.2. CBA Format and Terminology. The CBA follows the format and terminology of the
    Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS) and is completed in three
    distinct phases: Capability Analysis (CA), Gap Analysis (GA), and Solution Analysis (SA).
    The flow and major elements of the CBA are presented in Figure 3.2.

Figure 3.2. AFSOC SPP CBA.




       3.2.1. Capability Analysis (CA). HQ AFSOC/A8XP facilitates the initial phase of the
       AFSOC SPP CBA to identify those capabilities required to accomplish the Command’s
       assigned core missions. Capabilities should be grounded in Doctrine, meaningful to
       AFSOC operators, understood by the Joint community, and supportive of USSOCOM
       Core Activities and Air Force Service Core Functions. This phase concludes with the
       validation and prioritization of the capabilities by the CMTs and validation/approval of
       the Prioritized Capability List (PCL) by the AFSOC Board and Council. Required
       actions are as follows:
           3.2.1.1. CMTLs, CMTs, and/or other specified SMEs, and HQ AFSOC/A8XP
           determine core mission responsibilities through examination and evaluation of
           applicable National, Departmental, and Service guidance documents.
           TSOC/JSOC/NATO SOF HQ campaign plans and operational requirements,
           Commander’s Intent, USSOCOM Lines of Operation (LOO), strategic vision
           documents, Integrated Security Constructs (ISC), and Strategic Assessments of the
           Future Operating Environment establish AFSOF capability requirements.
           3.2.1.2. In a working group forum, CMTLs, CMTs, and/or specified SMEs, and HQ
           AFSOC/A8XP facilitators will:
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                  7


           3.2.1.2.1. Deconstruct core missions to the lowest-level capabilities required to
           execute mission responsibilities. Each capability will be stated in terms of the
           tasks required to provide that capability and the supporting conditions and
           standards for each task. The Air Force Universal Task List and Universal Joint
           Task List are the primary sources for tasks, conditions, and standards, but locally
           developed sources, e. g. Mission Essential Task Lists may also be used. The
           collection of identified capabilities comprises the AFSOC Required Capabilities
           List (RCL).
           3.2.1.2.2. Develop a descriptive title and brief description for each capability and
           task.
           3.2.1.2.3. Map each capability into the corresponding Joint Capability Area
           (JCA) to provide traceability/rationale for the capability and a common lexicon
           for further discussions. If the lowest-level AFSOC capabilities do not cleanly
           map to a JCA, then CMTLs, CMTs, and/or other specified SME, will recommend
           the creation of a new JCA entry to provide a link point for the specific AFSOC
           capability and document the recommended change in a locally maintained JCA-
           to-capability mapping product. AFSOC capabilities mapped to a “new” JCA will
           provide traceability into the approved JCA framework by rolling its’ tier entry up
           into the lowest tier level of the approved JCA.
           3.2.1.2.4. Link all information sources that provide justification or rationale to
           required capabilities. This provides traceability, a basis for determining cross-
           function effects, and the means to evaluate risk.
           3.2.1.2.5. Prioritize the RCL using an operationally informed, repeatable
           methodology to develop the Prioritized Capabilities List (PCL).
        3.2.1.3. HQ AFSOC/A8X will present the PCL to the AFSOC Board and Council for
        approval and conclude the CA phase.
     3.2.2. Gap Analysis. CMTs, facilitated by HQ AFSOC/A8XP, will analyze the PCL to
     identify capability gaps and vet the results through the AFSOC corporate structure.
     Specific actions are:
        3.2.2.1. CMTs, facilitated by HQ AFSOC/A8XP will identify capability gaps by
        assessing the ability to execute the capability’s tasks, to specified conditions and
        standards. Note: Multiple gaps may be identified for a specific capability.
        3.2.2.2. CMTs and SMEs will draft a bullet background paper describing each
        capability gap in sufficient detail to support subsequent evaluation of solutions.
        3.2.2.3. CMTLs, CMTs, and/or other specified SMEs, and HQ AFSOC/A8XP will
        prioritize the capability gaps, using operationally related factors such as Integrated
        Priority Lists, support to line of operations, gap criticality to capability
        accomplishment, and commander core mission priority within a repeatable
        methodology to develop a recommended Prioritized Gap List (PGL).
        3.2.2.4. The AFSOC Board reviews the recommended PGL and resolves any issues
        prior to presentation to the AFSOC Council.
8                                                        AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014


       3.2.2.5. The Council approves the PGL which authorizes release to potential solution
       providers. Distribution to developers and other users of advanced technologies is
       strictly managed IAW applicable guidance and procedures for information security
       and access.
       3.2.2.6. Council approval includes assignment of management oversight of each
       capability gap to a specific HQ AFSOC Directorate, Staff Agency with action to
       provide the name of a PGLIM to HQ AFSOC/A8X within 10 calendar days. PGLIM
       OPR assignments will be reviewed at least every 2 years.
    3.2.3. Solution Analysis. This phase of the AFSOC SPP focuses on potential solutions
    to capability gaps identified during the gap analysis. Within the AFSOC SPP, PGL
    approval initiates a solution data call with a FEDBIZOPPS release via the appropriate
    contracting activity. The SPP Gatekeeper program is a parallel, continuous process that
    provides an additional means for solution providers to present initiatives/potential
    solutions/”good ideas” to AFSOC. This process will capture both potential solutions to
    PGL entries and the “good ideas” that will be retained within the AFSOC Decision
    Support System that do not currently link to a PGL entry.
       3.2.3.1. Solution Analysis specific actions are as follows:
           3.2.3.1.1. AFSOC SPP. HQ AFSOC/A8X will prepare a notification of PGL
           approval and begin a solution data call by posting a Request for Information (RFI)
           on the FEDBIZOPPS website (https://www.fbo.gov). In parallel, HQ
           AFSOC/A8X will notify HQ AFSOC/SAZ and system program offices (SPO) of
           the PGL approval and release to provide access to solution providers in other
           science & technology (S&T) and developmental engineering/acquisition
           communities.
           3.2.3.1.2. AFSOC SPP Gatekeeper. If HQ AFSOC/A8X determines the subject
           of a contractor visit is a potential solution to a documented PGL or Area of
           Interest (AOI) entry, they will request concurrence from the appropriate PGLIM
           or New Capability Team (NCT) lead and identify an OPR for the visit. If the
           contractor’s subject cannot be linked to a PGL or AOI entry, HQ AFSOC/A8X
           will coordinate, schedule, and complete the visit as required. In either case,
           contractor visits will be conducted IAW HOI 64-103, Contractor Visits,
           Technology Reviews, and Presentations (Gatekeeper).
       3.2.3.2. HQ AFSOC/A8X will grant access to the classified PGL or the unclassified
       AOI list to solution providers/SPP Gatekeeper visitors requesting access IAW
       existing guidance and procedures in Attachment 2.
       3.2.3.3. Solution providers/SPP Gatekeeper visitors with a facility clearance and
       access to the PGL will submit solutions directly into the AFSOC Decision Support
       System-Solution Provider (ADSS-SP) tool through onsite SIPRNET access or via
       authorized proxy entering the information through SIPRNET in the HQ AFSOC/A8X
       workspaces.
       3.2.3.4. Solution providers/SPP Gatekeeper visitors granted access to the AOI/PGL
       will submit the details of their solution using the solution submittal form and quad
       chart template provided in Attachment 3. HQ AFSOC/A8XP will transfer solution
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                               9


        information into capability gap folders on SIPRNET to enable PGLIM to evaluate
        and enter submitted solutions into the ADSS-SP tool.
        3.2.3.5. After solutions are captured in the AFSOC Central Data Repository (CDR),
        Air Force Research Lab (AFRL) SMEs will complete a technical review of submitted
        solutions categorized as materiel and document the results using the ADSS-Solution
        Analysis (SA) tool. In parallel, PGLIMs will begin their own review and assessment
        of solutions submitted against their gap(s) and document results in the ADSS-SA
        tool.
        3.2.3.6. PGLIMs will finalize their solution analysis, draft a gap disposition
        recommendation using the quadrant chart template (Attachment 4), update the gap
        narrative, as required, and ensure changes are captured in the ADSS CDR.
        3.2.3.7. Solution evaluation results form the basis for a way ahead recommendation
        by the PGLIM to the AFSOC Board and Council and will become a primary source
        for a requirements document or implementation of a non-materiel solutions. The five
        gap recommendations are:
            3.2.3.7.1. Terminate. Solutions no longer required. Gap may be duplicative or
            transferred outside of AFSOC. PGLIMs actions no longer needed.
            3.2.3.7.2. Hold. Solutions are cost prohibitive, nonexistent, or immature.
            Further gap disposition guidance is needed. PGLIMs will continue monitoring
            solution spectrum for viable options.
            3.2.3.7.3. Proceed to Requirements/DOTMLPF-P Change Request
            (DCR). Solutions are within budgetary guidelines, solution maturity/readiness is
            greater than or equal to Technical Readiness Level (TRL) 7, or requirement
            development/DCR action is headquarters directed. PGLIMs actively pursue
            DCR/Requirement development activities. This may constitute a logical point to
            transfer Gap OPR and PGLIM responsibilities between directorates if directed by
            the AFSOC Council chair.
            3.2.3.7.4. Nominate for Research and Development. Solution maturity level is
            less than TRL 7. AFSOC will continue to monitor developing technologies as
            potential capability gap solutions. This category recommendation may or may not
            be accompanied by a requirements document. PGLIMs work with AFSOC/A8XZ
            to identify and pursue R&D activities.
            3.2.3.7.5. Continue Programming and Acquisition. Solutions can leverage
            existing approved requirements and compete for funding via any venue, i.e. POM,
            UFR, and BER. PGLIMs actively pursue Programming and Acquisitions
            activities.
  3.3. Gap Disposition.
     3.3.1. HQ AFSOC/A8XP will conduct an electronic AFSOC Planning Board to validate
     PGLIM disposition recommendations and identify any non-concurs from Board members
     with PGLIM disposition recommendations.
     3.3.2. HQ AFSOC/A8XP and PGLIMs will attempt to resolve non-concurs prior to the
     Board meeting. For issues that cannot be resolved, PGLIMs will attend the AFSOC
10                                                      AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014


     Board and Council to answer questions from members. PGLIMs will also prepare their
     Board and Council principals with required information to support the recommended way
     ahead.
     3.3.3. HQ AFSOC/A8XP will capture and publish Board and Council recommendations
     and decisions in the meeting minutes. Special instructions for gap dispositions are as
     follows:
        3.3.3.1. DOTMLPF-P Change Request. Gap dispositions that can be met by non-
        materiel changes in doctrine, organization, training, leadership and education,
        personnel, facilities or policy category carry the approval of the owning directorate
        and require that director to sponsor a DOTMLPF-P Change Recommendation (DCR)
        IAW AFSOCI 10-601.
        3.3.3.2. Proceed to Requirements. Gap dispositions that require materiel solutions
        carry the approval of the owning directorate and require that director to sponsor a
        requirements initiative IAW AFSOCI 10-601. Sponsorship should be followed by the
        PGLIM contacting HQ AFSOC/A5KR for guidance on developing requirements
        documents. Gap OPR and PGLIM responsibilities remain with the original
        directorate unless reassigned by the Planning Council Chair.
        3.3.3.3. Continue Programming and Acquisition. PGLIM will work with HQ
        AFSOC/A5KR and A8PP to ensure gap major components and measures of merit are
        addressed in ongoing requirements, programming, and acquisition initiatives.
        PGLIM responsibilities remain with the original directorate unless reassigned by the
        Planning Council Chair.
        3.3.3.4. Nominate for Research and Development. PGLIM will continue to evaluate
        emerging technologies identified by HQ AFSOC/A8XZ or other sources as potential
        gap solutions. PGLIM responsibilities remain with the original directorate unless
        reassigned by the Planning Council Chair.




                                         ALBERT M. ELTON II, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Director, Plans, Programs, Requirements and
                                         Assessments
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                 11


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System (JCIDS), 10 January
2012
AFPD 10-6, Capabilities-Based Planning and Requirements Development, 31 May 2006
AFPD 90-11, Strategic Planning System, 26 Mar 2009
USSOCOMD 10-10, USSOCOM Strategic Planning Process, 23 April 2013
USSOCOMD 71-4, Special Operations Forces Capabilities Integration and Development
System (SOFCIDS), 10 May 2012
AFSOCI 10-601, AFSOC Capability Based Requirement Development, 2 Oct 2008
AFSOC HOI 16-501, AFSOC Corporate Structure Process, 27 July 2009
AFSOC HOI 64-103, Contractor Visits, Technology Reviews, and Presentations (Gatekeeper),
12 April 2013
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed in this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACS—Agile Combat Support
ADSS—SP–Decision Support System-Solution Provider
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AOI—Area of Interest
AvFID—Aviation Foreign Internal Defense
BAO—Battlefield Air Operations
C2—Command and Control
CA—Capability Analysis
CBA—Capabilities-Based Assessment
CDR—Central Data Repository
 12                                                       AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014


CJCSI—Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CMT—Core Mission Team
CMTL—Core Mission Team Lead
DCR—DOTMLPF-P Change Recommendation
DOTMLPF—P–Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership, Personnel, Facility -
Policy
GA—Gap Analysis
HOI—Headquarters Operating Instruction
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
IO/MISO—Information Operation/Military Information Support Operations
IPT—Integrated Product Team
ISC—Integrated Security Constructs
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance
JCA—Joint Capability Area
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System
LOO—Lines of Operation
METL—Mission Essential Task Lists
NCT—New Capability Team
NOI—Notice of Interest
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Secretary of Defense
PCL—Prioritized Capability List
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PGL—Prioritized Gap List
PGLIM—Prioritized Gap List Item Manager
PS—Precision Strike
RCL—Required Capabilities List
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFI—Request for Information
S&T—Science & Technology
SA—Solution Analysis
SAM—Specialized Air Mobility
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                      13


SME—Subject Matter Experts
SPO—System Program Office
SPP—Strategic Planning Process
TRL—Technical Readiness Level
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command

Terms
Capability—The combined capacity of personnel, materiel, equipment, and information in
measured quantities, under specified conditions, that, acting together in a prescribed set of tasks
can be used to achieve a desired effect.
Capability Analysis (CA)—The CA identifies the operational tasks, conditions, and standards
needed to achieve military objectives. The CA uses the national strategies (National Military
Strategy, National Defense Strategy, National Security Strategy), the Family of Joint Future
Concepts, and other assigned missions to arrive at a prioritized list of capabilities and tasks that
must be accomplished by all functional areas to achieve these military objectives.
Capability Based Assessment (CBA)—An integral piece of the Joint Capabilities Integration
and Development System (JCIDS) that defines the mission, identifies the capabilities required,
determines the attributes/standards of the capabilities, identifies gaps, assesses operational risk
associated with the gaps, prioritizes the gaps, identifies and assesses potential non-materiel
solutions, and provides recommendations for addressing the gaps.
Capability Based Planning (CBP)—An overarching framework for planning under uncertainty
to provide capabilities suitable for a wide range of modern-day challenges and circumstances
while working within an economic framework that necessitates choice. This definition
articulates that senior leaders are required to make decisions that narrow 'uncertainty' down to
finite range of threat capabilities that are used for planning. In addition, this definition implies
that a recommendation is provided to senior leaders narrowing uncertainty into a finite set of
threat capabilities from which a decision can be made.
Capability Gap—The inability to provide a capability, in part or in full, that supports an
assigned responsibility. A gap may result from lack of proficiency and/or sufficiency.
Condition—Distinct environmental state that a task must be completed in, i. e. day/night, all
weather, electromagnetic interference, etc.
Core Mission Team (CMT)—A cross-functional group of individuals with expertise in specific
weapon systems or support functions. Similar structure to an Integrated Product Team (IPT).
Core Mission Team Leads (CMTL)—An O-6 or equivalent appointed to define needed
expertise, provide continuity, manage, and complete the workflow of a Core Mission Team
throughout a specific SPP planning cycle.
DOTMLPF-P—The categories of the spectrum of solutions to be considered during the phases
of the CBA. Categories are as follows: Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership
& Education, Personnel, Facilities, and Policy.
 14                                                          AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014


Facilitator—HQ AFSOC/A8XP personnel charged with assisting CMTLs to complete CMT
work assignments.
FEDBIZOPPS—Federal Business Opportunities. https://www.fbo.gov/.
Gap Analysis (GA)—The GA assesses whether or not an inability to achieve a desired effect
exists to determine if there is a capability gap. The GA also identifies any capabilities that have
overlaps or redundancies which allows for streamlining efforts.
Gatekeeper Process—Outlines the responsibilities and procedures for managing contractor
visits, technology reviews, and presentations to HQ AFSOC from external organizations. The
process is documented in AFSOC HOI 64-103.
Integrated Product Team—Cross directorate team working to identify required capabilities and
gaps to those capabilities, resolve issues, and make sound and timely recommendations to
facilitate decision making by the AFSOC Corporate Structure.
JCA—Joint Capability Area is a universally exhaustive but mutually exclusive list of DOD
capabilities that provide a common lexicon and foundation for discussions and other interactions
between services or components.
Major Component— A integral element, ingredient of a larger system.
Measure of Merit— Defines the boundaries and parameters of a major component.
Prioritized Gap List Item Manager (PGLIM)—Individual assigned responsibility by their
director to manage a particular capability gap to resolution.
Solution Analysis (SA)—A Solution Analysis (SA) is the operationally based assessment of
potential Doctrine, Organization, Training, Materiel, Leadership and Education, Personnel, and
Facilities (DOTMLPF-P) approaches to solving (or mitigating) one or more of the capability
gaps identified in the Gap Analysis (GA).
Solution Provider—Respondents to the AFSOC approved PGL or AOI or contractors delivering
technology presentations to AFSOC via the Gatekeeper Process that can be linked to specific
PGL or AOI entries.
Subject Matter Expert (SME)—An individual with in depth knowledge of a weapon system or
support function.
Standard—Metrics or success criteria for the conditions of a specific task.
Strategic Planning Process (SPP)—AFSOC SPP employs an analytically sound, repeatable,
and traceable process to identify, assess, and prioritize AFSOC capability requirements across
the DOTMLPF-P spectrum. It supports USSOCOM SPP and AFSPS with in-depth capability
analysis supported by subject matter expertise, operational knowledge, concepts, wargaming,
lessons learned and senior leadership review.
Task—A discrete activity that may be combined with other discrete activities sequentially or in
parallel that collectively provide a capability.
Technical Readiness Level (TRL)—TRLs are DoDs method of estimating technology maturity
of Critical Technology Elements (CTE) of a program during the acquisition process. They are
determined during a Technology Readiness Assessment (TRA) that examines program concepts,
technology requirements, and demonstrated technology capabilities. TRL are based on a scale
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                             15


from 1 to 9 with 9 being the most mature technology. The use of TRLs enables consistent,
uniform, discussions of technical maturity across different types of technologies. Decision
authorities will consider the recommended TRLs when assessing program risk.
 16                                                        AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014


                                        Attachment 2
      INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTING PRIORITIZED GAP LIST (PGL) ACCESS

A1.1. For access to AFSOC's PGL (SIPRNET). Commercial sector providers will submit an
unclassified Notice of Interest (NOI). The NOI shall include a brief (less than 10 pages in PDF
format) Vendor Capability Statement to include the following:
   A1.1.1. Core Competencies.
   A1.1.2. Key Personnel.
   A1.1.3. Security POC.
   A1.1.4. Company and Government Entity (CAGE) Code.
   A1.1.5. Cleared Company Representatives (limit to five personnel) requiring access to the
   classified PGL:
        A1.1.5.1. First Name.
        A1.1.5.2. Last Name.
        A1.1.5.3. SSAN (Needed to verify security clearances).
        A1.1.5.4. SIPRNET Email Address.
        A1.1.5.5. Telephone Number.
A1.2. For access to AFSOC's AOI (NIPRNET). Commercial sector providers will submit an
unclassified NOI. The NOI shall include a brief (limited to 10 pages in PDF format) Vendor
Capability Statement to include the following:
   A1.2.1. Core Competencies.
   A1.2.2. Key Personnel.
   A1.2.3. Security POC.
   A1.2.4. Cleared Company Representatives (limit to five personnel) requiring access to
   AFSOC's AOI
        A1.2.4.1. First Name.
        A1.2.4.2. Last Name.
        A1.2.4.3. Unclassified Email Address.
        A1.2.4.4. Telephone Number.
A1.3. Foreign Involvement. For both access paths, SIPRNET or NIPRNET, commercial sector
providers will also answer the following questions to allow AFSOC to determine the degree of
foreign involvement in the provider's company and compliance with handling guidance for
information marked as UNCLASSIFIED/FOUO:
   A1.3.1. Is the company US owned and US operated?
   A1.3.2. Is the company US owned but foreign controlled?
   A1.3.3. Is the company US owned but foreign affiliated?
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                 17


   A1.3.4. Is the company foreign owned and foreign affiliated?
   A1.3.5. Is the company a US subsidiary of a foreign company?
A1.4. Government Response. Following a review of the NOI, the Government will provide a
response to the solution provider in either case (SIPRNET or NIPRNET):
   A1.4.1. Grant access to the classified PGL via SIPRNET or deny access with rationale.
   Denial of access will be based on the government's assessment of a company's core
   competencies compared to the needs of the government as described in the capability gap list
   and the degree of foreign involvement in the company.
   A1.4.2. Grant access to the UNCLASSIFIED/FOUO AOI via NIPRNET or deny access with
   rationale. As above, denial of access will be based on the government's assessment of a
   company's core competencies compared to the needs of the government as described in the
   capability gap list and the degree of foreign involvement in the company.
A1.5. Templates. When access is granted to the PGL or AOI, the Government will provide a
solution template (Attachment 3) and quadrant chart (Attachment 4) to solution submitters to be
used to document solution proposals. A separate template/chart should be used for each solution
submittal and all submittals should be related to one or more of the items on the PGL/AOI.
Submitters will use the addresses below:
   A1.5.1. SIPRNET: AFSOC Solutions Portal (AFSOC.SPW.org@afsoc.af.smil.mil).
   A1.5.2. NIPRNET: AFSOC Solutions Portal (AFSOC.SPW.org@hurlburt.af.mil).
A1.6. Points of Contact (process questions only).
   A1.6.1. Primary: Kenneth Paxton, Strategic Analyst, AFSOC.SPW.org@hurlburt.af.mil,
   Phone: 850-884-5100.
   A1.6.2. Alternate: J. W. Wayne IV, Long Range                      Plans    Branch   Chief,
   AFSOC.SPW.org@hurlburt.af.mil, Phone: 850-884-5290
A1.7. Discussions with any of the points of contact shall not constitute a commitment by the
government to subsequently fund or award any proposed effort. Only Contracting Officers are
legally authorized to commit the government.
 18                                                                                                         AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014


                                                                           Attachment 3
                                         SOLUTION PROVIDER SUBMISSION FORM

Figure A3.1. Solution Provider Submission Form.
Solution Provider Submission Form
Instructions
Please fill out the information in all green cells in the below sections.
Fill in all green fields in this worksheet and the worksheet linked to in cell C7.


Solution Information
Area of Interest (AoI)                              Battlefield Trauma Care
Link to Area of Interest worksheet                  Link
Solution Title
Does this submission contain proprietary data?
Solution Description




Organization Submitting Solution
If this is a team submission, please indicate the
other team members and their responsibilities

Funding
Please indicate any past or present funding
sources and/or partnerships (IRAD,
Congressional, Government Agencies, etc.)


Contact Information
Last Name
First Name
Middle Initial
Company/Organization
Rank/Title
Office Symbol
Phone (Commercial)
Phone (DSN)
Phone (Mobile)
Email
Street Address
City
State
Zip Code


Budget
Please indicate estimated costs (in $M) for each                                                              Year R&D            Procurement Sustainment Total
year                                                                                                             1                                                0
                                                                                                                 2                                                0
                                                                                                                 3                                                0
                                                                                                                 4                                                0
                                                                                                                 5                                                0
                                                                                                                 6                                                0
                                                                                                                 7                                                0


Milestones
Please estimate the following in months after       TRL-1 (Basic principles observed and reported)
initiation. Enter '0' to indicate it has been       TRL-2 (Technology concept and/or application formulated)
achieved. All non-zero entries must be greater      TRL-3 (Analytical and experimental critical function and/or characteristic proof of concept)
than or equal to those from earlier milestones.     TRL-4 (Component and/or breadboard validation in laboratory environment)
                                                    TRL-5 (Component and/or breadboard validation in a relevant environment)
                                                    TRL-6 (System/subsystem model or prototype demonstration in a relevant environment)
                                                    TRL-7 (System prototype demonstration in an operational environment)
                                                    TRL-8 (Actual system completed and qualified through test and demonstration)
                                                    TRL-9 (Actual system proven through successful mission operations)
                                                    Final demo
                                                    Initial Operational Capability
AFSOCI90-1101 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                                     19


                                                      Attachment 4
                            SOLUTION SUBMITTAL QUADRANT CHART

Figure A4.1. Solution Submittal Quadrant Chart.
                                                                                                      U//FOUO


                         Solution Title / Company
          Area of Interest Name:_______________________________
        Photograph/Artist’s Concept/Drawing                                      Solution Specifics
                                                               




          Proposed Technical Approach                                   Estimated Cost & Schedule
 Technology Readiness Level / Manufacturing Readiness Level
                                                                    
    




                                               Proprietary Data when filled in
U//FOUO
