BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                         COMMAND INSTRUCTION 11-2TSO,
COMMAND                                                                  VOLUME 3

                                                                              27 MARCH 2014

                                                                           Flying Operations

                                                        TACTICAL SYSTEMS OPERATOR
                                                           OPERATIONS PROCEDURES

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A3V                                              Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A3V
                                                                       (Col Timothy D. Sartz)
                                                                                   Pages: 19


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-2, Aircrew Operations,
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-200, Aircrew Training,
Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure, and AFI 11-202, Vol 3, General
Flight Rules, as well as the appropriate Air Force Tactics Techniques and Procedures (AFTTP).
It provides policies and procedures to Tactical Systems Operators (TSO) flying on Air Force
Special Operations Command (AFSOC) aircraft under most circumstances but should not
replace sound judgment. This instruction applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). This
instruction does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) units. Subordinate units may
supplement this instruction in accordance with (IAW) Paragraph 1.6. The Privacy Act of 1974
applies to certain information gathered pursuant to this instruction. The Privacy Act System
Number F011 AF XO A, Aviation Resource Management Systems (ARMS) covers required
information. The authority for maintenance of ARMS is 37 USC 301a (Incentive Pay), Public
Law 92-204, Section 715 (Appropriations Act for 1973), Public Laws 93-570 (Appropriations
Act for 1974) and 93-294 (Aviation Career Incentive Act of 1974), DoDD 7730.57 (Aviation
Career Incentive Act of 1974 and Required Annual Report, February 5, 1976, with Changes 1
and 2), and Executive Order 9397 (SSN) as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to
Executive Order 9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers, November
18, 2008. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. Unless prescribed within this publication, requests for waivers must be submitted
through chain of command to the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
 2                                                  AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer,
commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the Air Force.
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                                    3



                                           Chapter 1

                                 GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1. General. This volume provides guidelines and restrictions for TSOs who operate onboard
AFSOC aircraft. It is an original source document for many areas, but AFSOC mission-specific
areas will remain in their applicable AFI 11-2 Mission Design Series (MDS), Vol 3. TSOs will
be familiar with applicable AFI 11-2MDS, Vol 3s for aircraft in which they hold qualification. If
conflicting TSO guidance is given in aircraft tactics manuals or handbooks, this volume takes
precedence. It is written for normal and contingency operations to reduce procedural changes at
the onset of contingencies. All TSO operations shall be conducted in accordance with US
domestic law and international law, to include the law of armed conflict. Training procedures
are included. Headquarters AFSOC Standardization/Evaluation (HQ AFSOC/A3V) has overall
responsibility for the administration of this volume. In the absence of clear defining guidance in
this instruction, see applicable AFI 11-2MDS Volumes. (T-2)
1.2. Applicability. This instruction is applicable to TSO operations. References to units,
personnel, and aircraft in this annex include all gained forces unless specifically exempted by
this instruction.
1.3. Terms Explained.
   1.3.1. “Will,” and “Shall" indicate a mandatory requirement.
   1.3.2. “Should" indicates a recommended procedure.
   1.3.3. “May" indicates an acceptable or suggested means of accomplishment.
   1.3.4. “WARNING” Operating procedures, techniques, etc., which will result in personal
   injury or loss of life if not carefully followed.
   1.3.5. “CAUTION” Operating procedures, techniques, etc., which will result in damage to
   equipment if not carefully followed.
   1.3.6. “Note” Operating procedures, techniques, etc., which are essential to emphasize.
   1.3.7. See Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information, for additional
   terms, definitions, and references.
1.4. Deviations and Waivers. Do not deviate from the policies and guidance in this instruction,
except when the situation demands immediate action to ensure safety. Report deviations,
without waiver, through channels to HQ AFSOC/A3 within 24 hours, followed by a written
report.
   1.4.1. Although this instruction provides guidance for TSO operations under most
   circumstances, it is not a substitute for sound judgment. When it is necessary to protect the
   crew and aircraft from a situation not covered by this instruction and immediate action is
   required, the Pilot in Command (PIC) has ultimate authority and responsibility for the course
   of action to be taken. Report all deviations or exceptions to this instruction without a waiver
   through channels to HQ AFSOC/A3.
   1.4.2. Unless otherwise indicated, HQ AFSOC/A3 is the waiver authority for operational
   procedure requirements contained in this instruction. HQ AFSOC/A3 may delegate this
 4                                                           AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


     authority to the Commander Special Operations Air Forces (COMAFSOF) for operationally
     assigned Special Operations Forces. Request waivers to this instruction through proper
     command and control channels.
     1.5.1. Tier requirements refer to waiver authority based on level of risk.
        1.5.1.1. “Tier 0” (T-0) requirements are reserved for requirements that non-compliance
        is determined and waived by respective non-Air Force authority.
        1.5.1.2. “Tier 1” (T-1) requirements are reserved for requirements that non-compliance
        may put airman, mission, or program strongly at risk, and may only be waived by the
        MAJCOM/CC or delegate with concurrence of publication approver. When multiple
        MAJCOMs are affected, then T-1 is appropriate.
        1.5.1.3. “Tier 2” (T-2) requirements are reserved for requirements that potentially put
        the mission at risk or potentially degrade the mission or program, and may only be
        waived by the MAJCOM/CC or delegate.
        1.5.1.4. “Tier 3” (T-3) requirements are reserved for requirements that non-compliance
        has a remote risk of mission failure, and may be waived by the Wing/CC but no lower
        than the OG/CC.
1.5. Distribution.
     1.5.1. TSO Unit/CCs, All Levels - 1
     1.5.2. Operational File (Ops Section), All Levels - 1
     1.5.3. Flight Crew Information File (FCIF) - 1
     1.5.4. Aircrew – 1
1.6. Roles and Responsibilities.
     1.6.1. HQ AFSOC/A3V is the functional lead for this document and will:
        1.6.1.1. Ensure subordinate organizations comply with contents.
        1.6.1.2. Coordinate updates to content.
     1.6.2. HQ AFSOC /A3 is the waiver authority for the contents of this document.
     1.6.3. Special Operations Wings (SOW), Groups (SOG), and Squadrons (SOS and IS) will:
        1.6.3.1. Ensure unit standardization and evaluation organizations serve as the unit Office
        of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for unit document adherence.
        1.6.3.2. Collect and route data for document updates.
1.7. Supplements. Units may supplement this instruction. The purpose of the unit supplement
is to document the process by which units implement the requirements of this instruction. Post
the unit supplement behind the basic instruction. Supplements should not duplicate and will not
be less restrictive than the provisions of this or any other publication without prior authorization
from HQ AFSOC/A3V. (T-2)
1.8. Requisitioning Procedures. Order this volume through the Publication Distribution
Office. Unit Commanders provide copies for all aircrew members and associated support
personnel as directed by Paragraph 1.5.
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                        5


1.9. Improvement Recommendations. Personnel at all echelons are encouraged to submit
proposed changes In Accordance With (IAW) AFI 11-202, Vol 2, AFSOC Sup, Aircrew
Standardization/Evaluation Program, through MAJCOM Standardization and Evaluation
channels to HQ AFSOC/A3V. Use AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
1.10. Development of New Equipment and Procedures. Units are encouraged to suggest new
equipment, methods, tactics and procedures. Coordinate these requirements through 361
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) Group.
 6                                                        AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


                                             Chapter 2

                               COMMAND AND CONTROL (C2)

2.1. General. The AFSOC C2 system is based on the principles of centralized monitoring and
decentralized control and execution. The result is a C2 mechanism which keeps the HQ
AFSOC/CC informed of the current status of AFSOC forces while enabling the Wing, Group, or
Squadron Commander to exercise control over the day-to-day operations.
2.2. Administrative Control (ADCON). The AF ISR Agency exercises ADCON of 361 ISRG
personnel.
2.3. Operational Control (OPCON). AFSOC is the air component to the United States Special
Operations Command (USSOCOM). USSOCOM may delegate OPCON of all Air Force Special
Operations Forces (AFSOF) aircraft assigned or allocated to USSOCOM. In circumstances
where OPCON of AFSOF aircraft has been provided to the Theater Special Operations
Commands (TSOCs) within a Geographic Combatant Command for theater-based assets,
AFSOC is typically designated as the controlling agency for such assets and assigned aircrew.
Exception: In practice, responsibility for planning and executing AFSOC missions is routinely
delegated to the Wing/CC (Wg/CC) or Group/CC (Gp/CC). The Wg/CC or Gp/CC, in turn,
exercises control of non-close-hold missions through the command post supporting the wing or
group. In the event that assigned forces undergo a change in operational control, responsibility
for mission monitoring passes from the wing or group C2 facility to the gaining command.
Changeover will be accomplished in accordance with the pertinent Operational Plan, Operational
Order, Deployment Order, or Execution Order. Note: For certain close-hold activities, security
considerations may compel the Wing or Group Commander to shift mission monitoring
responsibilities from the command post to another wing, group, or theater agency. The Wg/CC
or Gp/CC will ensure procedures are established for the responsible agency to monitor mission
progress and advise the HQ AFSOC/A3 or AFSOC/CC as appropriate. For mission monitoring
guidance, adhere to applicable AFI 11-2MDS, Vol 3. (T-2)
2.4. Pilot in Command Responsibility and Authority. AF Form 4327A, Crew Flight
Authorization, designates a PIC for all flights. The PIC is:
     2.4.1. In command of all persons aboard the aircraft.
     2.4.2. Responsible for the welfare of their crew, Mission Essential Personnel (MEP),
     passengers, and the safe accomplishment of the mission.
     2.4.3. Vested with the authority necessary to manage the crew and accomplish the mission.
     2.4.4. The final mission authority and will make decisions not specifically assigned to a
     higher authority.
     2.4.5. The final authority for accepting a waiver affecting the crew or mission.
     2.4.6. Charged with keeping the applicable commander informed of mission progress and
     difficulties.
     2.4.7. Responsible for the timely reporting of aircraft movements in the absence of a mission
     commander.
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                                     7


                                           Chapter 3

                   AIRCREW COMPLEMENT AND MANAGEMENT

3.1. Aircrew Qualification. Each person assigned as a primary crew member will be qualified
or in training for qualification in that crew position, mission, and aircraft. (T-2)
3.2. Crew Complement. The normal crew complement for TSO operations is one, IAW AFI
65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, Table 36.1.
   3.2.1. Logging of Flying Time. Log flying time IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation Management.
3.3. Interfly. Interfly is the exchange and/or substitution of aircrew members and/or aircraft
between MAJCOMs to accomplish flying missions. Normally, interfly should be limited to
specific operations/tests, exercises, or special circumstances.
   3.3.1. IAW letters of agreement (LOA) or Memorandums of Agreement (MOA), 361 ISR
   Group personnel are authorized interfly on designated AFRC, AETC and NGB aircraft.
       3.3.1.1. The operational or training squadron will prepare and sign AFSOC/AFRC flight
       orders for flights on which the “A-code” is from their squadron. (T-2)
       3.3.1.2. As a minimum, aircrews will be qualified in the applicable aircraft. (T-2)
       3.3.1.3. AFSOC will retain all flight and ground mishap reporting responsibility. (T-2)
   3.3.2. Waiver Authority.
       3.3.2.1. With a valid MOA. OG/CC or COMAFSOF is the approval authority for
       interfly on AFSOC aircraft under their control.
       3.3.2.2. No MOA/Expired MOA. HQ AFSOC/A3 is the approval authority for interfly
       on AFSOC aircraft.
       3.3.2.3. Contingency operations will be approved by both HQ AFSOC/A3 and respective
       MAJCOM/A3. (T-2)
3.4. Intrafly. The OG/CC or COMAFSOF is the approval authority for intrafly of AFSOC
crew members on aircraft under their control.
   3.4.1. 361 ISR Group personnel are authorized intrafly on any AFSOC-assigned aircraft.
   3.4.2. As a minimum, aircrews will be qualified in the applicable aircraft. (T-2)
3.5. Scheduling Restrictions. TSO scheduling restrictions are IAW AFI 11-202, Vol 3,
General Flight Rules, and MAJCOM Supplement.
3.6. Alert Crew Procedures. See AFI 11-202 Vol. 3, General Flight Rules, and MAJCOM
Supplement.
3.7. Flight Duty Period and Crew Rest Restrictions. See AFI 11-202, Vol 3, and MAJCOM
Supplement.
 8                                                       AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


                                            Chapter 4

                          AIRCRAFT OPERATING GUIDELINES

4.1. General. This chapter provides guidance for operations with certain degraded equipment.
If the aircraft commander elects to operate with degraded equipment or aircraft systems,
coordinate mission requirements (i.e., revised departure times, fuel requirements, maintenance
requirements, etc.) prior to flight with the mission control agency to ensure the decision does not
adversely impact follow-on missions.
4.2. Responsibility. The final responsibility regarding required equipment for a mission rests
with the aircraft commander. If one aircraft commander accepts an aircraft to conduct a mission
or mission segment with a degraded or inoperative item or system, this acceptance does not
commit that aircraft commander, or a different aircraft commander, to subsequent operations
with the same item or system inoperative. When the aircraft commander considers an item
essential, designate the component Mission Essential (ME) on the AFTO Form 781A,
Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document, and the item will be repaired or replaced prior to
departure. (T-2)
     4.2.1. The TSO will inform the aircraft commander of degraded TSO equipment prior to
     crew check-in. (T-2) After crew check-in, when aircraft operations allow, the TSO will
     inform the aircraft commander or designated crew member in a timely manner of any
     changes in mission systems. (T-2)
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                                   9


                                          Chapter 5

                                 AIRLAND OPERATIONS

5.1. General. This chapter establishes procedures for TSO employment during airland
operations while operating onboard AFSOC aircraft. In addition to the guidance outlined below
refer to AFI 11-202, Vol 3, and the 11-2MDS, Vol 3, General Operating Procedures, chapter for
MDS-specific guidance.
5.2. Checklists/In-Flight Guides. Accomplish all checklists/in-flight guides, as required, with
strict discipline. A checklist/in-flight guide is not complete until all items have been
accomplished.
   5.2.1. Tactical Systems Operators will use the HQ AFSOC/A3V approved checklist or 361
   ISRG approved in-flight guide for their duty position when conducting ground or flight
   operations. (T-2)
   5.2.2. Tactical Systems Operators may use approved checklist/in-flight guides modified with
   notes, amplifying procedures, and limits provided the checklist/in-flight guides and notes are
   current. Currency of notes is the crew member’s responsibility.
 10                                                       AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


                                            Chapter 6

                          GENERAL OPERATING PROCEDURES

6.1. General. This chapter establishes procedures for TSO employment on AFSOC aircraft. In
addition to the duties listed in applicable technical orders (TO), directives, and this instruction,
the PIC may assign other duties as necessary. The TSO is a typically a Career Enlisted Aviator
(CEA) whose primary responsibility is to use specialized carry-on equipment to provide aircrews
and ground forces with actionable intelligence on enemy forces. A TSO can fly on practically
any airframe that is cleared for TSO equipment and mission set, creating a flexible intelligence
package for theater commanders. For this reason, it is common for a deployed TSO to receive
minimal notice and only basic aircraft egress and emergency procedures training before flying on
a platform for the first time. The TSO must be ready to accomplish the mission in a dynamic
tasking environment. In addition to the guidance outlined below refer to the 11-2MDS, Vol 3,
General Operating Procedures, chapter for MDS-specific guidance.
6.2. Personal and Professional Equipment. In addition to, and in the absence of, any MDS
specific personal and professional equipment requirements, TSOs will adhere to the below
guidance: (T-2)
   6.2.1. Passports. Carry passports on missions when required by the Foreign Clearance
   Guide (FCG).
   6.2.2. Shot Record. Aircrew members will ensure they meet immunization requirements for
   the mission area of operations. (T-2)
   6.2.3. Identification. Identification tags (dog tags) will be worn around the neck or carried in
   a flight suit pocket. A valid US government issued identification card (commonly referred to
   as Common Access Card or CAC) will also be carried on all flights. (T-2)
   6.2.4. Flight Gloves: All aircrew members will have flight gloves readily available during
   all flights. (T-2)
   6.2.5. Foreign Object Damage (FOD) Hazards. Aircrew will not wear wigs, hairpieces,
   rings, scarves, ornaments, pins, hair clips or fasteners, or earrings in the aircraft or on the
   flight line. Crew members will remove rings and scarves before performing aircrew duties.
   Exception: Plain elastic hair fasteners or plastic barrettes are allowed, providing they do not
   interfere with the wearing of headsets or helmets, or the donning of oxygen equipment. All
   devices will be accounted for before and after flight. (T-2)
   6.2.6. Restricted Area Badges. Carry the restricted area badge on all missions (except
   combat missions) and display badge only in designated restricted areas.
   6.2.7. Headset: Carry a headset on all flights.
   6.2.8. Flashlight: Carry an operable flashlight on all flights.
6.3. Mission Planning Factors.
   6.3.1. Mission Planning. Detailed information on mission planning can be found in this
   instruction, AFTTP 3-1, Vol 1 (S), General Planning and Employment Considerations,
   AFTTP 3-1, Vol 2 (S), Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics, and MDS specific
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                                  11


   AFTTP 3-1 (S) and AFTTP 3-3 (U) volumes as well as any applicable AFSOC handbook
   (AFSOCH) volumes.
   6.3.2. The TSO, after coordinating with appropriate entities will conduct mission planning
   with the aircrew. The TSO will brief expected scenario inputs based on the analytical data,
   as required. (T-2)
   6.3.3. The TSO is responsible for coordinating with all appropriate agencies to obtain all
   required or anticipated mission planning, professional, and TSO specific equipment for the
   duration of the flight/deployment. The TSO will ensure all equipment is inventoried and
   inspected prior to flight/deployment. (T-2)
6.4. Flight Briefings and Procedures. TSOs should cover the following items and areas, as a
minimum, during most pre-mission planning briefings.
   6.4.1. Briefing Classification. It is absolutely necessary to inform any briefing audience as
   to the overall classification of any item or area for which the TSO is responsible for
   presenting mission/equipment related information. Do not assume everyone in the room is
   cleared and has a need to know.
   6.4.2. TSO Capabilities. Brief the capabilities and limitations of the systems you will be
   using onboard the aircraft and any special requirements (cables etc.) that apply.
   6.4.3. Orbit Coordination. Coordinate with the pilots, CSO, ISR Tactical Controller (ITC)
   and ground force elements (as applicable) to establish the best start point, orbit size, orbit
   orientation and egress routes to maximize mission effectiveness.
   6.4.4. Communications. Mission specific communication procedures should be clearly
   understood by the entire crew and external parties prior to flying the mission. Radios, nets
   and tactical verbiage issues should be coordinated during pre-mission planning and briefings
   to avoid preventable mission failure due to bad communications.
   6.4.5. Onboard Safety Considerations. The size of many of the aircraft that the TSO will fly
   on does not leave much room for equipment and associated cables/wiring. To the extent
   possible, deconflict these areas to avoid safety hazards during flight and in the event of an
   egress situation.
   6.4.6. Destruction of Classified Material. When in a combat environment or other sensitive
   area, brief the aircrew on how to handle your classified material. Use the following as an
   example to brief before each flight (not required verbatim). “If for some reason I become
   incapacitated during the flight and we are forced to land in a hostile zone, keep in mind that
   my classified material will need to be destroyed/zeroized.”
6.5. Mission Employment.
   6.5.1. Takeoff Procedures: All TSO equipment, personnel, and gear should be organized,
   functional, and stowed away properly prior to takeoff.
   6.5.2. If any degradation in on-board systems is discovered TSOs must pass this information
   to the PIC. The decision to proceed rests with the PIC.
   6.5.3. Go-Around Calls. If any crewmember calls “go-around” the pilot flying should
   immediately apply power to establish a climb that clears all obstacles.
 12                                                      AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


   6.5.4. Tactical Operations. Execute the proper tactical procedure based upon threat analysis
   and 11-2MDS aircraft-specific performance envelopes. For all tactical operations, follow
   theater-specific air traffic control procedures to avoid potential conflicts.
6.6. Communications Procedures. When missions require the TSO to communicate, they will
obtain proper frequencies, time hack, schedules, call signs, and communications security
(COMSEC) material prior to flight. Depending on the nature of the mission and the
communications, the TSO will keep the crew updated on any pertinent information and will
coordinate with the PIC for authorization to transmit. Any TSO-related COMSEC equipment
loaded during the course of the mission will be zeroized at the end of the mission. (T-2)
   6.6.1. On all AFSOC aircraft, the TSO will coordinate with the crew during mission
   planning regarding interphone connectivity. (T-2)
   6.6.2. The PIC will plan and brief individual responsibilities for secure communication
   loading, voice radio configuration and communication during the mission. Coordination
   between all aircrew members is essential for safe and effective mission accomplishment. All
   aircrew members that have the capability to monitor radios must be alert to back up the
   assigned crew members when duties allow. The PIC will assign radio monitoring and
   transmission duties after examining each phase of flight for mission requirements and
   individual workload. (T-2)
6.7. Post Mission. In addition to appropriate debriefs, the TSO will also ensure: (T-2)
   6.7.1. Equipment write-ups are passed on to appropriate maintenance personnel.
   6.7.2. Post mission reports and data files (as required) are provided to the supporting analyst.
   6.7.3. Provide information to their units summarizing mission events, as required.
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                                13


                                          Chapter 7

                                  AIRCRAFT SECURITY

7.1. General. As an aircrew member onboard AFSOC aircraft the TSO is required to be
familiar with the proper procedures and guidance to help maintain the security of the aircraft.
Refer to the 11-2MDS, Vol 3, Aircraft Security, chapter for MDS-specific guidance.
 14                                                   AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


                                         Chapter 8

                        OPERATIONAL REPORTS AND FORMS

8.1. General. For assistance in completing safety forms contact the wing/group, unit, or local
flight safety officer. Refer to the 11-2MDS, Vol 3, Operational Reports and Forms, chapter for
MDS-specific guidance.
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                        15


                                      Chapter 9

                            FLYING TRAINING POLICY

9.1. General. Refer to AFI 11-202, Vol 1, Aircrew Training, AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Aircrew
Standardization/Evaluation Program, AFSOCI 11-2TSO, Vol 1, Aircrew Training, and AFSOCI
11-2TSO, Vol 2, Tactical Systems Operator Aircrew Evaluation Criteria, for additional
information.
 16                                                      AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


                                          Chapter 10

                           LOCAL OPERATING PROCEDURES

10.1. General. Units may publish local and/or unique unit operation procedures as a
supplement to this chapter commencing with Paragraph 10.2. The title will indicate the unit
concerned (e.g., “10.2. 43 IS Local Operating Procedures.”). (T-2)
   10.1.1. Procedures in this chapter will not duplicate, alter, amend, or be less restrictive than
   those in this instruction. (T-2)
   10.1.2. After validation, send final copies to HQ AFSOC/A3V.
   10.1.3. TSOs will adhere to local operating procedures published via the 1 SOG, 27 SOG,
   352 SOG, and 353 SOG. (T-2)




                                             J. MARCUS HICKS, Brig Gen, USAF
                                             Director of Operations
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                              17


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFSOCI 11-2TSO, Vol 1, Aircrew Training
AFSOCI 11-2TSO, Vol 2, Tactical Systems Operator Aircrew Evaluation Criteria
AFI 11-200, Aircrew Training, Standardization/Evaluation, and General Operations Structure,
19 January 2012
AFI 11-202, Vol 1, Aircrew Training, 22 November 2010
AFI 11-202, Vol 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program, 13 Septeber 2013
AFI 11-202, Vol 2, AFSOC Sup, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program,
18 October 2012
AFI 11-202, Vol 3, General Flight Rules, 22 October 2010
AFI 11-202, Vol 3, AFSOC Sup, General Flight Rules, 30 November 2012
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFI 65-503, US Air Force Cost and Planning Factors, 4 February 1995AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 11-2, Aircrew Operations, 19 January 2012
AFPD 11-4, Aviation Service, 1 September 2004
AFTTP 3-1, Vol 1 (S), General Planning and Employment Considerations
AFTTP 3-1, Vol 2 (S), Threat Reference Guide and Countertactics
Prescribed Forms
There are no prescribed forms in this instruction.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 4327A, Crew Flight Authorization (FA)
AFTO Form 781, ARMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADCON—Administrative control
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
 18                                                 AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014


AFRIMS—Air Force Information Management System
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSOC/A3V—AFSOC Standardization/Evaluation
AFSOCH—AFSOC Handbook
AFSOF—Air Force Special Operations Forces
AFTTP—Air Force Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures
ANG—Air National Guard
ARMS—Aviation Resource Management Systems
C2—Command and Control
CAC—Common Access Card
CEA—Career Enlisted Aviator
COMAFSOF—Commander Air Force Special Operations Forces
COMSEC—Communications Security
FCIF—Flight Crew Information File
FCG—Foreign Clearance Guide
FOB—Forward Operating Base
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
Gp/CC—Group Commander
IAW—In Accordance With
ISR—Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Group
ITC—Tactical Controller
LOA—Letter(s) of Agreement
MDS—Mission Design Series
ME—Mission Essential
MEP—Mission Essential Personnel
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OG/CC—Operations Group Commander
OPCON—Operational Control
OPR—Office or Primary Responsibility
PA—Privacy Act
PIC—Pilot in Command
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
AFSOC11-2TSOV3 27 MARCH 2014                                                                       19


TO—Technical Order
TSO—Tactical Systems Operators
TSOC—Theatre Special Operations Command(s)
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command
Wg/CC—Wing Commander

Terms
Command and Control—The exercise of authority and direction by a properly designated
commander over assigned and attached forces in the accomplishment of the mission. Command
and control functions are performed through an arrangement of personnel, equipment,
communications, facilities, and procedures employed by a commander in planning, directing,
coordinating, and controlling forces and operations in the accomplishment of the mission.
Exercise—A military maneuver or simulated wartime operation involving planning, preparation,
and execution. It is carried out for the purpose of training or evaluation. It may be combined,
joint, or single-service, depending on participating organizations.
Forward Operating Base (FOB)—An airfield without full support facilities used during
mission operations for an undetermined and sometimes extended period of time.
Interfly—Intermixing of crew members from different units in the same aircrew or unit aircrews
flying aircraft assigned to another unit.
Mission Essential Personnel (MEP)—Individuals who perform essential duties in support of a
particular aircraft, aircrew, or mission.
Operational Control (OPCON)—Transferable command authority that may be exercised by
commanders at any echelon at or below the level of combatant command. Operational control
may be delegated and is the authority to perform those functions of command over subordinate
forces involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks, designating
objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. Operational
control includes authoritative direction over all aspects of military operations and joint training
necessary to accomplish missions assigned to the command. Operational control should be
exercised through the commanders of subordinate organizations. Normally this authority is
exercised through subordinate joint force commanders and Service and/or functional component
commanders. Operational control normally provides full authority to organize commands and
forces and to employ those forces as the commander in operational control considers necessary
to accomplish assigned missions. Operational control does not, in and of itself, include
authoritative direction for logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal organization,
or unit training.
