BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE SPRCIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                                      INSTRUCTION 33-201
COMMAND


                                                                           8 OCTOBER 2008

                                                           Certified Current 26 October 2010

                                                           Communications and Information

                                                            CONTROLLED ACCESS AREA


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
Publishing website at www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A6OS                                             Certified by: HQ AFSOC/A6O
                                                                      (Lt Col Kyna R. McCall)

                                                                                      Pages: 7

This instruction implements AFI 33-201V8, Communications Security Protected Distribution
Systems (PDS). It provides AFSOC guidance to Emissions Security (EMSEC), Protected
Distribution System (PDS) and Facility Hardening requirements necessary to meet the
Controlled Access Area (CAA) intent. Facility compliance with this instruction will enable
SECRET level communications without PDS for RED and BLACK lines of voice, video and
data transfer. Higher levels of classification require additional measures of protection. This
instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units which augment HQ AFSOC. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, and route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

1. Definitions. National Security Information (NSI) is categorized as Confidential, Secret, or
Top Secret. A Protected Distribution System (PDS) is a system of carriers (conduits, ducts, etc)
that are used to distribute NSI. TEMPEST is the controlling of compromising emanations for
PDSs, cable shielding and RED/BLACK separation as required by TEMPEST countermeasure
instructions.
2                                        AFSOCI 33-201                          8 OCTOBER 2008


2. Controlled Access Area (CAA). A CAA is a physical area, building or room, which is under
physical control and to which only personnel cleared to the level of the information being
processed are authorized unrestricted access. All other personnel are either escorted by
authorized personnel or are under continuous surveillance (manually or via camera). A PDS
may originate and terminate in a CAA controlled at the level of the NSI carried by the PDS.
Within a CAA, a PDS will not be required for systems at or below classification level of the
CAA. Safeguarding of magnetic and hardcopy media will be in accordance with AFI 33-202V1,
Networks and Computer Security, and AFI 33-401, Implementing Air Force Architectures.
When the CAA is not occupied, it must be secured in such a manner that an undetected break-in
would not be possible. The PDS Certification Authority (CA), the host base IA, certifies a CAA.

    2.1. The local Designated Approving Authority (commander or Designated Approving
Authority Representative) may certify a CAA when no PDS is required. All the distribution
systems must be within the CAA. The CAA certification must be provided in the accreditation
documentation for the network.

    2.2. The objective of the CAA is to deter unauthorized personnel from gaining access to
classified systems, including attached workstations, and to ensure unauthorized access is
discovered.

        2.2.1. Any interior or exterior wall, floor and roof shall be of permanent construction
materials from floor to ceiling. Doors shall be solid core and will have a high security, dead bolt
lock. When double doors are used, an astragal (a protective exterior molding) will be installed
on the active leaf of the door. The hinge pins of out swing doors shall be preened, brazed, or
spot-welded to prevent removal. Locks used to secure a CAA must be resistant to drilling and
physical penetration and lock pick. Federal spec FF-L-2740 is typically the XO7/9 series used
on safes and secure rooms. Medeco Maxum, ASSA and Schlage also offer locks used to secure
a CAA (Maxum series SKU D11W-0100, 0102; V6000 series ASSA locks; Primus cylinder B-
860 series locks respectively).

        2.2.2. All windows which might reasonably afford visual observation of classified
activities shall be made opaque or equipped with blinds, drapes, or other coverings. All windows
that are less than 18 feet above the ground measured from the bottom of the window, or are
easily accessible by means of objects directly beneath the windows shall be constructed from or
covered with materials which provide indications of any attempt of forced entry.

        2.2.3. After work hours the CAA shall have procedures to ensure doors are secured at the
end of the work day. During work hours the CAA shall be occupied or have access controlled
through use of a cipher or simplex lock or a swipe badge system or have the doors locked when
unoccupied.

3. Restricted Access Area (RAA). A physical area (e.g. building, room or annex) to which
only personnel cleared to the level of the information being processed are authorized unrestricted
access but does not meet all of the physical security requirements of a CAA (See Attachment 2).
AFSOCI 33-201                          8 OCTOBER 2008                                                3


    3.1. A PDS may be terminated in an RAA controlled at the level of the NSI carried by the
PDS if: 1) a lock box is used to protect the PDS termination, 2) workstations will be secured or
the removable hard disk will be removed and stored in a GSA approved security container. The
access requirements are the same as a CAA. The physical security required is less than a CAA.
The PDS CA certifies an RAA. A PDS and a lock box equipped with a GSA approved PDS lock
are required in an RAA. The PDS shall be extended within the RAA to a location in close
proximity to the workstation and shall be terminated in the lock box which contains the
connection for the network. The workstation shall be connected to the network via this
termination. The workstation shall be disconnected from the network and the termination
secured when left unattended and at the end of the day.

    3.2. Printers and other devices attached to a classified system shall be located in either a
CAA or Secure Room (SR) location. A SR is one in which access is controlled to preclude
unauthorized access. This may be accomplished through the use of a cleared person or by an
access control device or system. Access shall be limited to authorized persons who have an
appropriate security clearance and a need-to-know for the classified material/information within
the area. Persons without the appropriate level of clearance and/or need to know shall be escorted
at all times by an authorized person. SR processing classified material shall be accorded
supplemental protection during non-working hours. If a printer is located in a RAA, then the
network connection will be disconnected and secured when not in use and at the end of the day.
Tamper evident tape will be used to seal all printer openings processing classified information
that allow access to the printer electronics or cartridge area. Classified magnetic media must be
properly stored. Contact Wing Information Assurance (IA) for tamper tape distributors.

    3.3. The walls, floor and roof construction shall be of permanent construction materials; i.e.
plaster, gypsum wallboard, metal panels, hardboard, wood, plywood or other materials offering
resistance to, and evidence of unauthorized entry into the area. Walls need not be true floor to
ceiling. Door requirements are the same as CAA requirements except solid core door is not
required. The door shall be substantially constructed, access doors locked with a high security
lock, swipe badge or cipher lock used to control access, hinge pins of out swing doors shall be
preened, brazed or spot-welded to prevent removal. When double doors are used, an astragal (a
protective exterior molding) will be installed on the active leaf of the door.

    3.4. Windows shall be made opaque or blinds, curtains, or shades shall be used to prevent
visual observation. Windows that are less than 18 feet above the ground will be locked at all
times or permanently sealed. The locking mechanism shall be such as to provide indications of
any attempt of forced entry.

    3.5 Entry to an RAA must be controlled through the use of high security locks, swipe card
system, or cipher locks. Cipher locks are not the preferred method and must be changed
frequently. Whenever any individual with access to the combination departs or no longer has
access to the RAA, the cipher lock combination must be changed. When lock boxes are open
and/or classified is not secure, the owner/user must ensure that physical security measures are in
place to prevent unauthorized access. This includes accidental or inadvertent access. This will
include the closing of office doors, limiting access to hallways that may allow inadvertent
viewing, and the posting of “classified work in progress” signs. Unauthorized personnel must be
4                                        AFSOCI 33-201                          8 OCTOBER 2008


physically blocked from gaining access or viewing work spaces when lock boxes are open or
classified is in use. Implementing CAA entry control standards for an RAA may be deemed
necessary based on the volume and frequency of NSI usage.

4. Limited Access Area (LAA). A physical area which is under direct U.S. physical control,
and to which only authorized personnel are admitted (e.g. a military base). Access is based on
presentation of approved credential such as picture badge with/without other technologies or
visitor pass issued after verification of picture ID. Verification can be via guard inspection or
electronic processing (See Attachment 2).

    4.1. Potential LAA areas of interest are breezeways between facilities, foyers that bridge
CAA locations, etc. and will always require PDS. A PDS shall not terminate within a LAA
(even into a lock box).

5. Unlimited Access Area (UAA). A physical area (e.g. military base in an OCONUS location)
which is not under direct U.S. physical control and to which unauthorized personnel may gain
unrestricted access. A PDS shall not be installed in a UAA.

6. Physical Security and Access Control. Access procedures IAW this document are an
owner/user responsibility. Specific procedures must be detailed in facility and unit Operating
Instructions. SRs, CAAs and RAAs require access control to the level of information processed.
Consideration must be taken concerning unescorted custodial and delivery personnel, not just
employees. Foreign nationals, even with a clearance, cannot have unescorted access unless they
are authorized account holders on the network. Visitors are allowed if escorted and cannot view
classified information unless visitors are sponsored, have security clearances verified by the
visited unit’s security manager and the visitor(s) has/have a need to know.

7. Badging Process for Visitors in a CAA. CAA visitors are required to send security
clearances through JPAS to the visited organization’s security manager.

    7.1. Unescorted access to a CAA will be limited to individuals who have a valid and current
clearance level commensurate with the level of NSI stored within. Entry authority may also be
verified by a DoD picture ID and a check on the JPAS roster. Certain automated entry control
systems (AECS) may also be utilized to grant unescorted access to a CAA. Authorized AECS
for access into a CAA include a swipe card and PIN or swipe card and biometric validation. The
swipe card is only issued to personnel that require access and have a valid clearance. The PIN or
biometric Personally Identifiable Information (PII) ensures that the swipe card is only used by
the authorized user. Swipe card systems that do not validate the user as the owner of that swipe
card are not authorized access into a CAA. A CAC card AECS with biometric verification
would also be sufficient for access to a CAA if the AECS allows the manager of the CAA to
build an Entry Authorization List (EAL) in the AECS system. These systems must limit entry to
personnel who have been identified by the owning agency as cleared into the CAA and had their
clearances validated in JPAS. These systems must be immediately updated when personnel on
the EAL no longer have access. Future biometric systems that validate both the identity of the
individual and the individual’s clearance level may be considered for entry into a CAA.
AFSOCI 33-201                         8 OCTOBER 2008                                             5


   7.2. Escorted badges are granted to active duty military members, civilians and contractors
who do not have SECRET level clearances or higher. Visitors with escort badges must be
accompanied by their sponsor at all times within the CAA.

8. Janitorial Employees, Concessionaires, and Maintenance Within a CAA. Janitorial
employees and concessionaires within a CAA must have a clearance to the level of the
facility/area being accessed; be escorted or be on visual surveillance at all times.


                                                   ANTHONY W. FAUGHN, Colonel, USAF
                                                   Director, Communications and Information
6                                    AFSOCI 33-201                      8 OCTOBER 2008


                                      Attachment 1

         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 33-201V8, Communications Security Protected Distribution Systems (PDS)
AFI 33-202V1, Networks and Computer Security
AFI 33-401, Implementing Air Force Architectures
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
DOD 5200.1R, Information Security Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AECS---Automated Entry Control Systems
CA---Certification Authority
CAA---Controlled Access Area
CAC---Common Access Card
EAL---Entry Authorization List
EMSEC---Emissions Security
IA---Information Assurance
IDS---Intrusion Detection System
LAA---Limited Access Area
NSI---National Security Information
PDS---Protected Distribution System
PII---Personally Identifiable Information
PIN---Personal Identification Number
RA---Restricted Area
RAA---Restricted Access Area
SR---Secure Room
UAA---Unlimited Access Area
AFSOCI 33-201                          8 OCTOBER 2008                                     7


                                         Attachment 2

                                   PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS

Table A2.1. Physical Requirements
                                                                        Area Type
                                                          Secure Room               RAA
                                                                          CAA
Construction
Solid core construction                                      Yes          Yes       Yes
True ceiling, wire mesh, or Intrusion Detection System
                                                             Yes          Yes       Yes
(IDS)

Openings
No openings, openings <96 sq in. manbars or IDS              Yes          Yes       No

Doors
Substantial construction                                     Yes          Yes       Yes
Solid core, metal or metal clad                              Yes          Yes       No
Non-removable hinge                                          Yes          Yes       Yes
Astragal on active leaf                                      Yes          Yes       Yes

Locks
Approved Locks (e.g. GSA, NSA, AFCA)                         Yes           No       No

Access Control
Swipe proximity or cipher lock                               Yes          Yes       Yes
IDS, continuous occupancy, or periodic inspection            Yes          No        No

Viewing
Opaque windows, blinds or curtains, or not in view           Yes          Yes       Yes

Windows
No windows, or covered windows, or windows with
                                                             Yes           No       No
manbars, or windows greater than 18 ft
No windows, or covered windows, or windows with
                                                              No          Yes       No
manbars, or windows less than 18 ft or tamper evident
No windows, or covered windows, or windows with
                                                              No           No       Yes
manbars, or windows less than 18 ft or substantial lock
