BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                           COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-401,
COMMAND                                                                   VOLUME 2

                                                                              17 JUNE 2009
                                                                                   Personnel

                                                    MISSION INFORMATION MANAGER
                                                  (MIM) STANDARDS AND EVALUATION
                                                                        PROGRAM

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 623 AOC/CSD                                          Certified by: 623 AOC/CC (Colonel
                                                                          Ronald C. Wiegand)
                                                                                   Pages: 12



This instruction implements AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education, and
Development; AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and AFPD 36-6, Civilian
Career Management. It establishes the MIM Standardization and Evaluation program that
supports AFSOC objectives and is applicable to all units. This publication applies to the Air
Force Reserve (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. The use of the name or any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by AFSOC. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s through local
publications/forms managers.
2                                                             AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009



                                            Chapter 1

                         AUTHORITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. General. This document explains procedures and establishes requirements and guidelines
for the AFSOC Mission Information Managers (MIMs) standardization and evaluation
(stan/eval) program.
1.2. Program Goals . The MIM stan/eval program exists to ensure MIM training programs are
sufficient and personnel are current and qualified in order to ensure each MIM maintains a
myriad of skills and qualifications in a fast-paced technology environment. The MIM stan/eval
program uses the Air Force’s proven aircrew evaluation program as an underlying model.
Because of the MIM program’s uniqueness, the MIM stan/eval program diverges where
necessary to ensure a successful program. The ultimate goal is to provide commanders with an
indicator of MIM capabilities, effectiveness, and the MIM training program. The stan/eval
program is designed to ensure assigned MIM personnel are qualified to perform in all critical
areas, tasks, and missions. The program also ensures assigned MIMs are capable of performing
duties in support of the unit’s Mission Essential Task List (METL). Specific objectives include:
    1.2.1. Ensure joint, MAJCOM, wing, group, and unit standards are implemented to integrate
    war-fighting processes, systems, and applications.
    1.2.2. Ensure integration of METL capabilities throughout the organization.
    1.2.3. Provide a method to assess both individual and unit integration levels.
    1.2.4. Recommend improvements to training programs, lesson plans, standard operating
    procedures, and directives based on evaluation results.
    1.2.5. Providing after action review feedback to senior, lateral, and subordinate units through
    cross-tell reports.
1.3. Waiver Authority . The 623 AOC/CC is the waiver authority for this instruction. All
waivers to the guidance in this instruction should be submitted from the applicable MIM
operating locations to 623 AOC/CSD. 623 AOC/CSD will present all waiver requests to the 623
AOC/CC. If a unit develops supplemental guidance they will handle waivers to their guidance.
1.4. Responsibilities:
    1.4.1. 623 AOC/CC:
       1.4.1.1. Sets policy and guidance for the conduct and execution of the MIM
       standardization and evaluation program.
    1.4.2. 623 AOC/CSD:
       1.4.2.1. Establishes a MIM stan/eval office responsible for the overall management of
       the MIM stan/eval program.
       1.4.2.2. Formulates and implements requirements and procedures supporting the
       stan/eval program.
AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009                                                                    3


     1.4.2.3. Ensures that all evaluators are designated in writing and are experienced MIMs
     with an appropriate level of knowledge in mission process, system, application, and
     technology skills.
     1.4.2.4. Administers the stan/eval program.
     1.4.2.5. Combines stan/eval visits with other higher headquarters inspections or staff
     assistance visits when appropriate through the A3 gatekeeper.
     1.4.2.6. Evaluates the MIM formal course for compliance with approved courseware,
     effectiveness, and efficiency of the courses as related to standardization, professionalism,
     technology, and mission support.
     1.4.2.7. Tracks and manages mandatory evaluation timelines, dates, and records for all
     MIMs.
         1.4.2.7.1. Uses MAJCOM designated tools and applications to monitor the
         evaluation accomplishments and due dates.
         1.4.2.7.2. Establishes a method to record all evaluations on the appropriate AF Form
         4143 Certificate of Evaluation.
         1.4.2.7.3. Maintains all evaluation documents within the assigned employee’s
         civilian personnel record in Tab 5 of the six-part folder.
     1.4.2.8. Conducts trend analysis, at least semi-annually, and provides feedback to senior,
     lateral, and subordinate headquarters through cross–tell reports.
     1.4.2.9. Maintains Master Question Files (MQF) used for evaluation and training.
  1.4.3. Responsibilities of the (Supported) Unit Commander.
     1.4.3.1. Actively supports the stan/eval program.
     1.4.3.2. Request a SPOT evaluation of a MIM when the commander suspects the MIM
     cannot fulfill mission requirements.
  1.4.4. Responsibilities of the MIM Operating Location (OL) Lead MIM.
     1.4.4.1. Actively supports the stan/eval program within their OL.
     1.4.4.2. Ensures each MIM receives an evaluation by a qualified MIM Evaluator.
     1.4.4.3. Ensures each MIM receives an evaluation based on the 17 month rule. This
     evaluation will be conducted within a 150-day window starting on the first day of the
     twelfth month after the month of the MIM’s most recent evaluation. When circumstances
     prevent the evaluation of a MIM during the 150-day window, the MIM will be evaluated
     at the earliest opportunity.
     1.4.4.4. Ensures action is taken to correct discrepancies.
     1.4.4.5. Maintains all evaluation documents within the assigned employee’s civilian
     personnel record in Tab 5 of the six-part folder, in chronological order.
  1.4.5. MIM Responsibilities.
     1.4.5.1. Each MIM must take a personal interest in their knowledge, training, and skills.
     Each MIM is responsible for ensuring they seek training and education in areas that
4                                                        AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009


    leadership or their duties require. As new systems are fielded and those systems are
    adopted into the critical areas, each MIM must ensure they acquire and maintain the skills
    necessary to employ these critical systems in support of mission processes and
    operations. If required, request assistance in locating training materials.
    1.4.5.2. Regardless of a MIM’s day-to-day duties, each MIM is expected to be ready to
    meet world-wide deployment requirements and, therefore, must be able to perform
    satisfactorily in all critical areas.
    1.4.5.3. Each MIM is personally responsible for timely scheduling, setup, and
    completion of their evaluations. This includes planning computer support, setting up
    work areas, and having all applications available as specified by the evaluator to conduct
    the evaluation.
AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009                                                                  5


                                         Chapter 2

                   MIM STANDARDIZATION AND EVALUATIONS

2.1. General . This section specifies stan/eval requirements for initial qualification and
recurring evaluations.
2.2. Critical and Non-Critical Items . Qualification areas are designated critical and non-
critical.
   2.2.1. Critical Qualification Areas. As a minimum, qualification areas that directly support
   tracking and reporting status/location of blue and red forces will be designated a critical
   qualification area to include: Common Operating Picture setup/management, Blue Force
   tracking device configuration/management, Brevity Code management/monitoring. Other
   critical areas include mission planning support and mission data management.
   2.2.2. Non-Critical Qualification Areas. All other qualifications and duties not identified
   above are considered non-critical. However, inability to successfully pass an evaluation due
   to numerous failures on non-critical items can be considered an overall critical failure.
   2.2.3. MIMs that do not require an evaluation.
       2.2.3.1. Persons having fewer than 90 days remaining in their current position (leaving
       the MIM career field or retirement).
       2.2.3.2. Persons who are within 60 days of permanent change of station (PCS).
2.3. Closed Book Examinations.
   2.3.1. General. The closed book exams are designed to cover all aspects of MIM duties.
   They should be oriented towards those areas important to supporting the war fighter during
   all phases of operations to ensure the MIM retains a broad knowledge of procedures,
   processes, techniques, and qualification(s).
   2.3.2. Stan/eval will develop and administer the closed book exams (or a designated
   representative when unavailable).
   2.3.3. Written examinations. Prepare and administer a multiple-choice test, true/false, or
   fill-in-the-blank examinations. The examination may be computer generated.
   2.3.4. Requirements. The minimum requirement for the closed book exam is 50 questions
   according to the following:
       2.3.4.1. General Knowledge. A minimum of 10 general knowledge questions must come
       from the MIM Master Question File (MQF). The 623 AOC/CSD is the OPR for
       development and maintenance of the MQF.
       2.3.4.2. Local Procedures. Five questions will come from a local procedure MQF, if
       available (increase general knowledge MQF questions to 15 if no local procedures MQF
       is available).
       2.3.4.3. System/Application Specific. The remaining questions (to achieve 50 questions)
       will be derived from the current fielded systems/applications (e.g. PFPS and C2PC).
6                                                            AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009


       2.3.4.4. Weapon System Specific. For each weapon system the MIM has been qualified
       and is applicable to their current position, add questions (not to exceed 10% of entire
       exam) to cover each qualification.
       2.3.4.5. The minimum passing score for the written exam is 85 percent – corrected to
       100 percent.
       2.3.4.6. Individuals who fail the closed book test require training in the deficient areas.
       Failures will be re-evaluated using an alternate test within 7 duty days. Those who fail
       the reevaluation will be recommended for review board action.
2.4. Oral Testing. This verbal question-and-answer period should cover major aspects of areas
under evaluation and will be conducted in concert with the performance evaluation.
2.5. Performance Evaluation.
    2.5.1. When possible, conduct performance evaluations during the individual's normal duty
    schedule and when possible under controlled environments. Under no circumstances will
    evaluations be held during real-world crisis events.
    2.5.2. Performance evaluations are "PASS/FAIL," and individuals must satisfactorily
    perform all critical tasks for the area being evaluated.
    2.5.3. The minimum areas evaluated to fulfill an evaluation are the core evaluation areas
    identified below or other determined actions.
       2.5.3.1. Grading Scale. The grading system consists of a Q1 (qualified), Q2 (qualified),
       and Q3 (unqualified) grading scale (with a four-level subareas) as follows:
       2.5.3.2. Q1 (Qualified). The MIM's performance met the desired standards for subject
       mastery and techniques. An adjective phrase of exceptionally qualified (EQ) may be
       included in the remarks section of the AF Form 4143, Certificate of Qualification for
       individuals whose overall performance far exceeds the standards.
       2.5.3.3. Q2 (Qualified). The MIM's performance met minimum standards for subject
       mastery and techniques. Although this rating does not require decertification, additional
       training was conducted to achieve the minimum level.
       2.5.3.4. Q3 (Unqualified). The MIM did not meet the minimum standards for one or
       more critical areas and a reasonable amount of training is not sufficient to correct the
       area. The MIM is decertified in the deficient areas and follow-on training or
       determinations must be considered. Recertification in the specified area(s) by a qualified
       MIM or SME is required prior to resumption of MIM duties in the deficient area(s).
    2.5.4. Subarea Grades:
       2.5.4.1. E (Excellent).   The MIM's knowledge and ability is above standards. No
       deviations occurred.
       2.5.4.2. S (Satisfactory). The MIM performs duties correctly, efficiently, and skillfully.
       Minor deviations may occur, but are recognized and corrected in a timely manner and do
       not significantly detract from the overall performance or outcome.
       2.5.4.3. M (Marginal). The MIM has limited knowledge or skill. Deviations occur that
       distract from their overall ability to provide a satisfactorily outcome.
AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009                                                                     7


      2.5.4.4. U (Unsatisfactory). The individual’s performance can cause mission failure or
      lacks sufficient knowledge or skill to support war fighting operations.
2.6. Core Evaluation Areas
   2.6.1. Communicate in-garrison or deployed joint, SOF, and Air Force command and control
   structures.
   2.6.2. Communicate command and control principles.
   2.6.3. Setup and support command and control systems.
      2.6.3.1. Setup and configuration.
      2.6.3.2. Processes and standards.
      2.6.3.3. Collaboration tools.
   2.6.4. Manage mission information within a tactical or operational level operating center.
      2.6.4.1. File taxonomy.
      2.6.4.2. Battle rhythm.
      2.6.4.3. Web, FTP, or other information center.
      2.6.4.4. Operating logs.
      2.6.4.5. Execution checklists.
      2.6.4.6. Message centers.
      2.6.4.7. Standard formats.
   2.6.5. Communicate support for a mission networking architecture.
      2.6.5.1. Responsibilities.
      2.6.5.2. Security considerations.
   2.6.6. Establish a relevant and accurate common operating and tactical picture.
      2.6.6.1. Setup and configuration.
      2.6.6.2. Filtering.
      2.6.6.3. Tracking.
      2.6.6.4. Highlighting.
      2.6.6.5. Information sharing.
   2.6.7. Track blue forces through use of applicable Blue Force Tracking (BFT) devices or
   other facilities.
      2.6.7.1. Setup and configuration of Blue Force Tracking Devices.
      2.6.7.2. Describe or perform maintenance functions of blue force tracking devices.
   2.6.8. Disseminate mission information using a variety of methods.
      2.6.8.1. Describe standard messages and formats.
8                                                            AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009


       2.6.8.2. Describe media or technology used to disseminate information.
       2.6.8.3. Associate events to battle rhythm.
    2.6.9. Effectively employ collaboration tools.
       2.6.9.1. Communicate/implement standards and rules of engagement.
       2.6.9.2. Perform setup and configuration.
       2.6.9.3. Describe or perform standard formatting principles.
       2.6.9.4. Communicate strengths and limitations of common collaboration technologies.
    2.6.10. Establish an operational mission planning network.
       2.6.10.1. Set up and support applicable mission planning and execution applications
       (Mission Planning system of record and A/W/Es).
       2.6.10.2. Update critical mission planning data.
2.7. Evaluation Criteria and Instructions. A MIM’s value is based upon their ability to
improve mission information flows and harness mission system capabilities so that leaders,
staffs, operators, and support personnel can make better decisions and be more effective. Use the
following evaluating criteria to assist in MIM evaluation grading:
    2.7.1. If the MIM understands the technology and takes appropriate corrective action within
    a reasonable time, do not allow momentary deviations to adversely affect the rating level.
    2.7.2. Consider overall performance when assigning the overall rating level, to include any
    serious breach of directives or in-accurate information displays. If an evaluator must place
    restrictions on the member being evaluated to ensure information integrity or weapons
    system safety, the evaluation will be rated unqualified.
    2.7.3. Regardless of other scoring factors and critical areas versus non-critical areas, any
    evaluation may be rated unqualified because of cumulative deviations from desired
    performance that reduce mission effectiveness to an unacceptable level.
    2.7.4. On the appropriate evaluation form, the evaluator will enter comments that may
    include, but are not limited to, significant factors observed during the evaluation.
2.8. Evaluation Documentation. Each evaluation will be documented in the employee’s work
record. An entry for the evaluation will be made on the Supervisor’s Employee Brief (tab 2 of
the 6 part folder). Additionally, the following forms and reports will be completed and place in
the employee’s work record.
    2.8.1. AF Form 942, Record Of Evaluation Form. This form is used to record an individual
    MIMs evaluation history.
    2.8.2. AF Form 4143, Certificate of Evaluation. This form is used to record a single
    evaluation for a MIM.
2.9. Unsatisfactory Evaluation Results.
    2.9.1. Evaluators will use sound judgment when conducting an evaluation. The very nature
    of MIM duties is wide and varied, and a MIM’s daily duties (therefore strengths) will not
    always involve critical areas. While level of currency and competency in a critical area are
AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009                                                                      9


   factors, the MIM’s ability to be successful and present relevant, accurate, and timely mission
   information to facilitate key operations processes, situational awareness, and decision making
   is most important.
   2.9.2. If a MIM’s evaluation results in failure:
      2.9.2.1. The MIM evaluation will be recorded as Q-3, re-training will be accomplished,
      and a follow-up evaluation aimed at the deficient areas will be conducted. Depending on
      the level and area of unsatisfactory performance, re-training and re-evaluation can occur
      on the spot. For more severe discrepancies, re-training and re-evaluation may be
      scheduled for another time. The evaluation description will provide a brief description of
      the discrepancy, re-training actions, and results of the re-evaluation.
      2.9.2.2. All evaluation failures will be reviewed by the unit commander and the lead
      MIM. Based on the results of the review, nature of the failure, number of failures,
      determine if review board action is warranted.
      2.9.2.3. Notify 623 AOC/CSD Chief MIM on all failed evaluations and corrective
      actions taken.
2.10. Evaluation Considerations and Performance Objectives
   2.10.1. This instruction is designed to provide a standardization/evaluation program for
   MIMs (government civilians). Evaluation results are not intended to be primary drivers in
   establishing annual performance appraisal ratings. Standardization/evaluation results should
   be tempered with regard to annual performance appraisal and overall performance
   throughout the year.
   2.10.2. The National Security Personnel System (NSPS) uses standard and supervisor
   derived objectives of performance. The following performance objective is recommended
   for MIMs under the NSPS system:

Table 2.1. Recommended Performance Objective
 Objective: Continuous Learning and Standardization and Evaluation.
 Rating period measures:
 1) Continuous self development with core and leading edge technologies using AF/other
 provided CBTs, formal and informal training, off duty education, and other available learning
 instruments.
 2) Performance during annual standardization and evaluation examinations.
 Measurements:
 *1) Planned and executed continuous self development program.
 *2) Positive performance feedback from supervisors and higher authorities and satisfactory
 performance during annual standardization and evaluation events.
10                                                             AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009



                                            Chapter 3

                                       REVIEW BOARDS

3.1. General. A review board is a panel of experienced senior MIMs and leadership within the
623 AOC/CSD. The review board is part of the checks and balances used in the stan/eval
program. Review boards are designated to look at the overall process delivering an impartial
judgment. Review boards not only look at the employee, but the evaluation task, environment,
training, processes and other factors to see if the failure is institutional or procedural. The Chief
of the 623 AOC/CSD will chair the review board which consists of the command MIM and other
selected senior MIMs and officers.
3.2. Review Board Actions. The board will evaluate and analyze all factors of a situation and
provide the 623 AOC/CC with recommendations.
     3.2.1. Convene a Review Board when:
        3.2.1.1. Directed by the commander.
        3.2.1.2. A member fails any requalification evaluation.
        3.2.1.3. Any incident that compromises safety or results in injury to personnel, damage
        to equipment through negligence.
     3.2.2. The review board will determine the circumstances and adequacy of training and
     submit recommendations to the commander for further action. Recommendations may
     include continued training, a re-evaluation, or permanent removal of the MIM from the
     program.
     3.2.3. Actions resulting in the recommendation for removal of a MIM from the program will
     be handled on a case by case basis and is beyond the scope of this manual.

3.3. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 942, Record Of Evaluation Form.
AF Form 4143, Certificate of Evaluation.




                                              RICHARD S. HADDAD, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                              Director of Operations
AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009                                                       11


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education, and Development, 12 Feb 2004
AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, 30 Nov 1993
AFPD 36-6, Civilian Career Management, 21 Oct 1994
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 Jun 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOC—Air Operations Center
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ANG—Air National Guard
BFT—Blue Force Tracking
CC—Commander
DOD—Department of Defense
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement
HQ—Headquarters
METL—Mission Essential Task List
MIM—Mission Information Manager
MQF—Master Question File
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
OL—Operating Location
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
stan/eval—Standardization/Evaluation
SME—Subject Matter Expert

Terms
Basic Qualification–—A member who has satisfactorily completed training prescribed to
maintain the skills necessary to perform specific duties.
Chief MIM–—The designated or senior MIM manager at the command.
12                                                             AFSOCI36-401V2 17 JUNE 2009


Continuation Training–—The continuation training program provides crew members with the
volume, frequency, and mix of training necessary to maintain proficiency in the assigned
qualification level.
Formal Course–—Training courses listed in the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcement (ETCA).
Lead MIM–—The designated or senior MIM at an operating location (OL).
MIM Initial Qualification–—A member engaged in training needed to qualify for basic duties
as an assigned MIM. MIMIQT is a broad over-arching qualification that provides a MIM the
foundational skills and knowledge to support a unit’s operational mission.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)–—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having the
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Proficiency–—A measure of how well a task is completed. A member is considered proficient
when they can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed, accuracy, and safety.
Special Mission Training–—Training in any special skills necessary to carry out the unit’s
assigned missions that are not required by every MIM. Specialized training is normally
accomplished after the MIM is assigned to a unit, and is normally in addition to other training
requirements.
Weapons System Qualification (WSQ)–—Specific training on a given process, equipment, or
system that qualifies the MIM to support operations.
