Administrative Changes to AFSOCI65-301, Audit Processing Instructions

OPR: HQ AFSOC/FMAS

Reference to paragraph 4 should be changed to paragraph 2.4. (page 4, para 2.3.1.2, line 3).

Reference to paragraph 5 should be changed to paragraph 4 (page 4, para 2.3.1.3, line 5).

Reference to attachment 4 should be changed to attachment 2 (page 4, para 2.3.1.1, line 3).

Reference to paragraph 3.4 should be changed to paragraph 2.4 (page 5, para 2.3.2.2, line 5).

Reference to paragraph 5 should be changed to paragraph 4 (page 5, para 2.3.2.4, line 6).

Reference to paragraph 4.7.3 should be changed to paragraph 3.7.3 (page 6, para 2.4.7, line 2).

Reference to paragraph 3.1.11 should be changed to paragraph 2.1.11 (page 7, para 3.7.1, line 4).

Reference to paragraph 5.2 and 5.2.1 should be changed to paragraph 4.2 and 4.2.1 (page 8, para
4.2.2.1, line 2).

Reference to Memorandum For HQ AFSOC/FM should be changed to Memorandum For AFAA
Gulf Coast Area Audit Office (page 12, Header, line 1).

Reference to paragraph 4.7.1 should be changed to paragraph 3.7.1 (page 13, para 1, line 1).

24 January 2013
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                             COMMAND INSTRUCTION 65-301
COMMAND
                                                                         23 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                       Financial Management

                                                     AUDIT PROCESSING INSTRUCTIONS



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/FMAS                                              Certified by: HQ AFSOC/FMA
                                                                       (Lt Col Sanora Brunson)
Supersedes:   AFSOCI65-301,                                                           Pages: 14
              24 March 2007


This instruction implements AFPD 65-3, Internal Auditing; AFPD 65-4, Follow Up on Internal
Air Force Audit Reports and Liaison with External Audit Organizations; AFI 65-301, Audit
Reporting Procedures; AFI 65-401, Relations With the General Accounting Office; AFI 65-402,
Relations With The Department of Defense, Office of the Assistant Inspector Generals For
Auditing, and Analysis and Followup; AFI 65-403, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit
Reports; and USSOCOM Directive 36-1, Audit Policy and Procedures. It establishes procedures
for processing, reviewing, and overseeing audits to include audit follow-up procedures. It
applies to HQ AFSOC staff and subordinate units. It does not apply to the Air National Guard
(ANG) or the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. See Attachment
1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision contains significant changes, clarifies organizational responsibilities for audit
report management and contains administrative corrections.
 2                                                        AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012


1. Background. Audits are conducted to determine the economy, effectiveness, and efficiency
of activities within the command (including financial, operational, and support activities).
Audits provide management information on whether internal controls, practices, and procedures
are in place and operating as intended.
     1.1. AFSOC organizations are subject to audit by the following audit organizations:
        1.1.1. Government Accountability Office (GAO).
        1.1.2. Department of Defense Inspector General (DODIG).
        1.1.3. Audit Division, United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM/SOIG-
        A).
        1.1.4. Air Force Audit Agency (AFAA).
        1.1.5. Public Accountant Contract Audit (PACA).
     1.2. Audit actions are initiated through:
        1.2.1. Audit Surveys. Audit surveys are conducted to determine whether a subject is
        appropriate for audit and, if so, to formulate audit objectives. Topics selected for survey
        are general by design and may encompass a wide range of related topics. Survey results
        may identify subject is not ready for further audit application, at which time a formal
        closure memo will be issued or results may indicate the need for a more in depth review.
        1.2.2. Audit Announcements. If survey work indicates formal audit is warranted, an
        announcement letter is issued identifying the scope and objective of the audit. Some
        audits will not involve a preliminary survey and are initiated directly at the audit stage.
     1.3. Air Force regulations require management fully cooperate with audit representatives in
     carrying out audit duties and responsibilities. There are no provisions at the unit or command
     level to deny valid audit access requests. Commanders must provide facilities, temporary
     workspace, and access to relevant information (upon verification of auditor security
     clearances) to meet announced audit objectives.
     1.4. AFSOC personnel and management at all levels should ensure audit work is not
     initiated prior to receiving official notification from HQ AFSOC/FMAS.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The AFSOC Comptroller (HQ AFSOC/FM) is the central focal point within AFSOC for
     all audit matters. HQ AFSOC/FMAS, as the designated focal point (audit liaison) will:
        2.1.1. Serve as the initial point of contact (POC) with respective audit agencies in their
        relations with AFSOC units. Units contacted directly by auditors will refer them to the
        unit audit focal point, who will contact HQ AFSOC/FMAS for verification of audit
        announcement and to obtain further instructions.
        2.1.2. Administer the audit process including staff coordination for auditor visits to
        headquarters, provide central monitoring and distribution of published audit reports
        impacting AFSOC and subordinate units, coordinate on visits, and process audit reports.
        2.1.3. Notify HQ AFSOC/IG Gatekeeper of all audit announcements.
AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                  3


     2.1.4. For audits conducted within the headquarters, identify the appropriate AFSOC
     Director as the office of primary responsibility (OPR), and if applicable, other offices of
     collateral responsibility (OCR).
     2.1.5. Notify the appropriate unit audit focal point for audit visits to subordinate units
     who will provide further instructions down to their unit assigned functional OPRs.
     2.1.6. Attend all audit entrance and exit conferences conducted within the headquarters
     and coordinate HQ AFSOC/FM or deputy’s schedule to ensure senior level Financial
     Management (FM) attendance. Maintain documentation of audit briefs including a list of
     attendees and notes on significant issues discussed.
     2.1.7. Perform as the primary liaison for audits conducted within the headquarters in
     correspondence regarding visit dates and conference schedules, security verifications,
     audit notifications, and management responses to reports of audit. Assist in de-
     conflicting visit dates.
     2.1.8. Maintain audit follow-up files to comply with follow-up reporting requirements.
     (AFI 65-403, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports)
     2.1.9. Provide audit focal points copies of Reports of Audit conducted external to
     AFSOC for informational purposes.
     2.1.10. Review proposed management comments to headquarters draft Reports of Audit
     and as requested by unit audit focal points, to ensure responsiveness, consistency and
     feasibility of proposed corrective action.
     2.1.11. Assist in resolving non-concurrences to audit findings with respective agency,
     and if necessary, elevate justification to appropriate authorities when local resolution
     cannot be achieved.
     2.1.12. Establish and maintain the formal followup records for AFAA installation-level
     audit reports (AFI 65-403, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports).
         2.1.12.1. Ensure management completes actions on all installation-level audit
         recommendations.
         2.1.12.2. Select significant audit recommendations and request followup review to
         ensure that management has corrected the identified deficiency.
     2.1.13. Coordinate audit agency annual requests for planning topics with unit focal
     points and consolidate topic submissions for DS approval.
  2.2. OPR/OCRs. Appointed OPR and OCR(s) will attend entrance and exit conferences.
  The OPR, recommend O-5 or above, determines and establishes the appropriate level of
  directorate representation. Required representation is based on audit scope, findings,
  recommendations, and the desire of senior staff officers. Senior level representation is also
  required at exit conferences to resolve disagreements before publication of final report.
     2.2.1. Entrance and Exit Conferences.
         2.2.1.1. For AFAA audits within the headquarters, entrance and exit conferences are
         generally chaired by the director (A staff or special staff) or deputy. If the principal
4                                                        AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012


           or deputy is unavailable, the chair will be the HQ AFSOC/FM or designated
           representative.
           2.2.1.2. For USSOCOM, GAO, and DODIG audits within the headquarters, entrance
           and exit conferences are generally chaired by the AFSOC DS, CV, or CC as
           appropriate.
           2.2.1.3. AFSOC subordinate units will establish local policy on audit conference
           attendance.
       2.2.2. Appointment of Audit Focal Points.
           2.2.2.1. Within the headquarters, each director will appoint, by letter, a primary and
           alternate audit focal point to oversee the audit program within their unit. The
           appointment letter will be submitted to HQ AFSOC/FMAS and include the
           designee’s and alternate’s name, grade, office symbol, and telephone number.
           2.2.2.2. Unit-level comptrollers are designated the primary audit focal point for audit
           activities on their installation. AFSOC DRU commanders will designate the unit
           Budget Officer or Resource Advisor to perform as the primary unit audit focal point.
           Appointment letters will be submitted to HQ AFSOC/FMAS and include the
           designee’s and alternate’s name, grade, office symbol, and telephone number.
    2.3. Audit Focal Points.
       2.3.1. HQ audit focal points will:
           2.3.1.1. Ensure the director or staff agency chief is kept informed on audit related
           issues and perform oversight and assistance on audits within their functional area.
           2.3.1.2. Upon notification of audit, coordinate with their respective director/chief
           (OPR/OCR) to identify project officers. Provide the project officer with information
           and assistance on the audit process and responsibilities as addressed in paragraph 4.
           2.3.1.3. Task and review proposed management comments and monitor corrective
           actions to audit findings. (Management comments referencing a potential monetary
           benefit (PMB) must address concurrence with methodology or calculated estimated
           costs). Provide, in coordination with the respective project officer, audit project
           status reports to HQ AFSOC/FMAS as required in paragraph 5.
           2.3.1.4. Comply with HQ AFSOC 120 day formal audit followup procedures on
           selected audit recommendations for AFAA installation-level audit reports. Sample
           followup report is provided at Attachment 4.
           2.3.1.5. Coordinate annual requests for audit topic submissions with leadership to
           provide review topics which will assist the command.
           2.3.1.6. Distribute copies of reports for audits conducted at other MAJCOM/units to
           the appropriate functional manager and leadership for informational purposes. Audit
           reports are provided to management for use in determining if similar weaknesses exist
           within the organization, or if findings and recommendations conducted at a higher
           level (AF, USSOCOM, DODIG) could impact AFSOC.
       2.3.2. AFSOC subordinate units. Wing and unit audit focal points will:
AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                               5


         2.3.2.1. Ensure the unit commander is kept informed of audit related issues and
         perform oversight and assistance on audits related to their functional area.
         2.3.2.2. Upon notification of audit, coordinate with the unit commander to identify
         project officers. Provide the project officer with information and assistance on the
         audit process and responsibilities as addressed in paragraph 3.4. below.
         2.3.2.3. Ensure HQ AFSOC/FMAS receives copies of all draft Reports of Audit
         within 5 days of receipt.
         2.3.2.4. Monitor and review unit proposed management comments and corrective
         actions to draft Report of Audit findings. (Management comments referencing a
         potential monetary benefit (PMB) must address concurrence with methodology or
         calculated estimated costs). Provide, in coordination with the respective project
         officer, audit project status reports to the unit audit focal point as required in
         paragraph 5.
         2.3.2.5. Comply with HQ AFSOC 120 day formal audit followup procedures on
         selected audit recommendations for AFAA installation-level audit reports. (See
         Attachment 2)
         2.3.2.6. Coordinate annual requests for audit topic submissions with leadership and
         consolidate audit subject areas beneficial to the unit/command and submit to HQ
         AFSOC/FMAS as tasked.
         2.3.2.7. Distribute copies of audit reports conducted at other MAJCOM/units to the
         appropriate functional manager and leadership for informational purposes. Audit
         reports are provided to management for use in determining if similar weaknesses exist
         within the organization, or if findings and recommendations conducted at a higher
         level (AF, USSOCOM, DODIG) could impact their respective Wing/Group/Unit.
  2.4. The Project Officer will:
     2.4.1. Brief all personnel involved with the audit on applicable AFIs to ensure they are
     familiar with general audit procedures before meeting with the auditors.
     2.4.2. Headquarters project officers will schedule, and attend all entrance/exit
     conferences to advise affected directors and ensure appropriate level of attendees.
     Coordinate schedule with HQ AFSOC/FMAS.
     2.4.3. For Wing/Group/Unit level audits, coordinate, schedule, and determine attendees
     for entrance and exit conferences as directed by the unit audit focal point.
     2.4.4. Ensure auditors are provided with adequate temporary working space.
     2.4.5. Schedule audit personnel to meet with appropriate individuals. If necessary,
     conduct a meeting with functional experts prior to official entrance conference to ensure
     a coordinated and consistent position of data being presented. Advise personnel to
     discuss only factual material pertinent to the subject.
     2.4.6. Work with respective managers and OCR project officers to ensure prompt
     implementation of corrective action on audit findings, whenever possible, prior to
     completion of audit field work.
 6                                                          AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012


        2.4.7. Provide fully coordinated management responses to draft Reports of Audit in
        accordance with paragraph 4.7.3. (Management comments referencing a potential
        monetary benefit (PMB) must address concurrence with methodology or calculated
        estimated costs.)
        2.4.8. Comply with 120 day formal audit followup procedures on selected audit
        recommendations as tasked by HQ AFSOC/FMAS. (See Attachment 2)
3. Procedures:
     3.1. Audit agency will provide formal notification of audit or audit planning visit, including
     a brief description of the subject, objective, and scope of the audit and proposed timeframes.
        3.1.1. Air Force, GAO, and DODIG audits will be coordinated through SAF/FMPA as
        the Air Force OPR, who will in turn notify HQ AFSOC/FMAS.
     3.2. HQ AFSOC/FMAS, will provide notification to the appropriate OPR and HQ
     AFSOC/IG Gatekeeper as discussed in paragraph 3.1.
     3.3. AFAA is an internal audit function within the Air Force, while DODIG, GAO, PACA
     and USSOCOM are external audit agencies. Requirements for visit notifications and
     response date submissions vary by agency as defined in respective AFIs.
        3.3.1. AFAA and USSOCOM generally provide two weeks advance notification prior to
        audit visit.
        3.3.2. GAO generally provides ten calendar days notice prior to visit.
        3.3.3. DODIG generally provides seven calendar days notice prior to visit.
        3.3.4. PACA audit subjects are selected by HQ Air Force Services Agency. Public
        accounting firms work through HQ AFSOC/A1S to coordinate visit dates. Wing FM and
        Non-Appropriated Fund analyst should be actively involved in PACA entrance and exit
        conferences, and follow-up to ensure action on findings and recommendations.
     3.4. Auditors keep the project officer appraised of significant findings who in turn ensure the
     director is kept informed of the status. Upon audit completion, the project officer, in
     coordination with the unit audit focal point, will schedule an exit conference to brief the audit
     results. Within the headquarters, HQ AFSOC/FMAS attends all exit conferences.
     3.5. Project officers, in coordination with their respective unit audit focal point, should
     notify HQ AFSOC/FMAS if resolution cannot be reached on audit findings and
     recommendations. Non-concurrences may require elevation to the appropriate resolution
     authority and must be resolved within 6 months of initial audit report date.
     3.6. Upon audit completion the audit agency provides a draft report to the appropriate
     OPR/OCR through the unit audit focal point and HQ AFSOC/FMAS. Suspense for
     providing management comments varies by agency and number and type of findings.
        3.6.1. For AFAA, management comments are generally required within 15 days if report
        cites no findings and within 30 days if findings are identified.
        3.6.2. GAO and DODIG generally provide a much shorter suspense for input and
        extensions are not granted. All levels of management and personnel involved in audits
        conducted by these agencies must be prepared to respond to short suspenses.
AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 7


      3.6.3. Timely and accurate responses to audit reports are essential. Agencies will publish
      final reports without command input if comments are not received by the respective due
      date. Reports published without comments reflect negatively upon the command and are
      not acceptable.
   3.7. Unit OPR is responsible for obtaining input from appropriate OCRs and preparing a
   fully coordinated response to HQ AFSOC/FMAS by the assigned suspense date. A sample
   response to management comments is provided at Attachment 3. The response must include:
      3.7.1. A restatement of each finding and recommendation, numbered in the same format
      as the draft Report of Audit, and indicate concurrence/nonconcurrence for each finding
      and recommendation.          Non-concurrences must be supported with substantiating
      justification, not opinion, and should be rare. (See paragraph 3.1.11)
      3.7.2. A clear and concise description of actions taken or planned. For actions which
      have been completed cite ―CLOSED‖ and the effective date of the action. All open
      recommendations must include an Estimated Completion Date (ECD). ECDs should be
      established at least 90 days (All ECDs will be established on the last day of the month to
      simplify progress report tracking) from current period to allow time for report
      coordination and publishing. ECDs established more than 12 months, require
      identification of milestone actions and associated dates to ensure tracking of progress
      towards completion. ECDs exceeding 12 months should be rare.
      3.7.3. Management comments require the respective director/unit commander’s
      signature. As management comments are cited verbatim in the published audit reports,
      care should be taken to ensure comments are understandable and verifiable.
          3.7.3.1. Headquarters Project Officers will ensure management comments are staffed
          through the AFSOC/DS for AFAA audits and AFSOC CV/CC for USSOCOM,
          DODIG and GAO audits. Forward signed comments to HQ AFSOC/FMAS for
          submission to the respective audit agency.
          3.7.3.2. Wing/Unit project officers will ensure management comments are signed by
          the respective CC or designee. Forward signed comments for AFAA and PACA
          reports to the respective audit agency with a courtesy copy provided to HQ
          AFSOC/FMAS. Forward responses to DODIG, GAO, and USSOCOM audit reports
          directly to HQ AFSOC/FMAS, who will in turn consolidate and provide the
          command official position to Air Force or SOCOM as appropriate.
4. Progress Reports.
   4.1. The OPR is responsible for preparing progress reports on all open audit report
   recommendations until actions are complete.
      4.1.1. The responsible audit focal point tracks the status of all open audit
      recommendations and assists the project officer in reviewing the content and format of
      the report.
          4.1.1.1. The project officer obtains inputs from appropriate OCRs and prepares a
          fully coordinated response by the assigned suspense date. Sample progress report
          memo is provided at Attachment 4.
8                                                       AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012


    4.2. The first progress report is due one month after the ECD of the first finding open
    recommendation.
       4.2.1. Thereafter, progress reports are due on a quarterly basis, 90 days from the first
       report, and will include all recommendations scheduled for closure until corrective
       actions are accomplished.
       4.2.2. Extension requests to Wing ECD’s will be approved by the Wing CC or designee.
       HQ ECD extension requests will be approved by the HQ AFSOC/DS. Forward approved
       HQ ECD extensions to HQ AFSOC/FMAS.
           4.2.2.1. ECD extensions will not change progress report due dates stated in
           paragraph 5.2. and paragraph 5.2.1.
       4.2.3. When all corrective actions are complete, a final progress report is due within 15
       days to HQ AFSOC/FMAS. The final progress report should cite the recommendations,
       ECDs and state, ―all corrective actions have been accomplished and audit is considered
       closed.‖ (Management must address each PMB and validate that estimated savings have
       been realized or provide details on actual amount realized).
    4.3. Future follow-up audits on significant findings should be anticipated. Repeat findings
    reflect negatively on the effectiveness of management actions to correct the deficiencies,
    therefore, OPR/OCRs should periodically review corrective actions to ensure continued
    compliance.
       4.3.1. Provide a memorandum on the results of any internal follow-up on closed audits to
       HQ AFSOC/FMAS.




                                            WILLIAM S. RONE, SES
                                            Director, Financial Management and Comptroller
AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                              9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 65-3, Internal Auditing, 21 Apr 2010
AFPD 65-4, Follow Up on Internal Air Force Audit Reports and Liaison with External Audit
Organizations, 7 Sep 1993
AFI 65-301, Audit Reporting Procedures, 28 May 2010
AFI 65-401, Relations With the General Accounting Office, 23 Mar 1994
AFI 65-402, Relations With The Department of Defense, Office of the Assistant Inspector
Generals For Auditing, and Analysis and Followup, 19 Jul 1994
AFI 65-403, Followup on Internal Air Force Audit Reports, 2 Jun 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
USSOCOM Directive 36-1, Audit Policy and Procedures, 2 Nov 1999
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A1S—Airman and Family Services
AF—Air Force
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CC—Commander
CV—Vice Commander
DODIG—Department of Defense Inspector General
DS—Director of Staff
 10                                                AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012


DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ECD—Estimated Completion date
FM—Financial Management
FMA—Financial Management Analysis
FMAS—Financial Management Services Branch
FMPA—Finance and Audit Liaison Follow-up
GAO—Government Accountability Office
HQ—Headquarters
IG—Inspector General
MAJCOM—Major Command
OCR—Offices of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PACA—Public Accountant Contract Audit
POC—Point of Contact
PMB—Potential Monetary Benefit
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SOCOM—Special Operations Command
SOIG—A–Special Operations Inspector General, Audit Division
USSOCOM—United States Special Operations Command
AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                     11


                                           Attachment 2
                               120 DAY FOLLOWUP REVIEW

                                       (SAMPLE FORMAT)
                                          (Letterhead)

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/FM

FROM: (Unit/Office Symbol)

SUBJECT: Report of Audit (Report Number), (Audit Title), HQ AFSOC, Hurlburt Field FL

1. The following is provided as the status of the followup results.

2. FINDING (report para number): (Brief synopsis of finding)

3. RECOMMENDATION (report para number): (Brief synopsis of recommendation)

4. ACTIONS TAKEN BY OPR TO CORRECT DEFICIENCY: (Brief synopsis of
management's corrective actions to correct deficiency, as stated in progress reports.)

5. RECOMMENDATION APPROVED FOR CLOSURE: (date of unit closure memo)

6. RESULTS OF FOLLOW-UP: (Briefly describe action taken to analyze and determine the
effectiveness of corrective actions. Indicate whether or not actions taken did, in fact, correct the
deficient condition and, if applicable, prevent recurrence. If actions did not correct the
deficiency, appropriate additional or alternative corrective actions should be initiated and
reported in this review. All supporting data and documents should be attached.)


NAME, GRADE, AND OFFICE SYMBOL OF INDIVIDUAL ACCOMPLISHING
FOLLOWUP REVIEW: _______________________________________________



                                       (HQ Directorate or Unit Commander signature)
 12                                                       AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012


                                          Attachment 3
                           DRAFT MANAGEMENT COMMENTS

                                     (SAMPLE FORMAT)
                                        (Letterhead)

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/FM

FROM: (Unit/Office Symbol)

SUBJECT: Management Comments, Draft Report of Audit (Project Number), (Audit Title),
         HQ AFSOC, Hurlburt Field FL

1. In accordance with AFI 65-301, Audit Reporting Procedures, below are comments/dates
applicable to the recommendations contained in the subject audit report.

   a. Recommendation A.1. (Restate recommendation verbatim from audit report).

Management Comments: State “Concur/Concur with comment/Nonconcur” (see note):
Provide short, detailed explanation of action taken to correct the recommendation, or action that
will take place if recommendation is still open. Each comment must cite “Closed: Date
corrective action was accomplished” or provide an ―Estimated Completion Date”. (All
ECDs must be established for the last day of the month)

   b. Recommendation B.1. When restating each recommendation use the numbering format
used in the draft audit report provided for comments.

Management Comments. (State Concur/Concur with comment/Nonconcur): Same format
as example in para 1.a.

2. If there are any questions, please contact my Audit Liaison, POC Name, POC phone number.



                                      (HQ Directorate or Unit Commander signature)

cc:
(Audit Agency)

Note:
Concur. Provide a narrative explaining what actions will be taken to comply with
recommendation. General statements indicating action in an indefinite future are not sufficient.

Concur with Intent. Indicates agreement that correction is warranted; but, management is
proposing an alternative solution to correct the cited deficiency. Fully describe the alternative
solution.
AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012                                                          13


Nonconcur. Provide detailed justification for non-concurrence (See paragraph 4.7.1.)
Nonconcurrences should be rare and must be fully staffed prior to formal submission.
 14                                                       AFSOCI65-301 23 FEBRUARY 2012


                                          Attachment 4
                                     PROGRESS REPORT

                                     (SAMPLE FORMAT)
                                        (Letterhead)

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ AFSOC/FM

FROM: (Unit/Office Symbol)

SUBJECT: Report of Audit (Report Number), (Audit Title), HQ AFSOC, Hurlburt Field FL

1 This is the ―first‖ progress report to Report of Audit (Report #).

   a. Reference Recommendation ―x‖. Provide brief update. State, ―Item closed‖ or
      ―Estimated Completion Date ______‖. (must be last day of the month)

   b. Reference Recommendation ―x‖. Provide brief update. State, ―Item closed‖ or
      ―Estimated Completion Date ________‖. (must be last day of the month)

2. If there are any questions, please contact my Audit Liaison or Project Officer, POC Name,
POC phone number.

3. When all recommendations are completed, include a final statement ―all corrective actions
have been accomplished and audit is considered closed.‖




                                      (HQ Directorate or Unit Commander signature)

cc:
(Audit Agency)
