BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                            COMMAND INSTRUCTION 36-401,
COMMAND                                                                    VOLUME 1

                                                                                17 JUNE 2009
                                                                                     Personnel

                                              MISSION INFORMATION MANAGER (MIM)
                                                                      TRAINING

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.af.mil/e-publishing.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 623 AOC/CSD                       Certified by: 623 AOC/CC (Colonel Ronald C. Wiegand)
                                                                                   Pages: 10



This instruction implements AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education, and
Development, AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, and AFPD 36-6, Civilian
Career Management. It establishes the MIM training program that supports AFSOC objectives
and is applicable to all units. This publication applies to the Air Force Reserve (AFRC) and Air
National Guard (ANG) units. The use of the name or any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by AFSOC.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s through local publications/forms managers.
2                                                           AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009



                                          Chapter 1

                         AUTHORITIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. General. This instruction prescribes basic policy and guidance for training AFSOC
Mission Information Managers (MIMs).
1.2. Program Goals. The AFSOC Mission Information Manager (MIM) Training Program
ensures all MIMs obtain and maintain the qualification and proficiency needed to effectively
perform their units’ mission. The overall objective of the MIM training program is to develop
and maintain a high state of mission readiness for immediate and effective employment across
the range of military operations.
1.3. Waiver Authority. Unless otherwise specified in this instruction, the 623 AOC/CSD is the
waiver authority for this instruction. Route request waivers in the basic guidance of this
instruction through applicable training channels to 623 AOC/CSD. Waivers to supplemental
guidance will be handled by the agency that generated the supplement.
1.4. Use of Training Hours. Use training hours in a manner that demonstrates good
stewardship of appropriated funds. Justify dedicated hours on the basis of accomplishing
peacetime missions and/or maintaining wartime readiness. Structure each training event to
achieve optimum training. Personnel, at all levels, should prevent the misuse or the perception
of misuse of AFSOC resources.
1.5. Responsibilities.
    1.5.1. 623 AOC/CC.
       1.5.1.1. Sets policy and guidance for the conduct and execution of the MIM training
       program.
       1.5.1.2. Monitors and reviews the program to ensure AFSOC policies, guidance, and
       instruction supplements are adequate.
    1.5.2. 623 AOC/CSD:
       1.5.2.1. 623 AOC/CSD will establish a MIM training office responsible for the overall
       management of the command’s MIM training program.
       1.5.2.2. Theater Indoctrination Training.        623 AOC/CSD will develop theater
       indoctrination training and ensure MIMs are trained for specific theater operations. As a
       minimum, this training will include a thorough review of theater-unique requirements and
       procedures, local area procedures, and host nation agreements.
       1.5.2.3. Recall Procedures. Units will notify 623 AOC/CSD prior to recalling a MIM
       from a formal school course.
       1.5.2.4. Program Requirements Document (PRD). The 623 AOC/CSD, in conjunction
       with other agencies and based on mission requirements, will determine MIM total force
       training requirements across the Future Years Defense Program (FYDP). SOF Wings and
       Groups will forward requirements annually to 623 AOC/CSD, via the PRD, for validation
       and inclusion.
AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009                                                                   3


       1.5.2.5. 623 AOC/CSD will ensure a system is in place to manage course planning,
       registration and documentation of training IAW AFI 36-401, Employee Training and
       Development. The 623 AOC/CSD will publish annual releases Program Guidance
       Letters (PGLs) capturing approved training requirements across the FYDP.
       1.5.2.6. 623 AOC/CSD will attend HQ AFSOC/A3T hosted events, conferences, and
       other training events as required to develop and maintain the MIM training program.
       1.5.2.7. 623 AOC/CSD will identify training shortfalls and work to rectify them via
       process, syllabus, system, hardware, or software changes and updates. Across the
       spectrum, technology evolves quickly and the MIM training program will require
       frequent updates and additions to keep abreast of developments in the field and
       instructional technology.
       1.5.2.8. 623 AOC/CSD will ensure MIM Initial Qualification Training (MIMIQT)
       students are enrolled on a full-time basis to ensure their training is uninterrupted and
       completed in a timely manner. Students will be relieved of duties not directly related to
       training. While in training, students normally will not be required to perform duties not
       directly related to training.
       1.5.2.9. 623 AOC/CSD will maintain the student quota allocation and management
       responsibilities for the MIM Initial Qualification course and the MIM Advanced
       Architecture and Process Initial Qualification (MA2PIQ).
       1.5.2.10. 623 AOC/CSD will select MIMs to attend theMA2PIQ based on commander’s
       recommendations and MIM experience.
       1.5.2.11. Progress Review (PR). 623 AOC/CSD will outline procedures for a PR to be
       accomplished when a student fails to progress according to syllabus requirements. The
       PR can recommend continuation in training. If the recommendation is to continue
       training, then the PR will determine the extent of additional training. If the
       recommendation is not to continue training, 623 AOC/CSD will coordinate courses of
       action through the 623 AOC/CC.
       1.5.2.12. MIM Post Graduate Survey Program. 623 AOC/CSD will ensure MIMIQT
       post-graduate surveys are accomplished by both the student and the operating location
       MIM OIC or MIM OL Lead. 623 AOC/CSD will develop post graduate surveys for the
       student and MIM OIC/MIM OL Lead to complete 90 to 120 days after graduation. The
       surveys will seek information on whether MIMIQT adequately prepared the student
       MIM, and what areas need improvement. The 623 AOC/CSD will use these survey
       results to evaluate the course and ensure the course is meeting the need of the students
       and the units.
1.6. Continued Service Commitment Agreements (CSA). Civilians incur a service
commitment for some training events. Refer to AFI 36-401 for more guidance. Training events
such as those to meet deployment requirements or other basic training items (e.g. CBRNE,
9MM, etc.) are considered duty requirements and coordination to complete a CSA is not
required.
4                                                    AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009


1.7. Reserve Service Commitment (RSC). Mission Information Managers are emergency
essential employees. They cannot have service commitments beyond the MIM program. See
DODD 1404.10 and AFI 36-507 for further guidance.
AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009                                                                    5


                                            Chapter 2

                            MIM QUALIFICATION TRAINING.

2.1. General. This section specifies training requirements for initial qualification, advanced
training, and weapon specific qualification training.
2.2. MIM Initial Qualification Training (MIMIQT). To be considered a MIM, a person must
graduate the MIMIQT course which covers foundation areas for all AFSOC MIMs.
2.3. General Requirements. The primary method of initial qualification is to attend and
complete the appropriate formal training course as defined by this AFSOCI and course syllabus.
Completing the appropriate formal course satisfies all basic qualification training requirements.
2.4. MIM Initial Qualification Training Prerequisites. Before entering MIM Initial
qualification training, each member must comply with the following:
   2.4.1. Have a current security clearance (at least secret level).
   2.4.2. Have been appropriately DOS in-briefed.
   2.4.3. Completed all 623 AOC In processing Events.
   2.4.4. Hurlburt-based students only:
       2.4.4.1. Have obtained current base network accounts (NIPR and SIPR).
       2.4.4.2. Have acquired all appropriate access badges.
2.5. Academic Training. Accomplish academic training requirements as directed in the
applicable syllabus. MIMIQT is comprised of lecture and hands-on training (HOT). Each
student will be required to demonstrate individual proficiency in all areas of the presented
lessons.
   2.5.1. Objectives. Lesson objective descriptions, remediation procedures, specific training
   evaluation criteria, administration procedures and scheduling guidelines/procedures are
   found in the applicable MIMIQT course syllabus.
       2.5.1.1. MIMIQT Examinations. Satisfy requirements of the MIM course syllabus and
       achieve at least an 85% on all evaluations.
       2.5.1.2. Lecture. Lessons that are best given in the lecture format (e.g. doctrine,
       processes, networking fundamentals, standards, and etc.) will be presented using slides
       accompanied with student lesson guides. Lessons will be presented in lesson-related
       blocks and an end-of-block evaluation will be administered.
       2.5.1.3. Hands-On Training (HOT). Systems, hardware, and software applications
       require in-depth hands-on training. Each student will be given access to the system,
       hardware, software, and time to become proficient in the setup, configuration, and
       employment of the technology.
2.6. Academic Training Documentation . Each lesson presented will be documented in the
student’s folder within the AOC Patriot Excalibur database on SIPRNET. If reasons dictate use
of hard copy documentation, then the following forms will be used:
6                                                             AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009


    2.6.1. AF Form 4109, SOF/CSAR Aircrew Training Record.
    2.6.2. AF Form 4110, Comments-SOF/CSAR Training Record.
    2.6.3. AF Form 4111, SOF/CSAR Training Record.
2.7. Unsatisfactory Student Progress.
    2.7.1. If a student's training progress is unsatisfactory, 623 AOC/CSD leadership will review
    the student's record and determine whether to continue or terminate training.
    2.7.2. If continued training is determined, the chief of MIM training will ensure the student’s
    sub-performance areas are addressed and the student achieves the minimum acceptable level.
2.8. Courseware Changes . Submit changes for the MIMIQT courseware to 623 AOC/CSD.
If changes are valid and approved 623 AOC/CSD will incorporate the changes.
2.9. Weapons System Qualification (WSQ). The purpose of weapon system qualification is to
ensure each MIM is able to fully support the war-fighter. WSQ is performed at wing and below.
When appropriate, 623 AOC/CSD will prescribe minimum training requirements for each
weapon system. All MIMs will accomplish qualification on each of the unit-assigned weapon
systems within 1 year of assignment to the unit. Qualification will be documented on the AF
Form 4111, SOF/CSAR Training Record, and a copy forwarded to 623 AOC/CSD.
2.10. MIM Advanced Architecture and Process Qualification (MA2PIQ). An advanced
MIM course will be developed. The MIM advanced course topics will include:
    2.10.1. Architectures.
    2.10.2. Methods and processes with respect to integration of mission information.
    2.10.3. Requirements generation, documentation, and industry standards.
AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009                                                                   7


                                          Chapter 3

                             MIM CONTINUATION TRAINING.

3.1. General. The continuation training program provides MIM members with the volume,
frequency, and mix of training necessary to maintain proficiency with the fast pace of
technology. Continuation training is a mix of in-house training, computer based training, formal
training, and industry-provided training. 623 AOC/CSD will publish and update an annual
continuous learning objectives document. When appropriate, the OL Lead MIMs will identify
local or other additional learning objectives and forward to 623 AOC/CSD. The OL Lead MIMs
will ensure the published continuous learning objectives are completed within their OL and
provide a status of learning objectives completion in their Mission Information Manager Status
Report (MISTAT).
3.2. Responsibilities:
   3.2.1. Squadron Commander. The squadron commander or designated representative will
   ensure individuals receive unit-specific training to successfully complete unit missions and
   maintain individual proficiency.
3.3. MIM Responsibilities.
   3.3.1. Each MIM is personally responsible for monitoring and completing all assigned
   training requirements.
   3.3.2. Certifications. MIMs will comply DODD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance (IA)
   Training, Certification, and Workforce Management, and Air Force guidance on certification
   requirements. MIMs will use the self-study method where appropriate and the provided on-
   line computer based training on the IT E-Learning site. Commercial test preparation and
   exam certification vouchers may be requested via the Air Force IT E-Learning site and can
   be used to prepare for and complete the commercial certification.
       3.3.2.1. MIMs have an inherent responsibility as technology specialists (GS series 2210)
       and professionals to stay abreast mission information requirements and technology.
       MIMs are expected to be leaders in technology and should use all available avenues to, at
       a minimum, stay current with technology and optimally stay ahead of new technology in
       order to implement processes and technologies to benefit the war fighter.
3.4. Ground Training Requirements. Unit qualification training, mobility training, and other
commander-directed ancillary training will be completed as required and as directed by the
governing regulations and unit commander directives.
3.5. Formal School Courses . 623 AOC/CSD, in coordination with program managers and
civilian personnel Employee Development Manager/Specialist (EDM/S), approves formal school
courses. Selected formal courses should be directly related to a unit’s mission where the MIM is
assigned.
3.6. Training Documentation Events and Profiles. MIM’s continuation and additional
(ground) training events and profiles will be maintained in 623 AOC Patriot Excalibur Database.
Supervisors and MIM members are responsible for ensuring the database is up-to-date and
reflects the current training status and certifications of the MIM member. All training
8                                                          AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009


certificates and qualification forms will be maintained in the MIM’s employee records (in
addition to submission to the civilian personnel records).
3.7. Failure to Complete Continuation Training Requirements. Failure of MIMs to meet
stated continuation training requirements will be addressed by their supervisor and upper level
management. The goal is to achieve 100% completion of training in order to best support the
war fighter.
3.8. Evaluation Considerations and Performance Objectives . See AFSOCI 36-401 for
recommended evaluation and continuous learning objectives.

3.9. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
AF Form 4109, SOF/CSAR Aircrew Training Record.
AF Form 4110, Comments-SOF/CSAR Training Record.
AF Form 4111SOF/CSAR Training Record




                                           RICHARD S. HADDAD, Brig Gen, USAFR
                                           Director Operations
AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009                                                       9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education, and Development, 12 Feb 2004
AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, 30 Nov 1993
AFPD 36-6, Civilian Career Management, 21 Oct 1994
DODD 1404.10, DOD Civilian Expeditionary Workforce, 23 Jan 09
DODD 8570.01-M, Information Assurance (IA) Training, Certification, and Workforce
Management, 15 Aug 2004
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 June 2002
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, 21 July 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Component
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Operations Center
CC—Commander
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CSA—Continued Service Commitment Agreement
DOD—Department of Defense
RDM/S—Employee Development Manager/Specialist
ETCA—Education and Training Course Announcement
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
HQ—Headquarters
HOT—hands-on training
MA2PIQ—MIM Advanced Architecture and Process Initial Qualification
MIM—Mission Information Manager
MIMIQT—MIM Initial Qualification Training
MISTAT—Mission Information Manager Status Report
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
10                                                             AFSOCI36-401V1 17 JUNE 2009


PGL—Program Guidance Letter
PR—Progress Review
PRD—Program Requirements Document
RSC—Reserve Service Commitment
USAF—United States Air Force
WSQ—Weapons System Qualification

Terms
MIM–—Mission Information Manager.
Basic Qualification—A member who has satisfactorily completed training prescribed to
maintain the skills necessary to perform specific duties.
Continuation Training—The continuation training program provides crew members with the
volume, frequency, and mix of training necessary to maintain proficiency in the assigned
qualification level.
Flying Training CONOPS—The process that ties validated training requirements to the Air
Force Programming, Planning, and Budgeting System.
Formal Course—Training courses listed in the Air Force Education and Training Course
Announcement (ETCA).
MIM Initial Qualification Training (MIMIQT)—A member engaged in training needed to
qualify for basic duties as an assigned MIM. MIMIQT is a broad over-arching qualification that
provides a MIM the foundational skills and knowledge to support a unit’s operational mission.
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)—Any headquarters, agency, or activity having the
primary functional interest in, and responsibility for, a specific action, project, plan, program, or
problem.
Proficiency–—A measure of how well a task is completed. A member is considered proficient
when they can perform tasks at the minimum acceptable levels of speed, accuracy, and safety.
Special Mission Training—Training in any special skills necessary to carry out the unit’s
assigned missions that are not required by every MIM. Specialized training is normally
accomplished after the MIM is assigned to a unit, and is normally in addition to other training
requirements.
Weapons System Qualification (WSQ)—Specific training on a given process, equipment, or
system that qualifies the MIM to support operations.
