BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                              COMMAND INSTRUCTION 48-102
COMMAND
                                                                           16 FEBRUARY 2013
                                                         Certified Current On 5 September 2013
                                                      Incorporating Change 1, 4 November 2014

                                                                                         Medical

                                                         PANDEMIC INFLUENZA MEDICAL
                                                          RESPONSE PLAN FOR DEPLOYED
                                                                          OPERATIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/SGPM                                                  Certified by: HQ AFSOC/SG
                                                                               (Col Timothy Jex)
                                                                                       Pages: 24


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program and contains the
guidance that AFSOC Operations Support Medical (OSM) Flights will use to plan for a
deployment to areas with an increased risk of Pandemic Influenza (PI). Currently, these are
areas in which Avian Influenza (AI) H5N1 strains are circulating in animal populations with
occasional human infections. Since these areas do not have U.S. Military Treatment Facility
(MTF) support, the plan identifies the surveillance, medical preparedness and response steps
necessary for the care and evaluation of AFSOC Special Operations Group (SOG) personnel and
those that fall under their medical responsibility during the deployment. This plan does not
apply to, nor supersede, applicable installation PI preparation plans OSM flights are subjected to
while in garrison. This instruction does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.                   Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                                                                AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been changed to reflect AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management,
and AFI 90-20, The Air Force Inspection System, tier identification and waiver requirements (T-
0, above AF authority-waiver is pub OPR; T-1, strong risk of mission or program failure-waiver
MAJCOM/CC & pubs approving official; T-2, may degrade mission or program effectiveness or
efficiency-waiver MAJCOM/CC; T-3, may limit mission or program effectiveness or efficiency-
waiver Wing/DRU/FOA/CC). A margin (|) indicates newly revised material.

Section A—Overview of Pandemic Influenza Considerations.                                                                                   3
       1.     Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    3
       2.     Influenza Virus/Infection Characteristics. .............................................................                     3
       3.     PI Assumptions. .....................................................................................................        4
       4.     Pandemic Influenza Progression. ...........................................................................                  5
       5.     Operational Priorities. ............................................................................................         5

Section B—Pre-deployment PI Preparation.                                                                                                   5
       6.     Medical Surveillance. ............................................................................................           5
       7.     Medical preparedness. ...........................................................................................            6

Section C—Deployment PI Actions.                                                                                                           7
       8.     Medical Preparedness. ...........................................................................................            7
       9.     Medical Surveillance. ............................................................................................           7
       10.    Operational Medical Decisions. .............................................................................                 7
       11.    Medical Response. .................................................................................................          8
       12.    Medical Reporting. ................................................................................................          8
       13.    PI Phases 4-5 OSM Actions. ..................................................................................                8

Section D—Redeployment PI Procedures.                                                                                                      8
       14.    Medical Surveillance. ............................................................................................           8
       15.    Medical Preparedness. ...........................................................................................            8

Section E—Summary                                                                                                                          9
       16.    Preparation. ............................................................................................................    9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            10

Attachment 2—PANDEMIC INFLUENZA (PI) ACTION PLAN CHECKLIST FOR
             AFSOC OSM UNITS                                                                                                              12

Attachment 3—PANDEMIC INFLUENZA MEDICAL SUPPLIES                                                                                          24
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    3


Section A—Overview of Pandemic Influenza Considerations.

1. Introduction.
   1.1. When influenza pandemics occur, they have the potential to cause substantially higher
   morbidity and mortality than annual seasonal influenza epidemics. Whereas seasonal
   epidemics have the greatest impact on elderly and medically high-risk groups, pandemics are
   likely to cause high levels of morbidity and mortality in all populations. The potential is
   great for a rapid, worldwide spread of PI once the influenza virus mutates to a strain capable
   of efficient human to human transmission. When this occurs, an influenza pandemic will
   likely have a significant impact on military operations. To mitigate the resulting morbidity
   and mortality, many international and U.S. agencies, including DoD, have prepared and
   published extensive PI preparedness plans. Across the various plans, an overarching purpose
   is to prepare populations.
   1.2. U.S. military PI plans have been directed and are being developed by all
   installations/MTFs. Additionally, Combatant Commands (COCOM) have been directed to
   develop PI preparation plans. However, AFSOC OSM flights deploy to areas that may
   belong to a COCOM other than U.S. Special Operations Command (SOCOM) and their
   missions may rapidly evolve or develop; further, these missions often are located in countries
   considered by medical experts as being at higher risk for the origin for an influenza
   pandemic. To address these unique PI considerations, AFSOC medical units need specific
   instructions to prepare properly.
   1.3. To help facilitate the preparation of PI preparedness plans, a checklist has been
   developed that lists many of the more important items the OSM should consider. The
   checklist can be found at Attachment 2, “Pandemic Influenza Action Plan Checklist for
   AFSOC OSM Units”. (T-1).
2. Influenza Virus/Infection Characteristics.
   2.1. Virus Characteristics.
       2.1.1. The influenza virus is a ribonucleic acid (RNA) virus that exists in various strains;
       influenza A strains infect both animals and humans. The virus mutates rapidly and
       because of this characteristic can cause both seasonal epidemics and pandemics in
       humans. Pandemics occur when a majority of humans do not have protective antibodies
       against a circulating viral strain. In the past, these pandemics have arisen when animal
       (specifically birds) influenza strains mutated to a type that was capable of effective
       human to human transmission. When this has occurred in previous pandemics,
       significant human mortality and morbidity has occurred.
       2.1.2. Human pandemic influenza strains can, through a process known as genetic shift,
       arise from different animal influenza strains. Currently, the strain thought to be a highly
       likely candidate for the next PI human strain is H5N1. This strain is currently causing
       epizootics in wild and domestic birds and has caused sporadic human disease and death
       as well. Experts believe if this strain mutates to a form that is easily transmitted from
       human to human, it will become the next pandemic influenza strain.
 4                                                         AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


     2.2. Influenza Infection Characteristics.
        2.2.1. The influenza incubation period ranges from 4 – 10 days and a human to human PI
        outbreak is expected to infect approximately 35% of all age groups. Past PI mortality
        rates have been approximately 5% but higher in certain populations (e.g., the1918
        pandemic caused much higher mortality in young, healthy adults).
        2.2.2. The influenza pandemic may occur in several different waves, each wave lasting
        several weeks. Once infected, individuals may shed virus and be contagious one to two
        days prior to manifesting any signs or symptoms of disease. Military units in close
        quarters could experience between 20%- 50% of their force being infected in a very short
        period of time during a pandemic.
3. PI Assumptions. In order to plan and prepare for pandemic influenza, certain assumptions
are necessary. Below are assumptions that especially pertain to AFSOC and are listed in the
ASD(HA)’s 25 Jan 2006 memorandum, “Department of Defense Influenza Pandemic
Preparation and Response Health Policy Guidance”.              The policy is found at:
http://www.vaccines.mil/documents/886PandemicFluPolicy.pdf
     3.1. Pandemic influenza assumptions.
        3.1.1. An influenza pandemic could occur in any season and could affect a substantial
        portion of the world population.
        3.1.2. Most US military personnel would be susceptible to the illness.
        3.1.3. Once an influenza pandemic is introduced into the United States or other country,
        it could spread quickly to all parts of the country.
        3.1.4. A pandemic in a country could be expected to have significant morbidity and
        mortality. For example, PI in the US could result in 20-35% of the population becoming
        ill, 3% being hospitalized, and 1% dying.
     3.2. Antiviral drug assumptions. Should pandemic influenza occur before vaccine is
     available, use of antiviral drugs may reduce the impact on military units.
     3.3. Vaccine assumptions.
        3.3.1. The Department of Defense (DOD) will use the same vaccine formulation as the
        US civilian population.
        3.3.2. The time between identification of a new strain and vaccine availability may be six
        to nine months.
     3.4. Operational assumptions.
        3.4.1. It is possible that medical response to an influenza pandemic will be required
        while military forces are simultaneously engaged in armed conflict.
        3.4.2. Should an influenza pandemic affect US forces during field operations, the
        number of ill, dying, and dead personnel would have a significant impact on force
        strength, perhaps causing curtailment of the operations. Opposing forces would be
        similarly affected.
        3.4.3. It is possible that entire aircrews could become ill simultaneously in flight.
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                      5


       3.4.4. Curtailing passenger air transportation completely might temporarily delay
       movement of influenza from one region to another, but the disease would probably arrive
       eventually.
       3.4.5. Restriction of movement between affected and unaffected areas may be helpful.
       3.4.6. In most instances, it would be best not to utilize air evacuation to transport patients
       with PI. However, if the patient must be moved, infection control procedures must be
       utilized.
4. Pandemic Influenza Progression.
   4.1. An influenza pandemic is expected to evolve in six phases. These phases have been
   identified and described by the World Health Organization (WHO) and U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services (DHHS). The predominant pandemic phase may vary by
   location and currently the world is in PI Phase 3. Responsibility for the declaration and
   notification of the identification of a progression of PI phases from Phase 3 to 6 will be as
   follows: Secretary, HHS, will notify the Secretary of Defense and the Assistant Secretary of
   Defense for Health Affairs who will, in turn, notify the Joint Staff and the Surgeons General.
   Unit commanders will be informed via command channels, augmented by reports in the news
   media.
   4.2. During each phase, DOD units and departments are expected to perform various PI
   preparatory tasks and procedures. These tasks may be found in the ASD(HA)’s 25 Jan 2006
   “Department of Defense Influenza Pandemic Preparation and Response Health Policy
   Guidance”.
5. Operational Priorities. Because current supplies of PI personal protective equipment (PPE)
and antiviral medications are either in short supply or not yet developed, ASD(HA) has set
priorities for distribution. A partial listing of the priorities includes the following:
   5.1. Maintaining the health and operational capability of the fighting force. This is
   accomplished through preventive methods and appropriate medical treatment.
   5.2. Air Operations. If crews have not been immunized, then antiviral drugs should be
   considered, or, if not available, consideration should be given to canceling flights from
   heavily affected areas. Air crew members without previously documented use of antiviral
   medications will require a 24 hour ground test period and follow-up before use in flight.
   Before use of antiviral medications, local Flight Surgeons must gain approval from the OSM
   Flight Commander and HQ AFSOC/SG or SGP. (T-1).

Section B—Pre-deployment PI Preparation.

6. Medical Surveillance.
   6.1. The goal of pre-deployment medical surveillance is to provide a comprehensive
   assessment of the potential of a pandemic influenza in the AOR or deployment location.
   This is done in order to provide an updated regional threat to the mission commander and
   SOF forces for mission planning.
   6.2. Regional threats will include the status of H5N1 in human as well as animal populations
   and more broadly, human seasonal influenza infection trends. Coordinate medical
 6                                                        AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


     intelligence with other DOD medical units deployed in contiguous areas of operations
     (AORs). OSM personnel should include a variety of intelligence sources such as: Armed
     Forces Medical Intelligence Center, World Health Organization, Centers for Disease Control
     and Prevention, Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy, and PandemicFlu.gov.
7. Medical preparedness. PI preparedness steps should at least include the following:
     7.1. Medical equipment, supplies, and medications. Planning should include identifying
     and procuring supplies of PPE, antibiotics to treat secondary infections, PI vaccines when
     available (a H5N1 vaccine has been developed and is currently undergoing clinical trials),
     and antiviral chemoprophylaxis (currently, oseltamivir and zanamivir are FDA approved for
     use in the treatment of uncomplicated influenza A & B viral infections). If pre-exposure
     prophylactic medication is used, it is important to note that the PI virus may either already
     have or quickly will develop resistance to the medication after it is initiated. Even if
     effective, the medication may decrease but will not likely totally eliminate the risk of
     infection. It is important that personnel continue to practice good influenza hygiene
     measures in addition to taking chemoprophylaxis. Because of limited antiviral supplies and
     the potential long duration of prophylaxis necessary, this strategy should be limited to the
     minimum number of essential personnel. It is optimal for all forces to receive the first dose
     of prophylaxis at least 48 hours before exposure; however, this may not be possible with SOF
     operations. (T-2).
     7.2. Education. Personnel must be educated on various aspects of PI to include recognition
     of disease, prevention and limiting spread, and virus characteristics. Ideally, education
     should be prepared in advance for each phase. Emphasis should be placed on personal
     hygiene: proper hand washing (warm water and soap for 15-20 sec) or hand sanitizer;
     covering coughs and sneezes. Personal must avoid visiting animal/bird markets and poultry
     farms. (T-2).
     7.3. Screening program. A screening process to be used during deployment to identify and
     separate influenza infected individuals from healthy individuals must be developed by the
     senior medic on site. The screening program will include current WHO case definitions for
     human H5N1 influenza infections. Currently, a suspected case of influenza would include a
     fever of at least 100.4 F (>38C) plus one of the following: sore throat, cough, or dyspnea.
     Additionally, during the past several years, humans infected with H5N1 infections have had
     abnormal chest radiographs and over half have had diarrhea. The official WHO case
     definitions include: Person under Investigation; Suspected H5N1 Case; Probable H5N1
     Case;      Confirmed       H5N1        Case     and      are     described     fully    at:
     http://www.who.int/csr/disease/avian_influenza/guidelines/case_definition2006_08_29/e
     n/index.html
     7.4. Laboratory. OSM medical personnel need to keep up with latest technology regarding
     influenza diagnostic tests. Rapid diagnostic tests have been developed that can detect
     influenza A and B viruses and can, in some of the tests, distinguish between the two.
     Additionally, a rapid test has been developed for use in certain U.S. laboratories that can
     detect influenza A, H5 infections. In many cases however, collection and shipment of
     influenza specimens may not be feasible under field conditions since specimens must be sent
     cooled or frozen and arrive at testing laboratory within a short period of time. Regardless of
     limitations above, OSM flights should identify the influenza testing capabilities of proximate
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  7


   U.S. or host nation laboratory assets that would be used when influenza testing is required in
   deployed setting.
   7.5. Patient tracking. A process to identify, track and report PI patients while deployed
   needs to be developed and implemented. OSMs must accomplish this and report results to
   HQ AFSOC/SG at least daily while deployed through medical situation reports (SITREPS)
   and operation reports (OPREPS) for those hospitalized.

Section C—Deployment PI Actions.

8. Medical Preparedness.
   8.1. OSM flights will need to have immediate access to antiviral medications and other
   medical supplies and equipment necessary for PI prevention and/or treatment. The minimum
   items are listed in attachment 3, “Pandemic Influenza Medical Supplies”. (T-2).
   8.2. Since antivirals may need to be given in an expedient manner in certain situations, it is
   essential that any approval for their use has either been done prior to the deployment or can
   be accomplished within 12 hours after the need has arisen during the deployment. OSM
   medical personnel must deploy with enough antiviral medications to treat at least 10 patients
   and prophylax the entire AFSOC population at risk (PAR). (T-2).
   8.3. A vaccine to immunize troops against a pandemic influenza virus will not be able to be
   developed until the specific viral strain has been isolated. Once isolated, it will take a
   minimum of 6-9 months before a vaccine can be developed.
9. Medical Surveillance. The OSM must continue an on-going surveillance program in the
AOR. The goal of surveillance will be to maintain an updated regional threat to the mission
commander and SOF forces for mission planning. The specific purpose of influenza surveillance
while deployed is to know what the pandemic influenza threat is to deployed forces on a
continuous basis. Regional threat will include the status of H5N1 in human as well as animal
populations and human seasonal influenza infection trends in the AOR. Coordinate medical
intelligence with other DOD medical units deployed in the AOR.
10. Operational Medical Decisions.
   10.1. If there is a significant PI risk in the AOR, the OSM medical commander will decide if
   personnel need to start prophylactic antiviral chemoprophylaxis. If the decision is yes,
   before prophylaxis is started, the OSM medical commander will receive concurrence from
   AFSOC/SG. If conditions warrant additional medical resources or personnel, the OSM
   medical commander will elevate requirements for these additional resources. Factors that
   may indicate a significant PI risk include: (T-2).
       10.1.1. Operations are being conducted in the immediate area where H5N1 is currently
       circulating among animal populations and causing human infections.
       10.1.2. Previous year surveillance revealed high risk of H5N1 in animal or humans in the
       AOR.
   10.2. If the PI situation in the AOR deteriorates while SOF are deployed (i.e., the PI
   situation progresses from phase 3 to phase 4 or 5) and personnel have not been prophylaxed,
 8                                                       AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


     post-exposure prophylaxis must be begun immediately. The prophylaxis should be given to
     the entire SOF PAR.
11. Medical Response. Limiting influenza exposure/infection and prompt patient isolation once
infected are important actions to mitigate results of an influenza outbreak. SOF operations may
still continue even in the beginning stages of an influenza pandemic; in light of this, the above
actions become even more important.
12. Medical Reporting.
     12.1. If the PI risk is determined to be significant for that deployment, OSM daily situation
     reports will include the following information with regard to the PI risk:
        12.1.1. Status of H5N1 (or other strain) infections in local animal/human populations;
        12.1.2. Roster of personnel given pre-exposure prophylaxis doses; and
        12.1.3. Total number of pre-exposure doses given.
        12.1.4. If there are influenza patients, a listing of all ill persons with names, dates
        infected, locations and dates recovered/died will be included.
     12.2. Reports. OSMs will submit all reports in accordance with applicable COCOM and
     other DoD/Joint directives. At a minimum, reporting will be to HQ AFSOC/SG and HQ
     AFSOC Battlestaff Director via daily SITREPs.
13. PI Phases 4-5 OSM Actions.
     13.1. WHO PI Phase 4 means that clusters of limited human-to-human transmission occur
     but the virus may not yet be highly adapted to humans, while phase 5 means the virus is
     becoming increasingly better adapted to humans and there is a substantial pandemic risk.
     13.2. If a deployment is occurring in an area that has been declared to be in a phase 4 or 5
     condition, OSM personnel must be cognizant of that fact and, in addition to steps outlined
     above, take the following additional following actions when deployed.
        13.2.1. An area set up to screen patients suspected of having PI; those patients found to
        be infected with PI will be masked and isolated. (T-2).
        13.2.2. A casualty collection point and treatment facility set up to receive and treat
        patients in place. PI infected patients, unless their medical condition demands movement,
        will be treated in place and not transported. In light of this, OSM personnel must deploy
        with adequate ventilatory support and Advanced Cardiac Life Support medications. (T-
        2).

Section D—Redeployment PI Procedures.

14. Medical Surveillance. Complete after action reports that include all aspects of the deployed
medical situation with regard to pandemic influenza need to be completed within 3 duty days
after redeployment.
15. Medical Preparedness. Resupply of all medications and supplies used during the
deployment should be accomplished as soon as possible after redeployment in order to be ready
for another deployment.
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                                                            9


Section E—Summary

16. Preparation. Preparation for the next pandemic influenza is occurring on many different
fronts, including COCOMs and military installations. Whenever expected, OSM flights should
follow applicable installation/COCOM preparation plans; however, during OSM deployments,
many of these plans will either not apply or will not cover situations OSM personnel may
encounter. This document is meant to address some of those issues.




                                          PAUL F. MARTIN, Colonel, USAF, MSC, FACHE
                                          Command Surgeon
 10                                                  AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
ASD(HA) Memorandum, 25 January 2006, “Department of Defense Influenza Pandemic
Preparation and Response Health Policy Guidance”
CDRUSEUCOM CONPLAN 4690-06 Draft, 31 March 2006, “USEUCOM Preparation and
Response for Pandemic Influenza”
DHHS, November 2005, “HHS Pandemic Influenza Plan”
DoD, 21 March 2006 Memorandum, “Interim Guidance for Protecting DoD Personnel Involved
in Avian Influenza Disease Eradication Activities”
Homeland Security Council, May 2006, “National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza,
Implementation Plan”
Homeland Security Council, November 2005, “National Strategy for Pandemic Influenza”
USD(P&R) Memorandum, 10 January 2006, “Policy for Release of Tamiflu (Oseltamivir)
Antiviral Stockpile During an Influenza Pandemic”
USPACOMINST 0507.1, 24 August 2005, “Pandemic Influenza (PI) Preparation Response and
Planning Guidance”
WHO, 29 August 2006, “Case definitions for human infections with influenza A(H5N1) virus”,
located at:
http://www.who.int/csr/disease/avian_influenza/guidelines/case_definition2006_08_29/en/in
dex.html

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AI—Avian Influenza
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
AFSOF—Air Force Special Operations Forces
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ASD(HA)—Assistant Secretary of Defense, Health Affairs
CC—Commander
COCOM—Combatant Commands
CONPLAN—Contingency Plan
CDRUSEUCOM—Commander, US European Command
DOD—Department of Defense
DHHS—US Department of Health and Human Services
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                                    11


MTF—Military Treatment Facility
OSM—Operations Support Medical
OPREPS—Operation Reports
PAR—Population at Risk
PI—Pandemic Influenza
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RNA—Ribonucleic acid
SOG—Special Operations Group
SG—Surgeon General
SITREPS—Situation Reports
SOF—Special Operations Forces
USD(P&R)—Undersecretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness
USPACOMINST—US Pacific Command Instruction
USSOCOM—US Special Operations Command
WHO—World Health Organization
 12                                                      AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


                                         Attachment 2
PANDEMIC INFLUENZA (PI) ACTION PLAN CHECKLIST FOR AFSOC OSM UNITS

Because of mission needs, AFSOC OSM flights must be prepared to deal with PI situations that
occur in their AOR. This checklist is intended as an aid to be used by the AFSOC OSM flights
in order to develop PI contingency plans that they will use while at home station and when
deployed.

The World Health Organization and CDC have established pandemic planning guidelines and the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs and the Combatant Commands have
established additional military specific requirements. This checklist is a distillate of many
international, national, state, military, and commercial health care plans and checklists.

Pandemic response plans are essential preparative actions. They should provide guidance for
appropriate, effective, and graded responses throughout the various phases of a pandemic.
However, the plans must also be flexible. Although extensive international studies have recently
revealed a great deal of new information about influenza, the actual transmission and disease
characteristics of the next influenza pandemic viral strain are conjectural. Limitations to this
knowledge require that assumptions be made based on characteristics of seasonal influenza.
These assumptions may be accurate, but it is to be expected that they will be revised over time as
more is learned about influenza. Therefore, expect recommendations of civilian and military
authorities to change frequently prior to and during a pandemic. Those changes will require
revisions in federal plans that will, in turn, drive changes in base plans.

Pandemic influenza plans must be thoroughly tested. Activities related to the routine epidemics
from seasonal influenza such as mass immunizations, quarters authorizations, staff absenteeism,
and increased patient loads may provide opportunities to test specific details of the plan.
However, the scenario of seasonal influenza is unlikely to adequately test the actual capabilities
and limitations of the base response plan. It is recommended that pandemic plans be tested to the
point of failure in order to determine what changes are necessary.
 Planning and Coordination                  Completed      In Progress   Not Started
 One person is identified as the OSM’s PI
 response coordinator. This individual
 will be responsible for the OSM’s
 pandemic influenza preparation planning
 and ensure that various tasks on this
 checklist are being addressed. The
 person will also be responsible for
 collaborating with various other
 pandemic influenza planning groups.
 The OSM has developed a PI
 preparation plan. Accountabilities,
 responsibilities and resources for key
 stakeholders are delineated in the plan.
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                                                      13


Planning and Coordination                  Completed   In Progress   Not Started
A. BACKGROUND STRUCTURE
FOR DECISION MAKING:
All essential individuals are familiar
with: “Department of Defense
Influenza Pandemic Preparation and
Response Health Policy Guidance”, 25
January 2006
http://www.vaccines.mil/documents/886
PandemicFluPolicy.pdf
All OSM medical providers and
planners (including MDs, PAs, IDMTs,
MSCs and Public Health personnel) are
familiar with national and HHS
pandemic plans and where they can be
located.
http://www.pandemicflu.gov/plan/tab1.h
tml

The US state PI plans can be found:
http://www.pandemicflu.gov/plan/statep
lans.html
Planning includes interfacing with local
US military health authorities and where
practical, local national health
authorities to establish or confirm
organizational structures, reporting
procedures and requirements, points-of-
contact. Identify the health authorities
who will be involved in a PI situation
and where practical, get to know them.
Above considerations also apply when
personnel deploy to other countries; in
these situations, U.S. State Department
personnel located at the country’s U.S.
embassy or consulate need to be
included in PI planning issues.
14                                                        AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


Planning and Coordination                     Completed    In Progress   Not Started
Understand what the local US military
Installation Commander’s authority and
responsibilities are for declaring a public
health emergency and activating the
Base Pandemic Influenza Response Plan
where applicable. AFI_10-2603,
paragraph 2.3
Decision thresholds to implement
Emergency Health Powers are
established and can be found at:
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corre
s/pdf/d62003_051203/d62003p.pdf
http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/10/afi10-
2603/afi10-2603.pdf
Identify the local US military
installation authorities responsible for
executing the base pandemic plan, to
include: PHEO, Legal, PHO, Force
Protection, Public Affairs, BEE,
Laboratory, Services Rep – including
Mortuary Affairs, Wing Rep - for flying
squadrons, Security Forces,
Commander’s staff, and others as
needed.
A US military installation PI preparation
working group should be established and
if so, OSM personnel should become
familiar with the working group and
attend meetings as appropriate.
Each organization has a plan that is
annexed to the wing plan
Planning and Coordination                     Completed    In Progress   Not Started
B. OSM PI PLANS
OSM has developed a unit PI plan.
Plans are tested regularly with exercises.
PI planning exercises are outlined in
AFI 10-2603, Attachment 4, accessed at:
http://www.e-
publishing.af.mil/pubfiles/af/ 10/afi10-
2603/afi10-2603.pdf
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                 15



1. Communications
Contact roster for local US military and
state department key decision making
personnel, including phone numbers to
include cell phone numbers, FAX
numbers, and e-mail addresses are
current.
Military health contact names, titles,
physical office addresses and other
pertinent information is available.
Contact information for local civilian
and military health care facilities,
emergency services, police, and
laboratories with which you anticipate
necessary communication and
coordination throughout a pandemic is
available. The list includes services
provided/ sample testing
capabilities/isolation capabilities/
constraints in the civilian hospitals, etc.
Alternative communications tools (2-
ways radios, beeper, cell phones, VPN,
runners, commanders access television
channel, etc.) are available.
OSM personnel are aware of the basic
tenets of risk communication. Advice
on risk communication is found at:
http://www.who.int/csr/resources/public
ations/WHO_CDS_2005_32/en/index.ht
ml
2. Education Plan
Education on infection control measures
to prevent the spread of pandemic
influenza is included in the OSM PI
plan.
16                                           AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013



3. Surveillance Plan
Responsibilities for monitoring public
health advisories (WHO, DoD, AF,
DoD, US) and informing command are
assigned. The PI response coordinator is
aware of where H5N1 and other
potential PI virus strains are currently
occurring in the world in both animal
and human populations. This can be
found at:
http://gamapserver.who.int/mapLibrary/
app/searchResults.aspx
The coordinator is aware of the current
state of PI status according to the WHO
guidelines. This is found at:
http://www.who.int/csr/disease/avian_in
fluenza/phase/en/index.html
While deployed, the OSM has
established a system to monitor and
review inﬂuenza activity in clinic patient
populations (i.e., weekly or daily
number of patients calling or presenting
to the clinic with inﬂuenza-like illness).
These data are sent to theater medical
SOF command as well as HQ
AFSOC/SG. A mechanism to report
unusual cases of inﬂuenza-like illnesses
and inﬂuenza to appropriate military
medical commands has been established.
While deployed and where applicable,
laboratory systems are monitored for
positive influenza results and are
reported to Air Force Institute for
Operational Health (AFIOH) per
established protocols.
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                17


An Armed Forces Medical Intelligence
Center (AFMIC) account has been
obtained to keep apprised of pandemic
influenza threat, international events and
helpful planning documents. AFMIC
url is :
http://www.afmic.detrick.army.mil




4. Triage and Patient Processing
Patient care management plans at
various levels of local pandemic activity
are developed. Included in the plan are
the following possibilities:
        • Temporarily canceling non-
        essential medical visits (e.g.,
        annual physicals, elective
        procedures)
        • Designating separate blocks of
        time for non-influenza and
        influenza-related patient care.
        • Address “sick-at-home care”
        such as frequency of contact with
        patient and at what level, (nurse,
        tech, patient’s supervisor.
        • Address legal aspects of
        standard of care versus sufficient
        care during a contagious disease
        outbreak.
Plans and criteria for the
disposition/referral of patients following
a medical evaluation (e.g.,
hospitalization, home health care
services, self- or family-based care at
home) have been discussed with local
hospitals, health care agencies, and
health departments.
18                                             AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


Patient assessment, patient flow, and
isolation of those with possible
pandemic influenza procedures are
developed.
5. Infection Control Procedures
OSM personnel can describe first line
health defenses for protection against PI
(cough etiquette, hand washing, other
personal hygiene and social distancing
measures).
Infection control supplies (e.g., hand
washing stations, alcohol-based hand
sanitizers, soap, paper towels, facial
tissues, disposal containers, etc.) are
available for use in garrison and
deployed settings.
The plan includes designated locations
and/or processes for handling patients
with influenza symptoms that segregate
ill patients from other patients awaiting
care. Surgical masks, facial tissues, and
other supplies for symptomatic patient
use are available.
Separate exam rooms are designated for
the examination of patients with
influenza-like-illnesses.
Procedures are in place for OSM to
secure an adequate supply of mass
prophylaxis and countermeasures
(vaccines, anti-virals, PPE). These
items are expected to be taken when the
unit deploys to an area where H5N1 or
other potential PI viral strain is currently
located. Currently, this consists of the
following items:
     Enough masks (N-95 equivalent and
surgical masks) should be taken on
deployments to use for all OSM
personnel for 20 days.
     Anti-virals currently include
Tamiflu; enough Tamiflu should be
taken to start and maintain prophylaxis
of OSM PAR for 20 days.
PPE: disposable gowns and gloves for
OSM personnel for 20 days.
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                19


Policies for transporting the ill or
deceased are established. See AFMIC
Note DI 1812-1105, 03 March 2006,
“Bodies of Dead H5N1 Avian Influenza
Patients Pose Minimal Risk for Virus
Spread” at
http://www.afmic.detrick.army.mil
WHO and CDC recommendations for
use and wear of surgical masks and
respirators are reviewed. WHO site:
www.who.int/csr/resources/publications/
influenza/Mask%20Clarification10_11.p
df
Protocols are established for quarantine,
isolation, flexible work schedules,
absenteeism, return to duty after illness,
etc. Triggers for implementation and
termination of the protocols are
established.
6. Vaccine and Antiviral Use Plan
Current federal and/or US military
recommendations for the use and
availability of pandemic influenza
vaccines and antiviral medications are
known. Local US military installation
Point of Dispensing (POD) plan for
distribution of Strategic National
Stockpile (SNS) assets is known. OSM
personnel are familiar with DHHS
vaccine distribution plan at:
www.hhs.gov/pandemicflu/plan/sup6.ht
ml
Estimates of the numbers of personnel
who would be targeted and their
priorities for receipt of pandemic
influenza vaccine or antiviral
prophylaxis has been developed for use
before deploying to an area with H5N1
identified in animal/human populations
in the local area. Mission essential
individuals are identified.
Assessment of Tamiflu, Relenza, and
other antiviral requirements, stockpiles
and processes for re-supply have been
determined.
20                                            AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


A mechanism to maintain a log of
previously ill persons who have
recovered and presumed immune to the
current strain of infection is established.
Tracking systems to evaluate efficacy
and adverse effects of vaccines and
antivirals have been developed.
7. Occupational health plan
Mission essential personnel contact
roster is up-to-date and readily available.
OSM personnel have access to AFCITA
for administration and tracking
pandemic influenza vaccinations.
Protocols are established for disposition
of symptomatic personnel before they
report for duty. These protocols have
been field tested in exercises in pre-
pandemic settings.
Contacts are established for US military
Life Skills, mental health and faith-
based resources that could provide
counseling and other services during a
PI situation.
8. Medical Surge Capacity Plan
Plans address management of staffing
shortages due to illness in personnel or
their family members.
Staff member family-care plans address
actions to take when community
containment measures (e.g., “snow
days,” school closures) are
implemented.
MOUs are established with local US
military hospitals and clinics. These
documents include local bed status
coordination procedures.
Estimates of consumable resource
requirements (e.g., masks, gloves, hand
hygiene products, medical supplies) are
established. Reserve supplies sufficient
for at least two weeks of operation is
available.
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                                                        21


Primary and contingency plans address
supply shortages. Procedures for
acquisition of supplies through normal
channels as well as alternate sources are
addressed.
9. H5N1 Surveillance in Animal
Populations
OSM personnel assess AFMIC/WHO
and /or FAO sources for recent H5N1
activity in animal populations in
deployed areas.
Planning and Coordination                    Completed   In Progress   Not Started
C. DECISION POINTS
Thresholds for social distancing
measures and/or restriction of movement
are pre-determined. Example: Illness in
3% of the local population at risk (PAR)
results in cancellation of non-essential
meetings. National estimates include 35-
40 % work and school absenteeism due
to fear of disease and illness of
individuals or their family members
during the peak of the pandemic waves.
Policies address protocols for
individuals to stay home, come to work,
and leave work when they are healthy
and ill.
Protocols for leave policies during the
pandemic are established.
Examples include: workers who are
exposed, but not symptomatic; members
exposed to pandemic influenza while on
leave returning to work in an area
currently free of disease; criteria for
quarters authorizations.
Alternate facilities for medical treatment
of respiratory illnesses are determined.
Adequate waiting and examination
rooms, medical supplies, hand washing
and toilet facilities, ventilation, and
hazardous waste disposal are available.
Thresholds for use of the alternate
facility are established.
Protocols to establish case definition are
in place. These include how, when, and
by whom the case definition is
22                                                   AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


determined. Prepare to alter this
periodically during the pandemic. Lab
support will be insufficient to test
everyone who is symptomatic. The case
definition will need to be primarily
syndromic during the pandemic waves.
Procedures are available to estimate
attack and death rates. A possible
choice for the calculation is found at:
http://www2.cdc.gov/od/fluaid/default.ht
m
Procedures and locations to monitor
non-hospitalized individuals with upper
respiratory infections are developed.
Force Protection measures and
thresholds for initiating and terminating
the measures are established.
Vaccination and treatment decision trees
and practice guidelines are established.
Plans for rationing scarce resources, e.g.,
antivirals, vaccines, and ventilators are
written. Local legal counsel and ethics
committee members are involved in
decisions.
Procedures for receiving and the
treatment of individuals who become ill
in-flight are established.
                                                     Complete   In         Not
Planning and Coordination
                                                     d          Progress   Started
D. DOD REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Processes and contacts for DOD pandemic influenza
reporting are established.
Procedures to track and provide frequent
epidemiologic data, e.g., number infected,
hospitalized, and deaths are established. Casualty
Affairs, Mortuary Affairs, Patient Administration,
local medical examiner and funeral directors are
aware of and will cooperate with MTF reporting
requirements.
Senior leader reporting requirements and limiting
factors are established.
Protocols are in place to send lab specimens and
patient questionnaire to AFIOH promptly after
collections.
https://afiera.brooks.af.mil/pestilence/
AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013                           23



Protocols for investigation of possible cases are
established.
Requirements to report deaths, hospitalizations,
acute care and ICU bed availability, number of
pandemic influenza cases, doses of vaccine and
antiviral medications, ventilators and supplies
available, and medical staff health status daily by
2400 ZULU through your chain of command are
expected. (Format may be in the form of the
MEDRED-C but the requirement will likely require
civilian and military involvement nation-wide.)
Local reporting protocols and mechanisms should be
established that will include military members and
dependents treated in civilian healthcare facilities.
Plans for reconstitution of base and health care
operations post-pandemic and between pandemic
waves are established.
 24                                                       AFSOCI48-102 16 FEBRUARY 2013


                                          Attachment 3
                      PANDEMIC INFLUENZA MEDICAL SUPPLIES

The following items will be procured as part of the PI medical supply package.
PPE: Deploy with enough equipment and supplies for up to 20 days.

N-95 masks (a minimum of 1 per healthcare worker per day),
Protective gowns (a minimum 1 per healthcare worker per day),
Goggles (1 per healthcare worker),
Gloves (1 per healthcare worker per patient visit), and
Surgical masks (1 for each screened patient);
Disinfectants (many different disinfectants are effective against influenza. The disinfectant used
should be inexpensive and approved for us on aircraft surfaces and interiors)
Hand sanitizer – quantity sufficient for all OSM personnel to apply several times per day and
before and after each patient encounter.
Biohazard bags - quantity sufficient for anticipated medical waste.

Chemprophylaxis: Deploy with enough of the following medications to provide
prophylaxis/treatment of OSM personnel and/or PAR for up to 20 days.

Antivirals

Tamiflu (Oseltamivir ) In addition to prophylaxis, Tamiflu will be used to treat no less than 10
patients.

Relenza (Zananavir) (this is optional but should be considered – Relenza is currently being
stockpiled by USG for its neurominidase activity but it is not as convenient to administer since it
is an inhaler)

Antibiotics (broad spectrum to treat secondary pneumonias)
