BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS
AIR FORCE SPECIAL OPERATIONS                             COMMAND INSTRUCTION 11-102
COMMAND
                                                                          4 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                            Flying Operations

                                                                 FLYING HOUR PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil/.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ AFSOC/A3TR                                                  Certified by: AFSOC/A3T
                                                                        (Col Glenn E. Palmer)
Supersedes:   AFSOCI11-102,                                                         Pages: 26
              1 March 2006


This instruction implements policy and guidance in Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 11-1,
Flying-Hour Program and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 11-101, Management Reports on the
Flying Hour Program. It governs the Air Force Special Operations Command (AFSOC) flying
hour program development, submission, management, and reporting. It applies to all AFSOC
units and subordinate units to which aircraft are assigned. This instruction applies to the Air
National Guard (ANG). This instruction applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC).
Subordinate units may supplement this instruction in accordance with (IAW) Paragraph 9.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to AFSOC/A3TR, 100 Bartley
St., Suite 160W, Hurlburt Field, FL 32544, using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include redefining the definition of the Flying Hour Program which now consists of three
separate components (Paragraph 2.1). Appointment of the AVUM (Paragraph 8.5 and
Attachment 6). Reduction of Flying Hour Program adjustment periods from quarterly to twice
per fiscal year (Paragraph 15.2). Reporting CLS and SIM hours (Paragraph 16.1.2).
 2                                                                                AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


Categorization of the annual execution plan (Attachment 2). Summarization of monthly
deviations reported (Paragraph 17.2 and Attachment 3). Inclusion of the flying hour report
suspense chart (Attachment 5). Inclusion of the Large Wing allocation adjustment request
(Attachment 7). Tier requirements have been annotated and are defined in Paragraph 1.4.

      1.     Objectives. .............................................................................................................    3
      2.     Flying Hour Program. ............................................................................................            3
      3.     UTE Rate Development. ........................................................................................               4
      4.     Maintenance Capability. ........................................................................................             5
      5.     Airframe Capability. ..............................................................................................          5
      6.     Scheduled Spare Concept. .....................................................................................               6
      7.     Year-End Closeout. ................................................................................................          6
      8.     Roles and Responsibilities: ....................................................................................             6
      9.     Supplements. ..........................................................................................................      9
      10.    Initial PA and SIM Program Submissions. ............................................................                         9
      11.    Annual Planning. ...................................................................................................         9
      12.    Quarterly Plan. .......................................................................................................     10
      13.    Monthly Planning. .................................................................................................         11
      14.    Weekly Schedule. ..................................................................................................         11
      15.    Adjustment/Program Changes during Execution Year. .........................................                                 12
      16.    Flying Hour Reporting. ..........................................................................................           12
      17.    Flying Hour Deviation Report. ..............................................................................                13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           14

Attachment 2—ANNUAL EXECUTION PLAN EXAMPLE                                                                                               19

Attachment 3—MONTHLY FLYING HOUR DEVIATION REPORT EXAMPLE                                                                                20

Attachment 4—REQUEST FOR FLYING HOUR PROGRAM ALLOCATION
             ADJUSTMENT EXAMPLE                                                                                                          21

Attachment 5—SUSPENSE CHART                                                                                                              22

Attachment 6—AVUM APPOINTMENT EXAMPLE                                                                                                    24

Attachment 7—REQUEST FOR FLYING HOUR PROGRAM ALLOCATION
             ADJUSTMENT, LARGE WINGS WITH 3 OR MORE AIRCRAFT
             (SUMMARY MEMORANDUM EXAMPLE)                                                                                                25
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  3


1. Objectives. Per AFPD 11-1, AFSOC Wings and Groups will plan the FHP based on
peacetime, home station training requirements, and execute approved FHP to the maximum
extent possible. HQ AFSOC will allocate resources to support the approved FHP. (T-2)
   1.1. The mission is to conduct high quality Special Operations Forces (SOF) training and
   maintain high aircraft mission capability rate. However, staying as close to the programming
   factors as possible while maintaining SOF mission flexibility is a necessary part of fleet
   management and programmed allocation (PA) accomplishment. (T-2)
   1.2. While it is a planning goal to zero out the annual Flying Hour Program (FHP) by
   meeting programming factors, it is not the mission. This instruction provides the flexibility
   to meet mission objectives through effective SOF flying and maintenance planning. (T-2)
   1.3. SOF flying hour requirements are met by developing and executing plans that ensure
   annual utilization (UTE) rates are met as matched against operational and training
   requirements. Each wing/group is provided with all known factors needed to meet the
   required UTE rate as portrayed in the AFSOC Flying Hour PA. (T-2)
   1.4. . Tier requirements refer to waiver authority based on level of risk.
      1.4.1. “Tier 0” (T-0) requirements are reserved for requirements that non-compliance is
      determined and waived by respective non-Air Force authority.
      1.4.2. “Tier 1” (T-1) requirements are reserved for requirements that non-compliance
      may put airman, mission, or program strongly at risk, and may only be waived by the
      MAJCOM/CC or delegate with concurrence of publication approver. When multiple
      MAJCOMs are affected, then T-1 is appropriate.
      1.4.3. “Tier 2” (T-2) requirements are reserved for requirements that potentially put the
      mission at risk or potentially degrade the mission or program, and may only be waived by
      the MAJCOM/CC or delegate.
      1.4.4. “Tier 3” (T-3) requirements are reserved for requirements that non-compliance
      has a remote risk of mission failure, and may be waived by the Wing/CC but no lower
      than the OG/CC.
2. Flying Hour Program.
   2.1. The AFSOC Flying Hour Program consists of three components: The PA FHP, SIM
   FHP, and CLS FHP. The flying hour program primarily referred to in this instruction is the
   Program Allocation (PA) FHP unless otherwise specified. (T-2)
      2.1.1. The Programmed Allocation (PA) FHP consists of hours planned and executed by
      AFSOC variants of the C-130 and the CV-22. (T-2)
      2.1.2. The Simulator (SIM) FHP refers to hours planned and executed in AFSOC-funded
      and approved Aircrew Training Devices (ATD). The SIM FHP applies to units with
      simulator certification letters and access to SIMs both on and off station. Though
      managed separately, the SIM FHP compliments the PA FHP for maintaining proficiency.
      The SIM FHP is to be managed in the same manner as the PA FHP. (T-2)
      2.1.3. The Contract Logistic Support (CLS) FHP applies to nonstandard aerial vehicles
      (NSAv) and remotely piloted aircraft (RPA). Though the CLS FHP is bound by
 4                                                        AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


        independent contracts for each NSAv and RPA respectively, executed hours are to be
        reported in the same manner as the PA and SIM FHPs. (T-2)
        2.1.4. The AFSOC FHP ensures sufficient flying hours are available to satisfy annual
        currency and formal training, maintenance, and operational test requirements. (T-2)
     2.2. The development of the FHP begins well in advance of the execution year and
     necessitates accurate forecasting of future requirements. Future command flying hour
     requirements are incorporated into the USAF and USSOCOM Program Objective
     Memorandums (POM) and are included in the USAF Program Document, Aerospace
     Vehicles and Flying Hours (PA). (T-2)
     2.3. Unit Flying Hour Allocations are derived from a combination of factors to include
     mission tasking, aircrew training requirements, unit equipment, alert commitment, aircrew
     ratio, staff requirements, maintenance capabilities, etc. Flying hour goals are cumulative
     values to be achieved by the end of the fiscal year. The planning and execution of individual
     monthly programs toward this yearly goal is a unit responsibility. The annual flying hour
     allocation will not be under-flown or over-flown without HQ AFSOC/A3 approval through
     the adjustment process. (T-2)
3. UTE Rate Development.
     3.1. AFSOC’s request and USSOCOM’s authorization for flying hours factor in training
     requirements to maintain aircrew currency. Therefore, IAW AFI 21-101 Aircraft and
     Equipment Maintenance Management, the standard monthly UTE rate formula is: Number
     of hours per month divided by number of PAI aircraft. (T-2)
     3.2. Capability Calculations. Capability calculations determine the approximate maximum
     daily sustained sortie load a unit should normally support to achieve a reasonable balance
     between operations, training, and maintenance requirements. The operational planning cycle
     begins with the annual allocation of flying hours and UTE rates. Maintenance schedulers
     should understand operational needs to determine supportability and operations schedulers
     should consider maintenance capabilities. The annual plan should be coordinated and
     consolidated by OSS Current Operations. The plan should be approved by the SOG, MXG
     and WG commanders. Commanders must recognize that these calculations are only
     approximations; judgment must be relied upon to determine if maintenance or operations
     capabilities will be exceeded. To ensure the health of the fleet, the MXG/CC must ensure
     schedules are developed IAW AFSOCI 21-165 that allow sufficient time to provide for
     maintenance training and the performance of scheduled and unscheduled maintenance tasks.
     (T-2)
     3.3. Assignment of Flying Hours and Utilization Requirements. HQ AFSOC/A3TR
     allocates flying hours based off programmed flying training (PFT) requirements and
     continuation training (CT) requirements, with regard to total hours approved by USSOCOM.
     Units develop and execute monthly plans to accomplish training requirements based upon
     hours allocated. The annual plan is a contract between the HQ AFSOC/A3 and the
     wing/group commanders. (T-2)
Note: Only PAI aircraft earn Cost Per Flying Hour (CPFH) monies and personnel. Backup
Aircraft Inventory (BAI), attrition reserve and “excess” aircraft do not earn CPFH monies or
personnel, thus, the use of aircraft over and above authorized PAI to execute the annual flying
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                     5


hour program could incur un-programmed additional costs. Contractual organizations determine
their manpower requirements based on contract requirements. (T-2)
   3.4. Wing/Group/Squadron Coordination. Coordination takes place at multiple levels of the
   organization through the annual, quarterly, monthly and weekly planning and scheduling
   process. Through these processes commanders ensure the distribution of sorties and hours to
   meet training and support flying requirements while flying assigned aircraft as close to the
   annual flying plan as possible. Proper coordination is essential to ensure resources are
   available to support flying requirements and to adjust future plans. Wing/groups will use
   procedures outlined in this OI for coordinating and reporting flying hours to HQ
   AFSOC/A3TR. (T-2)
   3.5. Monthly UTE Rate. A monthly UTE rate is a unit's sortie or hourly requirement for a
   given month. The UTE rate supports and matches the event calendar required to maintain
   aircrew proficiency and qualification needs and aids in keeping a unit within its projected
   maintenance and operational capability. Note: The monthly UTE does not include aircrew
   and aircraft attrition. The monthly UTE rate is derived from the monthly portion of the
   wing/group's annual flying plan and incorporates the wing/group's programmed SOF
   missions, flying training and maintenance support. (T-1)
   3.6. The monthly plan is a contract between the wing/group commander and wing/group
   personnel ensuring the annual flying hour allocation and UTE rates are met. SOF
   commanders should minimize deviating from the monthly flying contract while at the same
   time maintaining flexibility. (T-2)
   3.7. Units may re-flow the monthly UTE rate during the active month to accommodate for
   an increase or decrease in requirements levied by higher headquarters or to account for
   emergencies e.g., weather evacuations and contingencies. (T-2)
   3.8. Monthly planning and execution goals are defined as “plan what to fly and fly what you
   plan." There may be instances where local training or mission requirements dictate deviating
   from the monthly programmed utilization after the monthly plan is complete. (T-2)
4. Maintenance Capability. Usually, aircraft availability is the main element in determining
maintenance capability. However, there are instances when limiting factors override aircraft
availability. For example, crew chief or technician availability or training shortfalls may limit
sortie production below aircraft capability. Maintenance determines their maximum supportable
flying hours for the next fiscal year using the flying hour model. This model looks at airframe,
personnel and facility capabilities, and the limiting variable’s supporting hours that are provided
through the MXG/CC to DO to be used in determining next year’s FHP. (T-2)
5. Airframe Capability. The purpose of computing airframe capability is to determine how
many flying hours and sorties are supportable while maintaining both scheduled and unscheduled
maintenance. When computing airframe capabilities, use only the number of PAI aircraft
assigned in your calculations. For further guidance refer to AFSOCI 21-165, Maintenance
Metrics Algorithms. (T-2)
   5.1. In order to maintain a healthy fleet, as well as developing sound flying schedules which
   meet the needs of maintenance and operations, care must be taken to ensure the correct
   percentage of Mission Capable (MC) PAI are committed to the flying schedule. Over-
   committal can be detrimental to the overall health of the fleet, causing a proportional
 6                                                        AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


     decreased MC rate and a decrease in average fleet time. Maintenance and operations must
     agree to limit the percent of MC PAI committed to the schedule. This number should be
     sufficient to meet the needs of the wing/group’s annual UTE plan without jeopardizing its
     maintenance capability. Scheduling more than the recommended percent of MC aircraft will
     adversely impact health and ultimately make the flying program tasking not executable.
     While deviations will occur throughout the year, large deviations from the recommended
     base line percentages are not encouraged as they will significantly impact your ability to
     successfully manage the flow of aircraft into scheduled maintenance and your capability to
     fix higher than expected unscheduled breaks. (T-2)
     5.2. Operations Capability. Operations capability may be a limiting factor when computing
     scheduling requirements. Simply stated, operations capability is the maximum number of
     sorties that can be generated with qualified crewmembers in the number of hours for a given
     daily flying window, consistent with SOF operational constraints. (T-2)
     5.3. Ensure realistic schedules are developed and meet training objectives without
     jeopardizing fleet health. (T-3)
6. Scheduled Spare Concept. Under this concept, a percentage of first-go launches are
provided spare aircraft to avoid non-deliveries. Analysis computes spare aircraft factors based
on historical first sortie logistical losses from previous or similar flying months or weeks and
provides this information to the maintenance scheduler for use in computing spare requirements
for future schedules. This methodology provides the minimum spare requirement. Additional
spares are authorized to support higher headquarters taskings and special missions if required by
the tasking. Like attrition, the spare rate is a guide for planners to use in the execution of the
flying schedule with minimum disruption. Prioritize spare configurations since a spare cannot
substitute every line on the schedule. For attritions, spares and deviations refer to
AFSOCI 21165, Maintenance Metrics Algorithms. (T-2)
7. Year-End Closeout. The goal is to complete the annual flying hour program by flying
allocated hours prior to the end of the fiscal year. Stay as close to programmed UTE as possible
without degrading mission accomplishment or mismanaging resources.                  Wing/group
commanders may selectively cancel scheduled sorties to manage the end-of-the-year flying hour
closeout (last 15 O&M days of the fiscal year). This provision assists wing/groups in gradually
closing out flying without creating “Hangar Queens”, unintentionally exceeding the UTE rate, or
accumulating unwarranted chargeable scheduling deviations. (T-2)
8. Roles and Responsibilities: Any Wing, Operations Group or Maintenance Commander
responsibility identified within this instruction may be delegated unless otherwise stated. (T-3)
     8.1. HQ AFSOC/A3TR.
        8.1.1. Manage the current fiscal year PA and SIM flying hour programs. (T-2)
        8.1.2. Manage PA FHP and SIM allocations for the upcoming fiscal year. (T-2)
            8.1.2.1. With coordination through HQ AFSOC/A3TS, manage SIM allocations for
            the upcoming fiscal year. (T-2)
            8.1.2.2. Receive inputs from units, flying hour model, and the PA flying hour budget
            from USSOCOM. (T-2)
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                7


        8.1.2.3. Coordinate with HQ AFSOC/FM, HQ AFSOC/A4, and HQ AFSOC/A8 on
        determining PA flying hour allocation, finalizing with HQ AFSOC/A3 approval. (T-
        2)
        8.1.2.4. Monitor the execution of the current fiscal year CLS flying hour program.
        (T-2)
        8.1.2.5. Send recommended flying hour information to HQ AFSOC/FM who
        forwards to USSOCOM. (T-2)
     8.1.3. Provide recommended flying hour information to USSOCOM in accordance with
     AFI 11101. (T-2)
     8.1.4. Monitor individual unit flying hour accomplishments on a monthly basis. (T-1)
     8.1.5. Coordinate all flying hour program change requests for HQ AFSOC/A3 approval.
     (T-1)
     8.1.6. Manage AFSOC mission symbols. With HQ USAF/A3O-AIF coordination,
     provide mission symbols for contingencies to the wings/groups/units via message. (T-1)
     8.1.7. Act as AFSOC Aerospace Vehicle Utilization Monitor (AVUM). AFSOC/AVUM
     will accomplish duties as outlined in AFI 21-103 and AFSOC supplements. (T-2)
  8.2. Wing/Group Commanders.
     8.2.1. Wing/group commanders are responsible for UTE rate management.
     Commanders will approve and forward the wing/group's annual UTE plan and/or any
     monthly reprograms of the approved annual flying plan to AFSOC/A3TR. (T-2)
        8.2.1.1. Submit annual flying hour program requirements in accordance with
        Paragraph 10.2. (T-2)
        8.2.1.2. Submit monthly flying hour deviation reports in accordance with Paragraph
        16.2 & Attachment 3. (T-2)
        8.2.1.3. Operations group commander will appoint a primary and alternate Aerospace
        Vehicle Utilization Monitor within the Current Operations Section in writing as
        outlined in AFI 21-103 and AFSOC supplements using the template provided in
        Attachment 6. (T-2)
  8.3. Operations Support Squadron (OSS) Current Operations & Scheduling Flights.
     8.3.1. Submit annual flying hour program requirements in accordance with paragraph
     10.3 and adjustments in accordance with paragraph 15. (T-2)
     8.3.2. Submit monthly flying hour deviation reports in accordance with Paragraph 17.2
     & Attachment 3. (T-2)
     8.3.3. Ensure the flying unit schedulers include the proper mission symbols for each
     scheduled line on the daily schedule. (T-1)
     8.3.4. Serve as the Wing/Group level approving official for the authorization of squadron
     level flying hour reporting procedures. (T-2)
     8.3.5. Validate unit’s monthly CLS hours prior to submission to HQ AFSOC/A3TR. (T-
     2)
8                                                       AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


       8.3.6. Mission symbols will be formatted IAW AFI 11-401, Aviation Management and
       AFI 11401, AFSOCSUP, Aviation Management. Mission symbol letter will be
       coordinated between the AVUM and Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer (AVDO) to
       ensure Aircraft Utilization Codes (AUC) within the Maintenance Information System
       (MIS) match operations mission symbols after updates are accomplished in the REMIS
       and EIMSURS databases. (T-2)
       8.3.7. Monitor, by unit, the wing/group's progress toward planned monthly and annual
       UTE rates and flying hour program attainment. (T-2)
       8.3.8. Current Operations flight will ensure that the primary and alternate AVUMs have
       completed the Flying Hours Reconciliation training module in ADLS prior to beginning
       duties. Submit Attachment 6 to the OG/CC when completed. When complete, complete
       the appointment letter required in Attachment 6 and submit to the Operations Group
       commander. (T-2)
    8.4. AFSOC Flying Units.
       8.4.1. Establish procedures for managing the flying hour program. Send copies of these
       procedures to the OSS and HQ AFSOC/A3TR for approval. (T-2)
       8.4.2. Use locally approved mission symbols in accordance with AFI 11-401, Aviation
       Management and AFI 11-401, AFSOCSUP, Aviation Management, to ensure flying
       hours are properly reported. (T-1)
       8.4.3. Consolidate flying requirements into flying plans and schedules to include annual
       and quarterly projections, monthly plans, and weekly schedules. (T-2)
       8.4.4. Compute operations attrition factors to be used in developing the PA plan that is
       essential in determining sortie requirements. (T-2)
       8.4.5. Submit their annual flying hour program requirements in accordance with
       Paragraph 10.3. (T-2)
       8.4.6. Submit monthly flying hour deviation report in accordance with Paragraph 17.1.
       (T-2)
       8.4.7. Squadron Aviation Resource Managers. AFSC 1C0X2s who manage the post-
       mission review process, including verification of the AFTO Form 781, AFORMS (AIR
       FORCE OPERATIONS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM) AIRCREW/MISSION
       FLIGHT DATA DOCUMENT with their corresponding maintenance debrief offices. (T-
       2)
       8.4.8. SARM offices will ensure that each 1C0X2 who will have a management role in
       the FHP process completes the Flying Hour Reconciliation web based training course.
       This must be done prior to working with the FHP. (T-1)
       8.4.9. SARM offices will reconcile flight data with maintenance debrief offices on a
       daily basis. Any disparities will be verified and corrected immediately, and tracked by
       the SARM and debrief offices until the disparities are able to be corrected. Emphasis
       should be placed on verifying hours flown and Mission Symbols/Aircraft Utilization
       Codes (AUC). (T-1)
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   9


       8.4.10. In accordance with AFI 11-421 Paragraph 1.5.10, SARM offices will develop a
       process to track daily reconciliation. Also in accordance with AFI 11-401 AFSOC Sup
       Paragraph A2.3.3.2.1, SARM offices will develop a file retention process for storage of
       the AURs for two fiscal years. (T-2)
       8.4.11. Squadron Aviation Resource Managers will submit a monthly Aircraft Utilization
       Report (AUR) signed by a SARM representative and a maintenance debrief
       representative to wing/group AVUM NLT the 5th day of the subsequent month. Any
       changes after the 5th day of the subsequent month that will affect the validity of the
       submitted monthly AUR requires the submission of a new validated AUR signed by the
       SARM and maintenance representative. (T-2)
   8.5. Aerospace Vehicle Utilization Monitor (AVUM).
       8.5.1. The duties of the AVUM are outlined in AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status
       and Utilization Reporting, Paragraphs 2.5.4 and 2.28. Additionally, the AVUM will act
       as a liaison between their flying units and the AFSOC AVUM. (T-2)
9. Supplements. Units may satisfy local requirements with supplements that amplify or refine
this instruction. To ensure AFSOC mission operations remain standardized throughout the
command, supplements must not change the basic policies or procedures prescribed here. Send
HQ AFSOC/A3TR an info copy of any supplement. (T-2)
10. Initial PA and SIM Program Submissions. (FIRST LOOK)
   10.1. HQ AFSOC/A8PE is responsible for managing and the AFSOC Flying Hour Model
   and funding position to the AFSOC Corporate Structure and to SOCOM during the
   programming cycle. (T-2)
   10.2. AFSOC/A3TR will request Wing/Group flying hour requirements for the following
   fiscal year NLT 31 May. (T-2)
   10.3. Wings/Groups will consolidate and forward flying hour requirements to HQ
   AFSOC/A3TR no later than 15 Jun. (T-2)
   10.4. HQ AFSOC/A3TR will coordinate flying hour requests with HQ AFSOC/FM/A4/A8
   prior to HQ AFSOC/A3 approval. (T-2)
   10.5. NLT 1 Aug, HQ AFSOC/A3TR forwards the HQ AFSOC/A3 approved plan to
   USSOCOM as AFSOC’s recommended flying hour program for the upcoming fiscal year.
   This program represents command projected capabilities/requirements. (T-2)
   10.6. HQ AFSOC/A3TR will distribute a copy of flying hour allocations via message to
   AFSOC wings/groups, and applicable Guard and Reserve units by 01 Sep of each year. (T-1)
11. Annual Planning. The AFSOC programmed allocation (PA) is the basis for executing the
annual plan. The wing/group will develop an execution plan to accomplish the annual UTE rate
and annual flying hour program. (T-1)
   11.1. The flying units will identify any limiting factors in support of the annual flying hour
   plan and notify the OSS. The OSS will consolidate and coordinate these to the wing/group
   commander, jointly through operations and maintenance supervision and ensure the annual
   projection is coordinated with all affected activities; e.g., engine management.
 10                                                       AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


   Wings/Groups develop annual FHP plans. Take the following factors into consideration
   when building the plan. (T-1)
      11.1.1. Number of O&M days. Identify holidays, exercises, and other "no-fly" days.
      Wing/Group AVUM and AVDO offices must coordinate together to ensure that both
      offices are working PA calculations with the same number of O&M days each month
      within the fiscal year. (T-2)
      11.1.2. Monthly historical attrition provided by maintenance analysis. (T-2)
      11.1.3. Annual scheduled sorties to include projected known Functional Check Flights
      (FCF), Operational Check Flights (OCF), and ferry sorties/missions. (T-2)
      11.1.4. Sorties and hours required for scheduled/tasked deployments. (T-1)
      11.1.5. Average scheduled sorties required per O&M day. (T-2)
      11.1.6. Available unrestricted daily hours. (T-2)
      11.1.7. Anticipated aircraft gains and transfers. (T-2)
      11.1.8. Projected number of special qualifications. (T-2)
      11.1.9. Estimated munitions usage. (T-2)
      11.1.10. Support sorties (i.e. PDM inputs, aircraft swaps). (T-2)
      11.1.11. Maintenance manning levels. (T-2)
      11.1.12. Instructors, evaluators and programmed upgrades. (T-2)
   11.2. Wings/Groups; Forward a copy of the annual plan to HQ AFSOC/A3TR by 15 Sep.
   Use the format described by Attachment 2 when forwarding annual flying plans and reflows
   of flying programs. The annual plan must reflect the monthly PAI, sortie or hourly
   requirement, UTE rate and ASD. Separate hours used for formal training (i.e., 19 SOS, WIC,
   etc.) and Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO). Total annual hours and sorties for each
   MDS must match the PA document. In addition to, and separate from the plan for executing
   the PA allocation, identify any flying hour disconnects (shortfall or excess) that could impact
   upgrades and continuation training for the affected fiscal year. HQ AFSOC/A3TR will work
   to resolve these disconnects prior to the first scheduled adjustment, to the extent resources
   permit. (T-2)
   11.3. When HQ AFSOC changes planned requirements, as reflected in the PA, re-flow the
   un-flown portion of the annual plan for the remaining months (Attachment 2). Changes in
   the PA may change the ASD or UTE rate for the remainder of the fiscal year. (T-2)
12. Quarterly Plan.
   12.1. The quarterly plan (sometimes referred to as a long-range plan) is a refinement of the
   annual plan (Paragraph 11). It establishes a sound basis for the remaining phases of the
   scheduling process. (T-2)
   12.2. Maintenance scheduling will develop a new plan that reflects the current and next 2
   months. Along with the requirements outlined in AFI 21-101, initial maintenance
   requirements will normally be limited to known major actions such as PDMs or ISO
   inspections; aircraft gains and losses; washes, paints, technical order (TO) special
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   11


   inspections, TCIs, TCTOs, engine changes; deferred discrepancies requiring extensive
   maintenance; and any other local requirements. (T-1)
   12.3. Although all of the data needed to build this plan will not be available at the beginning
   of its development, as requirements become known, they will be added. Periodic
   adjustments will be made to ensure the most economical use of resources, while ensuring
   supportability of the operational requirements. (T-2)
   12.4. A proactive quarterly plan will result in the development of an accurate and useful
   monthly plan. (T-3)
13. Monthly Planning.
   13.1. Monthly aircraft maintenance and utilization planning is a refinement of the quarterly
   adjustments, based upon the current annual plan. (T-2)
   13.2. The first work week of the preceding month, provide AMU supervision and AMU/MX
   PS&D with the operational needs for the following month. The tentative flying plan must
   provide as much detail as possible and is designed to ensure annual UTE and monthly UTE
   requirements are met. As a minimum, the plan includes both the required and scheduled
   number of daily sorties and sortie configuration requirements. Other impacting events such
   as safety days, training days, Wingman days, scheduled exercises, TDYs, etc., are also
   included. Units will include the following/group information in their monthly plan: (T-2)
       13.2.1. Annual UTE position data compared to the wing/group's current annual plan
       (Attachment 2). (T-2)
       13.2.2. Operational and training projected trends. (T-2)
       13.2.3. Percentage of attrition. (T-2)
       13.2.4. Total sorties and hours required listed in wing/group's annual plan (Attachment
       2). (T-2)
       13.2.5. Total sorties and hours scheduled. (T-2)
       13.2.6. Number of aircraft required to support the schedule. (T-2)
       13.2.7. Anticipated configurations in accordance with SOF mission requirements. (T-2)
14. Weekly Schedule. Weekly planning verifies progression towards the monthly contract and
is a refinement of the monthly plan. Use monthly plans as a guide for building weekly
schedules. Make adjustments to the monthly plan, as required, to accommodate unforeseen
maintenance or operations problems, higher or lower than forecasted attrition, uncompleted
maintenance actions and short notice requirements. Maintenance and operations schedulers must
coordinate regularly when developing the weekly schedule to ensure all essential utilization and
maintenance requirements are supportable. The planning week is 0001 local time Monday
through 2400 local time Sunday. Once signed by the wing and group commanders, the weekly
schedule executes the monthly contract and becomes the basis for deviation reporting. (Note:
Weekly planning and deviation accounting also applies to deployed units if they have parent
maintenance support and are flying hours from the HQ AFSOC/PA.) (T-2)
 12                                                        AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


15. Adjustment/Program Changes during Execution Year.
   15.1. Units will submit a program adjustment request if they fall behind or get ahead of the
   FY FHP allocation due to maintenance, weather, operations, contingency operations etc. See
   Attachments 2 and 4 for request formats. (T-1)
   15.2. Operations, with coordination through maintenance, will submit midyear and 4th
   quarter requests by the 30th calendar day of March and July. Late requests will not be
   processed until the next scheduled adjustment. A detailed explanation for the request must
   be provided to include justification to support the request (attrition, quota cancellations,
   ineffective sorties or missions, etc). This assessment will evaluate the unit’s ability to fulfill
   their flying hour contract. If justification is not provided, an adjustment may not be granted.
   (T-1)
   15.3. Program changes require Wing/Group commander approval and should be addressed
   to the HQ AFSOC/A3TR with full justification. HQ AFSOC/A3TR will coordinate the
   request with HQ AFSOC/A4, and HQ AFSOC/FM prior to HQ AFSOC/A3 approval. (T-1)
   15.4. HQAFSOC/A3TR will send out the changed allocation via message to the units, HQ
   AFSOC/FM, HQ AFSOC/A4, HQ USSOCOM, ANG/A3OM, and HQ AFRC/A3TF. (T-1)
   15.5. Changes to a unit’s program allocation constitutes a new “contract” with the unit.
   Units requesting a change to their annual flying hour program will receive a confirmation
   message when the proposed change is approved by HQ AFSOC/A3. Units will fly their
   current contract until the requested change is approved. (T-1)
   15.6. In some circumstances, units may request an out-of-cycle special adjustment. These
   requests should be rare and limited to situations beyond the unit’s control. (T-3)
16. Flying Hour Reporting.
   16.1. PA, CLS, and SIM monthly Flying Hour reports are due to HQ AFSOC/A3TR NLT
   COB of the 5th day of the subsequent month. (T-2)
      16.1.1. PA FHP Reporting. The monthly utilization report of the Equipment Inventory,
      Multiple Status, and Utilization Reporting System (EIMSURS) subsystem of the
      Reliability and Maintainability Information System (REMIS) is the official USAF flying
      hour report IAW AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting;
      and AF Computer Systems Manual (AFCSM) 21-565 Volume 2, Integrated Maintenance
      Data System (IMDS) Central Database (CDB). The importance of accurate and timely
      flying hour utilization reporting through IMDS, EIMSURS, and REMIS cannot be
      overemphasized. Erroneous and late reporting may result in the loss of required funding,
      personnel authorizations, and supplies. Units who have problems with flying hour
      reporting in IMDS may request assistance from the parent wing/group. PA hours are
      reported to HQ AFSOC/A3TR via reports retrieved by HQ AFSOC/A3TR from the
      REMIS database NLT the 5th day of the subsequent month. (T-2)
      16.1.2. CLS and SIM FHP Reporting. The Aviation Resource Management System
      (ARMS) through Oracle Discoverer or other approved method is used to track and report
      both CLS and SIM hours. Wing/Group AVUMs serve as the validating officials for these
      hours submitted to HQ AFSOC/A3TR. CLS and simulator hours will be reported with
      monthly deviation reports (see Attachment 3). (T-2)
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   13


      16.1.3. Wing/Group AVUMs serve as the approving officials for locally generated
      methods used track and report flying hours. HQ AFSOC/A3TR reserves the right to
      exercise authority over the approval of all reporting methods. (T-2)
   16.2. Flying units will audit the Aircraft Utilization Report or the Monthly Utilization Report
   (PCN SG 105-31P) to ensure accuracy of both the ARMS and Maintenance databases. (T-2)
   16.3. AVUMs must ensure operations monthly totals match the monthly totals in the MIS as
   stated in AFI 21-103 AFSOC Sup 1 Equipment Inventory, Status And Utilization Reporting.
   If the totals do not match then the discrepancies/errors must be found and corrected as soon
   as possible. (T-1)
   16.4. Emphasis should be placed on verifying hours flown and the mission symbols used.
   (T-2)
   16.5. Use mission symbols in accordance with AFI AFI 11-401, Aviation Management and
   AFI 11-401, AFSOCSUP, Aviation Management to ensure flying hours are properly
   reported. (T-1)
   16.6. The monthly report will only include those hours that were reported and reconciled in
   the MIS as of 2400 on the 4th calendar date of the following month. Any hours or changes
   reported after that will be included as late time in the following months report. (T-2)
17. Flying Hour Deviation Report.
   17.1. The following Flying Hour Deviation report suspenses must be met for timely updates
   to AFSOC/CC. The Flying Hour Program will be briefed based upon AFSOC/CC directives.
   (T-2)
   17.2. Units will submit the Flying Hour Deviation Report (see Attachment 3) to their
   AVUM NLT the 5th day of the subsequent month. Units will justify all over-fly and under-
   fly monthly deviations of plus or minus 2 percent from the annual execution plan (reference
   Paragraph 11.2) to HQ AFSOC/A3TR. Deviations will be categorized and reported based
   on the options listed in the notes in Attachment 3. The end goal remains for the units to zero
   out their PA. (T2)
   17.3. The applicable group/wing AVUM will forward this information to AFSOC/A3TR by
   the 7th day of the subsequent month. (T-2)




                                            THEODORE A. CORALLO, Col, USAF
                                            Director of Operations
 14                                                     AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 11-1, Flying Hour Program, 10 August 2004
AFI 11-101, Management Reports on the Flying Hour Program, 01 November 2002
AFI 11-401, Aviation Management, 10 December 2010
AFI 11-401, AFSOCSUP, Aviation Management, 19 January 2012
AFI 11-202 V2, Aircrew Standardization /Evaluation Program, 13 September 2010
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status and Utilization Reporting, 26 January 2012
AFI 21-103 AFSOC Sup 1, Equipment Invetory, Status, and Utilization Reporting,
1 December 2007
AFSCM 21-565, Integrated Maintenance Data System Central Database
AFSOCI 21-165, Maintenance Metrics Algorithms
USSOCOM D37-16, USSOCOM Flying Hour Program, 15 January 08
AFRIMS, Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
Prescibed Forms
There are no prescribed forms in this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
AFTO Form 781, AFORMS (Air Force Operations Resource Management System)
Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFSOC—Air Force Special Operations Command
ASD—Average Sortie Duration
ATD—Aircrew Training Device (aka Simulator)
AUR—Aircraft Utilization Report
AVDO—Aerospace Vehicle Distribution Officer
AVUM—Aerospace Vehicle Utilization Monitor
BAI—Backup Aircraft Inventory
CLS—Contracted Logistic Support
CPFH—Cost Per Flying Hour
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      15


FCF—Functional Check Flight
FHP—Flying Hour Program
IMDS—Integrated Maintenance Data System
MC—Mission Capable
MDS—Mission Design Series
MIS—Maintenance Information System
NSAv—Non-Standard Aerial Vehicle
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
OCF—Operational Check Flight
OS—Operations Scheduling
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
PA—Program Allocation
PAA—Primary Aerospace Vehicle Assigned
PAI—Primary Aircraft Inventory
POM—Program Objective Memorandums
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
SIM—Simulator (aka ATD)
SOF—Special Operations Forces
UTE—Utilization

Terms
Additions—Sorties or aircraft flown, but not printed, on the weekly utilization and maintenance
schedule for a given day. Not a deviation if not flown.
Adjustment—A formally coordinated change to a unit’s annual flying hour program.                 An
adjustment changes the total annual allocation and usually results in a reflow.
Attrition (aircraft)—Excess to PAI requirements procured to ensure aircraft fleet size remains
the same, both at the beginning and end of the life cycle. No operating resources are allocated
for these aircraft in the defense budget.
Attrition (sorties)—Losses expected based on historical data. Sorties added by maintenance
scheduling to a unit’s sortie contract to allow for expected losses due to maintenance, operations,
supply, air traffic control, sympathy, HHQ, other cancels, and weather cancels. Attrition sorties
are not substitutes for capability shortfalls; they are added to the contract to ensure mission goals
are met.
Attrition Rate (hours/sorties)—Percent of scheduled hours/sorties that are cancelled (log zero
time) for any reason (OPS, maintenance, weather, other).
 16                                                        AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


Average Daily Sortie Rate—The number of sorties planned for that month from the annual plan
divided by the number of O&M days in that month.
Average Sortie Duration (ASD)—The average time flown per sortie by type of aircraft,
determined by dividing total hours flown by total sorties flown. HQ AFSOF/CC establishes the
annual planning ASD. The ASD is not used as a flying objective.
Backup Aircraft Inventory (BAI)—Aircraft over and above the PAI to permit scheduled and
unscheduled Depot level maintenance, modifications, inspections, and repair without a reduction
of aircraft for the operation tasking. No operating resources are allocated for these aircraft in the
defense budget.
Deviation—A departure from the printed weekly utilization and maintenance schedule.
Deployed Sortie—Sortie(s) launched in any overseas area of responsibility (AOR) that is
designated as a combat/combat support mission.
Ferry Sortie—Sortie used to support unscheduled depot input and return, transfer, etc. When
sortie requirements are known prior to printing the flying schedule, include these sorties in the
weekly schedule, identifying the type sortie in the applicable remarks column.
Ineffective Sortie—A sortie that did not complete minimum training requirements, determined
by the aircraft commander, therefore another sortie is required to complete the original training
objective.
Local Sortie—Sorties launched at the home station or a deployed location launched and
recovered by parent maintenance support. Includes deployed sorties flown geographically away
from home base or simulated isolated areas on home base.
Maintenance Attrition Rate—Average percentage of scheduled sorties not flown due to
maintenance non-deliveries.
Mission—A mission is defined as a primary objective for which an aircraft is operated and
which may consist of an increment of one or more sorties. For example, a mission may involve
two sorties or several missions may be accomplished in one sortie (AFI 11-401).
Mission Symbols—Also referred to as Aircraft Utilization Codes.
Monthly Flying and Maintenance Plan—The combination of planned monthly sorties and
maintenance events planned in support of those sorties that will be performed during the
effective month. A systematic approach of matching operational requirements to maintenance
capabilities (AFI 21-101 and the AFSOC Supplement).
Monthly Sortie Contract—A written agreement approved by the wing/group commanders,
which specifies the number of sorties and hours to be flown during the monthly period
designated. The contract does not include attrition sorties nor are attrition sorties substitutes for
capability shortfalls. The contract is based on mission requirements, UTE rates, and instructor
and maintenance capabilities.
Off—Station Sortie—All sorties launched from other than the home station and (or) auxiliary
field not supported by the parent maintenance support.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Days—The number of calendar days in a year, month, or
week minus Saturdays, Sundays, federal holidays, and other declared “no-fly” days.
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                                      17


Operations Attrition Rate—Average percentage of scheduled sorties not flown for operational
reasons (for example, aircrew non-availability).
Operations Squadron—This term is synonymous with a flying squadron.
Other Attrition Rate—Average percentage of scheduled sorties not flown due to factors beyond
the control of the unit (for example, air traffic control or higher headquarters).
Out and Back (O&B) Mission—A mission scheduled to depart and return on the same day,
consisting of at least one off-station launch.
Primary Aircraft Inventory (PAI)—Aircraft assigned to meet the primary aircraft
authorization for performance of the operational and support mission to include wing/group-level
maintenance requirements. Forms the basis of the allocation of operating resources to include
manpower, support equipment, and flying hour funds.
Prime Flyers—Number of aircraft committed to the daily schedule excluding spare aircraft,
aircraft required for FCFs, and aircraft required for ferry sorties/missions.
Reflow—A reallocation of program elements (hours, sorties, ASD, UTE) carried out across the
remainder of the month or year that does not change the total annual allocation. Reflows will
always accompany a flying hour adjustment. Reflows of execution deviations may or may not
be applied to execution models.
Required Sorties/missions—Number of sorties to be flown to meet wing/group objectives.
These are the numbers of sorties that ensure training and proficiency requirements are met as
reflected in the AFSOC PA. Includes refly sorties/missions. For an hourly UTE rate, required
hours/sorties are the number of hours/sorties that ensure training and proficiency requirements
are met by achieving the annual goal reflected in the AFSOC PA.
Scheduled Sorties—Sum of required and attrition sorties.
Scheduled Take—Off—The take-off time printed in the daily portion of the weekly schedule
for each sortie line number.
Sortie—An operational flight by one aircraft (AFI 11-401). A sortie begins when the aircraft
begins to move forward on takeoff or takes off vertically from rest at any point of support. A
sortie ends after airborne flight when the aircraft returns to the surface and any of the
following/group conditions occur:
a. The engines are stopped or the aircraft is on the surface for five minutes, whichever occurs
first; or,
b. A change is made in the crew which enplanes a crew member; or,
c. A refuel (actual or simulated) operation is performed.
d. In addition, the following/group requirements of a sortie apply:
(1) A series of practice landings (touch and go’s) will be debriefed as one sortie.
(2) Helicopter sorties with multiple landings and takeoffs will be documented as one sortie
(line #) unless a, b, or c above occurs.
(3) Multiple helicopter takeoffs and landings involving FCF requirements will be documented as
one sortie.
 18                                                        AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


EXCEPTIONS: On missions where some crewmembers deplane and the remaining crew
from the original takeoff relaunches, this is considered an extension of the original sortie.
C—130 aircraft may be shut down to upload/download paratroopers or passengers (does not
include crew members).
Spare Aircraft—An aircraft designated as a spare on the printed flying and maintenance
schedule. Spares can also be aircraft printed in the weekly flying and maintenance schedule, for
that day that have canceled or aborted, aircraft flown in an earlier sortie, or an aircraft released
after FCF/OCF.
Support Sorties—Sorties required in support of the mission by AFI 11-401, Aviation
Management and AFI 11-202, Volume 2, Aircrew Standardization/Evaluation Program.
Turnaround Time—Time from takeoff to takeoff for the same aircraft.
UTE Rate—The average number of required sorties or hours flown (planned or actual) per PAA
aircraft for a specific timeframe. HQ AFSOC/A4 establishes the annual maximum sustainable
UTE rate. The monthly UTE rate is calculated as monthly sorties or hours flown divided by
PAA. The annual UTE rate is calculated as annual sorties or hours flown divided by PAA
divided by 12 months.
Weather Attrition Rate—Average percentage of scheduled sorties not flown due to weather.
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                         19


                                   Attachment 2
                     ANNUAL EXECUTION PLAN EXAMPLE

Figure A2.1. Annual Execution Plan Example.
 20                                               AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


                                   Attachment 3
           MONTHLY FLYING HOUR DEVIATION REPORT EXAMPLE

Figure A3.1. Monthly Flying Hour Deviation Report Example.
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                  21


                                   Attachment 4
     REQUEST FOR FLYING HOUR PROGRAM ALLOCATION ADJUSTMENT
                            EXAMPLE

Figure A4.1. Request For Flying Hour Program Allocation Adjustment Example.
 22                                                       AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 5
                                     SUSPENSE CHART

Table 5.1. Suspense Chart.


Flying Hour Program                       Suspense       Report To    OPR           Ref
Initial Program Submission Notification 31 MAY           Wing/Group   AFSOC/A3TR    10.2.
Initial Program Submission Request        15 JUN         AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    10.3.
Initial Program Submission                01 AUG         USSOCOM      AFSOC/A3TR    10.5.
Initial Flying Hour Program Allocation    01 SEP         Wing/Group   AFSOC/A3TR    10.6.
Midyear Re-allocation Request             30 MAR         AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    15.2.
Final Re-allocation Request               30 JUL         AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    15.2.


Monthly FHP Report                Suspense               Report To    OPR           Ref
Monthly Flying Hour Report        5th day of             AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    16.1.
(PA, CLS, & SIM)                  subsequent month


Monthly Flying Hour
Deviation Report                  Suspense               Report To    OPR           Ref
                                     th
Monthly Deviation Report          5 day of               Wing/Group   Flying Unit   17.2.
                                  subsequent month
Monthly Deviation Report          7th day of             AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    17.3
                                  subsequent month


Flying Hour Program                       Suspense       Report To    OPR           Ref
Initial Program Submission Notification 31 MAY           Wing/Group   AFSOC/A3TR    10.2.
Initial Program Submission Request        15 JUN         AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    10.3.
Initial Program Submission                01 AUG         USSOCOM      AFSOC/A3TR    10.5.
Initial Flying Hour Program Allocation    01 SEP         Wing/Group   AFSOC/A3TR    10.6.
Midyear Re-allocation Request             30 MAR         AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    15.2.
Final Re-allocation Request               30 JUL         AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    15.2.
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                 23



Monthly FHP Report           Suspense           Report To    OPR           Ref
                              th
Monthly Flying Hour Report   5 day of           AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    16.1.
(PA, CLS, & SIM)             subsequent month


Monthly Flying Hour
Deviation Report             Suspense           Report To    OPR           Ref
Monthly Deviation Report     5th day of         Wing/Group   Flying Unit   17.2.
                             subsequent month
Monthly Deviation Report     7th day of         AFSOC/A3TR   Wing/Group    17.3
                             subsequent month
 24                                             AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


                                 Attachment 6
                       AVUM APPOINTMENT EXAMPLE

Figure 6.1. AVUM Appointment Example.
AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013                                                       25


                                    Attachment 7
REQUEST FOR FLYING HOUR PROGRAM ALLOCATION ADJUSTMENT, LARGE
 WINGS WITH 3 OR MORE AIRCRAFT (SUMMARY MEMORANDUM EXAMPLE)

Figure 7.1. Request for Flying Hour Program Allocation Adjustment, Large Wings with 3
or More Aircraft (Summary Memorandum Example) (Page 1 of 2).
 26                                                AFSOCI11-102 4 DECEMBER 2013


Figure 7.1. Request for Flying Hour Program Allocation Adjustment, Large Wings with 3
or More Aircraft (Summary Memorandum Example) (Page 2 of 2).
