BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND
AIR FORCE SPACE COMMAND                                                 INSTRUCTION 10-1204

                                                                                       15 MAY 20014

                                                                                           Operations

                                                                        SATELLITE OPERATIONS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: HQ AFSPC/A3S                                                      Certified by: HQ AFSPC/A3S
                                                                                (Col Miguel J. Colón)
Supersedes:    AFSPCI 10-1204,                                                             Pages: 40
               15 May 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 13-6, Space Policy, AFI 10-
1201, Space Operations and is consistent with Strategic Command Instruction (SI) 714-2,
Satellite Communications (SATCOM) System Expert (SSE) and Consolidated SSE (C-SSE)
Responsibilities, SI 505-4, Satellite Disposal Procedures, SI 534-17, Combatant Command
Satellite Acceptance Procedures, SI 534-22 and North American Aerospace Defense Command
(NORAD) Instruction 10-3, Mission Integrity, Change Control Management, and Test Control
for the Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack Assessment System (ITW/AA), and
USSTRATCOM Operation Olympic Defender by establishing guidance and procedures for
satellite operations and disposal, and complements Air Force Space Command Instruction
(AFSPCI) 10-205, Operational Transition Process. It applies to Headquarters Air Force Space
Command (HQ AFSPC) and all subordinate units utilizing dedicated or shared satellite control
assets, except for Royal Air Force (RAF) Telemetry and Command Station (TCS), Oakhanger.
This instruction applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units with satellite control responsibilities. If there is a conflict between this instruction and unit,
contractor or other major command publications, this instruction applies. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. OPR is HQ AFSPC/A3S, Space
Operations Division, 150 Vandenberg St., Ste 1105, Peterson AFB CO 80914-4250. This
 2                                                                                             AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to
waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2,
T-3”) number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management, Table 1.1 for a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers.
Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver
approval authority, or alternately, to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

AFSPCI 10-1204 is being updated and reissued as directed by AFI 33-360. This document has
been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include the removal
of Command Leads, the addition of COMAFFOR responsibilities, USSTRATCOM Operation
Olympic Defender guidance, and administrative updates. The instruction provides Major
Command (MAJCOM) direction on satellite operations, transition of functions and transfer of
roles and responsibilities supporting both Combatant Command (CCMD) guidance and
service/force provider responsibilities to subordinate units.

       1.      Introduction. ...........................................................................................................      3
       2.      Roles and Responsibilities .....................................................................................               3
       3.      Command, Control, and Management. ..................................................................                          11
       4.      Operations. .............................................................................................................     12
       5.      R&D System Transition. ........................................................................................               20
       6.      Capability Assessment and Reporting. ..................................................................                       23
       7.      Constellation Sustainment. ....................................................................................               23
       8.      Reports. ..................................................................................................................   24

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                               25

Attachment 2—SATELLITE FUNCTIONAL TRANSFER PROCESSES                                                                                         34

Attachment 3—SATELLITE CONTROL AUTHORITY (SCA) SAMPLE LETTERS                                                                                35

Attachment 4—COMBATANT COMMAND (CCMD) COMMAND AUTHORITY
             (COCOM) ACCEPTANCE SAMPLE LETTER                                                                                                37

Attachment 5—DISPOSAL AUTHORITY, PROCESS, AND METHODS                                                                                        38

Attachment 6—SATELLITE DISPOSAL AND/OR PAYLOAD RELINQUSHMENT
             NOTIFICATION TO CDRUSSTRATCOM (CCMD RELINQUISHMENT)
             SAMPLE LETTER                                                                                                                   40
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                       3


1. Introduction. AFSPC is responsible for all aspects of providing space capabilities to support
various Department of Defense (DoD), National, and civil agencies and is responsible for
organizing, training and equipping the Air Force space forces. Organizational responsibilities
defined within this instruction are specifically tailored for AFSPC-conducted satellite operations.
IAW Joint Publication 3-14, Space Operations, satellite operations are actions conducted to
maneuver, configure, operate, and sustain on-orbit assets. Satellite operations are characterized
as spacecraft and payload operations. Spacecraft operations include telemetry, tracking, and
commanding (TT&C), maneuvering, monitoring state-of-health, and maintenance sub-functions.
TT&C is the process of monitoring spacecraft systems, transmitting the status of those systems
to the control segment on the ground, and receiving and processing instructions from the control
segment. Payload operations include monitoring and commanding of the satellite payload to
collect data or provide capability in the operational environment. Satellite operations are
executed through a host of satellite operations centers linked to on-orbit assets via dedicated and
shared networks. AFSPC’s responsibilities include the development, test, integration, launch,
checkout, acceptance, control, transition to CCMD, on-orbit support, and disposal. AFSPC/CC
provides operations policy and guidance to the HQ AFSPC Directorates/Divisions, Numbered
Air Forces (NAF), Component NAF (C-NAF), Centers, and Space Wings (SW) through HQ
AFSPC/A3. In this instruction are specific responsibilities for conducting satellite operations.
Overall program fielding responsibilities are defined in AFSPCI 10-205.
2. Roles and Responsibilities
   2.1. AFSPC/CC (Commander, Air Force Forces (COMAFFOR) for Space)
       2.1.1. As COMAFFOR, with Operational Control (OPCON) of Air Force Space forces,
       provide Air Force space capabilities at the timing and tempo directed by the Commander,
       United States Strategic Command (CDRUSSTRATCOM). Plan, coordinate, integrate,
       and present Air Force space capabilities to deliver desired effects globally in order to
       achieve assigned missions throughout the full spectrum of warfare. As required,
       reposition Air Force space assets to optimize mission performance. Following
       CDRUSSTRATCOM relinquishment of space assets, dispose of those assets IAW this
       instruction.
       2.1.2. As AFSPC/CC, organize, train, and equip space                   forces   to   enable
       CDRUSSTRATCOM to accomplish its assigned space mission.
       2.1.3. Provide space launch warning, strategic missile warning, theater missile warning,
       nuclear detonation detection, re-entry warning, national and theater missile defense
       support and assessment capabilities through launch, optimization, configuration,
       maintenance, and disposal of Air Force forces and assets ICW USSTRATCOM and
       Commander, Joint Forces Component Command for Space (CDR JFCC Space) as
       required.
       2.1.4. Provide space-based Position, Navigation, and Timing (PNT) capabilities through
       launch, optimization, configuration, maintenance, and disposal of Air Force forces and
       assets ICW USSTRATCOM and JFCC Space as required.
       2.1.5. Provide Space Situational Awareness (SSA), space surveillance space object
       identification and characterization capabilities through launch, optimization,
       configuration, maintenance, and disposal of Air Force forces and assets ICW
4                                                               AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


       USSTRATCOM and JFCC Space. Provide SSA capability through low, medium,
       geosynchronous, highly elliptical orbits and beyond.
       2.1.6. Present forces and assets to conduct protected and unprotected tactical SATCOM
       and nuclear, survivable and endurable Extremely High Frequency (EHF) operations
       though launch, optimization, configuration, maintenance, and disposal in support of
       USSTRATCOM and CDR JFCC Space.
       2.1.7. Provide environmental monitoring capabilities through launch, optimization,
       configuration, maintenance, and disposal ICW USSTRATCOM and JFCC Space as
       required.
       2.1.8. Provide Defensive Space Control capabilities for assigned systems through launch,
       optimization, configuration, maintenance, and disposal ICW USSTRATCOM and JFCC
       Space. Support space protection of assigned systems and provide recommendations for
       space protection.
       2.1.9. Provide space-based Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR)
       capabilities through launch, optimization, configuration, maintenance and disposal ICW
       USSTRATCOM and JFCC Space.
       2.1.10. Develop materiel and non-materiel solutions to identify, collect, and integrate
       SSA information from non-traditional data sources. Utilize non-traditional sensors data,
       identify non-traditional sensors that may support operations, and integrate nontraditional
       sensors as required.
       2.1.11. Declare Operational Acceptance (OA) (or delegate this responsibility to HQ
       AFSPC/A3) IAW AFSPCI 10-205 and AFI 63-101_20-101, Acquisition and Sustainment
       Life Cycle Management.
       2.1.12. Provide shared, common use satellite control infrastructure for space-based
       capabilities. Develop capabilities to meet multiple space mission needs while avoiding
       the inefficiency of provisioning unique capabilities.
       2.1.13. Perform C-SSE duties for Protected SATCOM Responsibilities and SSE duties
       for Milstar, AEHF, and Enhanced Polar System IAW USSTRATCOM (SI) 714-02,
       SATCOM System Expert (SSE) Responsibilities.
    2.2. Directorate of Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) (HQ
    AFSPC/A2):
       2.2.1. Assist with organizing, training, and equipping SWs with Intelligence support for
       Identification, Characterization, Surveillance, threat warning and prediction, and analysis
       efforts.
       2.2.2. Support SW anomaly investigations. Intelligence assets specifically designed to
       collect and characterize threat data may add value to anomaly resolution and decrease
       time to resolution.
       2.2.3. For satellites capable of imaging the earth or space using electro-optical, radar,
       infrared, multi-spectral, hyper spectral, or other imaging systems, work with HQ
       AFSPC/A5 to determine whether a proper use memorandum is necessary for imaging
       operations conducted over US territory for calibration, testing, or operational purposes.
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                  5


  2.3. Directorate of Air, Space, and Cyberspace Operations (HQ AFSPC/A3):
     2.3.1. Develop and provide operations policy, concepts and guidance for satellite
     Telemetry, Tracking and Commanding (TT&C); operation of the Air Force Satellite
     Control Network (AFSCN) and dedicated AFSPC satellite operations resources (e.g.
     integrated early warning and surveillance systems); configuration control, and reporting.
     2.3.2. Establish training, standardization, and evaluation policy and guidance IAW
     AFSPC Guidance Memorandum 13-1, Space Operations Crew Force Management,
     Training, Standardization and Evaluation, or the follow on instruction.
     2.3.3. Ensure standardization across the command for AFSPC conducted satellite
     operations.
     2.3.4. Develop policy and guidance for MAJCOM testing of space systems and primary
     oversight of MAJCOM Operational Testing (OT) of space systems IAW AFSPCI 99-103,
     Capabilities-Based Test and Evaluation of Space and Cyberspace Systems.
     2.3.5. Develop program specific Memorandums of Agreement (MOA) with non-AFSPC
     system operational management agencies responsible for individual satellite programs.
     2.3.6. Declare OA, per delegation from AFSPC/CC, IAW AFSPCI 10-205 and AFI 63-
     101_20-101.
     2.3.7. Prepare and send notification to USSTRATCOM of a new operational satellite
     available for CCMD COCOM acceptance. If this is the first satellite of a new
     constellation, the notification will be from AFSPC/CC vice HQ AFSPC/A3, see
     Attachments 2 & Attachment 4. Notification can be delegated to HQ AFSPC/A3 for
     unique satellites meeting COCOM urgent needs. In the case of ITW/AA contributing
     systems, notification is to be made to the NORAD/ USSTRATCOM Operations
     Approval Board.
     2.3.8. Prepare and send notification to appropriate organizations when ownership is
     relinquished from AFSPC to another organization.
     2.3.9. Manage newly delivered systems from the beginning of operations (i.e. Trial
     Period entry or Operational Acceptance) through end of system life.
     2.3.10. ICW HQ AFSPC Staff and based on defined criteria and status, recommend
     Initial Operational Capability or Full Operational Capability to AFSPC/CC/CV.
     2.3.11. Forward 14 AF, Air Forces Strategic (AFSTRAT), recommendations to
     COMAFFOR on launch, optimization, configuration, maintenance, and disposal of
     AFSPC satellites.
     2.3.12. Ensure appropriate number of crews are properly trained and evaluated IAW
     AFSPCGM 13-1 and ensure appropriate training devices are Simulation Certified IAW
     AFSPCI 36-2205, Operation and Management of Space Training Devices.
     2.3.13. Conduct or support Operations Review Boards (ORB) as required or related to
     Lead MAJCOM responsibilities.
     2.3.14. Manage funding and identify funding requirements through system life and
     Program Objective Memorandum (POM) cycles to HQ AFSPC/A8/9.
6                                                               AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


       2.3.15. When required, develop a satellite or payload early use plan in concert with the
       System Program Office and the SW.
    2.4. Directorate of Logistics, Installations, and Mission Support (HQ AFSPC/A4/7):
       2.4.1. Determine product support requirements necessary to sustain a satellite system.
       HQ AFSPC/A4/7 is responsible for facilities, security, and logistics requirements in
       conjunction with new and modified systems.
    2.5. Directorate of Requirements (HQ AFSPC/A5):
       2.5.1. Develop capability-based, operationally responsive requirements from user-
       defined needs for space systems.
       2.5.2. Support Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC) and
       MAJCOM-conducted Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E) as required for newly
       launched satellite or system checkout. HQ AFSPC/A5 will request compliance
       assessment from HQ AFSPC/JA regarding international treaties, environmental laws and
       other relevant statutes and regulations on proposed systems to identify liability and other
       legal issues so they can be addressed in a timely fashion. The assessment should be
       updated whenever potentially significant changes are made to the system.
       2.5.3. Ensure future satellite designs include a disposal capability pursuant to the
       operational regime and disposal requirements outlined in paragraph 4.7 These
       requirements will be provided to the pertinent acquisition agency. Proposed systems and
       modifications must comply with environmental impact analysis process requirements,
       including evaluation of proposed disposal alternatives.
       2.5.4. Develop Initial Operational Capability (IOC) and Full Operational Capability
       (FOC) criteria for newly delivered USAF space mission systems and ensure systems meet
       the IOC/FOC evaluation criteria as defined in the systems Operational Requirements
       Document (ORD), Capability Development Document (CDD) and/or Capability
       Production Document (CPD). Individual satellite vehicles do not require IOC
       declarations as they are part of a new program or system and as reflected in the IOC plan
       (e.g., Program “X” IOC consists of ground segment, manning, training, two satellites on-
       orbit, etc.).
          2.5.4.1. Ensure completion of all applicable satellite bus, payload, ground segment,
          and user equipment testing, inspections and/or analyses to evaluate requirements
          satisfaction and identify/document deficiencies.
          2.5.4.2. Ensure technical orders/procedures have been verified and are ready for
          operational use.
          2.5.4.3. Logistics. Ensure logistical support required to sustain the newly delivered
          space system is in place.
       2.5.5. Coordinate with Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC), Space and
       Missiles Systems Center (SMC), HQ AFSPC Staff, and 14 AF/CC to ensure availability
       of adequate resources for SWs prior to IOC (including test systems, ground simulators,
       training, hardware, and personnel).
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                       7


     2.5.6. Lead and facilitate newly delivered AFSPC space-based capabilities until Trial
     Period entry or Operational Acceptance decision, after which responsibility is transferred
     to HQ AFSPC/A3 IAW AFSPCI 10-205.
     2.5.7. Coordinate with HQ AFSPC/A2 for satellites capable of imaging the earth or
     space objects using electro-optical, radar, infrared, multi-spectral, hyper spectral, or other
     imaging systems. Determine whether a proper use memorandum is necessary for
     imaging operations conducted over US territory for calibration, testing, or operational
     purposes.
     2.5.8. For ISR designated satellites, work with HQ AFSPC/A2 and other appropriate
     offices to determine ISR collection requirements, tasking, management processes and
     systems as well as define processing, exploitation, and dissemination architecture prior to
     key program milestones. Ensure system and subsystem functionality is designed into the
     satellite early during the acquisition process.
     2.5.9. Perform C-SSE for Protected SATCOM responsibilities IAW SI 714-02 until
     systems achieve IOC.
  2.6. Directorate of Safety (HQ AFSPC/SE):
     2.6.1. Develop, process, or manage all appropriate command mishap prevention
     instructions including system safety and developmental and operational test safety.
     2.6.2. Incorporate all MAJCOM space safety requirements into specific requirements
     documents (e.g., Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System or AF IMT
     1067, Modification Proposal) as appropriate.
     2.6.3. Review safety assessments for 14 AF/CC , Space and Missile Systems Center
     (SMC), and SWs for each space system supported or operated by AFSPC.
     2.6.4. Review ORB minutes to ascertain if safety criteria met a reportable mishap level.
     2.6.5. Provide safety assessments and recommendations to AFSPC/CC for satellite
     courses of action and risk management decisions that may negatively impact disposal
     (e.g. use of a satellite for further testing that affects the ability to dispose in accordance
     with AF and DoD requirements.
     2.6.6. Review safety assessments for operational concepts for Collision Avoidance
     (COLA), space system interference (e.g., Radio Frequency Interference
     (RFI)/Electromagnetic Interference (EMI)) reporting and resolution and defensive space
     control efforts.
     2.6.7. Support development and maintenance of collision avoidance procedures.
     Coordinate with subordinate units on close approaches and conjunction assessments.
  2.7. Commander, Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC/CC):
     2.7.1. Ensure all developed and acquired spacecraft and launch systems and services are
     designed and launched IAW DODI 3100.12.
     2.7.2. Develop, acquire, test, and evaluate new space systems capabilities before Satellite
     Control Authority (SCA) transfer or entry into operations (e.g. Trial Period or
8                                                             AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


    Operational Acceptance). Note: SCA will be used synonymously with Payload Control
    Authority (PCA) throughout this document.
       2.7.2.1. Upon satellite or payload fielding or certification decision, provide
       notification to HQ AFSPC/A3/A5 via memo, to include any existing limiting factors
       IAW AFMAN 63-119, Certification of the System Readiness for Dedicated
       Operational Testing and AFSPCI 10-205.
       2.7.2.2. Upon new ground system fielding or certification decision, provide
       notification to HQ AFSPC/A3/A5 via memo, to include any existing limiting factors
       IAW AFMAN 63-119 and AFSPCI 10-205.
       2.7.2.3. Establish Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with non-SMC
       Organizations (e.g. Sandia National Labs, SMDC/ARSTRAT, National Oceanic and
       Atmospheric Administration, etc.) when SMC owns and has SCA over a satellite or
       payload but uses other crews and/or facilities for satellite TT&C or other satellite
       operational functions.
       2.7.2.4. Maintain SCA from launch through Launch and Early Orbit (L&EO)
       activities or until the agreed upon SCA transfer to an operational unit. SCA transfer
       may take place via an SCA Acceptance Meeting or a telecon with applicable
       members (i.e., System Program Office [SPO], Numbered Air Force [NAF], SW, and
       unit). A documented follow-up of the SCA transfer notification is sent to the
       receiving SCA organization with a courtesy copy to HQ AFSPC/A3 (see Attachment
       3).
       2.7.2.5. Develop SCA transfer criteria ICW 14 AF/A3.
    2.7.3. Provide sustainment and depot level maintenance of space systems operations
    hardware and software IAW AFI 63-101_20-101.
    2.7.4. Provide technical advisors, as required, to support satellite launch and early orbit
    operations and anomaly resolution.
       2.7.4.1. Develop satellite and ground segment test plans ICW satellite engineers,
       operators, and technical advisors.
    2.7.5. Conduct Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) for satellite
    operations.
    2.7.6. Provide transportable assets to support space systems operations as directed.
    2.7.7. Provide assets to support factory compatibility testing and launch base
    compatibility testing on non-Eastern/Western Range launch facilities.
    2.7.8. Provide test and calibration support for on-orbit assets.
    2.7.9. Support transition of RDT&E and quick reaction capability space assets to
    operational units, if required, and provide related system life cycle management
    functions.
    2.7.10. Provide expertise and resources for development and testing of new satellite
    TT&C and ground systems.
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                       9


     2.7.11. Coordinate with HQ AFSPC/A3/A5 and 14 AF/A3 to ensure SW units have the
     necessary resources to support new test and development efforts.
     2.7.12. Provide training equipment (e.g. Standard Space Trainer or simulator) and
     training materials, as required, in support of fielding new or modified systems.
     2.7.13. Provide logistics support products (e.g. Technical Orders, Integrated Electronic
     Technical Manuals, etc.) for operations and maintenance functions with the following
     exceptions: one of a kind Research and Development (R&D) systems, non-AF
     operations, launch or checkout conducted by contractors.
  2.8. 14 AF/CC:
     2.8.1. Translate global and theater space support requirements into mission support
     priorities for allocation of satellite operations resources. Provide operational guidance to
     SWs pertaining to prioritization of satellite operations in support of global and theater
     operations, routine and emergency satellite relocation, operational status changes and
     disposal actions ICW USSTRATCOM Joint Functional Component Command (JFCC)
     for Space. 14 AF is responsible for identifying satellite health and status data as well as
     information services from SWs necessary to perform Blue Force Tracking.
     2.8.2. Ensure operational readiness of forces and combat capability of systems to include
     operations inspections and on-site observations.
     2.8.3. Provide operational tasking to the SWs for each CCMD-apportioned space system
     supported or operated by AFSPC.
     2.8.4. Develop procedures and criteria for convening ORBs.
     2.8.5. Accept SCA for spacecraft that will be operated by 14 AF units. Delegate to
     appropriate SW responsible for the mission. Provide written notice of SCA transfers for
     CCMD-apportioned systems to HQ AFSPC/A3S and appropriate HQ AFSPC/A3S
     workflow e-mail box, when SCA is transferred from or to an organization outside 14 AF.
     2.8.6. Make satellite disposal recommendations to AFSPC/CC.
     2.8.7. Develop concepts of operations for COLA, RFI reporting and resolution, and
     defensive space control efforts. Coordinate with HQ AFSPC/A2 as applicable.
     2.8.8. Ensure tactics, techniques, and procedures, mishap prevention and space system
     safety, and policies are standardized among operational wings.
     2.8.9. Conduct Operations Readiness Reviews to ensure readiness of launch vehicles,
     associated ground systems, and personnel to operate the mission.
     2.8.10. Lead the Current Launch Schedule Review Board (CLSRB).
     2.8.11. Communicate capability gaps requiring an organize, train, and/or equip activity
     to HQ AFSPC/A3/A5.
     2.8.12. Request SMC deploy transportable assets to support space systems operations.
     2.8.13. Serve as the approval authority for operational asset usage requests for testing.
     2.8.14. As the user and operator representative, act as the concurring authority for
     Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH) serious mishap risks for which
10                                                            AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


     the AFPEO/SP is the acceptance authority IAW DoDI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense
     Acquisition System and AFI 63-101.
     2.8.15. Perform C-SSE for Protected SATCOM responsibilities IAW SI 714-02 for those
     systems past IOC.
  2.9. Operational Space Wings (SW) / Satellite Operations Units:
     2.9.1. Plan for and provide, per individual mission or program, continuous satellite
     operations at all required levels of conflict. (T-2).
     2.9.2. Ensure compliance with AFI 10-206 AFSPCSUP1, Operational Reporting,
     applicable supplements and all other operational space mission reporting requirements.
     (T-2).
     2.9.3. Support 14 AF and AFSPC for planning and resourcing of units performing legacy
     missions, space system upgrades, and operating new TT&C and satellite systems. (T-2).
     2.9.4. Develop procedures to interface with satellite mission users and operators and
     other required external agencies to include MOU/MOA with appropriate coordination as
     necessary. (T-3).
     2.9.5. Ensure operational satellite procedures and policies are standardized to the
     maximum extent possible among operations units, without posing a threat to Operational
     Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E). (T-3).
     2.9.6. Delegate SCA, when assigned by 14 AF to appropriate units for day-to-day
     operations. (T-3).
        2.9.6.1. Ensure units relinquishing SCA provide the expected transfer duration,
        current spacecraft operational configuration, schedule of planned supports and other
        spacecraft maintenance activities, operational documentation as required and 24-hour
        points of contact for engineering and technical assistance to the accepting squadron or
        organization. (T-3).
        2.9.6.2. Ensure gaining and losing units record date and time of SCA transfers and
        names of authorizing officials in permanent operations logs. Forward SCA
        notification to 14 AF/A3. (T-3).
        2.9.6.3. Develop MOUs to describe conditions and responsibilities for SCA transfer
        between units of different operational space wings. (T-3).
        2.9.6.4. Develop MOUs describing roles, responsibilities, and relationships if an
        operational space wing crew is commanding a satellite or payload on behalf of
        another owning organization with SCA (e.g., SMC during L&EO checkout). (T-2).
     2.9.7. Develop supporting plans and procedures for COLA and RFI conflicts including
     pre/post-coordination, resolution, and reporting with appropriate organizations. (T-3).
     2.9.8. Support the SPO team as needed during rehearsals, L&EO activities, and on-orbit
     checkout and test activities to include providing a readiness determination of ground
     systems and operations to 14 AF prior to readiness reviews. (T-2).
     2.9.9. Supplement this instruction with local instructions as necessary (T-3).
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                     11


       2.9.10. Develop crew operations procedures and appropriate Operations Instructions
       (OIs). Ensure units develop and manage operations, training, standardization, evaluation
       and crew force management programs as required to support the new space systems,
       components or operational capability, IAW AFSPCI 13-1. (T-2).
   2.9.11. As the user and operator representative, serve as the concurring authority for ESOH
   medium and low mishap risks for which the SPO PM is the acceptance authority IAW AFI
   63-101_20-101. (T-1).
   2.10. 17th Test Squadron, 53rd Wing, United States Air Force Warfare Center
   (USAFWC):
       2.10.1. Perform Operational Test and Evaluation for space systems to enhance the
       military utility of space power to the warfighter and as required to support MAJCOM
       operational acceptance decisions and IOC-related testing requirements. (T-2).
       2.10.2. Provide appropriate post-IOC or sustainment OT&E support per HQ AFSPC,
       SMC, 14 AF, and SW requirements. (T-2).
3. Command, Control, and Management. CDRUSSTRATCOM exercises Combatant
Command (command authority) (COCOM) of assigned forces under Title 10, United States
Code, and as directed by the Secretary of Defense (SecDef) Memorandum, Guidance for the
Employment of the Force. SI 534-17, SI 534-22, and Operation Olympic Defender Operations
Order (OPORD) outline the procedures and responsibilities for CDRUSSTRATCOM to accept
or relinquish COCOM for designated operational satellites and payloads as they enter service.
Component and/or service commands exercise OPCON and Tactical Control (TACON) under
CDRUSSTRATCOM COCOM authority. Additionally, SCA is the authority to command and
control the spacecraft and transfers at key points during the life cycle of the vehicle. The SPO
has initial SCA, which it transfers to the operational community at a pre-determined time in the
system life cycle (see Attachment 2). SCA is transferred from the SPO to the NAF, which in
turn transfers SCA to the appropriate SW. For day-to-day operations, SCA is further delegated
down to the tactical unit level. The initial SCA transfer can occur as early as vehicle separation
from booster or as late as early orbit checkout, vehicle placement into operational orbit, or
completion of test activities.
   3.1. Early CCMD Acceptance. Based upon operational need and/or in time of war,
   USSTRATCOM may request early presentation of a satellite capability prior to formal
   operational acceptance by the service provider. To request early CCMD Acceptance,
   USSTRATCOM will send an official request to AFSPC/CC. After collecting and analyzing
   relevant satellite or payload test and performance data, AFSPC/CC will provide
   USSTRATCOM with a recommendation that includes an assessment of risk to users should
   the satellite or payload capability be accepted earlier than originally planned.
       3.1.1. Early CCMD Acceptance may be driven by the need to satisfy a Joint Urgent
       Operational Need (JUON). A JUON is an urgent need identified by a warfighting
       commander that requires synchronization across multiple Services and Agencies to
       ensure complete and timely combat capability is provided to the Joint warfighter or
       contingency operation, which if not addressed, would result in unacceptable risk to life or
       combat mission accomplishment. Expedited staffing and review procedures are used for
 12                                                             AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


       urgent need requests IAW AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements
       Development.
       3.1.2. For an early CCMD Acceptance involving the first satellite of a new constellation,
       the recommendation will come from the AFSPC/CC to USSTRATCOM via the process
       explained in paragraph 3.2.3. For all subsequent launches, early CCMD Acceptance
       recommendations may come from HQ AFSPC/A3 to USSTRATCOM. Note: First
       launch of a new constellation includes next generation satellites or a new block design
       (i.e. GPS III-01, SBIRS GEO-1).
   3.2. CCMD Acceptance. After collecting and analyzing relevant satellite or payload test
   and performance data from the SPO, test agencies, Satellite/SATCOM System Expert (SSE),
   C-SSE, and others; AFSPC will present the satellite or payload capability to USSTRATCOM
   with a CCMD Acceptance recommendation that includes an overall assessment of risk (ref.
   Attachment 2 and Attachment 4). Recommendations will be based upon the criteria
   outlined in AFMAN 63-119, AFSPCI 10-205, Developmental and Operational Test results,
   Trial Period, SI 534-17, SI 534-22, and USSTRATCOM Operation Olympic Defender, as
   applicable.
       3.2.1. For satellites that are the first launch of a new constellation and upon successful
       satellite or payload checkout, AFSPC/CC will present satellite or payload capability to
       USSTRATCOM and submit CCMD Acceptance recommendations. Note: First launch
       of a new constellation includes next generation satellites or a new block design (i.e. GPS
       III-01, SBIRS GEO-1).
       3.2.2. For all subsequent launches, CCMD Acceptance recommendations may be
       provided from HQ AFSPC/A3 to USSTRATCOM. HQ AFSPC/A3 will notify
       USSTRATCOM of the new asset and state readiness and limiting factors for CCMD
       Acceptance per para 3.2.3
       3.2.3. IAW SI 534-17 and Operation Olympic Defender, the standard CCMD
       Acceptance procedure is as follows: After launch and early-orbit testing and any
       required final orbit maneuvers (as specified in each system’s test plan), AFSPC/CC or
       HQ AFSPC/A3 assesses the satellite’s capability to support operational requirements,
       declares the satellite operational (Operational Acceptance), and recommends CCMD
       Acceptance via memorandum to USSTRATCOM/J3, JFCC SPACE/CC and
       SMDC/ARSTRAT (as required). If a new satellite and/or payload will have operational
       responsibility shared by more than one service/agency (e.g. SATCOM satellites where
       SMDC/ARSTRAT is the C-SSE for the payload), AFSPC will coordinate with the other
       service/agency and provide a consolidated CCMD Acceptance recommendation.
       CDRUSSTRATCOM then delegates OPCON for the system to the appropriate
       component and/or service. For Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack Assessment
       (ITW/AA) contributing satellites, additional guidance to support USSTRATCOM
       COCOM are referenced in SI 534-22 and its companion, NORAD Instruction 10-3 (see
       Attachment 4).
4. Operations. AFSPC’s satellite operations include the following activities: pre-launch;
launch, deployment and early orbit checkout; anomaly resolution; operational TT&C; mission
operations; payload operations; end-of-life operations; and disposal support to all assigned space
systems. The SWs and SPO will develop procedures to operate assigned space systems.
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                      13


  4.1. Pre-Launch Preparation and Activities.
     4.1.1. The applicable SMC SPO will:
         4.1.1.1. Develop satellite or payload test and checkout plans for each new satellite or
         payload to be operationally employed. Test and checkout plans will be coordinated
         with the developing organization as well as the receiving SW.
         4.1.1.2. Develop, test, and checkout appropriate database updates for new satellites
         and ensure incorporation and compatibility with the ground segment prior to Ground
         Readiness Reviews, to include factory compatibility testing and launch based
         compatibility testing as applicable.
         4.1.1.3. Conduct of Ground Readiness Reviews and dress rehearsals prior to launch
         with assistance from the SWs.
     4.1.2. 14 AF/CC will:
         4.1.2.1. Conduct Operational Readiness Reviews to ensure and verify all support
         missions requirements are met for all launch ranges to include associated ground
         systems, and personnel to operate the mission.
     4.1.3. The applicable SW will:
         4.1.3.1. Perform pre-launch satellite or payload TT&C compatibility checkout.
         Provide all required support for all planning efforts leading to launch, including
         Ground Readiness Reviews and Launch Rehearsals. (T-2).
         4.1.3.2. Provide mission readiness assessment to Launch Decision Authority (LDA)
         for all SW activities and resources supporting launch operations. (T-1).
  4.2. Launch and Early Orbit (L&EO) Operations. The SPO and/or SWs will develop
  and execute procedures for the following when assigned the mission responsibility for a
  system by AFSPC and/or 14 AF:
     4.2.1. Launch Operations: The SPO and/or SWs support launch operations as required,
     including tracking and monitoring the satellite or payload while attached to the launch
     vehicle through booster and launch operations checkout. 14 AF will receive SCA from
     the SPO post launch or upon early orbit checkout, vehicle placement into operational
     orbit, or completion of test activities., as appropriate (see Attachment 2 & Attachment
     3). (T-2).
         4.2.1.1. In cases where the satellite is contractor launched but is intended to be
         controlled and operated by AFSPC, SMC will lead the development of support
         agreements between themselves, the contractor(s), and the appropriate AFSPC
         wing(s). (T-2). This agreement will clearly define the timeline and conditions for
         SCA transfer(s), the roles and responsibilities of contractor and government
         personnel, and the conditions for final SCA transfer to the military including DD
         Form 250, Materiel Inspection and Receiving Report signature.
  4.3. Early Use. Agencies who require satellite data, telemetry, or payload services for
  operational use outside of the normal testing process before the satellite or payload is
  operational must officially request those services from HQ AFSPC/A3. Early Use enables
  use of a satellite’s services prior to entry into operations or completion of satellite checkout.
14                                                            AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


  Early Use will be coordinated between the requesting agency and affected AFSPC
  organizations to determine limitations, risks, capabilities, interim procedures, resource
  requirements and readiness. Early Use operations may occur prior to OA and may not
  require transfer of SCA to provide the satellite services to the requesting agency under terms
  of Early Use. An established Mission Ready/Combat Mission Ready (MR/CMR) program is
  not required for Early Use operations. A training program should exist and be documented
  during the interim timeline and be acknowledged in a SW Operating Instruction IAW
  Instructional System Development (ISD). A MR/CMR program should be established prior
  to formal Operational Testing leading to OA. (T-1).
  4.4. On-Orbit Operations. The SWs will execute technical orders and/or operations
  manuals and develop unit-level procedures for the following:
     4.4.1. On-orbit TT&C operations to evaluate satellite or payload status, maintain
     operational capability, and conduct satellite and payload operations as required. These
     activities include, but are not limited to, prescribed satellite TT&C activities, mission
     data recovery, mission data processing, repositioning maneuvers, and station keeping
     functions during the useful life of the satellite or payload. (T-1).
     4.4.2. Emergency responses for situations that require immediate decision and action, the
     SW will implement actions necessary to safe and recover the satellite or payload. In such
     cases, the SW may take actions as determined by unit anomaly team to the extent
     required in the interests of satellite or payload safety. In all cases, SWs will keep the 14
     AF/SE, Joint Space Operations Center (JSpOC), and AFSPC Command Center informed
     of actions taken to safe and recover the satellite or payload. The anomaly team will keep
     Wing Safety informed to determine if mishap criteria are reached. Wing Safety will also
     work with the SPO system safety POC to assess the potential mishap risk associated with
     the contingency and support the SPO in updating and developing hazard analyses
     required IAW the prescribed Mil-Std-882E, DoD Standard Practice for System Safety,
     methodology. (T-1).
     4.4.3. Monitor and maintain the status of each subsystem and maintain and analyze
     available satellite or payload telemetry throughout the useful life. Analyze data to detect
     trends, degradation or anomalies, and develop procedures and recommend changes to
     minimize the effects of anomalies. (T-2).
     4.4.4. Monitor, trend, and analyze satellite or payload mission performance (e.g.,
     detection capability, timing, etc.). Analyze data to detect trends or identify mission
     degradation to support the development of mitigation procedures and constellation
     redeployment and sustainment efforts. (T-2).
     4.4.5. Report Operational Capability (OPSCAP) or System Capability (SYSCAP), as
     required, IAW established procedures for each supported mission area. (T-1).
     4.4.6. (50 SW) Operate and sustain the AFSCN to provide common use TT&C services
     and support to AF, DoD, National Reconnaissance Office, civil and authorized users.
     Plan and execute the Network Tasking Order to connect Satellite Operations Centers to
     network assets (e.g., communications, remote tracking antennas, etc.) for operations and
     rehearsals. (T-1).
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                    15


     4.4.7. Conduct space system anomaly and trend analysis IAW HQ AFSPC/A3 direction
     and SPO Orbital Operations Handbooks (OOH) (T-2). Any anomaly not immediately
     attributable to a known cause must be investigated for other potential sources. (T-3).
        4.4.7.1. Request HQ AFSPC/A2 support to determine possible hostile operations that
        display as anomalies or trends. (T-3).
        4.4.7.2. Request 614 AOC/SPD, JSpOC Weather Support Team, and 2d Weather
        Squadron, Space Weather Flight forecaster or analyst support, for investigation of
        whether environmental conditions were conducive to the subject anomaly. (T-3).
        Note: Both work centers should be contacted to ensure all relevant space
        environmental conditions are considered in the assessment.
     4.4.7.3. Provide the 614 AOC/SPD and 2d Weather Squadron the following
     information:       Date/Time of Anomaly, state vectors of satellite, system
     location/description at time of anomaly, and type of anomaly. (T-3).
     4.4.8. Develop tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) for detecting and
     characterizing indications of potential hostile action taken against space systems (i.e.,
     ground, communications, and space segment). Collect and correlate data across all
     assigned space systems. Identify actions that can be taken to mitigate effects of an attack.
     (T-3). Coordinate TTPs with HQ AFSPC/A2.
     4.4.9. In response to HQ AFSPC/A3 direction and operational needs, SWs will develop
     procedures for operating and sustaining residual capability satellites. 14 AF and the SW
     will coordinate residual satellite operational policies and plans through HQ AFSPC/A3 to
     ensure affected units are appropriately resourced. (T-2).
     4.4.10. Conduct orbital analysis operations to perform functions such as ephemeris
     generation and distribution, maneuver planning, collision avoidance, end-of-life test and
     checkout (TACO), and disposal. (T-1).
  4.5. Contingency Operations. The SWs will execute procedures to conduct contingency
  operations for the following:
     4.5.1. Operate and correct malfunctioning satellites, payloads, or ground systems
     consistent with technical guidance provided by the SPOs, responsible or authorized
     external agencies and satellite, payload, or ground system contractors. The procedures
     will address correcting or mitigating the impact of failures, including safing the satellite
     or payload (i.e. ensure the satellite or payload does not sustain further damage). These
     procedures will also include actions aimed at maximizing on orbit capabilities while
     minimizing risk to satellite or payload health. All anomalies will be evaluated for
     indications of intentional hostile action or environmental conditions as part of the initial
     response to resolve the anomalies. (T-2).
     4.5.2. Convene an anomaly team as required to identify, assess, and resolve anomalous
     conditions. Transfer SCA as required. The anomaly team will keep Wing Safety
     informed to determine if mishap criteria are reached. Wing Safety will also work with
     the SPO system safety POC to assess the potential mishap risk associated with the
     contingency or new operation and support the SPO in updating and developing hazard
16                                                            AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


     analyses required IAW the prescribed Mil-Std-882 methodology. (T-1). Membership
     should consider intelligence and weather support. (T-3).
     4.5.3. Establish threat and intrusion detection procedures. Perform routine analysis of
     space systems telemetry to detect and report suspected or actual space system
     interference, attacks, natural threats, or system failures in a timely manner. Up channel
     reports as required by AFI 10-206, Commander’s Information Request (CCIR), or
     operational requirements (T-2).
     4.5.4. Establish collision avoidance procedures. Respond to identified close approaches
     and coordinate with JSpOC for conjunction assessment. Determine Course of Action
     (COA) and implement approved COA as directed by JFCC Space or current designated
     TACON authority. (T-1).
     4.5.5. Notify system users of changes that may affect them. (T-3).
  4.6. Backup Satellite Control. Provide continuity of operations for satellite or payload
  control IAW AFI 10-208, Air Force Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program and AFI 10-
  208 AFSPCSUP_I (15 Jul 08).
     4.6.1. Backup control capabilities (TT&C for satellites and payloads) may be established
     and function until primary control capabilities are restored following these guidelines:
         4.6.1.1. This capability includes the necessary communication links, TT&C,
         maneuverability, reconfiguration, launch operations and anomaly resolution actions.
         Backup Satellite Operation Centers are not intended to mirror the full capability of
         the primary operation centers. However, backup communication links should have
         the same capability as the primary communication link.
         4.6.1.2. Given the loss of the primary operations facility or communications link,
         backup resources will assume responsibility for conducting routine operations,
         anomaly resolution and/or contingency operations.               Although the actual
         responsiveness required will vary with specific mission requirements, procedures and
         databases must be ready to implement with sufficient responsiveness to preclude
         lasting impact to mission capability. Facilities must be able to sustain operations, per
         operational requirements or IAW approved agreements, for reconstitution time of the
         primary space operation center(s).
     4.6.2. Complimentary communication control node capabilities of the AFSCN will be
     established. The alternate node will have the capability to perform primary functions;
     however, not all capabilities are shared between the nodes. Two different AFSCN
     control nodes provide a capability of balanced workload across the network.
         4.6.2.1. Provide for full primary and additional communications services to assure
         operator connectivity to all remote tracking stations of the AFSCN.
         4.6.2.2. Given the loss of the primary control node facility, redundant control node
         communications must be maintained in a condition able to immediately assume
         responsibility for conducting TT&C, anomaly resolution and/or contingency
         operations.
     4.6.3. Geographic separation should be sufficient to prevent simultaneous degradation to
     both the prime and backup operational control nodes that could degrade mission
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                      17


     capability from the same man-made or natural threat (e.g. severe weather, terrorist attack
     or earthquake) (T-3).
     4.6.4. While not required, it is desirable for backup capabilities to be organic AFSPC
     units in order to take advantage of the synergy gained from mutual support. RDT&E
     missions are exempt from having a backup satellite control capability; however, AFSPC
     RDT&E satellite control capabilities may be available to provide backup functions for
     operational missions. (T-3).
     4.6.5. SWs will develop tactics, techniques and procedures to support satellite control
     backup operations. (T-3).
     4.6.6. HQ AFSPC/A3 will develop designed operational capability (DOC) statements for
     each backup control capability IAW AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training
     Systems.
  4.7. Satellite End-of-Life, CCMD Relinquishment, and Disposal. The objective of
  normal satellite disposal is to reduce the potential for spacecraft collisions, frequency
  interference, space debris, and to open orbital slots to newer satellites. Therefore, de-orbiting
  or removing a non-mission capable satellite from its operational orbit and placing it into an
  established disposal region are of paramount importance. As a satellite approaches the end
  of its operational life, each SW will ensure every satellite maintains its disposal capability.
  This includes assured TT&C and sufficient fuel to reach the disposal region. All efforts and
  actions will be geared towards the objective of de-orbiting or removing a satellite from an
  operational orbit to an orbit of non-interference. When operational considerations allow,
  assets nearing disposal criteria should be considered for end-of-life testing activities which
  would generate spacecraft performance data which could inform future design efforts.
  Examples include damage testing to determine component failure mechanisms and actual
  performance thresholds. Further testing can be accomplished to develop TTPs for spacecraft
  protection from adversary threats. Any such testing activities must not impede the proper
  disposal of the spacecraft following testing. When a satellite and/or payload can no longer
  meet its mission requirements or approaches the disposal criteria in the End of Life Plan
  (EOLP) (e.g. fuel depletion), AFSPC will notify USSTRATCOM of the impending disposal
  and recommend CCMD relinquishment of the asset. In an emergency disposal situation,
  where the decision must be made within 24 hours, CDR JFCC Space is authorized to make
  the disposal decision IAW Operation Olympic Defender.
     4.7.1. SMC/CC:
         4.7.1.1. SMC Program Managers shall prepare, update and deliver to 14 AF/A3 an
         initial EOLP using format, content and schedule outlined in Attachment 3 of AFI 91-
         217, Space Safety and Mishap Prevention Program. This instruction shall also be
         used as guidance for disposal of R&D satellites. Disposal of SATCOM satellites is
         outlined in Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction (CJCSI) 6250.01E, Satellite
         Communication, USSTRATCOM Operation Olympic Defender, SI 505-4, and this
         instruction. Disposal of non-SATCOM satellites is outlined in USSTRATCOM
         Operation Olympic Defender, SI 505-4, and this instruction. For R&D satellites or
         those in long-term Test and Check out (TACO) the SSE or organization with system
         responsibility will recommend disposal to HQ AFSPC/A3 IAW the EOLP.
18                                                           AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


     4.7.2. HQ AFSPC/A3:
         4.7.2.1. Coordinate on all recommended disposal actions prior to the operational unit
         taking any disposal actions. Note: For SATCOM submissions, AFSPC will
         recommend disposal with Global SATCOM Support Center (GSSC) concurrence and
         forward the recommendation to USSTRATCOM (see Attachment 5).
         4.7.2.2. For normal satellites and/or payloads disposal decisions where AFSPC has
         OPCON of the asset, HQ AFSPC/A3 will provide a disposal and CCMD
         relinquishment recommendation, NLT 10 days prior to the required disposal date, via
         memorandum to USSTRATCOM/J3, JFCC Space, and SMC/ARSTRAT (as
         required) (see Attachment 6). Note: A normal disposal is where the decision
         timeframe is greater than 24 hours to comply with the requirements of paragraph 4.7
         Otherwise, it is an emergency disposal and CDR JFCC Space makes the disposal
         decision.
         4.7.2.3. IAW AFI 21-103 AFSPCSUP, Equipment Inventory, Status, and
         Utilization Reporting, HQ AFSPC/A3S will send disposal notification to HQ
         AFSPC/A4S to update REMIS records in support of Financial Improvement Audit
         Readiness requirements.
         4.7.2.4. As a satellite transitions through its on-orbit lifetime, SSE responsibility
         normally follows the organization with SCA, unless otherwise directed by HQ
         AFSPC/A3 (see Attachment 2).
  4.7.3. HQ AFSPC/SE: Coordinate on all recommended disposal actions prior to operational
  units taking any actions that may affect a satellite’s ability to comply with AF and DoD
  satellite disposal requirements.
     4.7.4. 14 AF/CC:
         4.7.4.1. Monitor satellite capability criteria as part of standard operations. Once 14
         AF designates a satellite as Non-Mission Capable (NMC) and/or the satellite has
         potential disposal capability problems per established criteria, 14 AF/A3 will forward
         a disposal recommendation to HQ AFSPC/A3 for review, NLT 14 days prior to the
         projected date of disposal. At a minimum, the recommendation will include the
         disposal criteria the satellite meets and projected date of disposal.
         4.7.4.2. Act as SSE for Defense Support Program (DSP), Space-Based Infrared
         System (SBIRS), Global Positioning System(GPS), Space-Based Space Surveillance
         (SBSS), Defense Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP), Operationally
         Responsive Space (ORS) and any other satellite-system presented to USSTRATCOM
         through 14 AF. Note: SSE for MILSATCOM refers to the SATCOM System
         Expert. MILSATCOM SSE for wideband communications resides at Space and
         Missile Defense Command/Army Strategic Command (SMDC/ARSTRAT).
         MILSATCOM SSE for protected communication reside at HQ AFSPC/A5M and
         614th Air and Space Communications Squadron (ACOMS).
         4.7.4.3. Act as satellite bus experts for the Defense Satellite Communications System
         (DSCS) and Wideband Global SATCOM (WGS) constellations.
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                     19


        4.7.4.4. Approve criteria for identifying satellites as non-mission capable, and
        forwards the criteria to HQ AFSPC/A3.
        4.7.4.5. Coordinate with DISA and SMDC/ARSTRAT, the SSE for Wideband
        Communication Systems, to identify satellites and payloads as non-mission capable.
        4.7.4.6. Coordinate with HQ AFSPC/A5M and 614 ACOMS for protected
        communications systems, to identify satellites as non-mission capable.
        4.7.4.7. Coordinate with Air Force Technical Application Center (AFTAC) for
        United States Nuclear Detonation Detection System (USNDS) payload criteria and
        for identifying USNDS payloads as non-mission capable.
        4.7.4.8. Provide HQ AFSPC/A3 with plans for satellite disposal to include end-of-
        life testing requirements, means for disposal, disposal orbit, environmental and safety
        considerations. Send standard disposal recommendations 120 days in advance of the
        anticipated disposal date.
        4.7.4.9. Develop and manage any end-of-life tests or other test activities prior to
        satellite disposal, as required
        4.7.4.10. In the case where disposing of a satellite must be expedited (less than 30
        days), sends immediate request for disposal to HQ AFSPC/A3.
     4.7.5. SWs / Satellite Operation Units:
        4.7.5.1. Develop and forward program-specific disposal criteria for non-mission
        capable satellites to 14 AF/CC for approval. As a minimum, these criteria will
        include on-board fuel estimate, fuel consumption, fuel requirements for disposal
        actions, the ability of the bus to support the payloads, payload capability and capacity
        (including secondary payloads), vehicle command/control capability, vehicle power
        capacity, disposal maneuver requirements, and operational safety considerations. For
        satellites that will reenter Earth’s atmosphere, provide an analysis detailing
        probability, make-up and size of any object surviving reentry. Periodically review
        EOLP after major milestone or operations to ensure currency. (T-2).
        4.7.5.2. Upon direction and IAW USG Orbital Debris Mitigation Standard Practices,
        place satellites designated for disposal in a position (slot/plane/orbit) of non-
        interference with existing systems or de-orbit into the Earth’s atmosphere.
        Operational units will consider operational orbit contamination, radio-frequency
        interference and future constellation development. These guidelines do not preclude
        any end-of-life testing deemed necessary either prior to or after satellites are placed in
        their disposal orbit. Ensure 32 CFR Part 989, Environmental impact Analysis
        Process, is completed in a timely fashion (T-0).
            4.7.5.2.1. Properly safing the bus and all payloads is a critical step in the disposal
            process. The operational unit will deplete all spacecraft fuel to the maximum
            extent possible, disable all spacecraft battery charging systems, stabilize the
            spacecraft in a neutral thermal flight mode (slow spin for most) and, when
            appropriate, disable transmitters. Safing the satellite takes precedence over all
            other disposal actions (T-0).
            4.7.5.2.2. Remove non-mission capable vehicles from operational orbits (T-0).
 20                                                            AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


           4.7.5.3. Submit specific de-orbit or post-maneuver vectors to 14 AF before disposal
           for approval of reentry locations and/or orbital safety screening for possible
           conjunctions (T-1).
           4.7.5.4. Contact the HQ AFSPC/A3 in an emergency situation to expedite the
           decision process for the safe disposal of a satellite (T-2).
5. R&D System Transition. AFSPC will implement its R&D system transition IAW AFI 10-
601, AFI 63-101_20-101 and AFI 63-114, Quick Reaction Capability Process. Emerging
technologies enable opportunities to quickly acquire advanced technology sensors, satellites,
intelligent subsystems and threat avoidance systems on R&D space and ground systems.
Operational and system requirements will be communicated to SMC in order to determine
appropriate acquisition strategy to meet requirements. Decisions to address a critical capability
gap, shortfall or system enhancement will be made by HQ AFSPC/A5 based on
recommendations from HQ AFSPC Staff, to include validated requirements not met by existing
systems, funding availability, and any resource limitations. All agencies are empowered to
identify potential R&D capabilities to HQ AFSPC/A5. Transition to operations will be made by
HQ AFSPC/A3 IAW AFSPCI 10-205. Once capability requirement is validated through either
the Operational Capability Requirements Development or Quick Reaction Capability processes,
new systems will follow established acquisition, integration, program management and testing
standards (when applicable). Joint Capability Technology Demonstration (JCTDs), qualified
prototype, and quick reaction technology projects will comply with the Joint Capabilities
Integration Development System (JCIDS) process as they transition into the acquisition process.
HQ AFSPC/A5 will produce JCIDS documents appropriate for the Milestone at which they are
entering the acquisition process IAW CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and
Development System, Enc B, para 11.
   5.1. HQ AFSPC/A3:
       5.1.1. Assess operational needs and evaluate viability of proposed R&D capability to
       fulfill these needs ICW HQ AFSPC/A5.
       5.1.2. ICW HQ AFSPC Staff and 14 AF, develop mission assignment recommendation
       for AFSPC/CC. Identify manning and funding required to resource identified unit.
       5.1.3. Coordinate on transition plans to integrate required TT&C systems into the
       assigned SW and oversee development of crew training, evaluation, and operational
       procedures in preparation for normal operations IAW AFI 10-601, 63-101/20-101 and
       AFI 63-114.
       5.1.4. Coordinate with USSTRATCOM/J3 for those spacecraft with OPCON delegated
       to the COMAFFOR. SMC will transition developed components or capabilities to
       operations IAW AFI 63-114.
       5.1.5. Manage funding and identify funding requirements through system life and POM
       cycles to HQ AFSPC/A8/9 prior to system acceptance. Ensure new tasking is within the
       scope of the intended unit’s DOC statement. If required, amend DOC statement. Ensure
       new systems are sustainable through logistics and maintenance infrastructure.
       5.1.6. Coordinate on transition plans to include test and evaluation, mishap prevention,
       and/or system safety requirements as identified in AFI 10-601 and AFI 63-114.
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                  21


     5.1.7. Ensure transition planning documentation includes acceptance criteria of hardware
     and software changes to operations IAW AFI 10-601 and FI 63-101/20-101.
     5.1.8. Ensure availability of appropriate command, control, and system integration
     documents to support transition of new systems, components, and capabilities.
     5.1.9. Ensure acquisition strategy and transition plans system requirements, e.g. hours of
     support required per day, specialized payload requirements, scheduling requirements,
     ground system equipment configurations, disposal criteria, etc. as required by AFI 10-601
     and AFI 63-114.
     5.1.10. Coordinate on transition strategy included as part of the JCTD Management Plan
     as required by AFI 63-101_20-101.
     5.1.11. Ensure new system data processing and products for integration into established,
     mission certified processing systems, are certified as required by AFI 63-101_20-101
     prior to operational use.
     5.1.12. Request HQ AFSPC/A1 assistance to validate manpower requirements IAW
     AFSPCI 10-205.
     5.1.13. Recommend to 14 AF use of existing operations units and resources to perform
     operational testing of R&D assets.
     5.1.14. Coordinate with Air Education and Training Command (AETC) and user
     community on training requirements for Operationally Responsive Capability (ORC)
     requirements IAW AFI 10-601 and AFI 63-114.
     5.1.15. Participate in satellite operation planning activities such as the AFSPC Strategic
     Planning Process (i.e., Integrated Planning Process [IPP]).
     5.1.16. For R&D satellites capable of imaging the Earth using electro-optical, radar,
     infrared, multi-spectral, hyper-spectral, or other imaging systems, coordinate with HQ
     AFSPC/A2 to determine whether a proper use memorandum is necessary for post-
     transition imaging operations conducted over US territory for calibration, testing, or
     operational purposes.
     5.1.17. Declare system or technology operational and notify AFSPC/CC.
  5.2. HQ AFSPC/A5:
     5.2.1. Develop and process appropriate capability requirements documents IAW AFI 10-
     601 and AFI 63-114 and for Joint Capability Technology Demonstrations (JCTDs) and
     Advanced Technology Demonstrations (ATD).
     5.2.2. Consolidate MAJCOM space system capability requirements into specific JCTD
     or ATD proposals, as appropriate.
     5.2.3. Support Air Force Research Laboratory and DoD Space Test Program
     demonstrations.
     5.2.4. Provide advocacy for space system JCTD and/or ATD requirements and funding.
     5.2.5. Coordinate with users and SMC to define technical baselines for JCTD/ATD leave
     behind systems and to designate OSS&E responsibilities.
22                                                          AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


     5.2.6. Ensure availability of appropriate technical and engineering support to new
     systems, components, and capabilities as required by AFI 63-101_20-101 and 63-114.
     5.2.7. Coordinate on transition strategy included as part of the JCTD Management Plan
     as required by AFI 63-101_20-101.
  5.3. HQ AFSPC/SE:
     5.3.1. Provide advocacy for space safety requirements and funding.
     5.3.2. Review SPO or 14 AF assessment of risk of introducing R&D data into
     established, mission-certified processing systems.
  5.4. Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC):
     5.4.1. Develop transition and fielding plan for ORC acquisitions ICW AFSPC as
     required by AFI 63-101_20-101 and AFI 63-114. Develop and execute acquisition
     strategy to meet defined requirements within coordinated timelines. Coordinate with
     user, contractor, HQ AFSPC/A5, and stakeholder communities in the acquisitions process
     to ensure needs are met in scope of acquisition strategy enabling ORC.
     5.4.2. Develops JCTD Management Plan including a transition strategy for assigned
     ATD and JCTD projects IAW AFI 63-101_20-101. Coordinate JCTD Management Plan
     with HQ AFSPC/A5.
     5.4.3. Provide technical support, OSS&E, and sustainment during the transfer of leave
     behind JCTD assets and ORC acquisitions to operational unites as required by AFI 63-
     101_20-101 and AFI 63-114.
     5.4.4. Provide logistics support to R&D assets during their test period. Additionally, if
     the assets are required for follow-on operational use, continue logistics support IAW AFI
     63-101_20-101 and AFI 63-114.
     5.4.5. Develop or acquire appropriate technical documentation to support new systems,
     components and capabilities. Ensure R&D and ORC contracts do not limit the ability for
     the Government to assert data rights at a future point as required by AFI 63-101_20-101
     and AFI 63-114. (T-1). SMC/CC should consider whether acquisition of data rights for
     R&D or ORC systems would be prohibitively expensive or slow down the acquisition
     process.
  5.5. 14 AF/CC:
     5.5.1. Provide criteria for operational assessment and viability of proposed R&D system
     to HQ AFSPC/A3.
     5.5.2. Provide assessment of proposed R&D system’s ability to meet USSTRATCOM
     requirements levied on HQ AFSPC/A5.
     5.5.3. ICW HQ AFSPC/A3/A8/9 develop mission assignment recommendation for
     AFSPC/CC.
     5.5.4. Support Operational Testing to assess the impact of accepting the R&D asset.
     5.5.5. Ensure new systems, components or capabilities are integrated into wartime
     missions and tasking.
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                   23


       5.5.6. Ensure units have adequate resources to operate their systems.
   5.6. 17th Test Squadron/53rd Wing/United States Air Force Warfare Center
   (USAFWC)
       5.6.1. Provide technical assessment of proposed R&D system viability and Operational
       Testing as required to support operational acceptance decisions.
       5.6.2. Determine compatibility and identify risk of introducing R&D data into
       established, mission-certified processing systems.
   5.7. Space Wings / Satellite Operations Unit:
       5.7.1. Develop crew operations procedures and appropriate OIs. Transition existing
       procedures to operational units and ensure units develop and manage operations, training,
       standardization, evaluation and crew force management programs as required to support
       the new space systems, components or operational capability IAW AFSPCGM 13-1.
       5.7.2. Identify funding and resource requirements through 14 AF/CC and               HQ
       AFSPC/A5 for operating new systems ICW SMC. (T-3).
6. Capability Assessment and Reporting. SYSCAP is a continuous assessment of the
capability of a system or program to perform its mission. OPSCAP is a continuous assessment
of the capability of the major components of a system or program to perform the mission.
SYSCAP and OPSCAP assessments support real-time planning and serve as a measure of system
capability. Each SW will develop specific criteria to define mission degradation and
SYSCAP/OPSCAP status changes. (T-2). 14 AF/A3 is the final approval authority for these
criteria, IAW COCOM mission policies and procedures. Submit reports IAW AFI 10-206 and
AFI10-206 AFSPCSUP1.
7. Constellation Sustainment. Constellation Sustainment Assessment Teams (CSAT) will
review on-orbit constellation status for DMSP, DSP, SBIRS GPS, DSCS, WGS, Milstar and
AEHF and other assigned AFSPC satellite systems. CSATs will convene at least semi-annually,
prior to the CLSRB, and review the Space Launch Manifest and Current Launch Schedule
(CLS), examine the health of operational constellations (including possible disposal actions),
ensure user requirements are satisfied and forecast launch requirements. CSATs will forward
satellite reconfiguration, constellation repositioning, launch replenishment, and disposal
recommendations to 14 AF/CC for approval. 14 AF/CC forwards for approval, reconfiguration,
repositioning, and disposal recommendations to AFSPC/CC and issues launch schedule
recommendations based upon the results of a resource assessment to the CLSRB. The 14 AF/CC
approves or disapproves the launch schedule recommendations and the decision is reflected in
the revised CLS. Teams will also convene on an as-needed basis in response to contingencies.
   7.1. Membership. CSATs are chaired or co-chaired by 14 AF/A3 and will be comprised of
   members from HQ AFSPC, SMC, SWs, the operational units providing TT&C and mission
   support, the supporting Space Launch Squadron/Launch Support Squadron (if required),
   mission users and other interested agencies as required. DSCS/WGS CSATs are co-chaired
   by SMDC/ARSTRAT and 14 AF/A3.
   7.2. Responsibilities. Responsibilities outlined in this instruction cover overall CSAT
   management and chairmanship. Specific responsibilities (e.g., secretariat, tracking of Action
   Items, etc.) will be defined in roles and responsibilities documents developed for each CSAT.
 24                                                      AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


      7.2.1. HQ AFSPC/A3 participates as a member in CSATs for DMSP, DSP, SBIRS, GPS,
      DSCS, WGS, Milstar and AEHF. HQ AFSPC/A3 presents constellation replenishment
      recommendations for COCOM constellations using the Operational Generalized
      Availability Program (OPGAP) model.
      7.2.2. 14 AF/A3 organizes and chairs CSATs for DSP, SBIRS, GPS, DMSP, Milstar and
      AEHF. 14 AF/A3 organizes and co-chairs DSCS/WGS CSATs.
8. Reports. Accomplish reports IAW AFI 10-206 and AFI 10-206, AFSPC SUP1.




                                       DAVID J. BUCK, Brigadier General, USAF
                                       Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                  25


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
32 CFR Part 989, Environmental Impact Analysis Process
AFI 10-201, Status of Resources and Training Systems, 19 April 2013
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 September 2011
AFI 10-206_AFSPCSUP1, Operational Reporting, 1 May 2013
AFI 10-208, Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program, 15 December 2011
AFI 10-208_AFSPCSUP_I, Continuity of Operations (COOP) Program, 15 July 2008
AFI 10-503, Strategic Basing, 27 September 2010
AFI 10-601, Operational Capability Requirements Development, 6 November 2013
AFI 10-1211, Space Launch Operations, 17 July 2006
AFI 10-1201, Space Operations, 25 July 1994
AFI 21-103_AFSPCSUP, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 22 April 2014
AFI 63-101_20-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 7 March 2013
AFI 91-204_AFSPCSUP, Safety Investigations and Reports, 4 May 2012
AFI 91-217, Space Safety and Mishap Prevention Program, 17 April 2014
AFMAN 63-119, Certification of the System Readiness for Dedicated Operational Testing, 20
June 2008
AFSPCI 10-205, Space Operations Weapon System Management, 10 December 2013
AFSPCGM 13-1, Space Operations Crew Force Management, Training, Standardization and
Evaluation, 20 March 13
AFSPCI 10-1208, Spacelift Operations, 1 October 2008
AFSPCI 13-1213, Launch Scheduling and Forecasting Procedures, 18 September 2013
AFSPCI 36-283, Space Training System Management, 2 August 2004
AFSPCI 99-103, Capabilities—Based Test and Evaluation of Space and Cyberspace Systems, 29
December 2010
AFPD 10-7, Information Operations, 6 September 2006
AFPD 13-6, Space Policy, 13 August 2013
CJCSI 3170.01H, Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 10 January 2012
CJCSI 6250.01E, Satellite Communications, 24 January 2012
DoDD 3100.10, Space Policy, 18 October 2012
DoDI 3100.12, Space Support, 14 September 2000
 26                                                         AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


JP 3-14, Space Operations, 6 January 2009
Mil-Std-882E, DoD Standard Practice for System Safety, 11 May 2012
NI 10-3, Mission Integrity, Change Control Management, and Test Control for the ITW/AA
System, 25 March 2011
SI 714-02, Satellite Communication (SATCOM) System Expert (SSE) and Consolidated SSE (C—
SSE) Responsibilities, 29 September 2009
SI 505-4, Satellite Disposal Procedures, 21 April 2006
SI 534-17, Combatant Command Satellite Acceptance Procedures, 9 November 2007
SI 534-22, Mission Integrity, Change Control Management, and Test Control for the ITW/AA
System, 25 March 2011
USG Orbital Debris Mitigation Standard Practices, 1997
USSTRATCOM Operation Olympic Defender OPORD, 3 June 2013
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 1067, Modification Proposal
DD Form 250, Materiel Inspection and Receiving Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
14AF—14th Air Force
A3—Director of Air, Space and Cyberspace Operations
A3S—Space Operations Division
AEHF—Advanced Extremely High Frequency System
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management center
AFOTEC—Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFSCN—Air Force Satellite Control Network
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command (Air Force Component to US Strategic Command)
AFSPCI—Air Force Space Command Instruction
AFSTRAT—Air Forces Strategic
AFTAC—Air Force Technical Applications Center
ANG—Air National Guard
ARSTRAT—Army Strategic Command
ATD—Advanced Technology Demonstration
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                 27


C2—Command and Control
CA—Command Authority
CDD—Capability Development Document
CDRUSSTRATCOM—Commander, United States Strategic Command
CI—Configuration Item
CJCSI—Chairman Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction
CLS—Current Launch Schedule
CLSRB—Current Launch Schedule Review Board
MR/CMR—Mission Ready/Combat Mission Ready
C-NAF—Component Numbered Air Force
COA—Course of Action
CCMD—Combattant Command
COCOM—Combattant Command Command Authority
COLA—Collision Avoidance
COMAFFOR—Commander Air Force Forces for Space, AFSPC/CC
CPD—Capability Production Document
CSAT—Constellation Sustainment Assessment Team
DISA—Defense Information Systems Agency
DMSP—Defense Meteorological Satellite Program
DOC—Designed Operational Capability
DSCS—Defense Satellite Communications System
DSP—Defense Support Program
EHF—Extremely High Frequency
EMI—Electromagnetic Interference
EOLP—End of Life Plans
ESOH—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
FLTSAT—Fleet Satellite
FLTSATCOM—Fleet Satellite Communications
FOC—Full Operational Capability
GSSC—Global SATCOM Support Center
GPS—Global Positioning System
GRR—Ground Readiness Review
 28                                                       AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


GSRR—Ground Station Readiness Review
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
ICW—In Coordination With
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
IPP—Integrated Planning Process
ISD—Instructional System Development
ISR—Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance
ITW/AA—Integrated Tactical Warning and Attack Assessment
JCIDS—Joint Capabilities Integration Development System
JCTD—Joint Capability Technology Demonstration
JFCC—Joint Functional Component Command
JSpOC—Joint Space Operations Center
JUON—Joint Urgent Operational Need
LDA—Launch and Deployment Authority or Launch Decision Authority
L&EO—Launch and Early Orbit
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILSATCOM—Military Satellite Communications
MMSOC—Multi-mission Satellite Operation Center
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MUOS—Mobile User Objective System
NAF—Numbered Air Force
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
NMC—Non-mission capable
NNSOC—Naval Network and Space Operations Command
NOAA—National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
NORAD—North American Aerospace Defense Command
OA—Operational Acceptance
OI—Operating Instruction
OPCON—Operational Control
OPGAP—Operational Generalized Availability Program
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                              29


OOD—Operation Olympic Defender
OOH—On Orbit Handbook
OPORD—Operations Order
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPSCAP—Operations Capability
ORB—Operations Review Board
ORC—Operationally Responsive Capability
ORD—Operational Requirements Document
ORS—Operationally Responsive Space
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness
OT—Operational Test
OT&E—Operational Test and Evaluation
PCA—Payload Control Authority
PMC—Partial Mission Capable
PNT—Positioning, Navigation and Timing
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
RAF—Royal Air Force
R&D—Research and Development
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RDT&E—Research, Development, Test and Evaluation
RFI—Radio Frequency Interference
SATCOM—Satellite Communications
SBIRS—Space-Based Infrared System
SBSS—Space-Based Space Surveillance
SCA—Satellite Control Authority
SD—Strategic Command Directive
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SI—Strategic Command Instruction
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SMDC—Space and Missile Defense Command
SOC—Satellite Operations Center
SOH—State of Health
 30                                                            AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


SPO—System Program Office
SSA—Space Situational Awareness
SSE—Satellite System Expert or SATCOM System Expert
SW—Space Wing
SYSCAP—Systems Capability
TACO—Test and Check-Out
TACON—Tactical Control
TCS—Telemetry and Command Station
TT&C—Telemetry, Tracking and Commanding
UFO—Ultra High Frequency Follow-on
UHF—Ultra High Frequency
USAFWC—United States Air Force Warfare Center
USNDS—United States Nuclear Detonation Detection System
USSTRATCOM—United States Strategic Command
WGS—Wideband Global SATCOM

Terms
Air Force Satellite Control Network (AFSCN)—An operational national resource of
communication links and worldwide TT&C antennas that provide global support for launch and
on-orbit operations for DoD, national, RDT&E, NOAA, and Allied space systems and programs.
The AFSCN provides network support for satellite operations in support of warfighters, the
President, and Secretary of Defense.
Anomaly—An unexpected or unplanned condition or event affecting the space, ground or
communications segment that does not meet system performance parameters.
Bus—The part of the satellite that carries and supports the payload. The bus includes the
satellite's structure, power system, telemetry, tracking and commanding system, attitude control
system, and thermal control. The satellite bus can degrade/fail before the payload, making
disposal necessary even though the payload can still accomplish the mission.
Combatant Command (COCOM)—Non-transferable command authority established by Title
10, United States Code, Section 164, exercised only by commanders of unified combatant
commands. COCOM is the authority of a Combatant Commander to perform those functions of
command over assigned forces involving organizing and employing command and forces,
assigning tasks, designating objectives and giving authoritative direction over all aspects of
military operations, joint training and logistics necessary to accomplish the mission assigned to
the command. COCOM provides full authority to organize and employ commands and forces as
the Combatant Commander considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions.
Command Authority (CA)—Combatant command (command authority) cannot be delegated
and is the authority of a combatant commander to perform those functions of command over
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                      31


assigned forces involving organizing and employing commands and forces, assigning tasks,
designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction over all aspects of military operations,
joint training, and logistics necessary to accomplish the missions assigned to the command.
Combatant command (command authority) should be exercised through the commanders of
subordinate organizations. Normally this authority is exercised through subordinate joint force
commanders and Service and/or functional component commanders. Combatant command
(command authority) provides full authority to organize and employ commands and forces as the
combatant commander considers necessary to accomplish assigned missions. Operational
control is inherent in combatant command (command authority).
Configuration Control—The systematic proposal, justification, evaluation, coordination,
approval or disapproval and implementation of all approved changes in the configuration of
Configuration Item (CI) after formal establishment of the baseline.
Constellation—Considered to be a number of satellites with coordinated ground coverage,
operating together under shared control, synchronized so that they overlap well in coverage and
complement rather than interfere with other satellites' coverage.
Ephemeris—A table or data file giving the calculated positions of a celestial object at regular
intervals throughout a period of time.
End-of-Life—When a satellite is no longer useful. This occurs when the satellite's payload or
bus becomes so degraded it can no longer support operations, or when the payload's users no
longer need it to accomplish their mission. It is possible for another agency to use a satellite's
residual capability after the vehicle reaches end-of-life. However, this is not authorized if bus
degradations would prevent possible satellite disposal.
Initial Operations Capability (IOC)—That first attainment of the capability to effectively
employ a weapon, item of equipment, or system of approved specific characteristics with the
appropriate number, type, and mix of trained and equipped personnel necessary to operate,
maintain, and support the system. It is normally defined in the CDD. NOTE: IOC is event-
driven and not tied to a specific future date.
Naval Network and Space Operations Command (NNSOC)—NNSOC, following operational
acceptance, has overall responsibility for the Fleet Satellite Communications (FLTSATCOM)
system satellites. The FLTSATCOM system includes, FLTSAT, Ultra High Frequency (UHF)
Follow-on (UFO), and Mobile User Objective System (MUOS). Commander, NNSOC exercises
system management responsibilities and operational control of the FLTSATCOM system
satellites and payloads, through the Naval Satellite Operations Center, located at Point Mugu
CA.
Operational Control (OPCON)—The authority to perform those functions of command over
subordinate forces involving composition of those forces, assignment of tasks, designation of
objectives and tactical and authoritative direction necessary to accomplish the mission. OPCON
authority is exercised through component commanders and the commanders of established
subordinate organizations.
Payload—The components performing the satellite's mission (for example, communications,
navigation, weather, warning). A satellite can carry more than one payload, expanding its
primary mission or giving it secondary missions.
 32                                                             AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


Payload Control Authority (PCA)—The authority and ability to provide control and
management of a satellite's payload.
Research and Development (R&D)—A one-of-a-kind or few-of-a-kind space experiment
system used to demonstrate/validate new technology; not intended for use in an operational
capacity.
Residual Capability Satellite—A residual satellite is not part of the operational constellation
and has some capabilities that could be employed, if required.
SATCOM Operational Manager—Lead organization responsible for day-to-day operations of
a system. This is normally designated as having primary responsibility for managing the system
to maximize the satisfaction of user requirements.
Satellite Control Authority (SCA)—A transferable authority and ability to provide Telemetry,
Tracking and Commanding (TT&C) of a satellite's bus and to provide control and management
of a satellite's payload unless PCA is assigned to another organization.
Satellite Operations—Those operations conducted to maneuver, configure, operate, task,
and sustain on—orbit assets. Satellite operations are characterized as spacecraft and payload
operations. Spacecraft operations include TT&C, maneuvering, monitoring state-of-health, and
maintenance sub-functions. TT&C is the process of monitoring spacecraft systems, transmitting
the status of those systems to the control segment on the ground, and receiving and processing
instructions from the control segment. Payload operations include monitoring and commanding
of the satellite payload to collect data or provide capability in the operational environment.
Satellite operations are executed through a host of satellite operations centers linked to on—orbit
assets via dedicated and shared networks. Some systems utilize dedicated antennas for both
mission data retrieval and routine satellite TT&C. Additionally, as a critical and essential link
between the satellite operator and joint force, and a significant contributor to SSA, satellite
operations include protection mechanisms to assure access to space assets.
Satellite Operations Center (SOC)—Facility conducting prescribed on—orbit TT&C activities
for operational satellites under COCOM authority. Activities include, but are not limited to
mission data recovery, satellite vehicle (SV) status and safety, maintaining bus and payload
capabilities, maneuvering and station keeping throughout the useful life of the SV.
Satellite/SATCOM System Expert (SSE)—The component or designated organization
responsible for providing the technical planning and functions in support of the operational
management of a specific satellite/SATCOM constellation.
Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) System Program Office (SPO)—The SPOs,
located at Los Angeles AFB, design, develop and procure space and associated satellite control
systems and are Launch and Deployment Authority (LDA) for R&D and RDT&E systems. The
SPOs provide technical advice and support, including Technical Advisors and other contractors,
to the SW throughout the lifetime of their assigned satellite programs.
Space Mishap—Any unplanned event involving space systems that results in personnel injury,
system damage/destruction or mission capability loss/delay. For reporting purposes, it also
includes near misses, close calls and high accident potential events.
System Safety—The element of operational risk management that uses specialized engineering
techniques to systematically identify, assess, mitigate, and communicate hazards to personnel
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                                    33


and high-value equipment/activities. Systems safety includes, but is not limited to the following
skills sets (i.e., Developing Preliminary Hazard List, Preliminary Hazard Analysis, Energy
Flow/Barrier Analysis, Failure Modes Effects Analysis, Failure Modes Effects and Criticality
Analysis, Fault Tree Analysis, Fishbone Failure Analysis, Combinatorial, Failure Probability
Analysis, Event Tree Analysis, Cause-Consequence Analysis, Risk Acceptance and Strategy
Selection in Technology Activities, Failure Information, Propagation Modeling, Assessment of
Operating Procedures, Human Factors and Operator Errors, Weighted Scoring Decision Making,
Sneak Circuit Analysis, and/or Probabilistic Risk Assessment).
Tactical Control (TACON)—The authority and responsibility to take the necessary action with
unit assets to provide mission data and sensor management. SCA is inherent in TACON but may
be delegated.
 34                                                 AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


                                    Attachment 2
                SATELLITE FUNCTIONAL TRANSFER PROCESSES

Figure A2.1. Satellite Ownership and SCA Transfer
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                               35


                                       Attachment 3
           SATELLITE CONTROL AUTHORITY (SCA) SAMPLE LETTERS

A3.1. Figure A3 1 and A3.2 are sample letters to be used by appropriate agencies to transfer
SCA or Payload Control Authority for all AFSPC satellite programs IAW this instruction.

Figure A3.1. SMC Letter to 14 AF/A3 Recommending SCA Transfer
 36                                                       AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


Figure A3.2. 14 AF Letter Notifying SW of SCA Transfer.
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                           37


                                     Attachment 4
      COMBATANT COMMAND (CCMD) COMMAND AUTHORITY (COCOM)
                   ACCEPTANCE SAMPLE LETTER

A4.1. HQ AFSPC/A3 Letter to USSTRATCOM/J3 presenting a new capability to
USSTRATCOM and recommending CCMD COCOM Acceptance. (Note 1: If this is the first
satellite of a new constellation or block design, the memo will be from AFSPC/CC vice HQ
AFSPC/A3. Note 2: Additional guidance applies for presentation of ITW&AA capabilities,
reference paragraph 2.3.7).

Figure A4.1. Combatant Command (CCMD) Command Authority (COCOM) Acceptance
Sample Letter
 38                                                           AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


                                        Attachment 5
                 DISPOSAL AUTHORITY, PROCESS, AND METHODS

A5.1. Table A5 1. Identifies the normal disposal authority, the disposal process and method for
current AFSPC satellite programs.
A5.2. Note: For emergency disposals, those which require a decision in less than 24 hours,
CDR JFCC Space will make the disposal decision and notify AFSPC/CC and
CDRUSSTRATCOM.

Table A5.1. Disposal Authority, Process and Methods.
 PROGRAM DISPOSAL       DISPOSAL PROCESS
         RECOMMENDATION
         AUTHORITY
 AEHF           AFSPC/CC                   14 AF/CC coordinates with DISA to make disposal
                                           recommendation to AFSPC. AFSPC forwards
                                           disposal and CCMD relinquishment
                                           recommendation to CDRUSSTRATCOM.
 DMSP           14 AF/CC                   14 AF/CC makes disposal recommendations to
                                           AFSPC. AFSPC makes CCMD relinquishment
                                           recommendation to USSTRATCOM and directs
                                           disposal.
 DSCS           SMDC/ARSTRAT and           14 AF/CC coordinates with DISA to make disposal
                                           recommendation to AFSPC. AFSPC coordinates
                AFSPC/CC
                                           with SMDC/ARSTRAT and forwards disposal and
                                           CCMD relinquishment recommendation to
                                           CDRUSSTRATCOM.
 DSP            14 AF/CC                   14 AF/CC coordinates with AFTAC and makes
                                           disposal recommendations to AFSPC/CC. AFSPC
                                           makes CCMD relinquishment recommendation to
                                           USSTRATCOM and directs disposal.
 EPS            14 AF/CC                   14 AF/CC makes disposal recommendations to
                                           AFSPC. AFSPC makes CCMD relinquishment
                                           recommendation to USSTRATCOM and directs
                                           disposal.
 GPS            14 AF/CC                   14 AF/CC coordinates with AFTAC and makes
                                           disposal recommendations to AFSPC/CC. AFSPC
                                           makes CCMD relinquishment recommendation to
                                           USSTRATCOM and directs disposal.
 Milstar        AFSPC/CC                   14 AF/CC coordinates with DISA to make disposal
                                           recommendation to AFSPC. AFSPC forwards
                                           disposal and CCMD relinquishment
AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014                                                      39


PROGRAM DISPOSAL       DISPOSAL PROCESS
        RECOMMENDATION
        AUTHORITY
                                  recommendation to CDRUSSTRATCOM.
ORS—1          14 AF/CC           14 AF/CC makes disposal recommendations to
(MMSOC                            AFSPC. AFSPC makes CCMD relinquishment
related)                          recommendation to USSTRATCOM and directs
                                  disposal.
SBIRS          14 AF/CC           14 AF/CC makes disposal recommendations to
                                  AFSPC. AFSPC makes CCMD relinquishment
                                  recommendation to USSTRATCOM and directs
                                  disposal.
Space—         14 AF/CC           14 AF/CC makes disposal recommendations to
Based Space                       AFSPC. AFSPC makes CCMD relinquishment
Surveillance                      recommendation to USSTRATCOM and directs
(SBSS)                            disposal.
WGS            SMDC/ARSTRAT and   14 AF/CC coordinates with DISA to make disposal
                                  recommendation to AFSPC. AFSPC coordinates
               AFSPC/CC
                                  with SMDC/ARSTRAT and forwards disposal and
                                  CCMD relinquishment recommendation to
                                  CDRUSSTRATCOM.
 40                                                   AFSPCI10-1204 15 May 20014


                                   Attachment 6
 SATELLITE DISPOSAL AND/OR PAYLOAD RELINQUSHMENT NOTIFICATION
    TO CDRUSSTRATCOM (CCMD RELINQUISHMENT) SAMPLE LETTER

Figure A6.1. HQ AFSPC/A3 Letter to USSTRATCOM/J3 identifying satellite disposal
and/or payload relinquishment criteria have been met
